Whatever Happened to THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR ?	This episode of the Jeremy Brett " Sherlock Holmes " series was the worst in terms of being a bloated two hour reconstructed story . Despite good work by Brett , Edward Hardwicke , and Simon Callow , it again demonstrates how the writers of a screenplay can wreck the work of a better writer . THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR appears in the first collection of Sherlock Holmes short stories , THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES . The story details how Holmes and Watson get involved with tracing the whereabouts of a young American woman , the daughter of mining millionaire , who was about to marry one Lord Robert St . Simon , a man of impeccable breeding and background - one of the most available high profile aristocrats in the marriage market . The young woman ( Alice Doran ) disappeared at the chapel where the marriage was about to commence . The police ( Lestrade in charge again ) are suspicious of the antics of a former girlfriend of Lord Robert , who may have threatened the missing bride . And then there is also a mysterious man who was seen near her hotel on several occasions . Holmes , in the end , is able to figure out what exactly happened , although it does not please his client . Now Lord St . Simon appears to be a well-mannered , self-important jerk in the story , but he gives no indications of being the conniving monster that was created by the scriptwriters . They turn him into a violent version of Edward Rochester , with a still living wife hidden in the ancestral house , in squalor ( similar to Bertha Mason Rochester in the attic in JANE EYRE ) . He is a fortune hunter who marries and gets rid of wives ( so why not the first one ? ) . The conclusion of this film is about as far off base as one could get from the short story , which ends on a friendly note . When he wrote THE NOBLE BACHELOR , Conan Doyle was making subtle comments about a trend of his time . SPOILER COMING UP : Alice turns out to have been reunited with one Francis ( Frank ) Hay Moulton , a young American who prospected near her father in California , but had no luck . Mr . Doran ( when he struck it rich ) would have nothing of Moulton , pulled Alice away to Europe , and decided to buy a title for his daughter . It was very common in the " Gilded Age " for multi-millionaires in America to marry into French or British aristocracy . The best recalled marriages were of Consuelo Vanderbilt to the Duke of Marleborough , and of Jennie Jerome to Lord Randolph Churchill ( the latter producing Winston Churchill ) . Anne Gould married Count Boni de Castlelaine . The trend continues to this day ( Jackie Kennedy Onassis ' sister Lee Bouvier becoming Princess Radziwell of Hungary ) . But it was at it's height in the 1890s - 1920s . Conan Doyle was poking fun at this ridiculous right of passage of a new snobbish American aristocracy , and showed that Lord St . Simon really was not worth the trouble ( when he learns the truth St . Simon will not congratulate the Moulton's on their marriage ) . Conan Doyle ends the story with Holmes demonstrating a better approach to good international relationships , in a memorable comment suggesting that one day the memories of the idiots who caused the American Revolution will fade and Britain and the U . S . may yet be reunited again . As I have said before , Conan Doyle could write the heads off of some screenplay writers .
When the Medveds Are Right . . . .	I hesitate to give this a " 1 " for awful , but it is - by all memories of all the bad films I ever saw - the worst I ever saw . The Medved Brothers , back in the 1980s , listed " Robot Monster " among the 50 worst films of all time . It deserves that accolade . With dialog ( serious dialog ) like " I am not a human . . . I am a Ro - Man . " said by an actor in a gorilla suit ( George Barrows , the actor in the gorilla suit , actually played a gorilla in another film in a few years - it must have been one of his so-called talents ) , this is the nadir ( I almost said Nader , for the star of the film ) of bad movie making . It is poverty-row movie making . I notice the name of Ed Wood mentioned in some of the reviews here . Wood never did a good film , but there was ( I believe ) a man in Wood who really felt he had some type of cinematic vision . It was not a trained one - it was quite inept . But if you look at what Wood is attempting to do in some of his films in the 1950s ( tackle cross-dressing in " Glen Or Glenda " , for example ) one can vaguely sympathize with his having some concepts but no talent to really put them across . I think that is why Wood has somehow become a negative Hollywood legend . That can't be said for Phil Tucker . He never seems to have gotten the bug of making just monster movies . When Wood planned " Plan Nine From Outer Space " , he did intend to comment about the danger of our arms race ( it comes out ludicrously in the film , but it is there ) . Tucker could not do that . He just could push together the typical hack like conventions to muddle through . So he has the heroine " vamp " the " Robot Monster " no matter how idiotic it looks . I have never seen Tucker's " Cape Canaveral Monster " , which was his last film , but I suspect it is just a slightly smoother version of the bilge he put together here . I do have one suspicion that makes me think this film was just a poverty row quickie without rhyme or reason ( not like Wood's type of schlock which he actually agonized over at home and when filming ) . I noticed while looking through the credits the backgrounds and fates of the different players . The only one who went anywhere in the 1950s was George Nader , who actually may have done a good performance in one film ( " Away All Boats " ) , but whose career petered out due to his getting involved in a homosexual scandal . He ended doing television in Germany . This film actually was his first real " lead " role . Barrows never had as " important " a role in a film as " Robot Monster " . Selena Royle had done some important films in the 1940s but she was blacklisted ( possibly unfairly ) . She did make a successful second career in Mexico ( which I am glad about ) . John Brown was also a victim of the blacklist . Few know of it today ( despite the decades of reruns of the old Burns and Allen television show ) but he was on the show for a few months in 1950 , replacing Hal March as the neighbor Harry Morgan . Brown , who had a distinguished career in radio comedy shows like " The Life Of Riley " , was replaced by producer George Burns when his sponsor pointed out that Brown was suspected of communist sympathies . He would be replaced by Fred Clark . It is the shows with Clark and later Larry Keating that we have seen to this day . Brown kept working when he could . He died in 1957 . Claudia Barrett's career died out in the 1960s . As for the two child performers , Gregory Moffett acted until about 1956 , and Pamela Paulson never made another film in her life . John Mylong usually played bit-parts in films , frequently ( during World War II ) as Nazis ( he's in " The Hitler Gang " ) . He does play Eddie Duchin's ( Tyrone Power's ) father in " The Eddie Duchin Story " . In short this cast is strictly from hunger in terms of name recognition . All , that is , except the future acting " success " Nader , and the past success Royle , and this is a rung up for the former and a last chance for the latter . When Tucker cast this picture he grabbed people who were desperate to be in anything that offered them a chance to have a speaking part of any type , no matter how silly . Now compare this with Woods - he uses Bela Lugosi again and again , because he recognizes that Lugosi has name recognition with the public , and some degree of talent left as well ( though drug addiction made the latter even weaker than it was ) . He also uses some character actors like Lyle Talbot who have been around for awhile ( the Medveds don't think highly of Talbot , as he seems somewhat humorless - actually at about the same time he worked for Wood , Talbot appeared as himself in a comic series of rivalry confrontations with Bob Cummings on the latter's successful television series " Love That Bob ! " ) . Wood also used local television stars like Vampira and Cresswell the mentalist , and Tor Johnson the Swedish wrestler in his films . In short Wood looks like he made an effort to choose his cast with something approaching thought ( for effect , for what he thought was talent ) . The results might have been laughable , but it showed a type of care . Tucker didn't show that . So for all the cheesiness of Wood's works , we can admire the attempt . We can't with Tucker . The most memorable moment of this movie ? The booming voice deciding to unleash prehistoric monsters on the planet ( we see some kind of lizard roaming a small set - it's supposed to be a tyrannosaur ? ) . I think it was memorable because it came about two minutes before the film ended . It still came two minutes too late .
Lemmon's Worst Film	UNDER THE YUM YUM TREE was one of three films in the middle 1960s that Jack Lemmon starred in that he despised . He had shown in THE APARTMENT and THE DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES that he was a gifted dramatic actor - an everyman fighting the pressures of modern society , be they big business bosses or alcoholism . Then he did GOOD NEIGHBOR SAM , HOW TO MURDER YOUR WIFE , and UNDER THE YUM YUM TREE . The first two films had good scripts and good productions . He was wrong about them , failing to see they were excellent entertaining ( but minor ) films . But his contempt for YUM YUM TREE is correct . Based on a moderately successful play , it was a sex farce . Set in a California motel , Lemmon's character ( Hogan ) is a letch . All he does is think of going to bed with the young ladies who make the mistake of checking into his motel . If they have boy friends or husbands , he sidetracks the males as quickly as possible . He has a machine that makes copies of every key to every suite in the motel , and in one scene ( which I always found very detestable ) we see him humming happily to himself as he manufactures a new set of keys . When questioned about his still having a key after apparently giving it up to Dean Jones , he tells Jones glibly ( and quickly - his delivery is quite fast and annoying in this movie ) that he has an unlimited supply of keys . In a sense , the eavesdropping Lemmon , so casually violating the privacy of his customers , is an attempt at a comic Norman Bates . Here , supposedly , the situation is all in good sexy fun . But one can make a case that Norman's attacks on young women in bathtubs were also done out of a sense of sexual fun - only a sadistic one . That Lemmon's character gets a good comeuppance at the end does not help this film at all . It still quite lousy . I don't think Lemmon ever played a less likable character or appeared in a worse movie part .
One good joke and the rest is garbage	There is a pecking order about comedians and comedy teams . It goes like this for most of us ( you can alter the figures on top ) : Best Comics and comic teams : Charlie Chaplin , Buster Keaton , Harold Lloyd , Harry Langdon , Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy , W . C . Fields , The Marx Brothers , Burns and Allan , The Three Stooges , Danny Kaye , Ernst Lubitsch , Preston Sturgis , Ernie Kovaks , Woody Allen , Mel Brooks , Abbott and Costello , Martin and Lewis . Worst ones : The Ritz Brothers , Wheeler and WoolseyThere is no way that taste can be universal . Some people can't stand Martin and Lewis , and like Wheeler and Woolsey . Yet I think that most people would agree to the split of comedy teams and comics as I've drawn them up . I have tried , repeatedly , to enjoy the Ritz Brothers . However I have yet to find what is there to enjoy about them . Brooks and Kaye both thought Harry Ritz was one of the funniest men in the world . To me he mugs too much ( a tendency his brothers shared ) . In one film clip of them that I saw there was an actual moment of fun - one of them is doing an energetic dance step while the other two are waiting for him to conclude ( it is a nightclub act ) . When he finishes , he slaps his hand downward towards them as though a signal for them to follow up with their energetic dance steps . They smile , look at each other , and slap arms toward him , as though inviting him to repeat the whole mad dance number he has just completed . THE GORILLA was a Broadway " Murder Mystery " from the 1920s that had been made into a film once or twice before . It's traditions are from Edgar Allan Poe's " THE MYSTERY OF THE RUE MORGUE " , where a pair of murders turn out to be committed by an escaped orangutan . Here there is a variation as the criminal is human but calls himself " the Gorilla " and a real " Gorilla " shows up to confuse the investigation . The Ritz Brothers , three inept detectives , are hired by a wealthy man ( Lionel Atwill ) who has been threatened by the " Gorilla " . They , naturally , fumble their assignment , but Atwill's niece's boyfriend does solve it in time . It is dreary - there is no better term for it . When the villain does show up one quickly realizes who is the killer . There is no excitement in the solution to this mystery . The best line in the film goes to Patsy Kelly , as a maid in the household , who is being attacked by the real gorilla , an animal named Poe . When told by his keeper that Poe dislikes women , a frightened Kelly says , " So does Kipling . " That one bit was the only piece of humor that was worth recalling . For that bit ( with Patsy Kelly ) I'll give it a 2 .
What was the shouting about ?	The problem about censorship is that inevitably it dates . D . H . Lawrence , James Joyce , Gustave Flaubert , Leo Tolstoi were all censored for " Lady Chatterly's Lover " , " Ulysses " , " Madame Bovary " , and " The Kruezer Sonata " when they came out , but today these books seems very run-of-the-mill in terms of their steaminess . The same happens with movies . " The Moon Is Blue " is typical . The hubbub in 1953 was the use of the word " virgin " in the film . Maggie McNamara's seeming willingness to experiment with sex is another reason ( although it turns out she is more talk than action ) . Nowadays this seems to be relatively nothing . Censorship also breeds publicity , and in show business most publicity is good for the sale of tickets to the public . " The Moon Is Blue " had good box office . So much for the efficacy of censorship . Despite some of the favorable comments , most people are bored watching this film now . It was not terrifically funny . Holden and Niven are chums who are rivals for McNamara . Their actions in competition over McNamara now seem witless . One final point . This film was the subject of a plot in an episode of the television series , " M . A . S . H . " Hawkeye and B . J . hear about how the censors are against this film , and they have a chance ( by trading favors ) of seeing it . When they get the film at the 4077th they are both appalled at how unfunny and tame it is . Enough said .
When Television Was A Wasteland , or Was Newton Minnow right ?	It is interesting to find myself recalling Mr . Newton Minnow - hardly anyone remembers him today , but he was involved with the F . C . C . in the Kennedy Administration or that period , and in the early 1960s came up with a statement that set television stations and producers teeth on edge . Looking at what television was like , he made the general statement that it was " a vast wasteland " . Minnow was basically attacking how the powers that be that produced shows gave the public pablum , not provocative television that made people think . How true was this ? Well I suspect it was as true as the results of motion picture feature films were to men like D . W . Griffith . Griffith , in an interview after he did INTOLERANCE stated that the medium of movies could be used to teach people history and culture . Well . . . it didn't really happen that way . Due to public demand there were few attempts to put major literary works on film , or ( like INTOLERANCE . . . and ( God help us ! ) BIRTH OF A NATION ) teach history . Historical films were produced , but most were combinations of history , adventure , and romance . Cultural works got produced if ( like GONE WITH THE WIND or THE GOOD EARTH ) they were best sellers . Example of this failure : in 1935 Spencer Tracy played a carnival huckster on the make in DANTE'S INFERNO . While H . B . Walthall talks a little about Dante Alighieri's huge poem ( about 100 cantos ) , he only talks of the first third dealing with hell - not the parts about purgatory and heaven . As for the film , while enjoyable , it is the only one to make a film commentary ( in it's conclusion ) to the burning of a ship that resembles the ill-fated " Morro Castle " ( which burned in 1934 ) . It really does not go into an in depth approach to Dante's great poem . You see , film is commercial as well as popular - you have to make it so for public consumption . So was radio and television . So , for that matter , was theater . Minnow did not want to recognize this , and ( frankly ) his comment strikes me as both snobbish and elitist . But he was probably looking at how in the 1950s the standards were somewhat higher because there were more dramas on the air ( PLAYHOUSE 90 , etc . ) and there were intelligent news discussion by journalists . Actually how true this is is another matter - probably much of the live and filmed drama of the 1950s was mediocre , and only one journalist ( Edward R . Murrow ) tried to make a difference - and he ended up conducting a show ( PERSON TO PERSON ) where he interviewed celebrities ! But Minnow was right about one thing - that producers had a tendency of throwing things at the public which were not really good . It was not necessarily bad taste or lack of concern : the producers frequently misjudged public taste . This was particularly true of the comedy shows . The plots of even the best ones ( GILLIGAN'S ISLAND , THE BEVERLY HILLBILLIES ) were silly or stupid , but the truth was that these shows and other classic comedies had first rate casts who made the dumb stories really funny . But if the story was really dull or the cast not up to it or some defect was in the plot - well the show should collapse on its own . To me MONA MCCLUSKEY was almost proof of what Minnow was arguing about . It came and failed so quickly that most people do not even recall that it was on television . It was the only time that dancer and Sinatra girl friend Juliet Prowse ever appeared on television in any acting role of note . Prowse was a wonderful dancer ( see her in CAN-CAN sharing the screen with Shirley MacLaine ) and had a good looking body and face . But her acting talent was just passable . Nothing exciting about her at all there . The plot dealt with a big time movie star who marries an army sergeant ( Denny Miller - who he ? ) , and is determined to continue making films as a career , but at the same time living on her husband's income . She also is determined to be a housefrau - for example she cleans the house wearing expensive gowns and negligees . She cannot cook - she keeps serving peanut butter sandwiches or some combination with it . Like Lucille Ball ( but with less wit or ability ) she keeps getting into problems with the military and the movie studio - but she is an artist , so everyone talks to her softly when they confront after some particular lunacy . Must not disturb the nervous system of an artiste . I note that Robert Strauss was in some episodes , but he was wasted . In fact the whole show was a waste - it did not last a season . Looking at this show the question becomes " WHY ? " I have no answer . The writers were experienced , or seemed to be . But what I notice is that the producer was George Burns . This is a shocker to me - until I realize that Burns turned to producing after his wife Gracie Allen died in 1964 ( the year before this show came out ) . He was quite unhappy , and his work was below par ( he also produced and starred in WENDY AND ME - another terrible comedy - around this time ) . It would not be until he played " Al Lewis " in THE SUNSHINE BOYS in the 1970s , and won his " Oscar " that Burns got back into his normal level of ability .
Bogart's Contribution to the First Horror Film Cycle	This film is important because it shows that even Hollywood legends need huge amounts of luck to avoid film oblivion . Bogie had been in Hollywood for four years in the early 1930s , and never hit a good film ( although he did appear for his one and only time in that period with the young Spencer Tracy ) . He went back to his stage work in New York City , appeared in THE PETRIFIED FOREST , and returned to Hollywood with his friend Leslie Howard to make the film version there . After the filming of THE PETRIFIED FOREST Bogie was taken seriously as a supporting actor , getting important roles ( though as villains ) in films like DEAD END and THE ROARING TWENTIES , but also appearing as the lead in films like BLACK LEGION . But his anger at not getting the roles he felt he deserved led to friction with Jack Warner . Warner was like many gifted studio head - producers : he knew that you groom an actor you admire for the right break-out parts . Bogie would not wait , so Warner would punish him by giving him dreck like SWING YOUR LADY . He decided to give him this film too - Warner's answer to the Universal horror and science fiction cycle , THE RETURN OF DOCTOR X . If this film had been made by Universal with Boris Karloff it is possible that the film would have been a 7 or . Karloff or Lugosi or Atwill were able to project a mixture of scientific interest , curiosity , and sinister twisting to their scientists and their characters . Maybe it was the sound of their voices ( with their staginess or their accents ) . Bogart did not have this . He sounded like an average Joe with a slight lisp . He just did not project a scientific gambler . The plot of THE RETURN OF DOCTOR X has nothing to do with an earlier film DOCTOR X that starred Atwill and Fay Wray . That film was pretty good . It was about a series of murders apparently connected with a medical center , where Atwill is one of the leading doctors , and one of the suspects . The plot of THE RETURN OF DOCTOR X is about a series of murders connected to apparent vampirism as the victims are drained of their blood . It turns upon the experiments of a Dr . Francis Flegg ( John Litel - trying to be a crusading visionary , but hampered by poor dialog ) . Flegg is working on a study of human blood , with a way of possibly making an artificial version of it to extend life . However , he has had only one success - a strange man who works with him named Marshall Quesne ( Bogart ) . Bogart's make-up is the only really interesting thing about him . He has his hair parted in the center , with a white streak of hair in the middle , and wears pince-nez . His face is whitened to look like he is anemic . He tries to act self-deprecating , when talking to others like Wayne Morris ( the reporter who is investigating the murders ) . But he only acts like he is sleep-walking through the lines . Except when he gets upset - at one point he notes part of Litel's blood experiment is failing ( and he is very involved in making the experiment work ) . He starts yelling at Litel about this , much to Morris ' interest . But those moments are few - too few . If the rest of the film had anything going for it , Bogart's failure to make his character live would not matter . But it doesn't . Rosemary Lane and Dennis Morgan ( and Morris ) give good performances , but other actors ( Fay Wray and Joel McCrae and Lee Tracy come to mind ) would have vitalized the roles . Huntz Hall , as a newspaper copy-boy , has one good moment - he keeps teasing Morris for his theories regarding dead bodies of the victims in one scene by singing , " When a body meets a body coming through the rye " over and over again . But that said , the film is too flimsy to make one really care who did well in it . Fortunately for Bogie HIGH SIERRA and THE MALTESE FALCON would soon bring him his stardom , and CASABLANCA and THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRES ensured it . I give the film only a , for it's value as a curiosity . The only issue left for me is how would Karloff have been as Captain Queeg or Lugosi as Fred C . Dobbs .
A Curious Failure	This film was the first one to star Boris Karloff that was in color . As such , it illustrates that to be the first of anything is meaningless if the film lacks coherence , intelligence , and a decent script . The plot begins by taking the viewers into an old theater , where Karloff is shown coming night after night . He has the sympathies of the staff of the theater . It seems that ten years earlier he was engaged to the prima donna singer at the theater , and they were to get married . But on the night before the marriage she vanished , and he - broken hearted ( apparently ) - has returned every night ever since as though waiting for her . Now this could have been the start of an intriguing film . Unfortunately the scriptwriters did not see fit to leave the audience tantalized by Karloff's apparent tragedy . Instead , he falls asleep in his chair and we see his subconscious revealing what happened . The prima donna broke off the wedding in a bitter argument , and Karloff killed her ( but as they were alone , he was able to hide the body and cover his tracks ) . So instead of playing with audience support for Karloff , the script writers show he is up to his typical evil roles . The only one who suspects that Karloff is not what he seems is Gale Sondergaard - she remembers what her former mistress was like that night , and there were signs that she was uncertain about the wedding . But she never had anything concrete to work with . The theater impresario is Thomas Gomez . One of his musicians / composers ( Turhan Bey ) is interested in furthering the career of a new singer , Susannah Foster , whom he is dating . Gomez is willing to put her on . But Karloff , who is the theater's doctor , sees Foster ( who reminds him of the dead prima donna ) . Fixed on her , he decides to pursue her ( although she is increasingly frightened of him ) . This is the set-up for the plot , and how it eventually leads to the revelation of the fate of the dead woman . It is a tired plot , mostly because there is little chemistry between Foster and Karloff ( although that is not a fatal flaw - he is fixed on her , she need not show any type of fascination towards him ) . Sondergaard is wasted ( occasionally , as the film progresses , she reveals her suspicions ) . Gomez , normally a considerably good villain himself , plays his jovial side as the impresario . As for Turhan Bey , he shows great interest in Foster - and she is shown singing in one of his new operettas ( the music of which is a steal from Schubert's Marche Militaire ) . The end result is that the viewer is not deeply interested ( after awhile ) in the fates of these characters . Even when Karloff ( at one point ) knocks out Ludwig Stossel , our lack of interest in the " little old wine maker " actor prevents us getting too concerned ( Ludwig recovers by the way ) . Given that the film was supplied with a grade A film gloss ( by using color stock ) it is ironic that the whole effect is basically thrown away . It does not help matters , to the fans of Boris Karloff , that one year after this color-film flop , he gave one of his greatest performances in Val Lewton's THE BODY SNATCHER as Grey the Coachman - in a black and white film with a meaty script . Instead of Technicolor , the production people should have concentrated on good writing and plotting . I will give it a " 3 " only because it is visually good , but otherwise it was a waste of time and money .
A Ridiculous View of a Historical Titan	Except that this film is short , I was tempted to call it " NAPOLEON BLOWN-APART " , but that suggests the film is actually long and has some degree of detail . THis monstrosity is under ninety minutes . There are short films about Napoleon , but they concentrate on one aspect of the man . CONQUEST deals with Napoleon and his Polish mistress . DESIREE with his relationship with Desiree Clary Bernadotte , the future Queen of Sweden . This was Sacha Guitry's attempt to do a complete account of Napoleon's thirty year career as a world figure , in a totally inadequate amount of time . The French version of the film actually has some continuity lacking in the English version . But most people in the U . S . have seen ( if they have seen it at all ) the English version . It is best known because of the cameo appearances , in particular of Orson Welles as General Hudson Lowe ( who ? - he's the British official who was appointed to be the jailer of Napoleon on St . Helena , but who managed to botch his assignment ) and Eric Von Stroheim ( very briefly ) as Beethoven . Guitry , a talented boulevardier type , essayed the role of Talleyrand . None are shown to great advantage . It is set ( apparently ) in 1821 , with Guitry in his Paris salon , talking to his intellectual friends , upon hearing the death of his former master . To be truthful , knowing Talleyrand , he would have said a word or two about Napoleon but then turned to more interesting current matters . The film does not go into the collapse of the relationship between the great Emperor and his gifted Foreign Secretary . Talleyrand was noted for his selfish ability to destroy a government that was no longer benefiting him , and then reappear in a more powerful position in the next regime . He helped destroy about seven of them , including Napoleon's . Historians have despised his selfishness , but they have usually praised him for knowing when to ditch the Emperor ( Talleyrand was wary of the constant warfare , which the Emperor did not seem to know when to stop - he seemed to be using war to cover previous failures of policy , and to build up his remarkable reputation ) . The final blow was when Napoleon discovered that Talleyrand had been contacting Metternich and other foreign adversaries about undercutting Napoleon's diplomatic forays . In front of the whole court Napoleon cursed out Talleyrand , calling him a silk stocking full of " merde " . He then left the court with his chief courtiers . Talleyrand watched thoughtfully , and said , " How sad that such a great man is so vulgar ! " He redoubled his activities , assisted by his rival and foe ( usually , but not here ) Joseph Fouche , the head of the secret police . In 1814-15 they beat Napoleon at last . None of this is in the movie ( at least the English version ) that we see . Talleyrand is very philosophical , telling the story of the rise , fall , and rise of Napoleon and his legend . But in cramming the events from 1785 to 1821 we get a too rapid outline . The film though does even more than this . Talleyrand tells of how Napoleon's remains are returned to France for burial in Les Invalides ( his magnificent tomb in Paris ) . But this happened in 1840 , ordered by King Louis Philippe for popularity reasons . Only problem is that Talleyrand was dead by 1838 . Since Welles is in the film for about two minutes , I might as well discuss this . In 1955 he was filming CONFIDENTAL REPORT ( a . k . a . MR . ARKADIN ) , and ( like OTHELLO ) he was partly paying for it himself . So Welles was willing to appear in many films ( especially in France ) in bit cameo roles . His part is that of Lowe , who was a mediocre military figure who got the job as a last choice ( the first choice , the Duke of Wellington , felt he and Bonaparte could never share an island together ) . Lowe was introduced to Bonaparte in the latter's residence of Longwood , and Bonaparte was polite like a host . But Lowe just glowered at him ( as Welles does here ) . Bonaparte , quickly judging the idiot that he was stuck with , put his own hat on to show his contempt . It never improved , but we only see this scene . After Bonaparte died , his aides wanted a suitable tomb for him , but every time they presented a statement for the tombstone ( General of the Armies , Emperor of France ) , Lowe turned down the recommendation . In disgust , they suggested a blank tombstone . Stupidly , Lowe agreed ( as a surprised Welles does ) . Lowe never realized how truly eloquent the empty tombstone was - loyal Bonapartists from around the globe would know at that tombstone that no words could describe the giant who was under it adequately . Napoleon really did not need Les Invalides , but the French wanted to do it properly . The film is a total waste as a decent historical chronicle . Catch the 1927 Abel Gance classic , or CONQUEST or even DESIREE ( even though it is a wretched film in it's own right - at least it gives the viewer some idea of how Sweden's modern royal family came into power ) . Catch the Armand Assante two part television movie about Napoleon and Josephine . But , unless you want to see all of Orson Welles or Eric Von Stroheim's performances , ignore this one . For Orson and Eric I give this a three .
What an annoying , but sweet ( ? ) little girl	The use of " You Tube " is quite curious because of the memories it reawakens . One such is the long forgotten ( possibly justifiably so ) cartoons about the comic strip child " Little Lulu " . Lulu and her pals like Tubby and Wellington Van Snob were all quite popular in the period from 1935 to 1965 or so . As a kid I recall reading comic books concerning Lulu's antics . She was a determined little girl , and frequently found herself involved in some mischief that she had not quite planned because she wanted to do something ( frequently her plans were countered by the rival plans of her friend and nemesis Tubby ) . Tastes in comics change , particularly kids comics . If we remember fondly the " Krazy Kat " or " Peanuts " or even " Toonerville Trolly " it was something special about those that rings a bell . Lulu was a bit better than " Nancy " with her friend / boy-friend Sluggo . The similarities between the two comics ( both had grown-ups : Lulu had her Dad and Mom , and Nancy her aunt Fritzy ) were too similar to be ignored . Similarly there was Little Audrey as well - more in a later review . I remember now seeing this and other Little Lulu cartoons as a kid - but they rarely pop up these days on television . The reason is not due to the chance of racist material ( although the cartoons were lily white ) but due to them not being very amusing and their heroine not being really appealing . The comic strip was okay ( the comic artists involved had some time to think about the story line - the cartoon looks like an afterthought . It is surprising , because it is part of the Paramount cartoon group that created Betty Boop and Popeye , but by 1946 the Fleischers were no longer in control of their products . If you think of the second period Popeye cartoons , they too are not as ' flavorful " as the ones from the 1930s . They may have better ( or simpler ) line drawing , but they lack the snap of the gags of the earlier ones ( i . e . : Bluto changing a sign on a road from " Detour " to " Route " D " " ) . In the comic Lulu has real spirit - she confronts Tubby if he is trying to prevent her plans , and she fights back with all her might . Here , at least in this cartoon , she is at best a sweet little girl that is trying to exchange a doll for another toy . But she has has no sense that she is not to treat the department store as a private playground while hunting for a replacement item . She gradually drives the floor walker ( initially quite friendly ) progressively insane . Now , I suppose the sight gags of this cartoon ( the floorwalker trying to interest Lulu in a baby carriage with baby bib and rattle , crying when the rattle breaks , and crying inside the carriage is an example ) seemed amusing enough , but the fact is this cartoon is very annoying . Lulu is supposed to be about eleven or twelve years old . Yet she cares nothing for any adult , or anyone else in the department store or even in the streets ( her scooter has a police siren on it to clear a path for her in the traffic ) . She converts part of the floor of the store into an ice rink to supposedly test a pair of skates . She skis down a staircase and soars over several beds . She tests a vacuum cleaner to see if it can empty a fish tank that looks like a water fall ( why is she interested in doing that - did she want to acquire the vacuum cleaner ? Why , she's only twelve ? ! ) . One gets the impression she is a thoroughly selfish kid who deserves to be spanked or punished in some way . Instead , after wrecking the department store , she reclaims the original doll she was returning . As I said , in 1946 it may have been amusing to people . I find that if she had broken her leg skiing or skating as she did , it would have been more emotionally satisfying to a modern audience , horrific as that may sound . But is it any more horrific as turning a department store into a wreck ?
Long Forgotten , except for one small moment .	I cannot even go to a mediocre " 5 " on this , as my memories of this show are so really small . I was all of four when it was on the air , and I must have decided to watch it , but found it not really memorable except for one little bit that was odd and I can recall . Hutton is helping one of the boys that she is now guardian . He is making a model airplane . She is concentrating on the motor of the airplane , and somehow ( in gluing it together ) Hutton manages to glue the propeller onto her nose . It is the only thing from this show I ever retained a memory of . . . hardly seems worthwhile . Lightyears away from her performances in ANNIE GET YOUR GUN , THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK , and THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH . Betty did better work than this . The only thing I can add is that when Jean Arthur , a better dramatic actress , tried to make a television sit com less than ten years later , she failed too .
Montgomery's Farewell to the Movies	After the turning point of NIGHT MUST FALL , Robert Montgomery ( for the most time ) came into his finest films and performances : HERE COMES MR . JORDAN , THEY WERE EXPENDABLE , THE LADY IN THE LAKE , RIDE THE PINK HORSE , THE SAXON CHARM , JUNE BRIDE . Even some of the failures he was in were interesting enough to be still watchable ( RAGE IN HEAVEN , MR . AND MRS . SMITH ) . But Montgomery wanted to do more and more production and directing work . In 1949 he made what would be his last movie performance - he played Collier Lang , an egotistical movie star , who is dragged into helping the authorities do an investigation about a young girl's boyfriend . Apparently my view of this film is a minority view . Most of the views given are favorable about it . I thought it was a dull , witless script , with Ann Blyth's groupie heroine not very appealing as a character . She admires Montgomery as a star , and this " helps " when he is called in to assist the authorities , but after awhile I found there was no chemistry between them . The script was also devoid of much fun , although Montgomery and Roland Winters did try . The only thing I recall to this day as a joke point was that Taylor Holmes is the wealthy father of Blyth , and he is an admirer of Winston Churchill . So he always dresses up as Churchill , and we see him wearing a floppy broad brimmed hat , smoking a large cigar , and painting ( Holmes ' bald head helps in the disguise ) . That was the most memorable joke from this film - not much of a real memory . Montgomery went into early television , and finally won the attention and respect he always had deserved in motion pictures . His last contact with the movies was his direction of THE GALLANT HOURS about Admiral William " Bull " Halsey , starring his friend Jimmy Cagney . It is a far better film than this . For his overall film and television career , I will give this mediocre film a " 4 " . That strikes me as generous .
Seen once , and memorable for one scene only	Clifton Webb was always a difficult person to cast - in the 1940s and 1950s they just did not make movies where he would have fit perfectly : films where his character was openly gay . There are elements in his films ( especially in LAURA and THE DARK CORNER and THE RAZOR'S EDGE ) that suggest a high strung , waspy , near - homosexual type . So does his Mr . Belvedere . But throughout the 1950s his films concentrated on him as a father ( frequently with large families ) and a husband - even ( in DREAMBOAT ) a sexy movie idol of the silent period ! This film is of those " family oriented " comedies that Webb made in the 1950s . As pointed out , it was based on a Broadway comedy , and it probably was purchased with Webb in mind . With his ability to personify intellectual types , he fits the free-thinking Horace Pennypacker . The Pennypacker family was actually quite distinguished in 19th Century Pennsylvania . One of them , General Galusha Pennypacker was a American Civil War hero , and Samuel Pennypacker was Governor of Pennsylvania from 1903 to 1907 . As to an actual historical figure named Horace Pennypacker I cannot say ( although one of the reviews on this thread suggest there may have been some reality about the situation regarding the bigamy . However , the play turned film was dull . Webb tried to be funny ( even skating at one point ) , but the dialog really was not very good . The best moment in the film is between Richard Deacon ( a member of an organization like The Society to Suppress Vice or something like that ) and Charles Coburn . Deacon has found that Pennypacker has been passing around ( presumably freely ) a booklet of a mildly risqué nature concerning biology . It has flip pictures ( you flip the pictures and they look like they move ) . Unfortunately Deacon has never had Horace Pennypacker pointed out to him . So when he sees Charles Coburn leaving his grandson's ( Webb's ) home , he concludes that Coburn is Horace Pennypacker . He confronts Coburn , and asks , " Are you Mr . Pennypacker ? " " Yes " , says the mildly annoyed Coburn . " Of Pennypacker & Co . ? " , asks Deacon . " Yes , yes . . . what do you want with me ? ! " , shouts Coburn . " THIS ! " , says a triumphant Deacon - he flips the pages of the book in front of Coburn's face . " BaH ! ! " , shouts Coburn , who knocks the book out of Deacon's hands . " You assaulted me . . . yes you did ! ! " , says Deacon and he signals a waiting policeman who drags a protesting Coburn away ( he later apparently straightens out the mistake , for he shows up to confront Webb before the end of the film ) . It was a mildly amusing moment in the film - and the best one , unfortunately . One has to admit that THE REMARKABLE MR . PENNYPACKER was one of the weaker features that Clifton Webb made in Hollywood .
The Ruin of an Interesting , if minor Eric Ambler story	It hurts to give any film with Sidney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre less than " 5 " on a scale of " 1 " to " 10 " , but BACKGROUND TO DANGER ( despite their presence ) is not a good World War II espionage piece . It may be the weakest movie ever made from an Eric Ambler novel . Between 1938 and 1945 Ambler wrote five spy or international crime novels that ( with his contemporary , and master , Graham Greene ) reshaped the whole genre . Ambler's books were CAUSE FOR ALARM , BACKGROUND TO DANGER , JOUNRNEY INTO FEAR , THE MASK OF DEMETRIOS , and EPITAPH FOR A SPY . The greatest of these was the last that he wrote - THE MASK OF DEMETRIOS ( also called A COFFIN FOR DEMETRIOS ) which Greenstreet , Lorre , and Zachary Scott turned into one of the best portraits of a totally amoral criminal in cinema . Orson Welles helped direct ( and supported Joseph Cotton in ) JOURNEY INTO FEAR . I'm not sure by I believe that EPITAPH FOR A SPY ( set in France in 1938 ) and CAUSE FOR ALARM ( dealing with economic rivalries between somewhat allied axis countries ) were not made into films . Someone may correct me on that . CAUSE FOR ALARM introduced a Communist Russian agent and his sister to Ambler's readers . Tamara and Nicolai Zarashoff are ( when not pursuing espionage for their government in Moscow ) bickering all the time . Ambler liked to humanize his characters ( such as his masterpiece , Arthur Abdul Simpson , in THE LIGHT OF DAY / " TOPKAPI " ) , so his villain Demetrios Talat turns out to be a determined social climber , using his talents for evil in THE MASK OF DEMETRIOS to assist a bank , the Eurasian Credit Trust , on which he ends up a director . The Zarashoffs and their unwitting ally in CAUSE FOR ALARM manage to cause a brief split in the interests of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy in early 1939 . One would have known this when reading BACKGROUND TO DANGER a few years later , when they reappeared . When talking about the film FIVE FINGERS I gave the background of Turkish neutrality in World War II . Ambler tackled this in the novels BACKGROUND TO DANGER and JOUNRNEY INTO FEAR , pointing out that Turkey's police and army were scrupulously looking out to protect that neutrality ( Col . Haki , who helps tell the introductory part of the story of Demetrios in THE MASK OF DEMETRIOS - played by Kurt Katch there - reappears as Orson Welles , protecting American engineer Joseph Cotton in JOURNEY INTO FEAR : to make sure Cotton finishes his job in arming Turkish naval craft ) . In BACKGROUND TO DANGER , Ambler ( correctly ) shows that German agents were more likely to try to push Turkey into the Axis camp by underhanded means . The villain is the ambiguously named Col . Robinson ( Greenstreet , of course ) sent to contact those anti-British Turkish nationalists who would join the Germans . The problem is that the novel demonstrated Ambler's tricks with Robinson in a way the film didn't . Robinson is German , and speaks with a German accent ( in fact one of the characters says that he could not possibly be English ! ) . Greenstreet had one of the finest English speaking voices in film . The Zolashoffs are here again ( in the novel bickering again ) but here working with the American played by George Raft . But in the novel , Raft's American is very naive - and they are educating this new ally in the " background to danger " to Turkish neutrality very quickly . This is not the story as W . R . Burnett made it in his screenplay , making Raft's character an American agent ( which he wasn't ) . I can only guess that he did this to make the no nonsense Raft more believable - who could imagine Raft as a chump ? It doesn't work - the novel is constructed for the Raft character to gradually realize the dangers of the Nazis and their allies , and the fact that ( dubious as it is to us ) the Communist agents were a better bet for allies . Instead the story makes Raft's character become a typical World War II propaganda hero - he can handle these Nazis with a blindfold on ! There are some nice moments ( due to Sidney and Peter ) . Greenstreet in particular has two nice ones that come to mind : when he notes his favorite set up ( a Strauss waltz on a gramophone and a dead body on the floor ) , and later when his plans have all collapsed , and he is informed he must return to Berlin ( his quick look of horror at hearing what will be his death sentence is done very well ) . But such moments are few and far between . The rest of this film sinks those few moments one recalls with fondness .
When a Well-intentioned Idea collapses	I am hesitant to give this below par television movie a " 4 " out of " 10 " . It had one of the best comic casts for the time ( 1968 ) in a television movie . And it was a rarity : the star was a brilliant comic who appeared in many worthy films but almost never as the star . For the star was Jonathan Winters , possibly the most inventive comedian on television between Ernie Kovaks and Winters ' friend and semi-pupil Robin Williams . For years Winters had been developing his madcap wit and humor , usually in his favorite guise of looking at some odd object like a hanger or a pith helmet and concocting the most bizarre mini-sketches imaginable . Frequently his routines would enliven even the wittiest of Jack Paar or Johnny Carson's shows . Long before MONTY PYTHON discovered that you did not have to have a formal ending to top off a sketch , Winters discovered it and would drop one improvisation for another one . The best way to show off Winters talents ( short of a well-written character part in a film , like THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING , THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING , or in THE LOVED ONE ) was on a special or on a variety show . In later years he was also able to demonstrate ( with Williams ) he could have a weekly television role , in the concluding year of MORK AND MINDY . But the worst thing to do with Winters was to put him into a movie as the central figure without bothering to carefully plan to use his talents in the script . And that is what happened in this monstrosity . Winters is an art curator who is handling an exhibition of a Rembrandt . He is not ( as is put down in the description on this thread ) an incompetent , like Rowan Atkinson's " Mr . Bean " was in a recent film . He has a history of sorts with Jack Weston , here playing also against type ( the typical New Yorker , Weston is made to be a sinister rich Arab sheik here ) . Weston cheated Winters out of a hefty commission in procuring the sale of an art object a number of years before the film begins , and now Winters secretly contacts the Sheikh to offer him a crack at getting the Rembrandt . Weston is aware of the unusual nature of the offer , but is willing to go along with it . . . figuring that he is smarter than Winters and might get something for nothing again . Winters hires a pair of eccentric artists ( Steve Allen and Jayne Meadows ) to paint the duplicate Rembrandt he needs for the scam he is going to perform . I remember the first scene that Allen and his wife had in the film . . . it was supposed to be rather daring for 1968 . They are seen painting each other in the buff ( of course their easels and the cameras angles are suggestive of them being naked , but the scene would be considered pretty mild today ) . While they are at work with their job , WInters has another worry . The valuable painting was delivered to his care while being watched by another curator , Gabrielle Monet ( Luciana Palluzi ) . She is very intent on protecting that painting , so Winter has to preoccupy her . . . by romancing her . Jonathan Winter is many things - he has played the somewhat crocked Maudy Frickett ( who is about 90 , but lively as a wire ) , and the slightly crooked King Kwazi of Kwazistan . But he has never played a romantic type . He doesn't look it ( put another way . . . he's as romantic looking as Jack Weston was . . . but Weston at least once showed a happy marriage in the film THE FOUR SEASONS ) . To have concocted the romantic business between the attractive Ms Palluzi and Winters was ridiculous . Possibly the writers realized this too late . They kept giving Winters bits of his typical business while going out with Ms Palluzi ( like taking a pair of Chinese chopsticks and converting them into impossibly large fang like teeth ) . The results were not amusing as they could have been in other circumstances . I have a feeling on a real date the young lady would have bored of such behavior quite quickly . The plot eventually becomes what is Winters up to , and will Weston be outsmarted or will he come out on top again . By the time the film reached it's climax one no longer really cared . It was that feeble a story . It had at least three , possibly four performers in it whom I enjoy , and I even see some supporting faces that I like , such as Richard Kiel ( " Jaws " in the Bond movies ) , Marcel Hillaire , and Roy Roberts . But the result was really second rate . So . . . with deepest regret . . . this film is only raised to a " 4 " for the cast members I enjoy . Otherwise it would be a troubling " 2 " .
When will this be released again ?	This is the great mystery movie for fans of Hope and Hepburn . First of all it is the sole time they ever appeared in any movie together . Secondly it is dated - it has to be seen recalling what the heart of the Cold War was like in 1956 , the year of the Hungarian Up-rising and the Suez Crisis . Apparently it is more available for viewing in Great Britain ( it was a British film ) . I have never seen it listed on any American television station . Isn't it about time they would show it - just to settle our curiosity about this particular pairing ? My suspicion it would not be great movie viewing , but it would be interesting anyway . At least we could compare it to it's " cold war " film comedy predecessors ( NINOTCHKA , COMRADE X , and SILK STOCKINGS ) . Addendum : February 20 , 2008 - Finally I see the film . Some films have to be seen to see why they were never repeated . Bob Hope did enjoy working with certain actresses many times , most notably Dorothy Lamour and Lucille Ball . But he made this one film ( in 1956 ) that was with Kate Hepburn , and it is certainly not the best film either of them ever played in . Both were highly capable performers / stars . Both were good in comedy . But there is no chemistry between them , and they are in roles they don't fit . Hope is a hotshot heroic U . S . pilot , hoping to marry an English aristocrat ( Noelle Madison ) for financial reasons . He is pushed into an assignment by his commanding officer ( and supposed friend ) Alan Gifford to put his romance on hold while romancing Russian pilot - heroine Kate Hepburn . Now Hepburn is not defecting . She took her MIG fighter ( this film may be the first that mentioned the term " MIG " for a Russian plane ) to England out of anger at being by-passed for a promotion for an inferior rival who is a man . She is not anti-Communist , and Gifford's hopes that Hope will make her into a propaganda victory for the West . The Russians are led by James Robertson Justice ( supposedly the head of a trade commission - it was a running joke that trade commissions on both sides were loaded with KGB and CIA agents ) . He is determined to bring Hepburn back to face trial as a traitor to Russia . He uses the services of her helpless ex-boyfriend Robert Helpmann . But Helpmann is really a weak reed to lean on . Justice tries alternative ideas , including kidnapping Hepburn when she is with Hope , Gifford , a jealous Madison , a Senator from Alabama ( Alexander Gauge ) , Madison's cousin ( Nicholas Phipps ) , and an air force major ( Paul Carpenter ) . This too fails , despite the large number of agents that Justice brings with him ( they include " Carry On " Sid James , Tutte Lemkow ( from A SHOT IN THE DARK , THE WRONG ARM OF THE LAW , and THE WRONG BOX ) , and David Kosloff - Carl in INDISCREET ) . Also on hand , in one sequence , is Richard Wattis as a woman's clothing store manager . It just doesn't work . The sequence in the nightclub is the best highlight in the film , due to the accidental failure of each plot that Justice tries to spirit Hepburn away , but it's not one of the great moments of comedy ( Madison is the best in the sequence , though Gauge's really dense senator has some fun talking with Nicholas Phipps about why the British drive on the left side of the road ) . Really the lack of chemistry between the stars does the film in . ugh Hepburn tries to develop some but Hope can't relate to her . I think it's because she is too cerebral an actress . He was at home with someone like Lamour or Hedy Lamarr or Joan Fontaine , who was regular not sparkling . I don't think he ever realized what a misfire the casting opposite Kate was until it was too late . The irony is I can't see this story working well with many actors . It has been suggested that Tony Curtis ( who did a film at this time , THE PERFECT FURLOUGH , set in Paris - as a military man ) , and maybe Nathalie Wood might have worked well . But it's hard to say . It does not look well compared with other similar plots . Hepburn's purchase of western feminine dinner clothes reminds one of a similar trick in NINOTCHKA where Garbo bought that symbolic Paris hat . Similarly , Hepburn's attempts to teach Hope how to accept Communism does resemble how Garbo tries to indoctrinate Melvin Douglas . But Douglas actually does show an interest in communist theory ( to the fright of his butler ) . Hope really could not care less ( although when he gets drugged he starts mumbling about Bakunin and the " Iron Law of Wages " ) . The Gable - Hedy Lamarr film COMRADE X also was clever , particularly in the spoof of the Stalin - Trotsky rivalry between Oscar Homolka and Vladimir Sobeloff . Let's face it , those two films were far better than this . SILK STOCKINGS is a musical version of NINOTCHKA , but it's Cole Porter's music , with Astaire and Cyd Charisse's dancing , and there are some good swipes at Hollywood and American's lackadaisical view of other country's cultures . It too is far more worthy of watching than this film . Now that I have seen it , I will give the film only a " 4 " for the scene in the nightclub . But please , don't bother with this film if you really like Hope's best work , or like Hepburn's better comic parts as in DESK SET or ADAM'S RIB ( with a more chemically correct film partner in both : oh Spencer , where were you ? ) .
A Bad View of a Television Favorite	Throughout the 1950s Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz ( with Viviene Vance and William Frawley ) made television history by the first really great comedy show and sit-com show ( one that has never stopped being available on television , half a century afterward ! ) . The daffy Lucy and her crazy schemes ( usually to get into show business ) were quite amusing in all their variety , with many guests stars ( who all knew her husband , band leader " Ricky Ricardo " ) . This show that centered upon Milton Berle is not for Lucy lovers . Once you see it , you will never be able to fully like Lucy again . You see , the plot of this episode deals with Ricky being involved in a show being put on by Berle . Lucy is accompanying him . Berle had done an episode on THE LUCY-DESI COMEDY HOUR at this time , and had done some of his shtick , such as trying to leave Lucy's house in a " drag " outfit . Here , it is Berle being willing to allow Lucy to do her " shtick " . Problem is you are taking her out of her normal situation . What I mean is this : On I LOVE LUCY or THE LUCY - DESI COMEDY HOUR or the later LUCY SHOW ( or HERE'S LUCY ) the writers centered the story on Lucy , so that we ( the audience ) knew she would do something odd because circumstances in the plot dictated it . If she tried to get into Ricky's show , his resistance ( she could certainly do a small walk on ) was so harsh that we sympathized with her desire to appear - even if we knew her talent was small at best . Here what happened is that Berle and Lucy are in a " questionable " situation in Berle's rooms at night , when he is in his robe . Ricky does not know about it , but could easily learn about it if Lucy allows him to . And that's just it : Lucy has tried to get Berle to agree to letting her into the show , but Berle knows Ricky is opposed to it . Now Lucy threatens to reveal the circumstances of the " questionable " situation of the previous night to Berle's wife and Ricky , unless he lets her into the show . Berle is horrified and tries to reason with her , but she is adamant about her threat unless she gets her part . This is possibly the equivalent for I LOVE LUCY of the " jumping the shark " incident for HAPPY DAYS . It is the point where the audience reevaluates a beloved television figure , and finds something wanting . The " Fonz " was always in control of situations , but his willingness to do a fool-hearty act like the one with the shark stretched credibility in him to the breaking point and beyond . Here Lucy's daffiness , hitherto somewhat endearing ( she never wanted to hurt anyone ) ended with her turning into a shrill , vicious little blackmailer . I have to admit that my watching this episode ended when I saw Lucy's torturing Berle . I don't think I ever wanted to see someone slap her before . There was more to the episode than this . There is a second plot about a valuable jewel Lucy has accidentally gotten into her possession that was stolen by George Macready and Mike Mazurki . I never saw the rest of the episode - I suppose at the end they were arrested and the jewel returned to it's owner . But the business with Lucy's treatment of Berle soured me to the entire show . I saw this about seven years ago , being a summer rerun . I guess they thought it was a forgotten episode of THE LUCY - DESI COMEDY HOUR . It has not been shown since , from what I can see . Maybe that is just as well .
A Sad and Misguided Error	When Peter Sellers died in 1980 he was planning on another Clouseau film . He probably hated the idea , although he was writing the script . Sellers knew that his signature role for all time would be the stumble-bum French Inspector , but he hated how it hid his performances in , say , DR . STRANGELOVE or BEING THERE from the memory of the public . For as other actors caught in repeat performances of the same part ( think of Basil Rathbone as Sherlock Holmes or Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates ) have said , those repeat roles are just going through the same paces again and again , and don't help stretch the performers talents . What is odd about TRAIL OF THE PINK PANTHER is that it is a posthumous resurrection of Sellers due to Blake Edwards , who should have known far better than to do this . Some dead actors have managed to reappear after they died in films , like Jean Harlow in SARATOGA , but usually they were shooting the film when they got sick and died . In TRAIL OF THE PINK PANTHER Edwards decided to use outtakes and some cut sequences to build up a plot for a new film . Supposedly , for the third time in the series , the actual " Pink Panther " , the stone that Claudia Cardinale was struggling to hold onto in the first film , is the center of a robbery - a successful one . Clousseau is sent to solve the robbery . But his plane apparently crashes into the sea . Is the great detective dead or not ? Joanne Lumley plays French television journalist Marie Jouvet . She is assigned to investigate the disappearance of Clousseau and who might be behind it . There are many potential characters : Chief Inspector Dreyfus ( Herbert Lom , twitching again ) , the head of the French Mafia ( Robert Loggia ) - still struggling from their defeat by Clousseau in 1978 , and even Sir Charles and now Lady Lytton ( David Niven and Capuchine , reunited for this second film ) . Cato ( Burt Kwouk ) and Clousseau's old assistant Hercule Lajoy ( Graham Stark ) are interviewed . And the clips and outtakes are added in a sad attempt to give unity to the mess . For it was a real mess . Basically , Sellers was ( in 1982 ) seemingly irreplaceable in the role . The public identified him with the French detective who mispronounced the English pronunciation of " monkey " as " minkey " . The public watching the film could only consider it a curiosity at best . They might stretch it into an attempt at honoring a great comic actor . But they probably also thought it shabby , which it was . The other films preceding it had benefited from the energy of Sellers characterization ( rather subtle one , by the way : people tend to forget that clumsy and arrogant as Clousseau was , he was a brilliant detective - listen to his conversation with Lajoy in a sequence from A SHOT IN THE DARK regarding the suspect Maria Gambrelli - we know Clousseau is in love with her , but he points out very sharply she had no motive for the murder she has been accused of ) . The sequences with Sellers at work had his energy , but the gaps appeared when Lumley or rest of the cast struggled with the vapid plot . The actors are not doing badly . Best is Richard Mulligan as the elderly father of Clousseau ( who would like to make time with the reporter ) , and Lom of course . Stark is an old scene stealing pro ( look at his subsequent work in VICTOR / VICTORIA as a snide and suspicious waiter ) . Here he is Lajoy enjoying his retirement . He shares an easy sequence with Lumley ( one wishes there was more to it ) . She is quite good too , but her role is confused by the script ( her best sequence is not with Loggia - a sad lost opportunity by two good performers - but just before when she realizes her taxi driver is being forced to kidnap her ) . She also has a moment confronting Lom ( who can't give a damn about finding Clousseau ) where she mimics his twitching eye . But why they trotted out Niven again is beyond me . He was within a year or so of his death , from Lou Gehrig's disease . He no longer had that wonderful gentleman's voice of his , so Rich Little was dubbing for him . You listen and you realize it is not Niven . That is just doubly sad . It could have been different in two ways . In 1982 the roles of both Clousseau and Sir Charles Lytton were not totally sewed up by Sellers and Niven . A film called INSPECTOR CLOUSSEAU had been made in the middle 1960s starring Alan Arkin , who might have been available to attempt the role again . And in the early 1970s , the third Pink Panther film had resurrected Sir Charles and Lady Lytton with the jewel robber being played by Christopher Plummer . A bit of recasting would have been needed . If they had done it ( presumably if the performers were available or when they were ) more time might have been spent on the script . Sadly that was not the case here . Edwards would make another " Pink Panther " film after this , which did less box office than this one did . Then , wisely , he went onto other projects . They never did find Jacques Clousseau in these last two films . The last two films were so terrible they did not deserve to merit the recovery of Insp . Clousseau . Now , aside from an occasional viewing on television both are forgotten ( as is Arkin's one attempt at the role ) . However , Steve Martin took over the role a few years ago , with Kevin Klein taking over Lom's role as Dreyfus . Martin will shortly be seen in a sequel to his first " Pink Panther " film . Good luck to him - he has big shoes to fill .
Paging Miss Glory . . . Please	William Randolph Hearst had a wife and four sons , and at least one mistress . It is the final mistress he had , comedienne and former Ziegfeld girl Marion Davies that is remembered today . Hearst was many things , media mogul ( the American prototype for Rupert Murdoch ) , would be king ( or Presidential aspirant ) or king maker , art and antiquities over-collector , and model for the immortal Charles Foster Kane . His yellow journalist extremism can be jarring - he did support patriotism to stupid extremes ( like supporting the idiotic Mayor of Chicago , Big Bill Thompson , because he attacked a pro-English slant in American history textbooks ) . He was of German ancestry , so he would come out heavily against our involvement in World War I on the side of England and the allies ( and he may have been right ) . Later he did seem to support Hitler and the Nazis ( though not as thoroughly as his critics have suggested - he disliked Hitler's anti-Semitism ) . Hearst could not get a divorce from his wife , so they lived separately . He lived in his castle on the Pacific ( San Simeon ) with Marion as it's mistress . Everyone knew they were living in an adulterous relationship , but he was devoted to her - and curiously she loved him deeply . So nobody commented on it - until Orson Welles and Herman Mankiewicz came along . It's notable that Hearst found most of the Hollywood community on his side , not Welles ' , regarding Kane . It has come down to us ( ever since Welles and Mankiewicz drew the cartoon shrew " Susan Alexander " Kane as a caricature of Marion ) that Marion was pushed into movies and had no talent . No , she was quite talented and funny . Watch her in her best sound film , PAGE MISS GLORY , and one sees how likable and humorous she is as a slightly dotty cleaning lady in a hotel who is turned into a celebrity . But W . R . did want her in " serious parts " . So she got into historical films ( which she barely could fit - she just did not have the dramatic stretch for such parts ) , or into melodramas . BLONDIE OF THE FOLLIES is , ultimately , a weeper . The other reviews here stress the comic portions , but they are few and far between . Spoilers Ahead : The film revolves around Marion's work in the great Broadway " Follies " , and her friendship with her fellow dancer - entertainer Billie Dove . The friendship is ruined due to the rivalry between the two for bigger and better parts , usually going to the more talented Marion . But Billie ( and the public ) believe it is really due to the late hour relations that Marion has with other people , like Douglas Dumbrille and Robert Montgomery ( Billie also has the hots for Montgomery , which does not help ) . Jimmy Gleason plays Marion's kindly , loving father , who keeps warning her about the pitfalls of a Broadway career , and how it ruins so many reputations . Eventually the weakened Gleason ( he has been overworking and has a heart condition ) dies of a heart attack when Marion's name appears in a scandal column in the newspapers . As for her career , at it's height she is involved in a crippling accident due to the anger of Dove . She returns at the end of the film to wish the " Follies " cast good luck , clambering the stage happily with her broken back in a peculiar position , her hands on two crutches . But her face has the true smile of a " trooper " on it . In it's day DOLLY OF THE FOLLIES must have been really loved by audiences . I have a suspicion that even ten years later ( 1942 ) audience tastes would have drastically changed . Compare it with another back-stage film of the 1940s , Barbara Stanwyck's LADY OF BURLESQUE , where a series of murders occur in a burlesque house . Stanwyck is not crippled in that film , although she is threatened . She does a number " Easy on the G String " , which is not great as far as being a memorable song , but is light years more suggestive of sin and sex than the so-called scandal involving Marion with Douglas and Robert . LADY OF BURLESQUE is a better film . Or take a look at LES GIRLS ( 1957 ) , where Gene Kelly's career and sexual relationship with the three women in the act he once headed around Europe is probed . Although at issue is the truth of an allegation regarding a suicide attempt by gas , the truth or falsity of the matter takes second place to the issue of who among three ( or possibly as many as six ) witnesses is telling the truth . The extra-sexual matter ends up more important to Kelly and his wife than to the public ( as it should be ) . And the suicide attempt - well , depending on who was telling the truth it was either two people in a suicide pact or an accident . It too is a better movie than BLONDIE OF THE FOLLIES . If you want to see Marion Davies at her best rent PAGE MISS GLORY or CANE AND MABEL ( ironic first part of a title there ) wherein she is the love interest of Clark Gable as a prize fighter . Those are comedies , pure and simple . Avoid BLONDIE OF THE FOLLIES , unless it is absolutely necessary for you to see all her movies .
At the Old Lincoln Arts Cinema in 1973	In the late 1960s I discovered the Lincoln Arts Cinema on West 57th Street in Manhattan - my sister and I went there to see THE LION IN WINTER when it came out . Subsequently I went by myself or with others , in particular to see the series of re-released films of Charlie Chaplin in the early 1970s . But all things are ephemeral , especially buildings and businesses . The Lincoln Arts Cinema eventually went out of business . One of the last productions I saw there was a double bill ( a rarity ) of THE NEPTUNE FACTOR with a comedy ( possibly RETURN OF THE PINK PANTHER , but I am not sure ) . It was a sign of the times that this showcase for single film classics or would-be classics ended up doing a double bill . Also that one of the films was THE NEPTUNE FACTOR . I rarely went to science fiction movies , so it must have been the comedy that I really wanted to see . In any event , for some reason this " inner space " story lingered in my memory rather than the other film ( even if it was the Sellers ' movie ) . For one thing it intrigued me to watch a movie about underwater exploration ( deep sea at that ) . The period was one when there were too many submarine disasters : the " Thresher " , the " Scorpion " , the " Dakar " , the " Minerve " . So there was a realization of the potential for total disaster as we explored or traveled in the seas . The real achievements in underwater exploration were still in the future ( it was another decade before Dr . Robert Ballard located the wreck of the " Titanic " ) . So the potential for an interesting film was there . Regrettably the movie was not that good - but it does make one want better films on the subject . At some near future date there is an underwater station set up on the ocean floor . An earthquake occurs , and the crew is trapped . So the government sends a team with a submarine to do a difficult rescue . The team is headed by Walter Pidgeon and Yvette Mimieux , and it sends the submarine under Ben Gazzara and Ernest Borgnine to the rescue . What follows in the film is a kind of special effects travelogue of what the rescue crew sees under water , and how they overcome various obstacles until they finally locate the toppled tower of the underwater lab - just in time ( of course ) as some monster of the deep is attacking ( I recall it does get one of the endangered crew , who is fighting it to save his comrades ) . The photography was the best part of the movie - it did make the viewer take interest in that portion of the globe that covers three fifths of our planet . But as is rightly pointed here on the thread it did not really show the bizarre lifeforms of the deep sea - creatures that rarely see sunlight . Of course , the real problem is that deep sea photography ( before Dr . Ballard's descents , two and a half miles down ) were extremely difficult - and impossible for a commercial Hollywood film . So one has to allow for this failure while enjoying the fish and fauna that is seen . The performers try hard , particularly Borgnine , who attempts some comic relief . A reviewer on this thread mentions Gazzara's performance as wooden . I hesitate to go that far ( he seemed more tired than wooden ) , but I have seen him to far better effect in THE STRANGE ONE and other performances . Pidgeon was in his film dotage - trotted out as an authority figure of one type or another at the time , with his aged appearance erasing memories of the good looks of thirty years before in MRS . MINIFER or HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY . In his later years every time I saw Walter Pidgeon's performances ( unless the film script gave him some good moments ) his thickened pursed lips always made me think him a caricature of himself . In the end , the interest in the subject matter is the best thing going for THE NEPTUNE FACTOR , coupled with the photography ( even with it's limitations ) . So I give it a " 5 " out of a possible " 10 " .
A Vague Memory Now	One day I hope they will show this movie again . I saw it in 1964 or so on a weekday afternoon , so the movie was probably badly cut up for commercials . I recall that Milligan ( in one sequence ) demonstrates that he can sort and dispense letters in the post office better than the machine that they have purchased . And I remember the actors planning the mail robbery . But that said is about it . Although some of the posters here speak highly of the movie , I find it interesting that I can barely recall it . I think that is suggestive that it is not as good as has been suggested . But I can tell if they will show it again , so that I can watch it again .
Twentieth Century Disasters meet a " Flying Dutchman "	A bit of background is needed here . In the aftermath of the sinking of the Titanic , some of those who were in the water , but were pulled up into the lifeboats , still died as a result of exposure . The most notable victim among these was John Philips , one of the two brave wireless men - the other was Harold Bride - who kept sending distress messages for the two and a half hours the Titanic was sinking : Philips died just before the Carpathia arrived . The Carpathia and other rescue ships had to spend some time picking up hundreds of corpses . Not all of the 1500 odd victims were found - many floated away hundreds of miles until their bodies sank . But a little over two hundred were actually retrieved and buried on land ( mostly in Halifax , Canada ) . In the shifting of the bodies from the actually living survivors , four dead bodies were left in a rubber collapsible boat . A few weeks after they were left , the boat was found again by one of the other " rescue vessels " , and rather than return these decaying corpses , they were wrapped up and tied to the collapsible , and the collapsible allowed to be deflated and sunk into the Atlantic . It is believed that this particular story is the basis for the " NIGHT GALLERY " episode known as LONE SURVIVOR , although an older sea legend is connected , as well as the tale of the man who fled the Titanic and was supposedly wearing a dress or a woman's shawl ( most likely candidate for that was a steerage passenger named Patrick Buckley , who was wearing a shawl ) . The episode on " NIGHT GALLERY " dealt with a lifeboat of the Titanic found floating in the North Atlantic ( more precisely , floating off the coast of southern Ireland near the Old Head of Kinsale ) on May 7 , 1915 . There is a dazed man in it , and he is alive . How has he been able to survive for three years ? The episode was not the best written - except for occasional segments of the new series , Sterling's crisp writing from THE TWILIGHT ZONE was not as obvious in his second , lesser series . The Captain of the ship ( Torin Thatcher ) and the ship's doctor ( Hedley Mattingly ) try to deal with this strange survivor ( John Colicos ) only to find that he is as dazed about why he has been at sea for three years as they are . He can recall the night to remember , but he needs awhile to remember the details . Eventually he realizes that he is the Flying Dutchman - he is a specter who is doomed ( as punishment for fleeing the Titanic in the place of a woman ) to be at sea , saved from one doomed ship to go to another doomed ship forever . He tells Mattingly to warn Thatcher that the Lusitania will be torpedoed that day off Ireland . Mattingly does tell a dismissive Thatcher , but then Thatcher notices that Mattingly and the other crew and passengers seemed to have disappeared . A moment later we see the wake of torpedo and hear the explosion . The last moments of the episode ( of course ) shows that some forty one year , in July 1956 , off Nantucket , Massachusetts , a lifeboat from the Lusitania is spotted with one survivor in it - and picked up by the crew of the Andrea Doria . If one figured out the timing of the years between Titanic and the second disaster , it was pretty easy to figure out what unnamed ship picked up the lone survivor in the Titanic lifeboat . Oddly enough they jumped to the next famous luxury liner disaster - they could have chosen ( instead ) to pick , say , the " Vestris " or the " Morro Castle " or the " Dara " from that forty year period . If the acting was sufficiently good to keep one watching , the story was not compelling enough to merit the retelling . One interesting feature regarding one of the performers . Hedley Mattingley was in many television shows , most notably in DAKTARI with Marshall Thompson in the middle 1960s . His appearance here is a decent performance ( complete with beard ) but nothing special there . What is special is a little ironic . If you check his thread on this board , Mattingley was born on May 7 , 1915 ! He came in just as the Lusitania left the scene .
It should have been better	This film should have been better somehow . It has a lot going for it , in terms of the cast ( with Stewart Granger and then wife Jean Simmons cast in roles which generate friction , not love ) . This is like the negative to their relationship in YOUNG BESS . In that story the plot of Admiral Thomas Seymour to grab control of England's throne through forcibly marrying Princess Elizabeth was twisted into a romantic tragedy ( the first of many for the " Virgin Queen " ) . But the story held one's interest , and the script was well written ( in particular giving that rising talent Deborah Kerr her first pathetic victim part as Katherine Parr Tudor Seymour ) . This is set in Victorian times , and is based on a story by W . W . Jacobs . Don't confuse him with his rival late Victorian / Edwardian / Georgian short story writer H . H . Munro . The latter , ever recalled by the nickname " Saki " is remembered for his impudent and brilliantly sardonic stories of life in the early 20th Century in Europe , like " Tobermory " and " Shredni Vasthar " and " The Interlopers " . Jacobs was always W . W . Jacobs , and is principally recalled for one masterpiece of suggestive horror : " The Monkey's Paw " . If one looks at his spot on the IMDb board , many films ( mostly forgotten ) were based on his short stories ( mostly forgotten ) . One that did get made was based on " The Money Box " , and was turned into Laurel & Hardy's comedy about two sets of twins , OUR RELATIONS . And there was this film . If it is not as good as a film with Granger and Simmons as YOUNG BESS , it is not as good a movie based on a tale by Jacobs as OUR RELATIONS . Briefly it is the story of two connivers who's goals run into each other . Granger is seen at the beginning returning from the cemetery , having buried his wife . Only when we are alone do we realize that far from mourning the loss he is very satisfied . Naturally this raises suspicions in our minds - and in the mind of an ambitious maid in the house played by Simmons . She finds proof that the wife did not die naturally , but was poisoned . She proceeds to force Granger to marry her . This was not in his scheme of things , and so he decides that Simmons must go . But in their scheming and counter-scheming others get hurt , and suspicions begin to recirculate concerning both of them . The story's resolution resembles an Eric Portman film of a few years before ( not based on the Jacob story ) called DEAR MURDERER . Oddly enough , that film was a better movie about an ill-mated pair of vipers . Whether the flaw here was that the script seemed to drift along , or the directing was not as crisp as it should be is hard to tell . For the sake of the cast , starting with it's two leads , I have given it a five . However , DEAR MURDERER would have gotten an eight .
A Strange Misfire Comedy .	I am only giving this film a " 5 " out of respect for it's cast headed by Walter Matthau , Charles Grodin , Steve Martin , Bill Macy , Tyne Daly , Gilda Radner , Penny Marshall , and Vincent Gardenia . Otherwise it is a peculiar satire on Hollywood that never quite works . Walter Matthau works at a large studio , now run by William Prince . Matthau is a successful producer there , but his mentor was Gardenia , who was once a great producer . But Gardenia has been going downhill , both creatively and physically . He has wasted millions of dollars on a film about the prehistoric world , and has even set up a huge dinosaur from the film on the grounds of the studio ( much to a fed up Prince's anger ) . But Gardenia is taken off all other projects . He is now dying , and Matthau goes to see him . Gardenia , on the death bed , forces Matthau to do a film on a book he has just bought : a sexual guidebook . Matthau says he will , knowing it is a ridiculous promise . After Gardenia's death Matthau takes a close look into the sex book . This is the most popular sex guide in America , but the point is brought out in the film that if one thinks of sex lightly , as a powerful explosion from the emotion of love , it is easy to show in film , on stage , on television , on radio , in novels and short stories , or in paintings and sculpture . But if the actual physical activities involved were to be studied in a film ( not a pornography film , by the way ) , it becomes boring . Still Matthau tries . He consults with Macy , a fabled film director ( involved in a torrid and complicated affair with Radner - it ends when they wound each other in a shoot out ) . Macy's approach is to remind us of all the great film lovers of the past ( Bogart among them ) and how " dependable " they were . Matthau talks to Grodin , a leading screenplay writer . Grodin can't see where the drama needed for the film will come in . Matthau is advised to see the last of the great silent film lovers , the " ageless " Martin ( once a rival of Valentino ) . He keeps talking of decades old romantic moments - but all is for naught when Matthau and Grodin and Macy see Martin is now henpecked by his harridan wife ( Marshall ) . As you can see the film certainly had great direction in the script , except that despite the energy of the cast it just never rose above the one point : that discussing the physical activity of sex on film is not going to make a good movie . Somehow the script dropped a somewhat promising element : that a desperate Matthau might start dropping away from what Gardenia wished and produced a film that was a sex comedy . But for that to have fully worked , Gardenia's wacko character would have had to be alive throughout the film , and he would have had to keep the sense of taking the credit for the success of Matthau's changing the production plan to save the project . That never happens . I think the film tried to be philosophical but never got beyond presenting the main argument . It was a poor choice to make . MOVERS & SHAKERS may never have been a promisingly great film , but it might have been an amusing one . It is not too amusing now . Definitely not worthy of it's cast's energies at all .
Errol Flynn's attempt at film noir	I think it is generally acknowledged that Errol Flynn's best film work was in those films that combined his charm and his athletic abilities , be they swashbucklers , boxing films , or westerns . But as he got older Flynn was determined to prove his acting abilities . He could act when he was generally interested in the film he appeared in , but he was frequently willing to try to do a film that was unusual . This did not always work too well . He made such interesting failures as THE SISTERS with Bette Davis , where he was a newspaper reporter in turn of the century San Francisco , who had a wanderjahr that interfered with his marriage . The film wasn't bad , but his part was weak - the antithesis of the type he usually played so well . In the late 1940s to 1950 he tried three films to broaden his scope of acting : CRY WOLF , THAT FORSYTE WOMAN , and SILVER RIVER . Only the last one , a western where he played a man who was carried away by ambitious and greed so that he becomes relatively unsympathetic , was successful . THAT FORSYTE WOMAN ( with Greer Garson and Walter Pigeon ) was interesting ( Flynn as Soames Forsythe was interesting casting , but he was too stiff - Eric Porter's memorable Soames in the first BBC version of the Galsworthy stories in the 1960s was far more human ) . CRY WOLF , the present film , was Flynn's only real attempt at the noir style of movie . As such it begins well , but collapses due to a poor script . Barbara Stanwyck has married Richard Basehart , the nephew of Flynn , before the movie began . Flynn , Basehart , Jerome Cowan , and Geraldine Brooks are the scions of a " Kennedy " style family , with money and political power ( Cowan is a U . S . Senator ) . But Basehart has vanished , and Stanwyck , besides trying to prove her marriage , is determined to find her husband . And here she keeps running into Flynn's suspicious behavior . He seems very unsympathetic to her wishes , and quite cold most of the time . As for helping her locate Basehart , he keeps on throwing up roadblocks . The problem is that having set a good stage for a film which would have been confronting Stanwyck's heroine with Flynn's villain , the script fell apart . It turns out Flynn is interested in protecting the family's name and it's members from outside scrutiny . In particular Basehart and Brooks , who are somewhat strange . This change in the script was meant to enable Stanwick and Flynn to gradually fall in love and end up together , but it smashed the suspense that such a film should generate , and it ruined Flynn from having a potentially interesting negative part . Actually his performance in SILVER RIVER was far more consistent , and even his Soames retains the audience's lack of sympathy to the end . In CRY WOLF the audience gets confused - should we hiss Flynn or cheer him on ? It would have been better all around if the screenplay writers had let us hiss him to the end .
The tepid end of a great comedy team	Because I like the Marx Brothers I am willing to give this film a 5 . If it had starred Wheeler and Woolsey or the Ritz Brothers , I might have given it a 2 . After ROOM SERVICE , only A NIGHT IN CASABLANCA had any real merit among the final Marx Brother films . In the case of these two films , the former was based on a successful Broadway farce ( which is still produced occasionally ) , and the latter had some planning involved in it as well ( a novelization of the complete screenplay - certain parts were edited out of the final film - was published ) . The other four are mediocre at best . And LOVE HAPPY is the weakest . Yeah , Harpo gets some nice moments , like him riding the neon lit " Pegasus " on a rooftop sign . He and Chico have one or two good sequences together ( one of those patented " Chico - verbally - interpreting - Harpo's - mimed - message " sequences is good ) . Chico also has a wonderful moment when he tries to be romantic to Ilona Massey , promising to cover her in sardines . But these are so few and far between that the weaknesses in the film are shown . Yeah , Groucho is an afterthought . He has that one famous moment with Marilyn Monroe , but that's it . It looks like much of Groucho's material ended up on a cutting room floor . His " Watson " figure is Eric Blore ( an interesting combination of comic talents there ) , but Blore too is only briefly seen . One wishes to know what more there was to that sequence . But even if we discount shortchanging Groucho , what is left is nothing to shout about . It is a disappointing film , especially as it was the last real Marx Brother feature film . The following movie the brothers were all in was THE STORY OF MANKIND , and each was in a separate segment . There were three television shows they were in together ( though one was with other Hollywood comics like Ernie Kovacs ) , but none of these had the strengths of their best nine movies .
The Peculiar Problem of James Cagney's Musicals	In a wonderful movie career - arguably the best ever for a male leading man - Jimmy Cagney made seven musical films . Of these , only two are great musicals . The first was Busby Berkeley's FOOTLIGHT PARADE ( 1933 ) wherein Cagney is the harried producer of mini-musicals that are used to introduce films in movie houses . The conclusion of the film , wherein he ( in tales ) is a drunken sailor in the Far East , " lookin ' for my Shanghai Lil " ( Ruby Keeler in heavy make-up ) is one of the best Berkeley production numbers . Nine years later he became the first actor to win an Oscar for best actor in a musical portraying George M . Cohan in Michael Curtiz's great YANKEE DOODLE DANDY . Those two films document his real greatness as a song and dance man . Some of the gangster films also suggest the dancing ability . Years ago Mikhail Baryshnikov was interviewed on a program about Cagney and pinpointed how in THE PUBLIC ENEMY , when he has killed several enemies in a shoot out , but got badly wounded himself , he walks away wounded in a kind of twisted dance step that illustrates his determination to get away , and shows his agony at the same time . It's a good thing that those aspects are on film , because his other musicals leave much to be desired . In his memoirs , CAGNEY , he admits liking SOMETHING TO SING ABOUT because a dance number enabled him to dance with two hoofers he had long admired . But the whole movie is cheaply made ( he was fighting Warners in a contract dispute at the time ) . There were two films with Doris Day : THE WEST POINT STORY and LOVE OR LEAVE ME . The latter is a wonderful movie biography of singer Ruth Etting and her hellish marriage to gangster Marty " the Gimp " Snyder , and both stars gave first rate performances . But Day is the singer and dancer in the film ( Cagney's character's crippled condition makes any dancing impossible , and his personality was not conducive to singing - though he really admires Ruth / Doris's voice ) . THE WEST POINT STORY has several lively numbers in it , including Cagney in a zoot suit singing about his beloved Brooklyn ( as well as later singing about " the kissing rock " ) . But the music is not the greatest music ( although the film is entertaining enough ) . In THE SEVEN LITTLE FOYS he reprises Cohan for a dinner at the Friar's Club , and a song and dance with Bob Hope ( as Eddie Foy Sr . ) on the dinner table . It's a good number - but only that single scene . Similarly there is a single sequence in THE MAN WITH A THOUSAND FACES , where we see Cagney as Lon Chaney Sr . in vaudeville doing a silent comic bit as a hobo , and ending in a lively dance . Again though , it is only that one scene . Then there is this film : NEVER STEAL ANYTHING SMALL . It would be the last musical he would ever appear in , but it's value is far below that of FOOTLIGHT PARADE and YANKEE DOODLE DANDY . The film is also lesser than THE WEST POINT STORY , THE MAN WITH A THOUSAND FACES , or LOVE ME OR LEAVE ME - it may be as good as SOMETHING TO SING ABOUT . Based on THE DEVIL'S HORNPIPE , a musical by Maxwell Anderson , the plot is interesting . Cagney is playing McIllaney , a crooked labor union leader trying to become the head of the longshoreman's local . His plans are totally unscrupulous , and are complicated by his falling for Shirley Jones , the wife of ultra-scrupulous lawyer Roger Smith , whom Cagney tries to frame so he can marry Jones . He also uses his normal girl friend Winnipeg ( Cara Williams ) to lure Smith away from Jones . At the conclusion , despite some set-backs , the ever conniving Cagney still looks like a formidable future union leader . The film sounds promising , but it is not memorable as a script or as a source of music . GIRL CRAZY , the Gershwin musical that was filmed with Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland had a silly plot about a spoiled young man who is sent to a small town agricultural college as punishment . But the films music soared - including standards like " But Not For Me " . That is not the case here . The most memorable tune in this is a number concerning Cagney winning over a reluctant Williams to become a siren and break up Smith's marriage to Jones . They are discussing this on a street , when they pass a car showroom , and Williams ' eyes light up - she does want a Ferrari . So they break into a ditty called , " I'm Sorry , I Want a Ferrari " . Cagney is properly horrified ( his idea of a proper bribe would have been say $500 to $1 , 000 . 00 - not $25 , 000 . 00 ( 1950 money ) ) . In the course of the tune , Cagney even suggests that where he comes from Ferrari is considered a " very bad word . " They end in a type of dance step on an conveyor line . And ( apparently ) Cagney is going to have to cough up the Ferrari . I describe this because that is the film's highlight . Perhaps it is his star magnetism at work - he is a terrific performer and screen presence ( which is why I'm giving the film a 5 ) . Williams is good too in the number ( her enthusiasm for the Italian car almost like she is thinking about good sex ) . But aside from that scene the movie is forgettable - totally wasting Jones ( a terrific musical singer herself ) and Smith for that matter . There must have been a curse active - he hit the heights of musical success twice , and touched it a bit three or four times , but just could not duplicate those two great successes . A real pity that .
An unsexy Marlene can be dull - and a Selznick misfire in color	He's not recalled today like his two contemporaries Somerset Maugham or James Hilton . He is Robert Hitchens , and in his time ( roughly from 1900 to 1947 or so ) his books were frequently best sellers . Only one is recalled today - and it is not THE GARDEN OF ALLAH . His fictionalization of Oscar Wilde's career - THE GREEN CARNATION - is still republished occasionally . But SNAKEBITE , AFTER THE TRIAL , BELLA DONNA , and THE PARADINE CASE are rarely read ( all four were made into films , and the last was a failed Hitchcock movie ) . He did have his own share of controversy . In 1923 the prosecution and Judge in the notorious British homicide trial of Edith Thompson and Frederick Byswater noted the imaginative Mrs . Thompson liked to discuss the books she read and mentioned Hitchens . Mr . Justice Shearman said Hitchens wrote filthy books . Coming from such a source that actually is a complement . Hitchens liked the desert as a setting of his tales . BELLA DONNA was set in Egypt in part , dealing with an archaeologist . So his novels are pretty much time capsules to us , reminding us of earlier viewpoints about the globe and what to find there . Today when we think of the world of North Africa and the Islamic countries I suspect we think of xenophobic anti-Western , anti-American , and anti-Jewish peoples , or of suicide bombers , or of fanatics . Of course this is a gross simplification of the mass of these people . But similarly stereotypes ruled the view of Islamic lands in the 19th and early 20th Century . On the one hand was a look at the beauties of the desert and a sense of it's timelessness and it's mysticism . This was mingled with a view that Islam was a kind of poor cousin ( for want of a better term ) to Christianity , worshiping God but being somewhat more superstitious ( although in fiction the superstition was usually correct in the ironies of the story ) . But on the other hand North Africa and the Middle East were seen as hot and sexy uninhibited areas . In novels like Andre Gide's THE IMMORALIST you went to North Africa to escape the hypocrisy of European society ( similarly , Evelyn Waugh would send Sebastian to North Africa in BRIDESHEAD REVISITED to drink himself to death with his lover ) . Keeping all this in mind helps understand the misfire called THE GARDEN OF ALLAH . David Selznick produced it to use the new Technicolor style of film - and to give the film it's due Richard Boleslawski's movie is a beautiful one to look at . Further , he brought in Marlene Dietrich ( who had already done a " desert " romance with Joseph Von Sternberg in 1930 - MOROCCO ) , Charles Boyer , Basil Rathbone , Joseph Schildkraut , C . Audrey Smith , Alan Marshall , and John Carridine for his cast . With all their hard work , though , and the beauty of the film itself , it remains a failure . The problem is the hokeyness of the story to us today . Hitchens sets up the lovers ( Dietrich and Boyer - their only film together , by the way ) on parallel courses . She was brought up in a Catholic school run by nuns in France , and her father ( a rich man ) has died leaving her his fortune . She has had a secluded life so far in the convent and caring for her father , and she yearns to see the world and find love . Boyer has been a Trappist monk , who earns the money for his monastery by being the sole possessor of the recipe for the manufacture of the monastery's liqueur . But at the start of the film he has fled the monastery and is traveling on the same train as she is . They both leave at a city thirty miles south of the monastery . At a fight in a nightspot both are at , Boyer rescues Dietrich . Soon they are seen together pretty frequently , and fall in love . He tries to leave but can't . Instead he proposes marriage and she accepts . The local priest ( Aubrey Smith ) does not know why but can't trust Boyer . A premonition by a seer ( Carridine ) that is told to Dietrich and Rathbone makes the latter equally wary about the marriage . But Dietrich is all for it . They go on their honeymoon ( accompanied by their servants including Schildkraut ) . The keep staying in the desert apparently content , until the accidental arrival of Marshall begins undoing the entire situation : Marshall ( a French army officer ) met Boyer at the monastery , and knows his story . SPOILER AHEAD : When the matter reaches a boil , Dietrich and Boyer reluctantly return things to normal . . . or as near normal as possible . They tearfully part as Boyer returns to the Trappist life , and Dietrich hopes that in a better world they will be united forever . Somehow today we wouldn't swallow this too thoroughly . The monk might decide to drop his duty to the God he swore allegiance to because he does want to be a regular man . The woman who needs love would likewise urge him to do so , and the hell with the world . Instead we have this 1936 solution - and while the actors make the best of their talents bringing it to a boil it sits badly . Also , Marlene is a woman of vast sex appeal . While Selznick dressed her quite well here ( and the color helped too ) , she does nothing sexy in the film . Dancer Tilly Losch is sexier . Joan Fontaine would have been better in the part ( ten years later ) . For all the passions of the story , her performance is dull - and the movie hard to accept .
The First Hollywood Sound Version of OLIVER TWIST	This 1933 film is just adequate like a detailed synopsis of the story of OLIVER TWIST . Unlike the 1948 Lean / Guiness blockbuster , or the 1968 Reed / Moody treat , this one is so-so . I only comment on it for two reasons . First Dicky Moore played Oliver ( not as well as John Howard Davies or Mark Lester in the later two films . Apparently the director and producer were looking for a child star to mirror the 1922 silent film version with Jackie Coogan as Oliver and Lon Chaney Sr . as Fagin . Moore was rather stiff in the role ( as were most of the performers ) . The second reason is that unlike the 1948 version and the musical , this film did include one of Dickens ' best written chapters : Fagin in the Death Cell . Spoiler ahead - and I apologize as I have refrained from going into it in the two earlier comments . Fagin discovers through a spy that Nancy had contacted Mr . Brownlow and endangered the entire gang to help Oliver . Angry , he goes to Bill Sykes and tells him this . Sykes hates informers , and is doubly betrayed because he has ( in his rough way ) loved and protected Nancy . Fagin ( in the novel ) encourages Sykes to punish Nancy in a way to demonstrate what happens to informers . Sykes kills Nancy . A hue-and-cry goes up against Sykes . Brownlow tells the authorities what Nancy told him , so the law also goes against Fagin as well ( also Monk , the secret enemy of Oliver ) . Fagin is arrested fairly easily in the novel . Sykes is killed in trying to flee the mob . Now in Lean's film , Guinness as Fagin did not order the murder . In fact he told Sykes to be gentle with punishing Nancy . He is trapped as the mob is breaking down the door of the warehouse he has been hiding in . Guinness suddenly shows his grit and spunk and as the door crashes demands to know what right the mob has to destroy him . We last see him arrested and taken away . In OLIVER , the musical had Fagin and the Artful Dodger manage to evade the mob , although Fagin loses the box of stolen jewelry and watches he has kept for himself . It falls into the Thames . Dodger pulls Fagin away . They see the end of Sykes , and then Fagin considers his options . He's getting too old for this type of life . Dodger is not that thrilled about it either ( they've just barely escaped with their lives from a mob ) . Fagin decides it's time to reform . He and Dodger go off together , presumably to try to build up a safer , more respectable life . In the novel , there is not second chance for Fagin . He basically ordered a hit by Sykes on Nancy , and he should pay for it . He is tried for her murder , There is no Sykes to share the odium with ( possibly pass the blame onto ) . He barely understands the trial - he's in a state of shock . So he only vaguely understands when he is condemned to death . We see him in the cell , and he is slowly going mad . He sees the evil acts he has committed in the past , and the lack of any friends to help him ( including the Dodger , who was tried and sentenced to transporting to Australia in the novel ) . But hours before the end , Brownlow brings Oliver to see Fagin because the boy asks him to . It momentarily raises Fagin's hopes . He whispers to Oliver a weird plan to escape the noose outside , with Oliver pretending to lead Fagin out of the cell to safety . It's too much for Oliver , and the boy cries for God to forgive Fagin's soul . Brownlow takes Oliver out , and Fagin remains to be hanged . Oddly enough the chapter only appeared in this version of 1933 , as opposed to the 1947 and 1968 films . It is not done very well - again the stiffness of the actors ruins it , but it is shown . Also the moment of the execution is brought home to the audience , when , as Oliver and Brownlow leave the prison , a black flag is hoisted up the flagpole , symbolizing the death of Fagin . For showing that particular moment of the novel at all , I'll grant this very inferior version a five .
A Bloated Version of a Curious Holmes Story	In the last two seasons of the Jeremy Brett " Sherlock Holmes " stories several two hour versions were written that were not really that good . Only one , THE MASTER BLACKMAILER , proved well done , because it illustrated the effects of the blackmail on society victims . It also was helped by Robert Hardy's performance as Charles Augustus Milverton , the subject of the story . But the version of THE MAZARIN STONE ( actually combined with THE THREE GARRIDEBS ) , and the insane version of THE NOBLE BACHELOR called THE ELLIGIBLE BACHELOR demonstrated the obvious : whatever the weaknesses of his stories at their worst , as in the final collection , Conan Doyle was better at writing his stories than a bunch of screenplay writers for television . THE LAST VAMPYRE is another failure ( I've given it a " 5 " for some of the performances , but just for that ) . It is based on a story called THE ADVENTURE OF THE SUSSEX VAMPIRE . Please note Conan Doyle used the modern spelling of the word , not the spelling of the 17th or 18th Century . THE SUSSEX VAMPIRE is a unique story in the Holmes canon because it is the only time that Conan Doyle decided to take his best know creations ( Holmes and Watson ) and have them deal with the supernatural . The story was published in the 1920s , but it may have been written earlier . Doyle had a habit of writing stories and putting them aside if he felt them inferior to his best work , but by 1921 or so he was committed to his personal crusade to such an extent that he did not really care if the stories he handed out were so good as his best anymore . The irony of this attitude is that by 1921 Conan Doyle was committed to his support of " spiritualism " and other forms of " occult " issues . It is with this in mind that the basic contradiction of this story pops up . Homes and Watson get a letter from one Robert Ferguson , an old school chum of Watson's , who is upset at recent activities in his home . He has caught his second wife apparently sucking the blood of their baby son . He is asking Holmes to look into it . Naturally Holmes has to look at all possible explanations , and asks for the volume of his research files dealing with the letter " V " for " Vampire " . Soon we get a look at how he files things ( one " Victor Lynch " is filed under " V " , as is Holmes ' account of the " Voyage of the " Gloria Scott " " , which is the subject of an earlier story by Watson ) . Finally he finds the entry for " Vampire " . He reads a bit of it to himself , and one can see him get annoyed . He flings down the volume of his files , and calls the material rubbish . Finally he tells Watson that his detective agency has its feet on the ground and is not swayed by such nonsense . See what I mean ? How could the Conan Doyle of 1921 have written such a sensible comment , and still championed the " occult " ? Unless , of course , the creative Conan Doyle somehow managed to separate himself from the crusading Conan Doyle . We'll probably never quite know how this happened . The story goes into Holmes and Watson visiting the Fergusons , observing the lady of the household , her love for the infant , and the activities of others in the house , including the older half-brother of the baby Jackie . Eventually Holmes figures out what is the truth in the situation , and suggests a sensible solution to Ferguson . Now aside from the Fergusons and Holmes and Watson , no other plot line was dragged into this story . It concentrated on the problem , the investigation , the solution , and the way to eradicate the problem from reoccurring . While not the best story in the Canon , THE ADVENTURE OF THE SUSSEX VAMPIRE was a good story and a reasonably intelligible one . Not so THE LAST VAMPYRE . The screenplay writers suggested that there was an outside influence on the perpetrator - a mysterious man who has moved to the Sussex village the Fergussons live in . The man ( Roy Marsden ) always wears black , and rarely appears in the daylight . He is from a family with a sinister reputation in the village , involving " vampirism " , and when he is confronted by one of the villagers he stares at the man , who suddenly is vomiting up blood and dies . Now that interesting incident never appeared in Conan Doyle . It might have appeared elsewhere , but it has nothing to do with the story called THE ADVENTURE OF THE SUSSEX VAMPIRE . Nor does the subsequent fate of Marsden's character , or of two of the principles in the story . In fact it becomes a kind of ridiculous updating of some lesser Jacobean tragedy with all kinds of corpses littering the stage . The conclusion ends with a character going insane and dying as a result . Believe me , the original conclusion was far more calm , and - as said before - much more sensible .
An Interesting Failure	This film should have been made by William Wellman or John Ford . Both of them made films about flight - Wellman made LAFAYETTE ESCADRILLE among others , and FORD did THE WINGS OF EAGLES . Though Ford's first love was the sea ( and he was a master of westerns and films on Irish themes ) , he had a grasp about excitement generated by flying . These were the sort of men who could have tackled this story . Or if not them , Howard Hawks , who did such a great job with ONLY ANGELS HACE WINGS . But , instead , Billy Wilder directed THE SPIRIT OF ST . LOUIS . How he got that assignment I cannot guess . Wilder was best at films that spoofed or studied our national foibles . Our propensity for litigation got the once over in THE FORTUNE COOKIE . The work ethic and corporate promotions are looked at ( acidically ) in THE APARTMENT . The Roaring ' 20s are spoofed in SOME LIKE IT HOT . Male preoccupations with sex get the once over in THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH . The tendency of news media to push tragedy over information is at the center of ACE IN THE HOLE / THE BIG CARNIVAL . While the bulk of his films ( at least up to 1966 ) were successful , Wilder's film list includes several clinkers . After THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR , THE LOST WEEKEND , and DOUBLE INDEMNITY , Wilder did the half successful , half odd THE EMPEROR'S WALTZ . It was a good film , but somehow it seemed at times to get lost - like when three minor characters do an impromptu dance number two thirds of the way through . His record of successful films in the early 1960s ended with KISS ME STUPID , which suffered from a casting change that Wilder could not control ( Peter Sellers had a near-fatal heart attack , and was replaced by Ray Walston ) . And in the 1950s Wilder did this film version of the Pulitzer Prize winning autobiography THE SPIRIT OF ST . LOUIS by Charles Lindbergh . And he turned out a well made film , but one that remains the most boring film in his career . It think part of the problem is that everyone who sees the film knows that " Lucky Lindy " is going to make it to Paris . Except for the first flight of the Wright Brothers at Kitty Hawk , the one fact of flying that everyone recalls is that Lindbergh did make the first non-stop , solo flight from New York to Paris in May 1927 . There is no real tension built up , even though we are aware that Lindbergh faced very real dangers . He had to completely fill up enough gasoline to get him across the Atlantic - which meant that he had no room for safety devices in case of emergency . He had little chance of survival in the middle of the ocean ( which we are reminded about in the film's references to Charles Nungesser and his partner Raymond Coli , who disappeared on route from Paris to New York two weeks before Lindbergh took off ) . These dangers would grip us if it was a fictional story , so that we do not know the conclusion . Once you know he got to his goal , you don't care about these " apparent " threats . It is also static for nearly twenty minutes of the film - representing the three day flight by having Jimmy Stewart as Lindbergh making comments to himself while flying or looking out of the window . With little real action and a lot of talk , the film becomes progressively stiff and dead , so that many people don't stay around for the conclusion ( the arrival of the plane at Orly Airport in Paris ) . While there are some nice moments in the film , most viewers probably turn it off before it is over . For the sake of Billy Wilder , James Stewart , and even Charles Lindbergh , this film gets a " 5 " for being a nice try .
One or two good moments , but mostly forgettable	PARLOR , BEDROOM , AND BATH is not a total waste . It is always curious to see a transitional film , and this is in several ways . It is an early Buster Keaton talkie , and demonstrates how quickly the MGM brass could desert a brilliant film maker due to total lack of interest and sympathy in his abilities . Having demonstrated in THE CAMERAMAN that he was capable of working under others and turning in superior work , Keaton still did not impress his bosses . So this programmer ( there is no better way of describing it ) was given to him - and only picks up when he is able to do some athletic / inventive sight gags . The transition is also interesting for another reason - Reginald Denny . Recalled now as a usually impeccably well mannered , and elegant , British character actor ( typical role : the architect in MR . BLANDINGS BUILDS HIS DREAM HOUSE ) , in the late silent film period Denny was a leading man in social comedies . This explains why , when PRIVATE LIVES was made in 1931 , he played Norma Shearer's deserted husband . As I mentioned in my review of that film , he's capable in the role , but nothing special . What is killing about his performance is that the originator of that role was a close friend of Noel Coward's : Laurence Olivier . Denny is given a role , fully as important to the plot , as Keaton . Maybe more so , as Keaton is pulled into the story by Denny's activities . Taking a backhanded flip from THE TAMING OF THE SHREW , Denny wants to marry the younger of two sisters , who won't marry unless her older sister ( the " Katerina Minola " of the plot ) marries first . While not as violent as Shakespeare's Kate , Angelica Embry ( Dorothy Christie ) is sharp tongued about men and turns them all off . She has never found one that is satisfying . Denny runs accidentally into Keaton , and decides ( for no really strong reason - a weakness in this farce ) to present him as a great lover to Angelica . The plot really is how Angelica grows interested in Keaton , and he has to be trained to be a great lover . But other women hear of his reputation , and he is pursued by them . Frankly his bridegroom pursued by hundreds of angry would-be brides in SEVEN CHANCES was funnier . Yet there are two sequences that stand out , that suggest what he might have done . One , I've noticed , is not liked in some of these reviews , but it has some sparks in it . He is told how to address Angelica , and keeps practicing " Oh , my darling . . . I love you madly . . . I want you badly . " or words to that effect . Keaton is progressively more and more bored by these idiotic words , and when practicing with Angelica's sister Virginia ( Sally Eilers ) grabs the girl about the arms , and shakes her back and forth towards and away from him . It seems at first wooden and tedious , until one realizes that Keaton is being a little subversive here . Even though the film code was not fully in place in 1931 , only an idiot would have failed to notice that when Keaton is doing this shaking , the rhythm of him and Eilers happens to resemble a couple having sex . It sort of undercuts the value of the words that Keaton is trying to use to sound soulfully romantic ! He does this several times , each time getting grimmer and grimmer and seemingly more willing to cut to the sexual climax chase . The other moment is with Charlotte Greenwood . In the film she has fainted in his hotel room , and he knows that the hotel detective ( Ed Brophy ) is trying to catch him with a woman in his room . Knowing that Brophy is headed for his room , Keaton tries to move the unconscious Greenwood into an open closet . But she's large than he is , and he can't budge her . So , he decides to do a little mechanical activity . He removes the door of the closet from it's hinges , and lays it down so he can roll Greenwood on top . Then , slowly , he pushes the door back so it looks like it is closed . Brophy and some others break in . " Where's that woman who came in here ? " , Ed demands to know . Keaton , casually leaning on the door of the closet shrugs his shoulders . He almost gets away with it until a fed up Brophy , who can't find any trace of Greenwood , grabs Keaton to get the truth out of him . Then the closet door crashes down revealing a still unconscious Charlotte , much to Brophy's surprise . Keaton liked this logical trick with doors and their hinges . He would use it years later , in a variant manner , in a comedy with Red Skelton and Esther Williams , only to have Skelton use it to confuse a nasty watch dog . But those two moments were rarities in this film . I'll give it a " 5 " for the sake of the " Great Stone Face " , but it really is a " 3 " or a " 4 " .
Query : Is " acclimatize " a word or not ?	This film is given only a five by me - I stayed up late one night to see it , because I wanted to see Hedy Lamarr in one of her most famous performances . It was about 1971 , in the summertime ( so it was sultry weather - good to see such a tropical film ) . Hedy was good to watch , although her character's dialog and fate were odd . The other cast members , Frank Morgan and Richard Carlson , acted well . But it was watching Walter Pigeon getting all riled up , not only due to the antics of Todelayo but because he could not stand the word " acclimatize " being used that lasted longest in my memory . The story is one of jungle rot . Pigeon , Carlson , and Morgan ( and other males in the cast ) are working on a plantation in Africa , and life there is not made easier by the arrival of Lamarr , a half-breed ( as they called so-called non-white temptresses in the days of the Hollywood " code " ) . She snares Carlson , who stupidly marries her . She only sees him as good for buying her luxuries and giving her a meal ticket . SPOILER COMING UPWhen she finally tires of Carlson , Hedy starts poisoning him . Pigeon learns what she is doing , and forces her to drink the poison - and she runs out screaming ( supposedly to die alone somewhere in the jungle ) . The story is impossibly melodramatic claptrap today - I can't imagine a remake without miles of rewriting . It was produced in 1923 on Broadway by Earl Carroll , a man who is now totally forgotten . While Florenz Ziegfeld had his failings , he is remembered fondly as a great theatrical producer with taste - his " Follies " had many truly beautiful women in them , but also leading comedians like W . C . Fields , Ed Wynn , Will Rogers , Raymond Hatton , Fanny Brice , and music by Jerome Kern , Victor Herbert , George Gershwin . His classy " Glorifying the American Woman " with extravagant costumes really set a standard that is still recalled . Carroll wanted to be Ziegfeld , and created his " Vanities " . He too had some good comics working for him , such as Fields ( one year ) , Jimmy Savo , even Jack Benny . But while Ziegfeld dressed up his ladies , Carroll skirted the edge trying to show women as close to naked as possible . Still , for some two decades Carroll remained a well known figure in New York ( and later Hollywood ) producing . This despite a six month jail sentence in Atlanta Federal Penitentiary ( in 1926 ) for lying to a Federal Grand Jury when it was revealed he used illegal booze at a party . He did lie ( it was not too healthy to reveal who was your friendly bootlegger ) . Actually the thing people did not realize about Carroll's party was that it was to honor his fellow Pittsburgh citizen , Harry K . Thaw . The murderer of Stanford White was a potential show biz " angel " , and when he showed up Carroll yelled , " Here's Harry Thaw ! Three cheers for Harry ! " . That Carroll could say that showed his real lack of character . I doubt if Ziegfeld would have done it . Carroll ( like Ziegfeld ) did produce shows that were not his typical reviews . But Ziegfeld produced shows like SHOWBOAT and THE THREE MUSKETEERS . Carroll produced shows like WHITE CARGO . Carroll claimed it was great art - but he knew that a racially mixed love or lust affair was going to bring in many customers ( especially men ) . Carroll always tried to wrap himself with some first amendment shield or high art shield . It fooled nobody . If you have the time on a wet afternoon , with nothing better to do , then you have reason to catch WHITE CARGO . If you have something better to do , I'd recommend doing it .
A Below Par Episode For This Series	I have usually said that the best episodes of ONE STEP BEYOND were able to hold the attention of the viewer even if the viewer was skeptical about the subject matter . This particular episode actually was below average - the subject matter did not live up to the build up , despite the tragedy at the conclusion . Alex Peters ( Frank Maxwell ) has a crippled daughter named Carolyn , and is concerned when he realizes he hasn't long to live . He tries to set up a trust fund for the daughter , but lacks the funds . So , in desperation he decides he has to rob the bank . George Chambers ( Ralph Nelson ) is married to Ellen ( Roberta Haynes ) . George and Ellen live quite well . He has a job at the bank . Then Ellen gives him some news she forgot to tell him that there is going to be a bank examiner coming in a few days . George collapses in fear - it seems he has been living better than he should on his salary because he is embezzling money . So George runs to the bank to repair the books as best as he can . So two lines of fate are drawn to that branch of the bank . George gets there first , and starts repairing the books as best as he can . But then Alex shows up and holds up the bank . Of course , by doing that Alex is making George's attempts at repair less and less plausible : once the robbery occurs a full audit will be needed to see what was stolen , and the defalcation will really be glaring . So George tries to stop the robbery . Alex shoots and kills George , but this enables a guard to shoot and kill Alex . Here's the weakness though . Newland's epilogue asks why did the forces of the universe cause two men to end each other's lives . But that's just it - they didn't end each other's lives . There was no mutual killing here . George was not armed - he was shot by Alex . But another person shot Alex . Unless that third person's story was as twisted as these two you can't make a case of the forces of the universe causing mutual destruction .
When a Master repeats himself . . .	There is no denying that Jules Verne is one of the great surviving authors of the 19th Century . This despite poor translations , and a tradition of equating his work with " children's fiction " . He was a serious novelist for adults , but his love of the industrial revolution in technology makes it useful to introduce him to teenagers as an imaginative novelist not a severe social critic . Verne's novels are full of political ( usually left-of-center ) messages , attacking imperialism of sorts . He detested the British Empire and the hypocrisy of the Anglo-Saxons . Being French this was understandable , as was his dislike for Prussian militarism after the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 . He mistrusted the commercial thrust of American business . But he never saw the hypocrisy of French Imperialism ( France was on a civilizing mission unlike Britain ) . He also could reveal traces of racism himself - witness his " Jew " in the novel HECTOR SERVADAC ( known as LOST ON A COMET ) who is a malignant money lender . But even here Verne equates the Jew with the " modern , greedy German Empire " . Richard Wagner would have been truly shocked . Still with all his flaws , he is a worthy writer to still read and reread as an adult . However many of his books do not get reprinted or reread . Actually there are about seventy novels , short stories , plays or his that are mostly unread except by his fans . Still , a careful student of movies will notice that besides the top titles there have been some obscure novels that did see the screen . For instance Yul Brynner and Kirk Douglas starred in THE LIGHT AT THE EDGE OF THE WORLD . George Segal and Orson Welles were in THE SOUTHERN STAR . Because he predicted the submarine and space travel Verne was capable of noting the development of air travel . It used to be frequently mentioned that he wrote a novel called THE CLIPPER OF THE CLOUDS ( 1886 ) . In fact the title is ROBUR THE CONQUEROR . It expounds the inevitable success of heavier than air flight over lighter than air flight . Like several of his novels it required a sequel , and in 1904 MASTER OF THE WORLD appeared . Robur returns in the sequel with a plane which is also a very fast power boat and automobile , but he is insane . Robur destroys himself because he believes he is unstoppable , only to be stopped by a lightning bolt . The problem is that THE CLIPPER OF THE CLOUDS is a miserably bad novel . Verne had a contract with Hetzel , his publisher , in turning out novels , and while his best work is really good when he did a bad job he really blew it . Basically he takes the character of Nemo in TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES and transposes him to Robur in a different traveling device for a different element of our planet . But Captain Nemo ( alias Prince Dakar of the Sepoy Rebellion ) has a personal grudge against imperialism and the British Empire - something that Verne's novel only brings out when properly translated . This is why Nemo sinks British liners and warships , and why he supports freedom fighters around the globe . Robur is a self-centered engineering genius , who arranges the kidnapping of Uncle Prudent and two others to demonstrate that his " Albatross " aircraft can beat the balloons and dirigibles . In the novel THE CLIPPER OF THE CLOUDS there had been a debate that Robur came to , and his inflammatory comments set off similar comments by Prudent and the others . So he shows them his flying machine . But his intention is to keep them prisoner . Keep in mind , the prisoners in TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES were accidentally snared by the Nautilus when it was attacked . Nemo never intended to kidnap them - in fact , as he is carrying out a military campaign against the British his holding the men hostage has some rationale as a security matter . With Robur it's pure ego . Also there is a lack of colorful scenes . Robur will announce they are in another part of the globe , but so what ? Nemo was able to show his three prisoners Atlantis , the wreck of the " Avenger " ( and in one passage other wrecked or missing ships ) and out of the way islands , not to mention the South Pole . The reason that Prudent and the others escape Robur is that they set off an explosive that cripples the Albatross and allows them to flee . But at the end of the first novel Robur catches up to them when they are about to test the world's largest dirigible . He forces them to rise higher and higher than his heavier than air craft . When the dirigible explodes he saves them and sets them down . Then he leaves saying that due to the inability of man to control his science he won't give his secret of flight yet , but may one day . He forgets his propensity for self-righteous crime : kidnapping , imprisonment , attempted murder . Verne ended CLIPPER OF THE CLOUDS with a statement that Robur was the science of tomorrow . Hardly likely - there are more pragmatic reasons behind the science of tomorrow : will it sell well with the public not will it be handed over at the right time by monomaniacs . CLIPPER OF THE CLOUDS was rushed through before Verne had any chance to think it out . Therefore the addition of the anti-militarist theme to Price's characterization is actually welcomed , as is the clowning of Vito Scotti ( by the way , Scotti and the other crewmen agree not to desert Price in the end , a rather moving moment ) . It is one of the first films that Charles Bronson made as a cross-over from supporting roles to leads . And Price's career did not nose-dive either . Henry Hull's Uncle Prudent allows him some hamming , but it's a nothing part to begin with and he is boosting dirigibles - hardly likely after the HINDENBERG ) . It is as good a film as possible , given that Verne did not do a top job in the first place .
Sir Noel's Acting Limitations	Years ago , when I was in high school , I read a book that evaluated the leading West End acting giants of the first half of the twentieth century ( or more exactly , those who were the big names from 1925 - 1971 ) . They were Sir Lawrence Olivier , Sir John Guilgud , Dame Edith Evans , Sir Ralph Richardson , Sir Michael Redgrave , Dame Peggy Ashcroft , and Sir Noel Coward . The appearance of these seven stars guaranteed large public interest and box office in those years . One could probably add Sir John Mills , Sir Alec Guinness , and Dame Sybil Thorndyke to this group . What is curious about them is that they were not equally successful in movie careers . Evans gave some nice performances ( her role in " Tom Jones " was very funny , as was her classic Lady Bracknell in " The Importance Of Being Earnest " ) but outside of England she never caught on . Same with Sybil Thorndyke , and Peggy Ashcroft only achieved really good international fame in her late years for her Oscar performance in " A Passage To India " . Of the men , Olivier and Guilgud won Oscars ( technically Olivier got two , one for his career and one for best actor in " Hamlet " ; Guilgud got one for best supporting actor in " Arthur " ) . Mills and Guinness would also get Oscars ( the former for best supporting actor for " Ryan's Daughter " ; the latter for " The Bridge On The River Kwai " and for his career ) . Richardson and Redgrave got nominated , but never won the award . And then there was Sir Noel . Of the group he had the best theatrical reputation of all ( even more than Olivier , who was a director of the new National Theater in the 1960s ) . After all Coward wrote plays and operettas , and composed music . He was a successful cabaret singer . He did win a special Oscar ( for his wartime film , " In Which They Serve ) . " As the second most successful 20th Century English dramatist after Shaw he was established . There was just one fly in the ointment . Except for a handful of films in his career that he appeared in , he was a terrible film actor . If you doubt this think of the movie credits of Olivier , Redgrave ( yes Michael Redgrave ) , Richardson , Guilgud , Guinness , and Mills , and compare them with the paucity of titles for Coward . His two movie roles of note are " Bunny Lake is Missing " ( where he plays a pervert ) , and " Our Man In Havana " where he plays a middle management spy master - and is somewhat cornered by the lies that Alec Guinness has submitted in his reports . You might , if you are willing to give him some brownie points , acknowledge " The Scoundrel " , where he is a nasty , egotistical publisher - he is allowed to play a bit with the role , but he has not written the bon mots that are dropped by his publisher ( Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur did ) . There is nobody to share the blame for this movie with . Based on a play by Coward , you would think that it is worthwhile . Ah , but his best plays were comedies like " Hay Fever " and " Blithe Spirit " . His most successful dramatic play was " Brief Encounter " , which was brilliant when David Lean directed it with Trevor Howard and Celia Johnson . But Lean is not directing this , and Coward is playing the lead part . The problem with Coward is he tends to the sentimental . Even though he writes very funny , brittle dialog he does not resolve issues in a normal way at all . The conclusion of " Blithe Spirit " is Charles Condimine leaves the house with the spirits of his two warring ex-wives to fight it out while he sees the rest of the world . In the movie this was changed , but the stage production ends with Charles triumphant over two warring ghosts ! Hardly realistic that . " Hay Fever " ends with the guests of the four members of a theater family sneaking out of the house to avoid spending another moment with these selfish nuts if they can avoid it . But the nuts learn nothing from this - they will continue forever as before . Somehow another dramatist might have had one of the nuts realize who was actually to blame . In " The Astonished Heart " , Coward plays a psychiatrist who is wrapped up in his work . He does not really notice his wife's old friend when he is introduced to her , but rather continues his researches and writings ( he also reveals that the title comes from a passage in the Old Testament referring to " astonishment of heart " ) . Eventually Coward does develop an interest in the old friend , so they start an affair . The film follows the problems between the three points of the triangle , and the eventual tragedy it leads to . The actors try , but the audience really cannot get into them or their conflicts , although the gradual cooling of the affair does strike one as a most honest and realistic touch . That is only because the psychiatrist is such a pitifully dull fellow one can't see what the friend really saw in him . The film leaves one pretty cold . Sir Noel would return to his stage and cabaret work , which was far more rewarding than this . I'm glad for his sake he did . Unfortunately he still made occasional film appearances , most of which were eminently forgettable .
And now presenting " Okrascope "	I recall this film when I saw it once on television in the early 1970s . While I see it has gotten many favorable write-ups on this thread , I have to admit it disappointed me . It was that long , long ( too long ) series of third rate films that Sellers got involved in after his peak in the middle 1960s , when only an occasional film ( " The Wrong Box " , " There's A Girl In My Soup " ) reminded people of the comic and acting genius he was . In my memory the only good performance was that of Victor Mature as the aging actor , who is best recalled by the public in that he is always in a role wearing a trench coat . The highpoint of Mature's performance is when he , Balsam , and several others are stuck in a car that is stalled on a railway track , with a train bearing down on it - and Mature is screaming the most . Finally the train passes them and they are safe . Everyone is just silent and sweaty from their near-thing ordeal , and Mature suddenly smiles and acts as though he could have told them not to worry . But the best line I remember deals with Sellers and fellow conman Akim Tamiroff . Sellers has to introduce Tamiroff ( named " Mr . Okra " ) to Mature , Balsam , Britt Eckland , and the others on the film set . He says , with great formality , " This is Mr . Okra . . . inventor of " Okrascope " . " I am still waiting to see what " Okrascope " was .
Minor film - but a footnote to a classic swindle	I like P . G . Wodehouse , but this film is not in the same category as A DAMSEL IN DISTRESS . That film showed the Wodehouse's characterizations and situations at their funniest . This one seems strained . But it's cast is a nice one , and it has an interesting social historic note to it . Alan Dinehart and George Givot are planning to make Arthur Treacher ( Jeeves ) their guinea pig in a scam in which he is the heir to the supposed " millions " of pounds estate of the English sea hero Sir Francis Drake . Incredibly , in the 1920s and 1930s , thousands of foolish people in the U . S . , the British Empire , and elsewhere , paid money to the head of a scam in which the people were told they were heirs to Drake's fortune . It was not until just before World War II that the scam was finally cracked . It is curious that this 1937 film actually used such a current swindle in it's plot , but they may have felt it would have increased the audience for an otherwise mediocre film .
From the people who gave you St . Elsewhere	TATTINGERS is an example of the hit and miss aspect of production success in television . The writers and staff who created the excellent medical show ST . ELSEWHERE decided to branch out and make this similar comedy / drama about a famous New York City restaurant called TATTINGERS . It was supposed to be on par with Le Cirq or " 21 " , and it was owned by Nick Tattinger ( Stephen Collins ) , who is divorced from his wife Hillary ( Blythe Danner ) . They have two daughters . Part of the plot , by the way , is not described in the description that was given on the thread . Nick was shot and seriously wounded when he found some local drug dealer trying to sell drugs to his older daughter . He knocked the guy down , and started taking the girl home , when the drug dealer recovers , pulls out a gun , and shoots Nick . At the time the show began , Nick has recovered , but the dealer has gotten out of prison , and he is constantly harassing Nick and his staff , causing food deliveries to be sidetracked or delayed or stolen , and also occasionally invading the precincts of the restaurant . Now that point alone shows you a problem with the show's scripts . On ST . ELSEWHERE , the writers frequently showed their disillusion with the American justice system by having criminals get early release , or not get caught or convicted , or by having people we sympathize with who commit crimes and go to prison as a result . They obviously took this feeling into TATTINGERS , but went too far . In the real world , if this drug dealer was harassing his shooting Victim and his restaurant ( as he is ) it would likely lead to the dealer returning to prison . In the super real world , Nick would probably have the drug dealer dealt with in a final method that would not bear looking into by the police . Instead they had this harassment involved with the shows for too long . It made no sense at all . But what was far worse was the engine that geared up for every episode's plot . Instead of trying to build stories around the workings of the staff , their hopes and dreams , and their private lives , the writers quickly tried to use a rather hackneyed plot idea again and again and again . Nick claims ( in the first episode ) that he has many friends , and frequently finds himself doing favors for people . Well , that happens - but not with the idiotic frequency that it happens to Nick . It is reminiscent of two episodes ( at least ) on M . A . S . H . , where Hawkeye has some simple problem to cure and has to arrange ( or try to arrange ) half-a-dozen or so exchanges of favors before he can get that new boot he needs , or get that furlough set up or whatever . The episodes on M . A . S . H . that used this became so predictable that they are among the least funny of that series . Here it was done weekly as the plot . And it was less than successful here to . In real life , somebody who found his friends so frequently demanding so much help with " favors " would wonder if it would make sense to find a new set of friends . There were some interesting moments on the show . The aged George Abbott and Garson Kanin appeared in one episode as themselves , proclaiming they were TATTINGERS regulars . In another episode there was a cute joke , about a demanding customer who was coming named Mr . Wilkes . When he showed up , the maitre'd said , " Where is Mr . Wilkes ' booth ? " There was even a reference to the more successful ST . ELSEWHERE . An actor who played a doctor on ST . ELSEWHERE ( who had died of a heart attack on that show ) appeared as a lawyer in an episode of TATTINGERS . He is complaining about his recent problems , mostly about his cases , and then adds , " And my favorite cousin Eliott just dropped dead at the hospital he worked at in Boston ! " . That was the name of the character on ST . ELSEWHERE . The actors did their best . Besides Collins and Danner , noteworthy work was done by Jerry Stiller , Rob Morrow , and Simon Jones . But the show was doomed . An attempt to change it in mid season - Danner gets involved in running it , and they change it's image into a mod , " Studio 54 " type of place - did not help at all . It lasted one season , then closed it's doors , and became part of television past and forgotten . I doubt many viewers even recall it ever existed .
A cartoon look at elementary school learning in 1950	This Little Audrey cartoon was from the Paramount studios like the Little Lulu cartoons that preceded it . Audrey and her friends were the subject of comic books when I grew up , and like Lulu and Nancy ( in the newspapers ) she was a determined little girl who found her plans threatened by some of the boys she had as fellow students . But in the cartoons I recall seeing in the late 1950s and early 1960s , she was a dreamer , who had to learn first hand about what mistaken notions she had . For example , in another cartoon she was upset about how rain effected her play plans . But the discovers when she wishes that it never rains again that the planet needs rain for plants and flowers . Here she is in an elementary school class and they are reading Mother Goose Nursery Rhymes . But she's bored , and is reading a quasi-violent comic book about two gangsters named Pin-head and Birdbrain who are planning to rob Fort Knox . When she is caught by her teacher ( who is attractive ) she is made to sit in the corner with a dunce cap on her head . Audrey is supposed to read the entire book of nursery rhymes , and instead falls asleep and dreams about Mother Goose ( again her teacher ) showing her the " nursery rhyme world " . And , of course , she sees how much more relevant they are than she thought , and how comic book types like the two hoods she was reading about were far less worthy of emulation or copying ( Audrey , earlier , was copying their lingo ) . It has some topical stuff , including a comment on Frank Sinatra and the Bobby Soxers . But the story is somewhat simplistic , and the result is not very memorable ( I found the design of the heads of the two comic strip villains the most memorable item in the cartoon , though their getaway car was nicely streamlined ) . For an undemanding kiddie who is watching cartoons at ages 8 - 10 it's okay , but no more than that .
James Addison Reavis meets Charles Guiteau ( sort - of )	I'm not really a fan of the old western - " B " film programmers like THE NIGHT RIDERS , but word of the reappearance of this film on television ( from a friend who talked about it with me ) , raised my curiosity a little about it . Despite the appearance of John Wayne ( who handles his " Three Meskeeter " role of " Stony " very well ) and noting Ray " Crash " Corrigan's appearance in it as well , the film did not really thrill me . I suppose for a late Depression audience it was exciting enough . And they were not too bothered by historical mistakes that only people like me think about . Wayne , by the way , has one moment which I really did like . Pretending to be one of the bad guys he bullies the heroine ( whom he really likes ) , and so disillusions her son that the boy silently pursues Wayne and his evil associates for awhile . There is also a showboat Captain later on , supposedly giving another character some vital information , who starts reminiscing about his own brilliant performance in Macbeth - a nice brief piece of ham that was welcome . The plot has a Spanish land grant upsetting the claims of hundreds of settlers in a southwestern territory . An aristocratic Mexican , Don Luis de Serrano ( George Douglas ) is making the claim , and apparently has the backing of the Government in enforcing them . He is backed by an adviser named Hazleton ( Walter Wills ) , and they have even gotten a body of evil - doers as a private army . Those are the " Nightriders " of the plot . SPOILER COMING UP : Hazleton is a forger , and the scheme is a clever forgery of his . Don Luis is an actor named Talbot Pierce , who has a criminal record . This does not come out until the conclusion . Now , although it is not quite the same thing , the plot of Hazleton and Pierce is a rip-off of the plot of James Addison Reavis who tried to use forged land grants ( and brilliantly forged ones they were ) to give his so-called aristocratic wife title to the territory of Arizona ( the subject of THE BARON OF ARIZONA ) . Interesting variation . The Meskeeters stumble on a sleepy eyed President James Garfield ( Francis Sayles ) , tells him what is going on - and get his okay to support them when they produce the evidence against " Don Luis " . When they get it , Wayne's girlfriend ( Ruth Randall ) sends a message to Washington , D . C . But as it arrives we hear Garfield getting shot ! As was pointed out before by another poster , Garfield did not have enough time in his Presidency to make a trip out west like this . His Presidency lasted six months . In that period Garfield had enough time to do the following : 1 ) Set up his cabinet and diplomatic corps . 2 ) Send the name of Stanley Matthews to the Congress as choice for an empty seat on the U . S . Supreme Court - Matthews was confirmed . 3 ) Start a government prosecution of certain leading Republicans , including former Senator Thomas Dorsey , in the " Star Route Postal Frauds " . 4 ) Support Secretary of State James G . Blaine in prosecuting U . S . business claims to a set of islands off Chile and Bolivia ( at the time Bolivia had a seacoast ) that were rich in nitrates . 5 ) Get into a messy conflict with New York State's senior Senator , Roscoe Conkling , regarding Federal control over the New York City Customs House and it's management . This was a continuation of a similar confrontation from the previous Hayes Administration . Most of these acts took up his attention from March 4 , 1881 to July 2 , 1881 . Given that he was starting his administration , and the pace of government work was slower ( far slower ) in 1881 than today , all five items I mentioned fully took up Garfield's attention . On a personal note , his wife Lucretia ( or " Crete " as she was nicknamed ) was seriously ill in May - June 1881 , and Garfield was monitoring her recovery . No time for long trips into the western regions here . A trip to Elberon , N . J . in September 1881 was a last ditch attempt by his doctors to save him by using the ozone of sea air at that New Jersey resort . Why did the script writers throw in that bit about Garfield ? Well , historically the death of Garfield was during the days of the old west . It was rarely used as a movie subject ( if you check this web site , putting " President James Garfield " down under " Characters " , there are only five films ) . The closest film to dealing with Guiteau is a 1968 film . A spaghetti western made in 1970 had Van Johnson as Garfield , changed the local and entire story of the assassination . I suppose that the very obscurity of Garfield's brief term prevents it from getting the exposure that the Lincoln , Kennedy , King , and even the Huey Long Case get in our films . Garfield was a competent man , but had no real opportunity to show what he could do . The sordid nature of his shooting ( Guiteau wanted an ambassadorship and was never really in the running for it ) reduces this murder . The scriptwriters had some idea of the shooting - though we only hear the shots and don't see it . The telegraph operator tells the messenger boy that Garfield was going to Williams College that day ( that is true - he was invited to give a speech there ) . It's obvious that the scriptwriters were stealing a bit from the Robert Taylor - Barbara Stanwyck film , THIS IS MY AFFAIR , made a few years earlier . Taylor is a special government operative sent by McKinley to infiltrate a counterfeiting gang , who is sentenced to death just at the time McKinley ( his only contact ) is killed . But that had a better script and better production values . This " B " feature had very little ( aside from the Duke ) to compare with it .
Mildly Amusing Sequel	In the late 1970s Robert Conrad and Ross Martin reappeared as James West and Artemis Gordon , their roles from THE WILD WILD WEST ( a . k . a . THE WILD WEST ) , a fun send up of the James Bond type of spy stories in the 1960s . THE WILD WILD WEST was set in the Grant Administration ( 1869 - 1877 ) and most of the villains were ego-maniacal types who were determined to take over a territory or the country or the world ( or just make money ) with some 1870 style devices that would possibly change the world . The leading villain was Michael Dunn , the sharp dwarf actor . He played Dr . Miguelito Lovelace . Originally Lovelace wanted to have only the state of California but as he kept reappearing he wound seek the whole country , or the whole world as his goal . Another villain on several episodes was Victor Buono as Count Mazeppi ( Mazeppi was more pragmatic - he just sought money ) , but while Lovelace was usually captured Mazeppi usually got away ( once in a balloon ) . It was a pretty good show actually . Michael Dunn was dead when the first " reunion " movie was made . Instead Paul Williams played his son . The first television movie took place in Grover Cleveland's first administration ( 1885 - 1889 ) . Wilfrid Brimley played Cleveland ( who with other 1880 leaders has been replaced by duplicates by Miguelito Jr . The head of the Secret Service was Harry Morgan ( Robert T . " Skinny " Malone ) . The obnoxious English diplomat and spy was Rene Auberjonois ( Sir David Edney ) . It was a pleasant ninety minute diversion . It was so successful a second film was made within a year , again with Conrad and Martin , but bringing in Morgan and Auberjonois as well . This time the villain was Jonathan Winters as Albert Paradine II , who bumps off his four twin brothers with bombs in the beginning of the movie ( one I recall is blown up when he starts to cut a knock-wurst he is eating - a ripoff of a similar joke assassination in the film THE ASSASSINATION BUREAU , LTD ) . Paradine plans to use his inventions to take over the U . S . , but first he plans to demolish an international peace conference in Washington . It is supposed to be the Presidency of Benjamin Harrison ( Cleveland's successor , 1889 - 1893 ) . Harrison is never shown , but we see Morgan conferring with Harrison's Secretary of State , Dr . Henry Messinger ( Victor Buono ) . It , of course , was a spoof of Dr . Henry Kissinger , Nixon's and Ford " s Secretary of State . It was not the only spoof of modern diplomatic problems in the movie . What makes the " Messinger / Kissinger " spoof interesting is that Harrison's Secretary of State was a significant figure - it was former Speaker of the House , Senator from Maine , and Presidential Candidate James Gillispie Blaine . He had been Secretary of State in the brief Garfield Administration ( 1881 ) , but Harrison reappointed him . An extremely capable and energetic Secretary of State , Blaine kept defending American interests abroad in Samoa , the Behring Straits , and Latin America . He successfully avoided war with Chile in 1891 , and also resolved ( with President Harrison ) an embarrassing diplomatic crisis with Italy in 1890 ) . But in 1889 he did call a major diplomatic conference - the Pan American Conference , where representatives of all of the nations of the hemisphere were invited to confer about common issues and problems . One wonders if this achievement ( the first time an American Secretary of State ever tried to bring together foreign nations for such a conference ) was heard of by the script writers , who used it as a peg for their plot . As an entertainment , MORE WILD , WILD WEST is mildly fun to watch - specifically because of Conrad and Martin working so well together together ( as always ) despite weak material , and the humor of Winters , Buono , Morgan , and ( in one sequence only ) Dave Madden and Avery Schrieber . The latter was an event in the peace conference that happens that helps ( momentarily ) to disrupt it . It involves the German Ambassador ( Madden ) , the Russian Ambassador ( Schreiber ) , and the Spanish Ambassador . It has come to the attention of the Secretary of State that Cuba ( a Spanish colony at the time ) has just gotten a reinforcement of German troops which does not make sense . Why are the Germans there ? Madden , caught off guard , starts explaining that the Cubans asked them to assist them in Cuba . But it suddenly becomes known that the Germans were shipped to Cuba by the Russians . Schreiber tries to deny this , but the three diplomats ( in protesting too much ) manage to reveal some unknown type of skulduggery going on . Schreiber and Madden end up having a physical fight . Now the thing that a viewer of this television film might not understand in 2005 is how this was a reference to a Carter Administration incident that was on the minds of the script writers . After the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 , while the U . S . Government was perfectly willing to work out their deal to avoid nuclear war with Russia , we naturally kept an eye on Cuba to see that the Russians did take down their missiles as they promised . Russia did comply ( as we did with Turkey , where we had missiles ) . But in late 1979 the U . S . intelligence discovered a build-up of troops in Cuba , mostly from East Germany . The Russians had tried to disguise their current attempt to rearm Castro with men from another client state . This incident ( Russia eventually had to remove the German troops - Carter's relative success here was hidden in the disaster of the Iran Hostage Affair ) is what is spoofed in the film .
Typical Family film - Like Mondo Kane	I never fully understood the reasons that my parents took us to see movies in the 1950s and 1960s . We saw popular films like Disney's " Peter Pan " , " The Sound Of Music " , " My Fair Lady " , and " South Pacific " . We saw kid oriented films like " The Incredible Mr . Limpet " . We saw obscure films ( nowadays ) like " Escapade In Japan " . But we also saw comedies like " The Great Race " and " Buona Sera , Mrs . Campbell " . But I have never figured out why my parents took us to see " Oh Dad , Poor Dad , Mama's Hung You In The Closet And I'm Feeling So Sad " . We saw it just a year before I went to high school , so it was the year before I began going by myself to the movies . Was my coming of age at 13 considered the reason to see this avant garde comedy ? If so , I consider it a waste of time . That same year we saw " Guess Who's Coming To Dinner " , so my parents still could pick good films . . . but why this ? I am inclined to think it was my father who chose it . Dad could be curious about odd films now and then . Certainly the cast was good : Rosalind Russell , Robert Morse , Barbara Harris , Hugh Griffith , Jonanthan Winters , and Lionel Jeffries were all above average performers . But the film was not a good film . The story ( from a play by Arthur Kopit ) skewered sex and money . Russell inherited the fortune of her high-living husband Winters , who died after leaving her with a son . The son grows up ( in terms of chronological age ) as Robert Morse . Russell travels with him and his stamp collection , and plays the rich widow who everyone else caters too . While in a Caribbean port she is attracted to elderly millionaire sailor Hugh Griffth , or ( as she is always looking for the main chance ) his impressive multi-million dollar yacht . She begins a romance with him , while a local girl ( Harris ) tries to reach out to the infantile , socially awkward Morse . The film follows the two resulting romances , as well as Russell's attempts to maintain control over Morse : you see , she is aware of how her husband Winters died - he overdid his drinking , eating , and sleeping around until he was found dead in bed . Russell doesn't want that to happen to Morse . One of the critiques on this thread mentions that a small positive for this film was Russell had a chance to redo her Mame Dennis characterization . True , but Madame Rosepettle is very status oriented and wealth consumed ( she mentions her son's philatelic interest has created a very rare stamp collection - probably purchased at her direction ) . Mame only looked at wealth as a means , not an end , and did shower affection on Patrick , on Agnes , on Beauregard , and on her friends Lindsay and Vera . Put another way , if Mame met Madame Rosepettle once she wouldn't have sought out the lady again . Come to think of it , one wonders if the Upson Family would have either . At the time this film came out , Russell was riding a crest . She had managed to keep her female star billing up to the middle of the 1960s , at a time when most of her contemporary stars ( Claudette Colbert , Norma Shearer , Jean Arthur ) were retiring , or were treading water in horror films ( Bette Davis , Joan Crawford . . . once Olivia De Havilland ) . Although Russell had never gotten the Oscar De Havilland , Davis , Shearer , Colbert , and Crawford got ( one could add Hepburn to that list ) , she still was packing in fans on Broadway ( in " Wonderful Town " and " Auntie Mame " ) and in decent film lead roles ( " Auntie Mame " , " A Majority Of One " , " Gypsy " , " Picnic " ) . But there were signs this was ending . She had just appeared in " The Trouble With Angels " , wherein she was a Mother Superior with her hands full from two girl students - and her role supported the two student parts . Shortly after " Oh Dad " , Russell was in the sequel film " Where Angels Go Troubles Follow " . Her last real star turn would be in the film " Rosie " at the end of the 1960s as a female " Mame " type confronted by a " King Lear " situation . That film would flop . So with OH DAD , POOR DAD we are entering the twilight of Russell's career . We also are witnessing the brief rise and fall of Morse's film career . He had just made a hit in " How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying " , and repeated it in the film version . A terrific stage performer ( whom I'd see years later as Truman Capote ) , his film credits were mixed . . . possibly only " The Matchmaker " and " The Loved One " being worthy of film memory with " How To Succeed " . His performance as Jonathan Rosepettle was capably handled as far as it went , but the character seemed a caricature of an infantile young man ( literally sucking his thumb and mumbling " I love you mommy ! " at the end ) . Morse never had a real chance in motion pictures after this . Winters , Harris , and Griffith acquit themselves well . Winters is dead from the start ( in the present scenes he is only seen as a stuffed corpse in Mom's closet ) . He is dead , but enjoying being out of the reach of his wife . He comments on the actions . . . and gives the last word on the movie ( as in the Summary Line above ) . One wishes the work had better dialog for him . Harris and Griffith pursue their sexual interests in the Rosepettles . . . to their gradual late realization of their mistakes . Lionel Jeffries ( as a local airport official ) does the best he can with the paucity of his material . Interesting that so many characters have " Rose " in their names : Madame and Jonathan ROSEpettle , Commodore ROSEabove , ROSEalie . But a better film based on a play , Tennessee Williams ' The Rose Tattoo " did the same thing earlier . Game cast - mediocre results . Russell's career hurdles to oblivion , and Morse's film career collapses . Just too bad .
Sometimes an idea should never be developed too quickly	Occasionally rival networks have put out television shows that mirror each other in their design or plot . The most notable example was the joint appearance of THE MUNSTERS and THE ADDAMS FAMILY on rival stations in the middle 1960s . That was a rarity though - both shows were funny and maintain audience affections to this day . But about the same time two shows comedies appeared that both had the same concept . Both dealt with the secret life of a superhero ( like Batman or Superman , both of which had been turned into successful television series ) . But in the two shows CAPTAIN NICE and MR . TERRIFIC , the idea was lampooned . William Daniels ( " Captain Nice " ) and Stanley Strimpell ( " Mr . Terrific " ) were shown as drudge-like nice guys in the course of their normal lives , who suddenly took on the heroism of Superman , Batman , or Wonder Woman in their " public " lives ( complete with capes and odd costumes . Daniels would , eventually , put together a first rate career in stage and film ( as John Adams in 1776 ) and television ( as " Dr . Mark Craig " in ST . ELSWHERE ) while Strimpell would languish somehow only in supporting parts and stage work . For neither could their joint efforts at comic heroism in 1967 be more than a matter of mild interest to most viewers . The fact was that both CAPTAIN NICE and MR . TERRIFIC were not well written series . They were doomed from the start . So , if they were equally mediocre , why do I write this about CAPTAIN NICE , and not about MR . TERRIFIC ? It's because I actually recall seeing this episode ( I can't recall anything from MR . TERRIFIC at all , even though John McGiver was in some of the shows and I liked that porcine actor ) . This episode also had an actor I liked in it - John Fiedler . And for once the casting was good . Fiedler , small and mouse-like usually ( a performance as " Jack the Ripper " in a Star Trek episode was a weird exception to the norm for him ) , plays a hit man hired to try to kill Captain Nice with his machine gun . He kidnaps several people ( including the Chief of Police and Nice's girlfriend ) to lure him into a deadly trap . In the end he and his cohorts miscalculate on one point : bullets bounce off Nice's body due to his invincibility powers . They ricochet , and hit the bad guys ( including Fiedler ) . Throughout the episode Fiedler keeps showing a morose conscience about the evil he has to commit . Before he collapses from the bullets he looks at the camera and says , " I'm my own worst enemy ! " One wishes ( given that Fiedler's performance was typically good ) that the writing had been better . it wasn't . For John Fiedler ( and William Daniel ) I am giving this a " 5 " . Without both of them , I'd be hard pressed to go beyond a " 2 " ( if I had bothered to remember the episode at all ! ) .
" Farfel , Farfel , Pippick "	The " words " in the " summary line " were possibly the funniest line in the Bob Hope movie CASANOVA'S BIG NIGHT . That really does not say much - but then CASANOVA'S BIG NIGHT doesn't say much either . In 1954 it was becoming more and more difficult to find any project that showed Hope to advantage . His insistence on having a quip to end his every scene , although pleasing to his fans , ruined his film scripts . He had demonstrated in " My Favorite Spy " an unwelcome jealousy towards co-worker Hedy Lamarr regarding her own scenes of comic business . Although his two best " dramatic " roles ( Eddie Foy Sr . in " The Seven Little Foys " and Mayor Jimmy Walker in " Beau James " ) and his best comic performance ( " That Certain Feeling " ) were still to come , he was beginning to make blunders - his co-starring turn with Katherine Hepburn in " The Iron Petticoat " and his below-par " French " comedy with Fernandel " Paris Holiday " . In 1954 he decided to do a type of remake of one of his best 1940s comedies , " Monsieur Beaucaire " . It would not prove to be a good choice . It is is not a total loss - Hope in costume pictures is as amusing to view as other comics ( W . C . Fields in " My Little Chickadee " or Laurel & Hardy in " The Bohemian Girl " ) were . But they had funnier material in those films . It is not a total remake of " Beaucaire " . First it has nothing to do with the plot of that film , dealing with thwarting the schemes of a military adventurer to start a Franco - Spanish War to seize the Spanish throne . Instead it deals with a plot seemingly lifted ( for want of a better term ) from Maurice Chevalier's " Love Me Tonight " . Casanova ( Vincent Price - reduced to a cameo , sadly enough ) , owes plenty of money as usual . He is taking a fast leave , avoiding his creditors ( mostly tailors and small time merchants ) , and they include the hapless Hope . But Casanova has been offered a lucrative business deal in Venice , and Hope is forced to go in his place . It is the only way to get the money owed by the lover-adventurer to these businessmen . In " Love Me Tonight " Chevalier is sent by his fellow merchants to force Charlie Ruggles into paying his debts for clothing he bought , and ends up impersonating royalty at C . Aubrey Smith's château . But Chevalier plays the role winningly , and only reveals his real occupation by sheer accident ( he repairs Jeanette MacDonald's dress too well ) . This was Hope's third costume film , after " Beaucaire " and " The Princess And The Pirate " . But those had a younger Hope to play with , who looked like he could be a lover of age 35 - 40 ( Hope was in his 40s at the time . Here he is in his 50s ( Price was younger looking ! ) . He just does not have the pass-ability as a lover he had a decade earlier . The plot line also creaks along . For some reason that is never explained , the Doge of Venice ( Arnold Moss ) is conspiring to assassinate or imprison Casanova . We never fully understand why . Presumably it has to do with some act of seduction that annoyed the Doge . Compare this with the scheming of Joseph Schildcraut's Don Francisco in the earlier " Beaucaire " , with and without the assistance of Joan Caulfield . In the end of " Beaucaire " , Don Francisco is somehow still around with Beaucaire and his girl Mimi , but reduced to a bootblack in Beaucaire's barber shop in America . There seems a good comeuppance there ( though how the would-be dictator of Spain and destroyer of Beaucaire is willing to be a bootblack is never explained ) . Moss's antagonism never gets beyond tiresome plotting ( with Raymond Burr as his assistant ) and amazement at Casanova's escaping one plot after another . Joan Fontaine is wasted . She is in the Caulfield role - Hope really likes her but she is less than charmed by him , because she figures she can do better ( ironically she thinks Basil Rathbone - Price's valet - is a better catch , only to find him far more materialistic and selfish ) . Fontaine's best moment is a throwaway . She has to get to palace guards out of the way . She vamps both , so they knock each other out . That is the best moment she had . But Ms Fontaine made many far better films . And " Farfel , Farfel , Pippick ! " ? Hope in desperation tries to get through the Doge's palace in Venice disguised as a diplomat ( Fritz Feld's ) tall , ugly wife . He keeps using the phrase " Farfel , Farfel , Pippick ! " whenever he is asked a question by anyone ( sort of like William Shatner's character Denny Crane on BOSTON LEGAL muttering his name whenever surrounded by reporters entering or leaving a courtroom ) . Finally , at the end of the scene , Feld trying to get the dress back for his real wife , kicks Hope and says " Farfel , Farfel , Pippick " to him as he does it . That particular joke was well developed and completed properly . This film did something unique . It offered two endings . One was Moss and his friends pulling Hope to be executed publicly . The other was him triumphing over them . Hope is somewhat disappointed at the result of his audience support on the two different endings . He shouldn't have been so surprised .
People we never think of as our guardian angels ?	I'm only giving this short ( which was shown this morning on the TCM network ) a middling " 5 " out of " 10 " . It is one of those earnest little movie house short subjects in the " Passing Parade " series which were meant to edify the audience . In the 1910 - 30s film began to become somewhat more informative , hoping to teach the audience a point or two . This one is how we overlook the Postal Inspectors on the search for fraud , the Underwriters who test and retest devices used with electricity or to retard fires , and the people at children asylums who decide which of the adult adoption candidates is really eligible . It starts out showing the staircase of a building where a postal fraud is being begun , the offices of insurance firms , and a child's orphan home at the start , and then tells about the postal fraud committed by a man with a sucker list ( even back then one could get one ) , that deals with making money stuffing envelopes . This one is still in use , even if the amount for information gained in the fraud is no longer only $4 . 00 a sucker . A woman is taken in , and contacts postal fraud who set up a counter scam that snares the grifter ( Nestor Paiva , the actor who was the nightclub owner in THE ROAD TO RIO ) . Next is not a dramatization actually but shows how underwriters test the safety of machines we take for granted to make sure they are safe and won't cause fires . The final section deals with the problems of adopting , and it is in some ways the most controversial of the three . This section suggests how tough it is to adopt due to the process in every state and every child adoption home in looking at the perspective parents . But the problem is that the series glorifies this as done with great care , and there have been so many real scandals of rings of child adoption home owners and judges being bribed to give kids to the rich or something one can really question this . Similarly , today , the issue is international , as many Americans now seek adopting in poor countries like China , Roumania , Paraguay . This only goes to remind the viewer on the time machine quality nature of these shorts : in many ways the views they present are quite quaint or out-of-date .
The Weakest of the Three Lucy - Desi films	This is not a total failure , as the three principles do mingle well , and they do try . Mason , the most dramatically successful of the three actors , actually could play comedy on occasion ( think of him as the " chubby chasing " old goat in GEORGY GIRL ) but his best work was in drama . In fact two years before this film his best remembered performance ( as Norman Main in A STAR IS BORN ) ended with that classic drowning suicide . Hardly a chuckle in that - though to be fair the complete film was to spoof some swashbucklers that Main was making ) . Susan and Lorenzo Vega are an up-scale married couple ( he is a chemist working on an insecticide ) who have been married five years , but who seem to be drifting apart . The near explosion occurs when they are having dinner with two of Susan's friends ( Nathalie Schaefer and Ralph Dunke ) who are a wee bit too snobby and complacent for Lorenzo to really enjoy the company of . And since he is preoccupied with the deadline of testing his new powerful insecticide , he is not in the mood for their nonsense . He explodes at the dinner , causing them to leave in anger . Susan is also angry as they are her friends . So Lorenzo and she have a spat , and he does not sleep that night . Enter Darling , the Guardian Angel of Susan . This is Mason . At first Susan is amazed that he resembles James Mason , but it soon develops that his features are not really like Mason's but she sees Mason because the actor is her favorite actor . He is trying to convince her that she has to work harder to save her marriage with Lorenzo . Susan has to try to be more supportive of her husband . The complications that develop somewhat resemble another film of a few years earlier : THE BISHOP'S WIFE . There the angel ( Cary Grant ) falls for the wife ( Loretta Young ) of the Bishop ( David Niven ) he is trying to correct the religious motivations of . Grant spends far too much time " entertaining " Young , until Niven becomes jealous - hardly the intention of the angel's boss . Here Darling is not pursuing his charge . Instead he is fighting her off for awhile because of the way she sees him . There is a cute moment when Lucy is watching a film starring Mason and sees herself replacing the heroine . The interesting thing is that the film is reminiscent of Mason's original acting fame as one of those men ( like George Sanders and Eric Von Stroheim ) you love to hate - the star who whipped the villainess to death in THE MAN IN GRAY , or the nasty uncle of the piano protégée in THE SEVENTH VEIL . He is a sheik who is mistreating a female prisoner ( who of course is falling for him while he does so ) . As a spoof on Mason's background it is mildly good . Eventually he manages to get Susan back on track , leading to her going on the trek to Yosemite Park to test the new insecticide - to help her husband . And of course , being Lucille Ball , her attempts just drive Desi up the wall . It is a tolerable if unmemorable comedy . That is the best I can say for it . But it has some moments worth waiting for . And with it , we leave the last of the three Lucy-Desi films . A curious bunch . Their best work is still the television series .
Lombard + Montgomery + Hitchcock = Mediocrity	Because it is somewhat unique in Hitchcock's works , there has been a continuous attempt in recent years to upgrade public opinion about MR . AND MRS . SMITH . Hitchcock explained to Francois Truffault in HITCHCOCK / TRUFFAULT that he always wanted to work with Carole Lombard , and she prevailed on him to do this film with her . But that does not really explain the choice of material . Lombard , of course , is best recalled for her wonderful daffiness in screwball comedies like NOTHING SACRED , TRUE CONFESSIONS , and MY MAN GODFREY . Her co-star , Robert Montgomery , had been in many delightful comedies ( PETTICOAT FEVER , PICADILLY JIM ) too . But both performers had been in dramatic films . In this period Montgomery ( fresh from his great performance as Danny in NIGHT MUST FALL ) had made RAGE IN HEAVEN with Ingrid Bergman and George Sanders , and Lombard did VIGIL IN THE NIGHT with Brian Ahearn . They were both highly capable of dramatic performances . So why couldn't they have sought a more typical Hitchcock screenplay ? My suspicion is that Hitchcock chose to make a " screwball comedy " as an experiment . He did that frequently when he felt like stretching his abilities , and sometimes the results were not too good . When it was a technical experiment like ROPE or DIAL " M " FOR MURDER he still had the strength of the film script to fall back on if his nine minute shots or his use of three dimensional film did not quite work wonders with the audience . But when he tried humor , he had less success . Hitch's sense of humor is not bad - but it works best when he uses it sparingly . In THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ( 1956 ) , Hitch sets up a delayed joke involving Hillary Brooke and another actor coming to visit their friends Jimmy Stewart and Doris Day in London . Stewart and Day leave their flat because they are going to try to rescue their son ( in the hands of the kidnappers ) . They apologize and tell Brooke and her husband they'll be back presently with their son . Brooke and her husband look confused as they leave . The remainder of the film , and the melodrama in the embassy is played out . Final scene shows Brooke and her husband have fallen asleep waiting for them . Day , Stewart and their son come in , wake up Brooke and her husband , and proceed to act as though nothing has happened for three or four hours . That is an example of when the Hitchcock humor works . But then comes his full scale " black comedy " THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY , and the viewer has mixed feelings . Individual moments work , like the manipulation of the dull sheriff Royal Dano . But one finds most of the humor about moving a dead body fairly unimaginative . . . surprisingly so from Hitch . MR . AND MRS . SMITH is not a black comedy , but it's type of bedroom farce situation would have been better handled by Ernst Lubitsch or Leo McCarey or Preston Sturgis . The joke is that the surface-warring Smiths are really in love , but discover that their marriage was illegal . Montgomery had said he'd marry Lombard again if he had to ( prior to the discovery of the illegal marriage ) , but instead of rushing Lombard off to any nearby church or justice of the peace he hesitates . And Lombard wonders what kind of man she has been illegally married to . So she turns to his partner Gene Raymond , who is interested in her . There are some interesting moments in the film ( Hitchcock has to be of interest always ) . The scene where Montgomery pretends to be talking to the pretty woman sitting next to him ( incurring the ire of her date ) is good , culminating in Jack Carson trying to stop a bleeding nose on Montgomery by using a " cold " knife as a cauterizing instrument . There is also a funny moment when Lombard and Raymond , on a trip to an amusement park , get stuck on a ferris wheel on top of it during a heavy thunder storm . But these moments are far and few . As a romantic comedy it is mediocre , despite it's stars and ( unfortunately ) because of it's director . Hitchcock must have realized it too - until THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY he never attempted a straight comedy again , and ( as mentioned before ) THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY was not a romantic comedy but a " black comedy " .
One of the " Holy Grails " of Missing Movies	I suspect that if HUMOR RISK was ever located , and transferred to video or DVD , it would eventually disappoint people . The problem is that only one of the four ( in 1926 five ) Marx Brothers was silent - Harpo . Groucho and Chico required sound for their types of humor , with malapropisms , puns , double entendres , and mistaken words thrown in so much . Zeppo too would have needed some type of script ( due to the parts he was playing in the five films he did with them ) . However , Zeppo ( like Harpo ) did apparently make one silent film ( though not a major one - Frank Tuttle directed it , and Ziegfeld star Ann Pennington appeared in it ) . It would be a curiosity to us if we watched it , and we would wait for it to take off . But the glorious mangling of the English tongue by Chico , and the souring confusion of metaphors and similes by Groucho would have been sorely missed . It's curious that Jobyna Rawlston , the co-star of Harold Lloyd , was in this film . Is it just possible that Lloyd or his producer Hal Roach had some hand in the production . Maybe ( if a copy survives ) it's in Lloyd's or Roach's vaults . Just a guess though . It is always welcome to see a missing film turn up , or an unexpected film turn up . For a number of years a film short with the brothers ( including Zeppo ) has popped up and been shown . It is of the four of them trying to get hired for a show and going to the agent's office . The skit ( which is in spoken and sung rhyme ) is actually the same one that would be used in a new setting in MONKEY BUSINESS where the brothers try to leave the ocean liner claiming to be Maurice Chevalier . Here they all come in wearing straw hats , trying to impress the agent . Harpo also does an interesting gag never done by him in his films . He blows up a rubber glove so that it looks like a cow's udder , " milks it into a bottle ( as his hand slowly lets the air out of the glove , then he " drinks " the milk ! Apparently the whole routine is from the brother's first Broadway hit : I'LL SAY SHE IS ! That show appeared in 1927 , before THE COCONUTS . It's nice that they saved a scene from the show .
Jean Before Stardom , Lew Struggling On , Robert All Calm	I remember seeing IRON MAN back in the 1960s - it is seldom revived on television these days . It is the typical boxing melodrama , which despite an interesting director ( Tod Browning , away from his supernatural or " freaks " ) was a mediocre account of the rise and rot of a boxing champ . The champ here is Lew Ayres , who is not a winner at first ( and briefly loses his girlfriend Jean Harlow as a result ) , but who becomes a champ under the steady tutoring of Robert Armstrong . He does achieve the heavyweight championship , but Harlow returns ( now with her boyfriend John Miljan ) and convinces Ayres to dump Armstrong for Miljan . And the wheel of fortune begins to descend . This type of plotting is not unusual . I can think of other films where an honest fighter is betrayed by a gold digging girlfriend and his manager ( John Garfield in THEY MADE ME A CRIMINAL comes to mind ) . It is curious to see now not so much for the story ( better boxing films have been made since 1931 , including one from that year that won an Oscar for best actor - Wallace Beery in THE CHAMP ) . It's interesting for looking at the three leads , and where they were going . Jean Harlow had graduated in the last two years from being an extra in Laurel & Hardy ( see DOUBLE WHOOPIE ) to acting roles . But her screen persona was still in the air - the film before this was THE PUBLIC ENEMY , where she is an upper class type who is " slumming " with criminal Jimmy Cagney ( for only a few scenes ) . That role did not fit her well . This one is hard to take too , and the dialog sinks it . One can imagine Harlow as gold digging , but she deserves better dialog . Look at her final confrontation scene with John Miljan , and you will be hard pressed not to laugh . But she is in the right social class - distinctly working girl ( no joke intended ) . Lew Ayres had made a big hit in ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT a year before , and deserved more starring parts . But he is hardly the physical type ( like Beery or Stallone or De Niro or Jones or even Garfield or Holden or Douglas ) to play a convincing boxer . It is a curious to see him playing a boxer - he does give it his all , but one is used to seeing him play professional men ( lke Dr . Kildare or the psychiatrist in DARK MIRROR ) or semi-wastrel types ( like the drunken brother in HOLIDAY ) . However , his contrition at the conclusion seems real enough . Robert Armstrong was just finding his place in movies in 1931 , as a fast talking type - slightly excitable . His big films ( KING KONG , SON OF KONG , MIGHTY JOE YOUNG , G-MEN with Jimmy Cagney ) come later . There is more restraint and disappointment here for him due to the nature of the script ( and his quiet revenge in training a rival to Ayres ) , but one misses his Carl Denham showing Kong , " the Eighth Wonder of the World " , or trying to help save the gorilla Joe Young . Armstrong needed something unusual to highlight his abilities to generate excitement or summarize tragedy . As for the fourth lead - John Miljan gave his typical villain - not quite acceptable as Douglas Dumbrille or John Carridine or Lionel Atwill but good enough . Of the four leads his was the best performance .
The Greatest " Detective " Novel of All ?	Fyodor Dostoeyevski is , without a doubt , one of the greatest novelists of his native Russia , of 19th Century Europe , and of world literature . That said , he is also a pain in the ass to read . If you are into his views of self-sacrifice and mysticism , and of redemption through intense , sometimes meaningless suffering , you can't find anyone else like him . If you also like anti-Western slavophilia , with more than a dollop of anti-Semitism , he's your guy . These aspects appear in his Russian contemporary Tolstoi too , but Count Leo had a more universal view of forgiveness and brotherhood than Fyodor ever had . Therefore Tolstoi makes his occasional snide comments , but they are quickly dropped - not intensively developed . With these serious reservations said , Dostoeyevski remains monumental . Most people recall him for two novels : CRIME AND PUNISHMENT and THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV . Neither of the two novels were ever successfully made into U . S . films , despite a great director in this 1935 version of the former novel , and a grade " A " cast and production in the 1958 version of the latter that starred Yul Brynner and Maria Schell . From what I have seen a Masterpiece Theatre version of CRIME AND PUNISHMENT in the 1970s was far closer to the novel than Von Sternberg's 1935 version . But Von Sternberg , working with Columbia Pictures , did not have as good a budget ( and certainly could not make a four hour film ) . CRIME AND PUNISHMENT has been called the first psychological detective novel , and the best . It is not a who-done-it in the spirit of Dashiell Hamnett's THE THIN MAN . It is more like a Columbo episode ( and Columbo's character is obviously modeled on the laid back , wise Detective Inspector Porphiry - who patiently allows Raskolnikov to give himself away and up ) . Dostoeyevski lets us see the killing of the old pawn broker and her sister , and understand the twisted " philosophical altruism " that Raskolnikov uses to commit his crime . It is a murder for social purposes - get rid of the leech like money lender / pawn broker , grab her money , and use it to aid those truly unfortunate in society . Had the murder been committed quickly with only the pawn broker killed , the absurd logic might have worked . Instead , because the sister of the victim sees the killing , Raskolnikov has to kill her too for self protection . From that time forward his philosophical base begins to crash . Also he discovers that the material answer of money is not enough to help the poor or those he comes to love . As such CRIME AND PUNISHMENT is ( no real slap at Conan Doyle ) light-years away in effectiveness from THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES . And watching the Russian police procedural in the novel , as Porphiry helps whittle away at Raskolnikov's iron core of beliefs is quite good too . Peter Lorre gives an affecting performance as the killer , one more role in a chain beginning with " M " that would continue for much of his admirable career . It must have been well received publicly . The Ritz Brothers spoofed his performance in one of their films . Arnold is fine as Porphiry , who has seen all the murder types ( and can quickly find their weak spot ) . Here , his best moment is when another lesser suspect confesses unexpectedly just as Lorre seemed about to confess . It leaves Porphiry perplexed and troubled , as the confession has been heard by witnesses ( including a smart aleck Lorre ) , and Porphiry realizes an innocent man has possibly put his life in danger by such an act . There are some good supporting touches too , especially seeing Mrs . Patrick Campbell in her last performance on screen as the pawnbroker , a dried up , malevolent figure that one does not waste too much pity on ( again , if she had been the only victim Raskolnikov's philosophical point would have been correct ) . Cuts due to budget and time considerations ruined several parts - Douglas Dumbrille as a married man who wants Lorre's sister ( Lorre can't stand him ) and who helps bring Lorre to book ( for personal reasons ) had a larger part in the novel , including suicide . That is not in the film . With all it's budget restraints though , it is a good introduction to the great novel and I recommend it .
Updating " Enoch Arden "	Alfred , Lord Tennyson , is remembered by most people who like movies because he wrote ( as George Orwell once said ) the most stirring poem about warfare concerning a regiment of cavalry that charged the wrong guns . If you see Errol Flynn's THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE , Lord Tennyson's lines appear at the conclusion of that film . However , he wrote far more than that . On the " Rumpole of the Bailey " episodes , Horace Rumpole ( Leo McKern ) would frequently recite Tennyson - he did a marvelous recitation of the magnificent conclusion of Tennyson's " Ulysses " in one episode . Others have quoted him . Angela Landsbury recites lines from " The Lady of Shalott " in THE MIRROR CRACKED . I might add that the title of the classiest of British black comedies , KIND HEARTS AND CORONETS , is from Tennyson . One of Tennyson's poems was " Enoch Arden " , which details how a young man goes to sea from his village , leaving behind his girlfriend and family , is believed to have died at sea , and returns twenty years later , physically changed but interested in seeing if he can pick up where he left off . He finds it impossible - and decides to die under his assumed name rather than reveal to his loved ones his real identity . This plot has been frequently used in films , normally for comic purposes ( why , if the poem is tragic , this happened I cannot fathom ) . Cary Grant and Irene Dunne appeared in MY FAVORITE WIFE back in 1941 , with Dunne reappearing ( with Randolph Scott ) after having been declared legally dead following a shipwreck . Marilyn Monroe's final film , SOMETHING'S GOT TO GIVE , was a remake of MY FAVORITE WIFE . Doris Day also did a similar film . To the best of my knowledge , TOMORROW IS FOREVER is the only film based on this plot line that treats it tragically as it should be . As such it is not as successful a movie as MY FAVORITE WIFE was . To begin with , Grant and Dunne had screen chemistry ( which one can tell by their frequent pairing together , in WIFE , THE AWFUL TRUTH , and PENNY SERENADE ) . One could readily believe Cary and Irene could be a real item . That is not the case in TOMORROW IS FOREVER . Powerful performers that Orson Welles and Claudette Colbert are , one cannot quite accept them as a couple . In the film there is an early sequence when we see the young Welles going off to World War I in his dough-boy uniform . This is barely acceptable , because Welles is ( in fact ) ten years of so younger than Colbert . The age difference is too much to accept and spoils receiving them as a genuine couple . This is not totally damaging to the picture , as the other scenes they have together Welles is older and physically changed ( although Colbert keeps wondering if Welles is the young man she married , bore a son of , and has mourned since 1917 ) . Since they don't have to relate intimately again , one can try to forget this failure in casting . But it does make one have to work overtime to accept the rest of the plot . It does not help , by the way , that a few years before Colbert made a splendid little movie with John Payne called REMEMBER THE DAY , wherein they are teachers at a small town high school , who marry , and who are permanently separated when he is called to World War I by the draft . But that film hid the tragedy of Payne's death until the end , and left you with great admiration for Colbert's ability to pull herself together and carry on . Payne , who blended in well with Colbert , made himself into a reasonably acceptable marriage partner . Welles is just out of the ballpark here . The film is well acted by the cast ( even the leads ) , although George Brent gives another of his patented drab performances . The young Natalie Wood appears as the daughter of the German doctor who saved Welles , whom Welles in turn brings with him to America as war in Europe breaks out again . More interesting is Richard Long , playing the grown up son of Welles , determined to fight for the U . S . in the coming war ( despite Colbert's fears ) . This was his first film too , and one suspects that his working with Welles may have been the reason that he was cast as Noah Longstreet ( Loretta Young's younger brother ) in THE STRANGER , Welles ' 1946 film noir about another , more sinister , European war refugee coming to America .
Hooray For Norman Lloyd ! ! !	In 1938 Orson Welles ' Mercury Theater Group put on a classic stage production of Shakespeare's JULIUS CAESAR , in which Welles reset the story from the Roman Empire of 44 - 43 B . C . to 1938 Europe . Caesar was now a typical fascist dictator , and Brutus and his fellow conspirators were trying to free their country . The performances were well recalled , in particular two : George Coulouris as Mark Antony ( played as a typical Fascist rabble rouser , as only Coulouris could do ) , and Norman Lloyd as a mediocre poet named Cinna . Cinna is a minor part in the play ( it is not even seen in the classic film version of JULIUS CAESAR by Joseph Mankiewicz with Louis Calhern , Marlon Brando , John Guilgud , and James Mason ) . He is walking home shortly after the " Friends , Romans , Countrymen " speech , and the Roman citizenry is in a mindless anger at the conspirators . One of the conspirators is also named Cinna . When they confront the poet Cinna they jump to a fatally wrong conclusion . The way that Welles directed the scene , a nervous and frightened Lloyd is trying to get out of the confrontation . . . and quickly . As he has described it on television a year or so ago , the stage became deadly silent for a timed pause , and then the mob jumped him and frightened the audience by the stunning violence of it all . It helped make the career of this multi-talented performer - he has been producer , director , and actor . He is best known to recent audiences as " Dr . Daniel Auschlander " on ST . ELSEWHERE on television . But his first movie role did not pop up until 1942 . He played Frank Fry , the real saboteur in Alfred Hitchcock's SABOTEUR . Hitchcock wanted to do SABOTEUR as a sequel ( of sorts ) to FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT , where he used Herbert Marshall as representative of suspect English pacifists ( possibly " Cliveden " Set types ) who were actually agents of Nazism . Being Hitchcock , he made sure that Marshall's character was actually dignified , proud of his real patriotism ( even if misguided ) to Germany , and eventually heroic to redeem himself for his daughter's sake . In his original plan for SABOTEUR he planned to make Harry Carey the villain - and a type of " American First " leader , like Charles Lindberg ( see KEEPER OF THE FLAME ) . It was a smaller version of the debacle of trying to make Cary Grant a murderer and villain in SUSPICION the previous year : Hitch could not buck RKO and Grant's agent on that one , even though Grant was willing to try it , because of Grant's image . Here it was Carey's following as a popular , father-like , character actor and western star . So Hitch could not do what he really wanted to do . Robert Cummings gave a decent performance but no more as the suspected saboteur who blew up a factory in the film . He criss-crosses the country trying to find the real saboteur ( Lloyd ) , and running into many interesting " fifth columnist " types ( like Clem Bevans , playing a particularly bitter old man who is helping the Axis ) . The head of the sabotage ring is wealthy Otto Kreuger , who gives a nice performance as a sophisticated villain . His first comment on meeting up with Cummings in his townhouse is to say it reminds him of the title of a novel . He pulls out of a bookcase THE DEATH OF A NOBODY by Jules Romain . Apparently he likes 20th Century French literature . Cummings is hampered ( at first ) by Priscilla Lane , but she becomes an ally of his when she slowly realizes he was framed . Together they try to prove his innocence . They are fleeing the police and the enemy agents at the same time ( with mixed results ) . We have seen this situation before . Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll had gone through the same thing chasing Godfrey Tearle in THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS , set in Great Britain . Unfortunately Donat and Carroll were better performers , and their script was better too . But Lloyd is properly sinister . And he was to have as memorable a conclusion here as he had on stage in JULIUS CAESAR . SPOILER COMING UP : The conclusion of SABOTEUR was one of the best known in the films of Alfred Hitchcock . The Statue of Liberty is the setting when Cummings confronts Lloyd in the torch of the statue . Lloyd falls over the side , and Cummings tries to pull him up or hold until help comes . But the coat Lloyd wears starts ripping , and he falls shortly after clearing Cummings in the hearing of the police . It was a good sequence to conclude the film with . And it was a wonderful way for Lloyd to be introduced into movies .
An interesting little episode - with a diabolic comic conclusion	This was not a long episode of " Night Gallery , like " They're Closing Down Tim Reilly'S Bar " . It was about five minutes long , but it was quite amusing in it's conclusion . I will add this - the cast given here is erroneous . No witches appeared in the episode and Agnes Moorehead was not in it at all . Victor Buono was a very witty actor - some of his best villains have witty lines ( look at his crooked banker in " Four For Texas " , explaining politely but with some quietly mounting anger to two nice but poor ladies why he can't lend them money because they are so incompetent as business - ladies that he'd eventually have to foreclose on them , making him look like a louse ! ) . This particular episode of " Night Gallery " was actually an extended joke , well performed with finicky delicacy and dignity by Buono , until the conclusion when we realize we never understood what he was really looking for . Buono's customer has set up an appointment at a secretarial agency for possible business . He comes in with an attaché case , and is all politeness and intelligence as he asks the woman in charge of the agency who can she recommend for him . She parades her best secretary . A statuesque blond , highly gifted at stenography , typing , and well organized office directing is shown . Buono takes out a monocle and examines the young woman . He looks a bit disappointed and thanks her , and then asks if there is anyone else . The manager goes on to an attractive brunette who understands several languages , and is a whiz at Pitman shorthand , etc . Again Buono looks at the woman , with a degree of chagrin ( like saying , " Is this the best you have ? " ) . Again he thanks her , and asks the manager who else there is . Gradually Buono's impatience mounts , and the manager's confusion mounts . Each one of these women are first rate workers - what on earth is Buono after here ? After the fifth or sixth attempt , Buono just erupts . " I came here because I was told you have the best selection in the city . " , he yells , " But you parade these second-rate people so proudly ! " The manager starts sputtering out an outraged defense , when suddenly a rather poorly dressed drudge named " Ms Blodgett " ( Cherie Franklin ) comes out to empty the garbage can ( she is so clumsy she spills it on the floor , and barely picks it all up - being overweight she seems to be dropping more that picking up ) . The manager is still talking , not noticing Buono closely watching and examining Ms Blodgett as she bends over , and as she starts doing some clumsy filing as well . She leaves after a moment . " You were hiding the great jewel of your collection . " , a triumphant Buono says . The Manager is stunned and says , " You . . . you liked Ms Blodgett ? " " Why of course . . . she's exactly what I've been looking for ! " says Buono . " But she's the worst secretary we have . " , the Manager sputters . " She can barely file . Her typing is slow and full of errors ! " Buono shakes his head and says , " I won't hear anything against her . She is exactly what I want ! " The Manager pulls herself together . After all , it cures two problems : it gets rid of an incompetent employee , and it gives a difficult customer what he wants . The manager sits down at her desk and says , " Very well , where should we send her ? " In the meantime we are aware that Buono has opened his attaché case and taken some things out . " Never mind . " , he says ( a close-up showing he has a bib on and is holding cutlery ) , " I'll eat her here ! "
Nice sing fest for Crosby - less than that as a " funny " short subject	I saw this today on a video cassette a friend sent to me . It was not the greatest short comedy film or even in the first two or three hundred best short features . Good points about this is that it spotlights the young Crosby , the popular radio and record crooner , singing WHEN THE BLUE OF THE NIGHT and AUF WIEDERSEIN among other tunes . That is all to the good . But it is typical of the work of Mack Sennett . . . and that's to the bad . Mack Sennett really played an important role in the early days of Hollywood and of silent comedy . Anyone responsible for just the Keystone Cops would have gotten to that position . But Sennett also brought Chaplin , Mary Pickford , Gloria Swanson , Fatty Arbuckle , Mack Swain and Ben Turpin to the screen . This is all to the good . But he never continued to grow as a creative comic director . His comedy is real knockabout , but most of the better comics ( like Chaplin and Arbuckle ) turned more subtle in their later years . That is why they continued growing ( of course , in Arbuckle's case , his personal tragedy interfered - but he probably would have remained Chaplin and Keaton and Lloyd's equal ) . But Sennett never could do that . When he did his work with Crosby and ( contemporary to that ) with W . C . Fields it was at the tale end of his career . Fields had much to do with the humor of the six shorts they made together . Crosby just had to be agreeable and sing well . He could do that . So the humor of this short is strained . Bing boards a train with Babe Kane and they find themselves sitting together . Everyone on the train is a honeymoon couple , and everyone suspects they are too . Ms Kane says she is not a honeymooner , but is engaged to the well known radio crooner Bing Crosby . Crosby never mentions his real identity . Later on an article appears in the newspaper regarding Kane's engagement to Crosby . This amuses her friends , mostly because it annoys Franklin Pangborn , who had said he was her fiancé ( Kane tells him she never agreed to marry him ) . Crosby reappears , and pretends for a moment to be a news reporter - then he reveals his real identity to Kane . But Pangborn thinks he is a phony . This leads to the idiotic final bet about the roadster against the five dollar bill from Crosby . Crosby's singing proves who he is . Pangborn does several pratfalls into a swimming pool while in his fancy duds - a typical Sennett joke . Bud Jamison ( who did better work with the Three Stooges ) is a suspicious cop . The humor , for 1933 , is infantile . But the singing and a look at a very young Crosby are worth seeing . So I give this a " 6 " out of " 10 " .
Lucille Toody's Favorite Movie	I enjoyed this comedy , which demonstrates that one can't have one's cake and eat it too . Alec Guiness has found that he has a perfect recipe for happiness by being a bigamist . He has one wife in Gibraltar ( Celia Johnson ) and one in Ceuta ( Yvonne De Carlo ) . As his business is running a ferry service between the two cities he has reason to be gone at least a night or two from either wife . He chooses Celia to mirror the perfect domestic spouse , and Yvonne for the perfect excitement spouse . But in truth both women are increasingly unhappy by the uneven state of their marriages . Johnson wants to go out with her husband to night spots , and De Carlo wants to cook him a dinner , and maybe play some bridge or charades with him . Instead of willingly switching the formula , Guiness foolishly prevents both women from getting their desire , and looses them both . Ironically they never discover he committed bigamy . It is not as good as " The Lavender Hill Mob " , or " The Ladykillers " , or " The Man in the White Suit " or " The Horse's Mouth " , but it is as good as " The Card " . Although admittedly second tier Guiness it is popular . It is also the only film of Guiness's to be mentioned in the television series " Car 54 Where Are You ? " . Lucille Toody thought it was so romantic . Imagine Gunther with two wives in the Bronx and Queens ?
Bill's first move towards the serious .	Bill Murray had been one of the bright stars of the original Saturday NIGHT LIVE . He had a good transition into films in films like STRIPES . But in 1984 he felt he had to show his growth as a performer . He left comedies and moved into straight drama . For some reason he chose to remake Somerset Maugham's novel-into-movie THE RAZOR'S EDGE . The results were not bad , but they were not as good as later dramatic films that Murray made in the 1990s and 2000s . The best thing I found about this version of THE RAZOR'S EDGE ( which I saw in a movie house in Flushing in 1984 ) was the opening . Somehow in the 1946 film version , the horrors of the western front were not as well developed in the final movie ( a distinct weakness , by the way ) . Larry Darell ( Murray in this version and Tyrone Power in the 1946 version ) is , like Ernest Hemingway , an ambulance driver . In Murray's film he is taken under the wing of a cynical ambulance driver who explains how to view things when the pressure of enemy bombing or shelling gets to you . After all , you have to drive to the front lines , pick up the wounded and dying , and bring them back to the hospitals behind the lines . You can get killed in a barrage . The cynical driver , when he witnesses the death of some other ambulance trainees , starts giving a speech of how much he disliked them , and how he won't miss them . His eyes and face show he is lying , and is saying this for his mental health . Subsequently the cynical driver and his assistant are killed . Murray , who has grasped this lesson , repeats the same speech regarding the cynical driver that the latter had given earlier . This was a key scene in the story - it explains how Larry is shattered by the horrors of the war . And it sets the stage ( better , actually ) for his search for answers in the Far East than Tyrone Power had demonstrated in the earlier version . That was the best difference between the two films . Otherwise , the Murray film lacked the cast strengths of the Power film . Besides Power , Clifton Webb , Gene Tierney , Anne Baxter ( " Oscar " winner here ) , John Payne , Herbert Marshall and Elsa Lanchester added cast strength there . But here the best performer was Murray , and only Denholm Elliott as Elliott Templeton really was good , and he was pale compared to the great Webb in the same role ( although he was able to give an unbowdlerized version of Elliott's final line of dialog ) . This is a fair film version , but the original is better .
I Wonder if Lord Haw Haw saw this ?	The first two Basil Rathbone - Nigel Bruce Sherlock Holmes outings ( THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES and THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ) are usually considered the best of the series , although several of the " modernized " ones ( THE SCARLET CLAW , SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH , THE HOUSE OF FEAR ) have really really clever mystery stories in them . This one , the first of the 20th Century FOX modern stories , is based on HIS LAST BOW . But it has an interesting modern source to the tale , as well as a secondary source from a non-Conan Doyle writer . The original Conan Doyle story is ( chronologically ) the last one in the canon ( of 56 short stories and four novels by Sir Arthur ) . HIS LAST BOW was written in 1917 , and was supposed to be a memoir of Holmes final espionage service for the British Government in wrecking the espionage work of one Heinrich Von Bork , the Kaiser's most brilliant agent in England . There are references in it to zeppelins and other wartime machines and events ( including the involvement of Irish - American allies to the Kaiser against the hated British ) . Suffice it to say that it has , what is the classic ending ( in terms of dialog ) for Holmes and Watson . This is the " There's an east wind , Watson . . . . " dialog , which actually ends this story . I am glad ( at least for this much ) that the screenplay writers knew enough to use this wonderful dialog to conclude the movie . To bring it up to date ( 1939 - 40 ) , the story includes reference to the antics of one of the most aggravating people the British people faced between 1939 and 1945 : Mr . William Joyce , a . k . a . " Lord Haw Haw " . There are elements of Joyce in the character of Meade ( Thomas Gomez ) and the basic story in the film about the radio broadcasts . Joyce was an Irish American ( he was born in New York City ) , who moved to England in the 1920s . He was a very intelligent man , who felt he was ignored by too many inferior people , and harbored great resentments as a result . This is Meade to a tee . Joyce happened to have a wonderful speaking voice , but he looked rather ordinary . He gravitated to Fascist circles , soon rising in the British Union of Fascists ( BUF ) and becoming a leading speaker and propagandist for Sir Oswald Mosley ( the would-be Fascist dictator of England ) . Mosley was quite an egomaniac , but so was Joyce . After awhile a split developed between the men , as Joyce felt that Mosley was depending too much on British democracy ( which Joyce despised ) . Joyce increasingly looked with admiration at the Nazi model ( more so than Mosley was ever willing to look ) . When the two nations drifted into war Joyce traveled to Germany and offered his services to Josef Goebbels . Goebbels knew a good thing when he could use it , so he agreed . Joyce ( once war began ) had a German passport that was dated prior to September 1 , 1939 . But he also had a British passport and an American passport . Joyce planned carefully to keep all three - just in case . Soon he began broadcasting in his nasal , but pleasing voice , as " Lord Haw Haw " . He was an expert in presenting brutality as an expected future way of life - Osama Bin Laden and Al Quaeda could take good lessons from Joyce's still surviving propaganda recordings . For the first three years of the war the British public had to live through his broadcasts , on top of the Blitz by his allies in the Luftwaffe . At the time THE VOICE OF TERROR was made , everyone in Britain , the United States , and the world knew who was the model for that radio voice of doom in the movie . I don't know if Joyce ever saw the film , but he probably would have dismissed it as allied propaganda ( which it was ) . It might even have flattered him that he was targeted in it . At the time the Axis was winning the war ( Stalingrad , El Alemein , and Midway were in the future ) . But as the war turned against the Axis , Joyce found that his role in Nazi circles was not as grand as he had hoped . Had they won against England , probably he would have been important ( as Meade hoped to be in the film ) , but as England and the U . S . and the Soviet Union advanced ( and were gradually joined by France in 1944 ) , Hitler and Goebbels basically treated Joyce as a paid employee . He took to drink - he could see the war was going badly , despite the propaganda he spewed out . When the regime collapsed in ruins in May 1945 , Joyce got shot by an Allied soldier , and was returned to the British to stand trial for treason . It's an interesting trial ( if you study the business about the three passports ) . To this day there is an actually good argument to say Joyce had not committed treason in 1939 - 45 because the German passport made him a German citizen . But his defense was brushed aside , he was found guilty , and he was hanged . The third element in the film was the novel , THE GREAT IMPERSONATION , by E . Phillips Oppenheimer . Set before World War I , it describes how a German aristocrat meets his exact double ( Sir Everard Dominey ) in Africa , and decides to kill him and take his place in British society in order to help German war plans . This is part of the conclusion of the film , regarding one of the council . It is a good film , because of the performances of Rathbone , Bruce , Henry Daniell , Reginald Denny , Evelyn Ankers , and ( best of all ) Thomas Gomez as the power-hungry / paranoid Meade . But it is not among the best of the Sherlock Holmes series . As for " Lord Haw Haw " it is not the only film that his character popped up in . Trevor Howard plays a character based on him in RUN FOR THE SUN with Richard Widmark .
Mary Ann Cross's " Historical Novel "	People watching his comic performances , or his detective roles first as Philo Vance and then as Nick Charles , rarely think of William Powell as anything but a terrific actor in talkies , who happened to be good in comedy , mystery , and drama be he married to his screen partner Myrna Loy or Mr . Day Sr . in LIFE WITH FATHER . Most don't realize , though , that Powell had a film career in silent movies . And there , he was not a nice fellow at all - he was usually the villain . Most notably in the first film version of BEAU GESTE ( he played the " snitch " character played by J . Carroll Naish in the 1939 classic ) and this film , one of the last silent movies starring Dorothy Gish as well as her better remembered sister Lillian . As Tito Melema , the power-hungry opportunist ( and coward ) in ROMOLA he shows the darker side of his acting craft - and it is of interest to catch the film for that reason alone . ROMOLA is unique - it is one of the seven novels that were written by Ms Mary Ann Cross , better known as " George Eliot " . In discussing Eliot's novel turned to film , THE MILL ON THE FLOSS I pointed out that her's was one of the best intellects of the Victorian period , and her novels are well regarded by critics but not read as much as say Dickens , the Brontes , or Trollope ( or even Thackeray ) . The reason is she has one of the most difficult writing styles to plow through . It is easiest to read her shortest novel , SILAS MARNER , but after that you are on your own . Still it can be rewarding - MIDDLEMARCH , her longest and best novel , was called the most grown-up novel in the English language by Virginia Woolf . Most of her novels are set in England . ROMOLA is the only one that is set abroad - in Renaissance Italy in the city state of Florence . The novel deals with the city of Florence from 1491 ( the death of Lorenzino " the Magnificent " De Medici ) to 1498 . The story describes how the city was taken over from 1494 to 1498 by a group of puritanical reformers led by a Dominican friar named Girolamo Savanarola . Savanarola's " reform " period in Florence has been subject to much controversy . Certainly there were grounds for serious reform in politics and in religion . His supporters ( who still exist ) feel Girolamo's problem was he showed up on the scene twenty or thirty years prematurely - that if he had been in power in 1517 or 1521 he would have been able to coordinate his ideas with those of Martin Luther , his Northern German counterpart . But Luther wanted to do things with Christianity that Savanarola never did . Luther wanted everyone to read the Bible , and wanted priests to be able to marry . Savanarola never said he wanted those reforms . He wanted the people to obey Biblical rules , and felt the Roman Catholic Clergy should make sure this happened . Moral reform , not structural was his goal . And since it was moral reform , his actual achievement ( cleaning shop in Florence ) made more enemies than he could afford . Most of the citizens of Florence begrudgingly went along , because of the threat of death if they did not . And the Medicis ( forced into temporary exile ) were not pleased at being chased out of their city and property . The worst set of enemies were the Roman Curia ( then under Pope Alexander VI ( Roderigo Borgia ) . Possibly the most corrupt Pope in history , Borgia had no desire to see a successful reformer in Florence . When one of the leading junior members of Savanarola's clique made comments suggesting he and Savanarola could perform miracles , Borgia saw his opportunity . He first excommunicated the reformers , and then tried Savanarola and his leading supporters for heresy . On May 23 , 1498 the three men were burned to death . It later was told that Savanarola gave a prediction of horrors due to warfare that would befall Florence in 1529 during the papacy of some man named Clement . Pope Clement ( who happened to be of the Medici family ) was on the papal throne in 1529 , when Florence was under attack . This is the background of the novel , following Tito's latching onto the reforming monk's coat-tales for his own aggrandizement . Although married to Tessa ( Dorothy Gish ) Tito tries to have his way with Romola ( Lilian Gish ) . As the monk falls from power , Tito's real character is revealed . Romola is saved by her lover Carlo ( Ronald Colman ) . I will only add that the unfortunate Tessa is not that lucky .
A Curiously Imbalanced Film Of Interest	KISS THEM FOR ME is about three naval officers who are returned to the states during wartime on furlough . One , Ray Walston , is up for a Congressional seat in his district , and actually may be able to get out soon . The other two ( Cary Grant and Larry Blyden ) have earned the furlough for their heroism . But there is a slight chance they too can get excused from further war duty , if they are picked up for stateside war service . This brings up the how : Werner Klemperer ( as a naval brass insider ) can connect them to industrialists who need their expertise to present the companies goods for government contracts . This aspect of the war ( of all wars ) is rarely recalled on Memorial Day or Veteran's Day . Few movies deal with the issue - the best known one is ALL MY SONS , wherein Burt Lancaster discovers how his father , Edward G . Robinson , sacrificed the lives of seventeen fliers in the Pacific to maintain a contract with the Government using defective pistons . But that film was based on Arthur Miller's stage play . In SAVE ONE FOR ME we actually see the mechanism of the incipient military industrial complex in Klemperer's character . We also see the types who are looking for front men like Blyden and Grant to push their contracts . The first one Leif Ericson , is a totally unlikeable bully who really has little time for military people ( Grant finally punches him in the nose , breaking off their possible business arrangement ) . The second , Richard Deacon , is a babbitt type who just keeps pushing his favorite subject - paper . He manufactures paper . This is supposed to be a comedy , so the sexual business dealing with Grant , Blyden , Walston , Jayne Mansfield , Suzy Parker is for the audience's entertainment . But the irony of this arrangement is that the film is weakened . " SPOILERS AHEAD " At the end Walston is elected to Congress , and Klemperer has succeeded in getting Blyden and Grant placed with Deacon . But just as it looks like they are out of it , they hear that their ship was sunk with all hands in a battle . Deacon , who is too innocuous to realize that silence is best at this moment , is told by Grant to shut up ( thus ending that relationship ) and he and Blyden decide they must go back to the Pacific to finish the job their lost comrades had started . Walston , holding back trying to convince them they are fools , realizes that if he stays he'll look like an opportunist and coward , so he joins them in returning . As you can see , the film had's theme had more bite to it than a frothy sex romp ( like the contemporary THE PERFECT FURLOUGH with Tony Curtis ) . If the sex bit had been handled differently ( to accent what the three men were sacrificing - with their ill-fated comrades - by fighting for their country ) it would have been a more memorable film . As it is it is entertaining , but it is ultimately unsatisfactory for it's imbalance .
One of many comic failures of the 1960s	A slightly better than average sit-com for it's period , RUN BUDDY RUN was a comic turn based on THE FUGITIVE . Instead of David Jannsen's Dr . Richard Kimble running from Barry Morse's Inspector Gerard on The Fugitive to clear himself of his wife's murder ( and find the one armed man who did it ) , Buddy ( Jack Sheldon ) was running from the mob . In the opening episode we see that Buddy went into a steam room which was full of mobsters led by Bruce Gordon ( an interesting choice : the actor who played Frank Nitti on THE UNTOUCHABLES , but here doing the part of mob boss for laughs ) . Buddy overhears a sinister plot involving " Chicken Little " and then is discovered by the others . He is chased out and he finds himself constantly in danger for the rest of the series . It was amusing . In one episode he goes to a psychiatrist for help and the mob decides to make him look like a madman by not doing anything to him for awhile . The shrink actually convinces Buddy that he's been imagining everything , until at the conclusion the shrink witnesses the mobsters dropping their pretense and chasing their prey again . My favorite moment of the show was Gordon's . In one episode he is having another high level dinner / meeting with his fellow capos . After discussing all sorts of skulduggery they are involved in , it's time to relax . One of his lieutenants says they have the motion picture room ready for the movies they'll show that night . Fine says Gordon , but nothing like LITTLE CAESAR please . It's too violent for his taste ! The show only lasted one season . It would be certainly worth a second glance .
What the Future Might Give Us By Accident	This was one of the better stories on NIGHT GALLERY . Burgess Meredith is a trained physician whose career went on the rocks . He has become an alcoholic and a derelict . He has a bottle of booze and is drinking the rotgut when he stumbles on another derelict played by Chill Wills ( who keeps repeating his name " Heppelwhite " as though it is his last shred of dignity ) . Wills and Meredith fight over the bottle , and it breaks . Shortly after , near some garbage cans , Meredith finds a black bag . He opens it and discovers it is a futuristic medical device ( with an instruction book ) that has to be two or three centuries in advance of current medical and surgical knowledge . Shortly after we see some future figure talking to his bosses over a type of combination phone and radio . He reports that one of the men on his spaceship , during a visit to 20th Century Earth , lost his medical bag , and that they are worried if it falls into the wrong hands what might happen . Meanwhile Meredith and Wills return to their slum tenement , and they hear that a neighbor has suffered a bad fall and may be paralyzed . Meredith , knowing the current standard of surgery , realizes that the person will be paralyzed if treated at a typical hospital . He checks the instruction book , and sees how to use the device inside the bag to take care of such compound spinal fractures . He goes into the apartment of the injured man , and soon the man is up and about totally cured . Meredith's face brightens . Soon he is taking care of the physical problems of everyone in the building and on the street . He feels wonderful - he's regained his confidence . And he realizes that if he presents the device and booklet at a conference of the medical profession , he might go down in history as a great healer . What he does not realize is that Wills is growing increasingly angry and jealous at Meredith's great luck . So when Meredith is not looking , Wills sneaks up behind him and kills him . Now Wills can get the credit of the wonderful discovery . A number of weeks pass , and Wills ( now cleaned up and dressed respectably ) is holding a press conference in front of the American Mediacal Association . He is talking about the cures the device has produced , and that it will revolutionize the medical profession . Of course , while there have been rumors of " great cures " they were done by Meredith , and Wills barely knows anything about the medical sciences . Then one of the doctor says to Wills , " How do we know if this odd device is even safe to use ? " Wills says , " You know if a sharp blade like the one on this device is driven into the carotid artery it will result in instant , unstoppable death ! I will demonstrate before you my complete confident in safety of the device by showing what happens when I try to drive it in ! " In the meantime we momentarily zoom ahead two or three centuries to our space traveler , again talking to his bosses . He tells them that they have given up trying to find the device and black bag , but that it does not matter - the device's warranty period is up , and now it will simply revert to being a regular sharp cutting knife . We are shown the auditorium where the demonstration / press conference was going on . Grim faced men are leaving it's doors , and the man who asked the question to Wills turns to another person and says , " If he had to commit suicide , why did he have to do it in front of everyone ? "
A Muni Mistake	It is interesting to see how a reputation that was once high can tumble to later generations - somewhat unfairly . Paul Muni was not a poor actor . In his best work ( SCARFACE , JUAREZ , LIFE OF LOUIS PASTEUR , WE ARE NOT ALONE ) his work remains quite substantial in it's effectiveness - he was no mean actor . But when he got hammy . . . . then the knives are our for him . One example is Joseph Elsner ( Chopin's music teacher and friend in A SONG TO REMEMBER ) . Another is Johnny Ramirez in BORDERTOWN . One can make an excuse for Muni playing a Mexican hero like Benito Juarez . In the 1930s Warner Baxter played the Cisco Kid and Joaichim Murietta and Wallace Beery was a memorable Pancho Villa . But these figures were presented as heroes - there was a degree of sympathy in these personalities . There was supposed to be similar sympathy for Ramirez , but Muni really blew it apart in the opening of the film . Johnny has just become a lawyer - and has just hung his license up . He gets a client ( Manuel Diego - Arthur Stone ) whose truck was destroyed in a car accident caused by a limousine driven by a drunken socialite ( Dale Elwell - Margaret Lindsey ) . Johnny willingly takes the case , but he is a terrible lawyer ( and , to tell the truth , anyone seeing this performance would think Muni is a terrible actor - the scene in the court is the worst overacting ) . Johnny not only loses to the professional competence of Elwell's attorney , but the disgusted judge tells him that he is going to request that the state bar association take back Johnny's license . He is disbarred and humiliated . But he subsequently starts working for Charlie Roarke ( Eugene Palette ) , a jolly and good natured man who has a roadhouse with gambling . The plot is that Roarke's wife Marie ( Bette Davis ) meets Johnny , and falls for him ( not hard - he's a romantic Mexican , and look at jolly but short , fat , and old Chalie ) . But Johnny is not interested . He's loyal to Charlie , and he's met Dale again . At first she makes fun of the ex-lawyer , but she starts enjoying " slumming " with him . But he's more serious . Marie suddenly gets the idea of getting rid of Charlie . When they return home from a party , he's totally drunk . They are in the garage of their home , and she realizes that if she leaves the gasoline motor on and closes the door on Charlie - well , it's goodbye Charlie ! So it works out , and now she thinks that Johnny will be easy to get . But he's not . . . and in a moment of anger she confesses the murder and says that Johnny was her co-conspirator . You may sense several points here : 1935 was the year Thelma Todd died in a still mysterious death connected to her having carbon monoxide poisoning in her closed car garage like Palette did . I don't know which of the two events proceeded the other . Secondly , the situation between Davis and Muni is a model for the similar relationship of Ida Lupino and George Raft in THEY DRIVE BY NIGHT . In fact the death of Palette is a model for the same death for Alan Hale Sr . in the latter film . And the denouement in the trial court is identical too . SPOILERS COMING UP ! Both Davis and Lupino suffer mental collapses on the witness stands , revealing their own guilt but accidentally saving Muni and Raft . Raft is able to pick up the pieces with Ann Sheridan in THEY DRIVE BY NIGHT . Muni is less lucky . Running from him when he reveals his desire to marry her , Lindsay is run down and killed by a car . The effect is overdone by Muni looking so horrified one wonders if he is actually witnessing the sinking of the Titanic ! Or maybe he was thinking about his really bad performance in this film .
A Distant Memory Now	Bernard Shaw wrote GREAT CATHERINE ( WHOM GLORY STILL ADORES ) back in the teens , and it is occasionally revived . Not all of his plays get revived . In particular his " short " plays . GREAT CATHERINE is a one act play , and it runs about ninety minutes ( short , in comparison to say PYGMALION or MAJOR BARBARA ) . As it is a historical play , one has to note that Shaw - while he tried to be accurate on his history in his plays - based his history on the current state of knowledge , which was usually not as correct as we now know . Basically , GREAT CATHERINE is about how a young British officer is sent to the court of Catherine the Great of Russia , one of the most fascinating rulers in Europe in the 18th Century . He is involved not only with her , but with her crafty chief minister , Potemkin ( whom the battleship in the classic Eisenstein silent film is named for ) . The officer attracts her attention because he is handsome , and the British Minister is fully willing to let him see the Empress , as he may hear something of use and he may " ease " Anglo-Russian relations . As it turns out , the young ninny is such a believer in middle class morality that he blows a great opportunity , loses a chance to witness a great figure in world history , and even - unwittingly - so misunderstands things that he accidentally insults her . Only her own sense of values keeps her from taking up an offer from a furious Potemkin to have the young man killed . The basics of the play are kept in the movie , but it was jazzed up a bit . Jeanne Moreau makes a very attractive , sexy , alluring Empress . Peter O'Toole is a proper aristocratic numskull . Akim Tamiroff is a comic guard , browbeaten by his boss Potemkin ( played with relish by Zero Mostel - a nice historical part for him for a change ) . Also , in one of his last roles , the now tragically silenced Jack Hawkins , giving his all as the British Ambassador . I have given the film a 6 , for it's attempt to record a minor play by Shaw , for it's cast , and for a scene I liked that dates the play - when O'Toole is supposed to show how the battle of Bunker's Hill was fought . The confrontation ends with the total demolition of the model of the battlefield . It is a minor sequence , but I did like it . But for all I do like about the film , if you are interested in the best work of George Bernard Shaw I would not go to this film first .
Our first great national invention	I only saw this film in the 1960s , and memories of it are somewhat sparse . I recall Richard Greene trying to get financing for his steamboat , and finding roadblocks by various troublemakers , mostly local sailors who realize that steam power will hurt their sail oriented business . One moment that was well handled is the burning of the original " Claremont " ( the actual name of the boat was " the North River Steamboat of Claremont " - Claremont was the name of the country estate of Chancellor Robert Livingston , Fulton's backer and brother-in-law ) . Another moment of the film was Greene's confusing meeting with Victor Killian , introduced to him as " Mr . DeWitt " ( Greene thinks it's DeWitt Clinton - Killian is actually a thug trying to create a scene in which Greene can be beaten up ) . Alice Faye is given a song or two to sing , and is the love interest of MacMurray ( who is also momentarily jealous of Greene , but still supports the steamboat at the end ) . If one is really interested in the story of this invention - our first really important invention in the industrial revolution - read James Flexner's " Steamboats Come True " . The actual first inventor was John Fitch , who made a successful steamboat that ran to and from Philadelphia in 1790 - 1792 ) . Fitch was clever , but he did not know how to make a plan of the invention that could enable him to rebuild a second working steamboat . It was a hit or miss thing with Fitch . In 1798 he committed suicide in Kentucky . Besides Fitch there were other inventors ( Oliver Evans , James Rumsey ) , but Fulton had engineering training , and was able to make patents that could be followed to repeat his invention again and again . So 1807 is the year we usually credit for the invention of the steamboat . Yet oddly enough this is the only sound film of Fulton's invention that was made in Hollywood . I suspect it is because the Claremont was a prototype that lacked the glamor of later vessels ( those that plied the Mississippi River from 1828 - 1900 ) , and that ( with a few tourist exceptions ) no longer matters to us . More films dealing with railway and car transportation have been made - even more about aviation and submarines . So I suspect there will never be a more solid look at Fulton's career as artist , submarine pioneer , and steamboat developer . There is another film where Fulton pops up : " Austerlitz " , a French film made in the 1950s where Orson Welles appeared as Fulton trying ( in 1804-05 ) to interest Napoleon I in his submarine . That's about it . Maybe one day a serious film on Fulton will be made . Until then we have " Little Old New York " .
Mr . Fields liked children - if they were parboiled !	A typical cartoon " Merrie Melodie " from Warners involving a mouse who sounds and looks like W . C . Fields offering a tour of a closed department store to his fellow mice , in a wire basket on cables ( used to transfer goods from department of the store to another ) . The price for the tour is $ . 10 . Even when giving his spiel to the would-be passengers he is pestered by a mouse kid ( the title named " Little Blabbermouse " ) who jabbers away every now and then - annoying the child hating Fields - clone mouse . But he had a dime , so he is able to get a place in the basket-car . The film shows such things as disappearing vanishing cream jars , cough medicine bottles that are coughing , and powder puffs singing and dancing to " Shake Your Powder Puff " . In fact the cartoon ( being a Warners Studio product ) uses such standards as " Singing in the Bathtub " and " We're In the Money " from their music department . It's an easy to take cartoon , punctuated by mild Fieldsian comments by the guide mouse , and by Little Blabbermouse's unstoppable , fast , and barely intelligible string of comments when he makes any . A last minute chase due to a bounding cat chasing the mice back to the mouse-hole they came from leads to the Fields-clone finally bubbling over in anger and using an bottle of alum go good effect . Cartoons like this remind us how the choice of surviving characters in all the cartoon studios was a chance affair . Little Blabbermouse was a tiresome one note character ( unlike Bugs Bunny or Daffy Duck or even figures like Elmer Fudd and Yosemite Sam - all of them could surprise occasionally due to the richness of their characters ) . This was a winnowing process in all of the studios . Disney for example tried to push a character named Horace Horsecollar in the 1930s with Mickey Mouse , Donald Duck , and Goofy ( and Pluto ) and it didn't really work . With Popeye it was simpler - the Fleischer group just absorbed the main figures from Segar's " Thimble Theater " . So Popeye , Olive , Bluto , Wimpy , Poopdeck Pappy , and Swee ' Pea were permanent , more or less . But it was rare that the Sea Hag , Wimpy's enemy Geezil , Bertha the Goon , or Olive's brother Castor Oyl showed up , if at all . Little Blabbermouse appeared maybe in five Warner cartoons tops , and then drifted into that weird oblivion for abandoned cartoon figures .
A Crank named Schrank	Actually ( and surprisingly ) I saw this episode - and it had all the defects of the series , as well as it's better points . The actors were hamstrung in this series by a well-intentioned but stupid method of telling the stories . Instead of dramatizing them ( like in " Profiles In Courage " or " The Great Adventure " or - presumably - " Cavalcade Of America " ) the stories were half dramatized as though a television camera crew was at the scene , and we saw the events ( including some where no cameras would have been possible - like the assassination of Julius Caesar or the sinking of the Titanic ) . In this case , without intending it , the show had a crazy type of unintentional prescience regarding the events dramatized . The personages involved would suddenly be questioned by the newsmen about their actions and motives . The fact that the narrator was Walter Cronkite added a degree of unreal reality to the situation . This episode dealt with the attempt by one John Schrank , a Bohemian born immigrant barkeeper who ( in 1912 ) took it upon himself to object to a violation of a sacred political tradition in the United States . Schrank shot Col . Theodore Roosevelt in Milwaukee , Wisconsin on October 14 , 1912 , while T . R . was busy completing his Progressive Party or " Bull Moose " Campaign for President against his former friend , President William Howard Taft ( the Republican re-nominee ) , the Democratic Party Candidate Governor Woodrow Wilson of New Jersey , and the Socialist Candidate Eugene Victor Debs . Roosevelt had chosen Taft to be his successor as President in 1908 , but they split on policy decisions . The bulk of the Republican Party leadership made sure Taft won the nomination again in 1912 . But Roosevelt was willing to bolt the party and form his third party . T . R . went out with the most radical social reform program of the age to attract millions of supporters . But this ran against Wilson , who presented a more moderate but practical program of reform called the New Freedom ( and against Debs , who felt Roosevelt's programs were not radical enough - particularly as T . R . ' s leading financial supporter was George Perkins , a partner of J . P . Morgan ) . Schrank was an interesting mental case - his only close relationship was with a young woman who died in the General Slocum fire ( see " Manhattan Melodrama " ) , and his business eventually collapsed . In fact , there is a possibility that the activities of one time Police Commissioner Roosevelt on bars and taverns obeying various statutes and laws in the 1890s may have hit Schrank's business - giving him a personal grudge against the Rough Rider . But he always claimed that he had a vision on September 15 , 1901 of seeing the assassinated President William McKinley telling him that T . R . ( dressed as a monk ) arranged that murder ( which would have surprised McKinley's killer , Leon Czolgosz ) . Then , after an apparent nervous breakdown in 1912 , Schrank had a dream on the anniversary of McKinley's death where McKinley arose from a coffin and asked why Schrank did not avenge him . Schrank also felt that T . R . , having served seven and a half years as President , was violating the two term tradition of Presidents . So he followed Roosevelt to New Orleans and then Milwaukee . When Roosevelt headed for a car to go to an auditorium for a speech , Schrank shot him . The speech and an eyeglass case saved T . R . ' s life . He was strong enough to deliver the speech , and then to go to the hospital . Doctors there marveled at his physique - years of exercise gave the fifty - four year old President the body of a thirty year old man . Taft and Wilson and Debs stopped campaigning . Roosevelt resumed the campaign ten days later , and in the election beat Taft and Debs , but lost to Wilson ( Debs got nearly a million votes for the Socialist ticket ) . Schrank went to an insane asylum . He claimed he had no personal grudge against T . R . ( although the business about the latter's campaign against the bars suggests otherwise ) . He lived to 1943 , deeply upset that Franklin Roosevelt did win a third term . He did not live to see the Constitutional amendment ( adopted in 1951 ) that does limit Presidents to only two - possibly two and a half - terms . T . R . died in 1919 . The show did bring much of this background out , but the on-the-spot interviews were ludicrous . But in retrospect , the idea of cameras photographing assassinations of Presidents or candidates has become real . J . F . K . would be shown on film by Mr . Zagruder being shot ( brutally ) . Bobby Kennedy too . Also George Wallace in 1972 . I said there was an unsettling prescience in this episode .
Borscht Belt Hoods and Mr . Ryan	This is definitely not the greatest film comedy , but it has it's moments . The plot has to do with mob boss Ryan's discovery of a large scale theft of cash that seemed about to be uncovered by his mob's bookkeeper , Bill Dana . Dana is killed in front of Ryan and his right hand gopher Sid Caesar while barbecuing ( somebody tampered with the oil used on the barbecue grill ) . When the discovery is made , Ryan zeroes in on Caesar as the thief , and probable murderer of Dana . Caesar spends the film trying to 1 ) keep out of the hands of Ryan and his goons ( Godfrey Cambridge and Marty Ingalls ) , 2 ) keep out of the hands of the police ( Richard Pryor ) , 3 ) keep his meddlesome mother out of his hair ( Kay Medford ) , 4 ) solve the mystery of the death of Dana and his disappearing corpse , 5 ) find out who , exactly , is trying to frame him , and 6 ) looking after Dana's newly made widow ( Arlene Golonka ) who is looking very appealing to Caesar . Actually the plot fits pretty well , but it is a so-so plot for all that . I think by the time the film is half-way through you will realize who the framer is . But it is the little shticks by borscht belt comics , Caesar , Jan Murray , Cambridge ( with Ingalls ) , Dana ( briefly ) , and with long time comedian Ben Blue and recent arrivals Richard Pryor and Dom DeLuis , that should hold one's attention . Blue is the perennial nervous nelly , a witness against Caesar who is confronted by him ( not threatened by him , mind you , but confronted ) and keeps collapsing in fear of being tortured . As mentioned in another comment on this thread , a woman tries to vamp a dummy that Caesar has left at a bus stop . You have to understand that Caesar introduced her to the dummy as his friend , Matthias Kreplach , who was rich . The woman leaves in a huff when Matthias just won't respond to her chatter - he just sits there like a dummy . I may add that while that scene is good , my favorite moment is the last scene involving Jan Murray and Anne Baxter as a larcenous husband and wife . He gets a final rise out of her that George Sanders did not achieve in ALL ABOUT EVE .
A view of a possible future that never quite came about .	The dialog in this episode of NIGHT GALLERY was a little better than the one for the episode of the LONE SURVIVOR . It is also interesting because it demonstrates the danger of predicting the future with too much accuracy . When George Orwell wrote 1984 he was foreseeing a dismal world view ( based on the situations of the inter-war period , World War II , and the Cold War ) with three evil world empires at constant interchangeable warfare , and all crushing humanity by dictatorships . This could still happen but it was dated to happen in 1984 because Orwell wrote his manuscript in 1948 . But in 1984 , while the brilliance of the anti-Utopian novel was universally admitted , and everyone was writing and analyzing it and it's dismal predictions , Walter Cronkite summarized a let-down that the situation of that year was not totally like that of 1984 the novel . As he summarized , " 1984 was followed by 1985 ! " In this episode of NIGHT GALLERY , we see a futuristic class of students at a lecture hall . The teacher is Vincent Price ( a role he never played in the movies , oddly enough - he spoke and had the gravitas for a professor , but he is never shown teaching in a movie ) . Price seems to be testing the students on some routine social questions , and has a bit more difficulty with one name Johnson played by Brandon de Wilde . Johnson is stumped in answering a question by giving the name of a theorist which begins with " C " . He keeps repeating it , and Price ( at his driest and chilliest ) says , " A body of water or the Spanish affirmative , Mr . Johnson ? " . As the lesson continues , we see Price address two young women , one somewhat blue collar and stocky and the other a bit more upper crust and pretty . Price basically causes the two women to dramatize their true feelings regarding each other : the blue-collar young lady resents the patrician , and rips her pearls off , while the patrician reacts ( again at Price's bidding ) by picking up the pearls , forcibly putting them into the blue-collar lady's hand , and spitting in her face ! Then one of the other students starts shouting , and asking his fellows why are they behaving like this - why are they not trying to get along . After a moment , a startled Price signals an assistant , who goes over to the outspoken student and adjusts something behind his ear . The student stops talking and falls over . Price , in the meantime manages to pull a switch near his podium , and all the other students stop functioning . Price and his assistant go over to the now silenced and still " troublemaking " student , and examine him . It now is obvious that the student body are automatons that have been programmed to understand class ranks and rules that dictate how society is run . But as Price and the human assistant he has discuss the matter , it is apparent that every now and then some mistake emerges from the factory - and threatens to overturn this artificial status quo . Price turns to de Wilde and reactivates him . He points out to de Wilde that he has only one chance of graduating - if he will show his reaction to this public threat to order . Price gives a gun to de Wilde who shoots the " troublemaker " . We see the troublemaker lying on the ground - his head is open like a broken machine or watch from the bullet . And we hear de Wilde deliver a speech at the graduation of the " Class of ' 99 " in which he explains how they are expected , after the disaster of the world war ( of the future as of 1971 , when this was written ) to rebuild the world with youth and confidence . The last image , of course , is again the broken robot " troublemaker " ( which , in keeping with the " portraits " in NIGHT GALLERY is the subject matter of that portrait . It is a well written episode ( obviously , if after thirty years I remember the line concerning " a body of water or the Spanish affirmative " ) . Price and de Wilde ( soon to tragically die in a motorcycle accident - robbing us of a fine career in film and television and the stage ) gave good performances . But now we would watch this with some amusement - there was no disastrous world war between 1971 and 1999 , with a decimated world population that had to be replaced by robots . So the episode , for all it's strengths , manages to collapse as a piece of misplaced prediction of future disaster .
An Edwardian tragic-comedy	Peter Sellers first successful dramatic role of any stature is as General Leo Fitzjohn in this version of the play by Jean Anouilh . Although a success in the military ( we see over the years as he rose to his present rank ) he was married to a woman who was bed-ridden due to emotional problems , and he was never quite able to carry out his lifelong romance with his French girlfriend . His wife ( Margaret Leighton ) is a shrew , but she is one who never stopped loving her unfaithful husband - so she will never give him the divorce he'd want . His mistress ( Dany Robins ) is attractive , and ever hopeful . Unfortunately she has met the General's adjutant , Lt . Finch ( John Fraser ) , who she finds available and able to return her love . So this four sided parallelogram develops as the center of the plays plot . Sellers has had other affairs , all of which Leighton has had to live through . In one it turns out he had a child . Yet he is unable to break the chain linking him with this woman , who is both sympathetic and neurotic . He yearns and schemes to be with his mistress , but every time something ( from a broken leg to a drinking contest ) interferes . In the end he watches as he loses her , and he considers suicide . Sellers had never had such a sad character before . Maybe the alcoholic movie projector operator in " The Smallest Show on Earth " came closest , but he was not the central figure of that film . Sellers showed the depressing effects of aging on the general , once a gallant physical specimen . He is fully aware of his aging , and his failure to attain true happiness ( just the temporary enjoyment of sexual pleasure ) . As he contemplates his mortality , and plans suicide he tells his closest friend ( Cyril Cusack ) , " I don't want to die . " But he can't prevent that inevitability . He did well with the role of Fitzjohn , and it paved the way for some of those bright figures such as his too Christian minister in " Heaven's Above " , his triple roles in " Lolita " and in " Dr . Strangelove " , and his final great part of Chance in " Being There " . Fitzjohn was a taste of what was to come .
Stan and Ollie in decline .	All the great movie comics made poor comedies in comparison to their best ones . For every THE BANK DICK and IT'S A GIFT , W . C . Fields did a MRS . WIGGS OF CABBAGE PATCH or ALICE IN WONDERLAND . For every DUCK SOUP and A NIGHT AT THE OPERA , the Marx Brothers did a LOVE HAPPY or a STORY OF MANKIND . Chaplin's MODERN TIMES and MONSIEUR VERDOUX is " balanced " by A KING IN NEW YORK and A COUNTESS FROM HONG KONG . Keaton's THE GENERAL and SHERLOCK JR . have the negatives of WHAT , NO BEER or BOOM IN THE MOON . For all of Abbott and Costello's THE TIME OF THEIR LIVES or BUCK PRIVATES , one has to look at DANCE WITH ME HENRY . The same with Laurel & Hardy . Their last ten films , for M . G . M . and 20th Century Fox are dismissed . I think the reason is that these films lack the atmosphere built up by Hal Roach and his production staff . But what is forgotten is how often Roach and Laurel ( the real creative half of the team ) failed to agree on film production . SWISS MISS appears to have been butchered , in part , by Roach . There are probably other examples , particularly as Laurel wanted more expensive budgets on his films ( such as the nightclub in OUR RELATIONS ) while Roach constantly tried to clamp down on expenses . When they joined MGM Laurel & Hardy were still quite popular , but the leading comic team of that moment ( 1941 ) was Universal's Abbott & Costello . Though similar in physical juxtaposition ( thin Stan and Bud v . fat Ollie and Lou ) the personalities were widely different . Stan was not a wise guy like Bud Abbott , and Ollie had more misplaced self-confidence than timid Lou Costello ) . But the films that were given to them were somewhat like those of Abbott & Costello . The latter's BUCK PRIVATES is mirrored in L & H's GREAT GUNS . It was like the MGM studio did not really know what to do with them - and probably that is true . Don't forget how Louis B . Mayer had little sympathy with comedians - witness his actions against the Marx Brothers and Buster Keaton . Why should Laurel & Hardy get any better treatment ? The last ten films then have to be judged by this background of neglect . As such , one looks for whatever is positive in them . Sometimes it is surprising . SPOILERS COMING UP The best moments in NOTHING BUT TROUBLE deal with Stan and Ollie trying to cook and serve their employers ( Henry O'Neill and Mary Boland ) , and the conclusion with Philip Merivale's poisoning plot against his nephew . The business with Stan offering a saw to cut the piece of purloined steak is wonderful . But the business with Merivale is quite unique . It is similar to the situation in the Marx Brothers ' THE BIG STORE , where in the concluding chase in the store Douglas Dumbrille , the film's villain , starts taking over the comic punctuation of the sequence , and carries them off quite well ( in fact , he takes over the film ) . Here Merivale does , in particular when the poisoned canapé is mixed up so thoroughly by the boys that Merivale does not know which important social / political / financial figure at the party is going to eat the poisoned piece . Momentarily he thinks it is Mary Boland , but it just appears she swallowed the wrong way . But Merivale goes through the tortures of the damned until the end of the sequence . And , as it turns out , there is a neat wrap up to the matter just before the film concludes . It is sort of symptomatic to the trouble of Mayer's lack of concern approach with his pure humorist - he so did not care about the actual finished product , that he was willing to let the film's villains take over the comedy . It makes one appreciate Merrivale more , just like THE BIG STORE makes one regard Dumbrille more highly . But it really does not add much luster to L & H anymore than the other added to the reputations of the Marx Brothers .
Mildly amusing film only	Shown last night on Turner Classic Films , THE FUZZY PINK NIGHTGOWN was based on a novel that was published in 1956 . The story is simple : A man has just been released from prison after four years , serving a major crime sentence for something he did not do . The man and his friend are hired by a conniving film studio head to waylay the studio's leading bombshell actress , who has just made a film about a kidnapping , and subsequently " demand " a ransom . Gradually the man and the star get to know each other , fall in love , and various complications emerge ( dealing with the man's friend / associate in the fake kidnapping , with the miscalculation of the producer who finds few people in the public believe it's a real kidnapping , and with the suspicions of the Police Detective who has been involved with the man since arresting him in the first crime four years earlier ) . Like most situation comedies , the central story line makes little real sense . If a man is freed after any time from a prison , either because he was erroneously arrested or because he was guilty but has served his sentence , he will try to avoid idiotic plans that can land him back into jail again . Ralph Meeker was wrongly convicted of second degree murder , and then the real killer was discovered . He is ( as is repeated several times ) not a real convict ( meaning he is not " hardened " - at least supposedly ) . If so , he certainly would not be roped into such a silly publicity stunt that could be made to look like he is criminal ( and end up returning him to jail ) . Ironically Meeker would shortly play another victim of " judicial injustice " but in a great serious film - he was one of the three soldiers who are court-martial-ed and shot for cowardice under fire in PATHS OF GLORY . His friend Keenan Wynn is a sillier type of mug ( Wynn at this time was usually playing side-kicks like Kirk Douglas ' friend in MY DEAR SECRETARY or " mugs " like the gangster - with James Whitmore - who is trying to collect a debt from Howard Keel in KISS ME KATE ) . Interestingly enough , during this film Jane Russell quotes Shakespeare's line " Conscience doth make cowards of us all " , and Wynn mulls over the line - making the viewer momentarily think of that glorious duet almost a decade earlier with Whitmore of " Brush Up Your Shakespeare " . But KISS ME KATE was a better comedy . Anyway Wynn ends up a voice of reason ( ! ) trying to water down Meeker's bitterness as much as he can . Again it stretches realism to a breaking point to think of Wynn doing this , but he is so disarmingly nice that one roots for him all the same . Russell , as the bombshell actress , is turned into a " Marilyn " clone . This too , like the " Shakespeare " reference for Wynn , makes one think of her appearance a few years earlier with Monroe in GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDS ( again , a superior film ) , wherein she briefly wears a blond wig to disguise herself as Marilyn . But she openly reveals it's a fake to Meeker and Wynn to help them avoid problems with the police ( their friendly nemesis Fred Clark ) . For her pains Meeker just throws her gesture in her face as proof of her phoniness ( which it really isn't ) . As the movie producer / chief conniver , Adolphe Menjou acts as voluble and dyspeptic as he usually does in such roles , but he was also Oliver Niles , producer - friend of Norman Main in the 1937 A STAR IS BORN , and he was the more wolfish but competent Broadway producer in STAGEDOOR ( again two other better films ) . This movie is full of moments that ironically recall better films . Don't get me totally wrong . While not great cinema , or even good cinema , it is amusing enough . Watch the scene where Russell and Wynn get drunk on his eggnog ( it's around Christmas time ) made from eggs and straight booze . Or see Clark in any scene - especially when he confronts Meeker and Wynn at their " hideout " ( he doesn't know it is one ) which is too expensive for them to afford . His cat and mouse with them is worth watching , and reminds us of what a fine comic actor he was . Or Menjou telling the police ( Clark and an equally unimpressed Milton Frome ) and a " Hedda Hopper " clone ( Benay Venuta ) of how he definitely did not fake a kidnapping for publicity purposes . Venuta hands the bow-beating , supposedly sorrow-struck Menjou a handkerchief to wipe his eyes - which , of course , have no real tears in them ! Towards the end , when Meeker and Russell are speeding in Clark's stolen police car ( don't ask ! ) to get to the airport , they go up a road along a small cliff-side mountain that looks familiar to us . They are trying to stop Wynn from collecting a $100 , 000 ransom fee and fleeing with it to Mexico . The road and cliff are very familiar : they are the same road and cliff that Spencer Tracy and the cast of IT'S A MAD , MAD , MAD , WORLD drove in the opposite direction , when Tracy's " Captain Culpepper " had the stolen money in his car and was planning to flee to Mexico . I tell you , every point in this film reminds you of an earlier or later better movie !
A Film That Disappeared	This was a nice film - an average comic adventure story and nothing more . At the time it was made it's star , Red Skelton was really concentrating on his very successful comedy variety show on television that would last until the 1970s . He still would make movies , but they were no longer an absolute necessity . Skelton was one of the first stars in Hollywood that realized that far from being a useful stop-gap for periods that you were not making films or on stage , television had a logic and rhythm of it's own that when studied and applied was just as good as the other mediums . He must have realized this from his years working on the similar , but somewhat limited medium of radio . So this film , while amusing , would probably have been as good with anyone else playing Ambrose C . Park ( the " C " is for " Central " - Ambrose was abandoned in Central Park ) than Skelton . For example Danny Kaye might have tried it out and done well ( possibly a musical number would have been added ) . But this means that the normal stunts and sight gags associated with Skelton's best films were not involved in this one ( except one memorable last one that I will always recall fondly ) . Interestingly enough , THE GREAT DIAMOND ROBBERY is very rarely shown on television anymore . I saw it in the early 1960s , when both Skelton and Cara Williams were prominent television stars . But memories of their work is not pushed these days ( surprisingly so with Skelton , who left a surprisingly sturdy body of film work ) . So if you catch a chance to see it , watch it . . . you may not have a second chance quickly afterward . Ambrose , a foundling , wants to find his real parents . He happens to be in an unusual profession - he is a highly skilled jewelry cutter . His second fondest wish is to tackle a peculiarly difficult jewel that has just been found . Potentially it is one of the great jewels , like the Culinor or the Hope Diamond , but it has to be cut just so to split in half . Otherwise it may as well be used in a road bed with gravel . So his bosses are arguing with him that he is not ready to do the diamond properly ( despite his showing them charts he has drawn after studying it and it's flaws ) . Ambrose is still searching for his parents , and while doing so meets an attorney Mr . Remlick ( James Whitmore , in an early performance ) . Remlick is also interested in this diamond . He happens to be working with some thieves who want to steal it . So Remlick finds Ambrose fascinating as both searcher and as diamond cutter . Remlick and his backers led by Uncle Tony ( Kurt Kazner ) " help " Ambrose find his " mother " Mrs . Drumman ( Dorothy Stickney ) and his " sister " Maggie ( Cara Williams ) . He is very happy about this situation , except he and Maggie find themselves looking at each other in non-sibling terms . That is becoming uncomfortable for both of them . The rest of the film follows the way the gang manipulate Ambrose into taking the jewel home to cut , to show his bosses off . Of course , once that is done - what to do with Ambrose ? Grim as it sounds , the film is amusing . But it had few of the typical bits that Skelton movies had , especially those he did with Buster Keaton . The one exception is the conclusion which I would like to think that Keaton had something to do with , for it's logic , and it's sweet symmetry . SO SPOILER COMING UP ( sorry ! ) : Ambrose does show up his bosses . His careful study of the stone enabled him to know exactly where the right spot to hit it was . So there are now two halves of the stone , perfectly cut , each about the size of a trimmed half of a fat pear . But Louis and his gang ( who have been chasing Ambrose and Maggie ) are pounding on the door of the room that he used to cut the stone . They have to hide the jewel or these thugs will take it . Then we see the police arrive and arrest Louis and his thugs , and Ambrose lets them in . He and Maggie are glad to be rescued and explained they protected the stone . How ? Well there was no place to hide it in that room , so each of them swallowed half the stone ! Really ? they are asked . Yes says Ambrose , and then his face shows a growing agony in his intestines , mirrored by a similar one in Maggie's . They are rushed to a hospital and taken into surgery on parallel gurneys . We see them coming out of their anesthetic fog at the same time , and both are presented with a look at their temporary " twin " babies ! Sweet little ending that .
Pretty Amusing , But I think the Version I Saw was not the complete film .	I rather like the " Behind the Eighth Ball " series when they are shown on television . The formula is set - Joe McDoakes ( George O'Hanlon ) is always interested in becoming something more colorful and interesting than he is . Inevitably , with all his attempts at preparation he fails miserably . How he fails ( usually with plenty of slapstick involved ) is funny . This one is better than average because the idea is that Joe wants to become an actor . We see him taking a course in acting given by some fly-by-night company , complete with records that have you imitate the voices of Charles Boyer and Ronald Colman ( in their roles from " Algiers " and " If I Were King " , respectively - roles they played a decade earlier ) . Suddenly he gets a call from a studio ( the call is from George Chandler , later to be on television's " Lassie " ) to report for a role with dialog the next day . This certainly is better news than usual for Joe . We see him arrive at the studio , and start trying to find the stage he has to report to . He meets Jack Carson , who in an amusing sequence at a turnstile tries to direct him to the stage and finds he can't ( and also finds he is now lost himself ) . Eventually he gets closer , meeting the actor George O'Hanlon ( talking to the director of his comic shorts . The director sees that McDoakes resembles O'Hanlon , but the latter does not agree . Finally Joe reaches the sound stage , only to find he is late , and that he has just ruined a scene that was going well . Ordered by the dyspeptic and skeptical director ( Ralph Sanford ) to put on his costume , Joe is to be a messenger . He proceeds to ruin take after take after take , trying to imitate Boyer , Colman , and Lionel Barrymore in the process . Sanford leaves the shooting of the one scene to Chandler , who thinks this is his great opportunity . The results ( in the words of Sanford ) set back motion pictures by thirty years . Joe does find his place in movies in the end . You can say he is thrown a lifeline of sorts by a mirror . It actually is a funny little short - the film being made by Sanford being one of those " men at the Western Front " films like " Journey's End " or " The Road to Glory " . There is even a kind of spoof of the British actor Sir Guy Standing in one of the " leads " in the film within this film , who is wearing a mustache and a monocle like Standing did . I did see the footage of Reagan , Morris , and the others that have been mentioned . But the Turner Movie Classic version I watched did not have sequences about Joe and making hot water into " ketchup soup " or of Joe fouling up his lines on stage . I wonder if the version on TMC is a different cut of the short . Possibly it is , and if so I am sorry so much was not in it . But what remains will certainly bring a laugh to an audience .
Nice Try For a Revival , but not quite good enough	The original BURKE'S LAW from the 1960s was , in it's day , as much a popular detective series with " style " as THE AVENGERS were . That does not mean it was as well written as the best AVENGERS episodes were . The best BURKE'S LAW episodes concentrated on the mystery plotting rather than the social satire of Steed and Ms Peel . But the central idea , about a millionaire Police Chief in L . A . was picked up and reused within a decade in MACMILLAN AND WIFE with Rock Hudson and Susan Saint James . The use of dozens of Hollywood movie figures as suspects in the plots of the BURKE'S LAW episodes would become a model for such later shows as COLUMBO and MURDER SHE WROTE . To keep up with changes in the audience ( in the wake of the James Bond phenomenon ) , the network changed the original to a spy series starring Gene Barry again as Amos Burke , but that turned out to be a flop . So it left the screen . Barry would soon return to television with Robert Stack and Tony Franciosa in THE NAME OF THE GAME , so his career continued to flourish . Than , in 1994 , BURKE'S LAW returned for a new season . The only difference was that Amos was now a widower with a grown son named Peter , played by Peter Barton . The basic character of the Chief of Police was kept by Barry , who mingled brains , elegance , and a sly wit ( culminating in his " interpretations " or " popularizations " of rules of law ) when explaining some situation confronting his solving a case with his son's assistance . Again there were many familiar faces , but now many were from the first two generations of television ( understandably , as the old Hollywood faces who appeared in the 1960s were dead or dying our ) . In one episode , a Judge who realizes the short-comings of the criminal justice system ( with a degree of humor ) was played by Sherman Helmsley of THE JEFFERSONS . But what showed the limitations of the revival was only apparent to people who watched the original . They were reusing old screenplays and story lines . For example : One episode dealt with a famous magician who was performing a Houdini like escape by being sealed in a coffin , and sunk into a pool for twenty four hours . The coffin is brought to the surface , but the hotel doctor notices something odd when the coffin is opened . He goes over to the magician and examines him - and announces the magician has died , but from being shot . As the pool had underwater cameras trained on it , nobody can figure out how the magician got murdered . Now this happened to be a very fine episode on the original series . The hotel doctor in that episode was Paul Lynde , who naturally played the part for every drop of humor that could be squeezed ( he keeps moping about the fact that he has just started working at this luxury hotel , and his bosses will not like that his first claim to public attention was this garish murder case ) . The actor playing the magician was not a well known one . But when it was remade in 1994 , the magician was played by John Astin , and instead of only appearing at the very start of the episode only , Astin made a surprise second appearance in the later part of the episode as a kind of visual trick . The hotel doctor was played by Tom Bosley , but with more seriousness than Lynde showed in the original . Other actors ( including Roddy MacDowell ) popped up in the episode as rival magicians who may have killed Astin . The solution , however , remained the same as in the original version . Another episode was a repeat of the story that was in the original series where Anne Francis popped up as female detective Honey West . Francis's West would go on to have her own series on television for a year or two as a result of the appearance in the first series . Of course the scripts had to be rewritten to give Peter Burke as much to do as his father Amos . But the fact that the episodes became retreads of originals showed that the series had not been well thought out after all . For old time fans it must have seemed a let-down to see the old tales repeated ( especially as you could guess the solutions ) . For new audiences , there was the problem of attracting new fans with characters they could get involved in . Barry and Barton tried , but the father and son team did not work very well . It was entertaining enough , but not as memorable as the original had been .
Tex Avery's First Cartoon as Supervisor	A mildly amusing 1935 cartoon that was replayed yesterday on Turner Classic Movies . Beans was briefly ( very briefly ) the leading figure in Merrie Melodies , before his lack of any humorous comic personality suggested that he really did not deserve such an exalted position . He is one of the gold miners in Red Gulch , California in 1849 ( hence the title - a joke supposedly on the popular Warner " Gold Digger " Musicals ) . His girlfriend is the daughter of Porky Pig . At this time Porky's size and personality were still up in the air . He is taller and fatter ( and quite honestly gluttonous ) in this cartoon . Beans brings back gold to the town and a rush starts . The town empties out . One racist joke in the film : a Chinese pair are riding a rickshaw ( one is pulling it ) when auto fumes ( this cartoon has several anachronisms in it ) turn them Black , and one starts talking like Amos and one like Andy . When a villain lassos Porky's tied bag , the latter says Beans can marry his daughter if he gets the bag back . He eventually does , in the course of changing his his old Model T into a streamlined racing car to catch the villain . As I said mildly amusing . The future touches of genius that Avery brought to his cartoon work in the 1940s are not found here . But he had to start somewhere , I guess .
Reasonably good acting , but Sinclair Lewis should have sued	Sinclair Lewis wrote ARROWSMITH in 1923 , after the first two of his blockbuster novels that dissected American Society ( MAIN STREET and BABBITT ) . Lewis decided to make a complete study about the medical profession . As such it was brilliant - far more brilliant than this movie is . If one can think of the novel as what it is - an expose about what is wrong concerning the medical profession - the novel is a glass of fine champagne , and this movie version is a glass of lemonade ! Lewis takes us along the entire career of Martin Arrowsmith - through medical school , through practice in a small town , through his marriage to Leora Tozer , through his going to the big city ( New York ) where he is connected to a large , well-known Foundation , to his battling the plague ( and losing his wife and his co-worker ) , and his finally coming to terms with what he wants from his profession . For the key to the novel is that medicine is extremely lucrative , but Martin is very idealistic . He does not seek riches , but wants to help his fellow man . The problem , as the film proceeds , is that the people who run or control the profession ( or society , for that matter ) can care less for the idealistic goal . For one reason or another they want results that are pragmatic or banal . For example , one would think that the Foundation ( a swipe at the Rockefeller Foundation , by the way ) would be really gung ho about an idealistic medical researcher . They certainly have the laboratories and talent for real progress . But they also have a strong desire for immediate results that can be used for propaganda purposes . So they keep pushing aside certain desires for private testing that Arrowsmith and his mentor Max Gottlieb ( A . E . Anson ) are requesting on the bubonic plague serum . The director of the foundation insists that Arrowsmith goes to a plague saturated island with his co-discoverer , for immediate SUCCESSFUL results . This leads to massive tragedy in the novel and the film . This doesn't come across too clearly in the film . Instead it looks like Martin ( Colman ) would like more time to test , but the emergency prevents it . This weakens the novel's criticism . And this is not the only example . When Martin starts out in the small town , the local medical community has this idiot running it who knows squat about modern medicine , but is great at self-advertising . The man , who looks like Theodore Roosevelt , thinks that the height of local medical activity is running a " health day " parade . This too is not in the movie . The film , in short , short-changes Lewis's wonderful novel . In fact , more of the spirit of Lewis's attack can be found in the Robert Donat - Rosalind Russell - Ralph Richardson film THE CITADEL ( based on an A . J . Cronin expose novel ) . That's rough , considering how important the critique by Lewis really was . The film's cast gives it their all , particularly Helen Hayes ( still the young actress who won her first Oscar that same year for THE SIN OF MADELON CLAUDETTE ) , Myrna Loy ( in a heavily cut role ) and Colman . John Ford's directing was somewhat mediocre in this film , unlike later works of his . So I give it a " 6 " out of " 10 " .
A Curiously Forgotten Bump in A Successful Television Career	In the middle and late 1950s Phil Silvers became a television star of top magnitude in the comedy YOU'LL NEVER GET RICH , wherein he was that con-man's con-man Sergeant Ernie Bilko , the best motor pool head in the U . S . Army , stationed in a Midwestern Fort . Episode after episode followed his schemes to make a buck , inevitably running afoul of the camp Commander , Col . Hall ( Paul Ford ) , and usually just missing out of being totally successful . The reruns of YOU'LL NEVER GET RICH still crop up on television , and still remain quite amusing , with Silvers supported by Herbie Faye , Allan Melville , Maurice Gosfield ( as the immortally stupid Private Doberman ) , and others including ( in several episodes ) a young Dick Van Dyke . YOU'LL NEVER GET RICH remains one of the classic comedy series of the so-called " Golden Age " of television of the 1950s ( if there ever was such a golden age ) . In 1963 Silvers switched over to Channel 2 and prepared a new series . Most people don't recall THE NEW PHIL SILVERS SHOW because it was not a great success . Silvers ' work in the 1960s is best typified by his appearances in two films : IT'S A MAD , MAD , MAD , MAD WORLD ( 1963 ) and BUONO SERA , MRS . CAMPBELL ( 1968 ) . This is understandable , but only just so : we do not like to think of talented people in flops . Yet Silver's second and last series lasted a full year as say the last series of Lucille Ball , HERE'S LUCY , which lasted barely two months . Also , there was an attempt at a build-up in public interest in Silver's re-emergence on television . A special was put on starring Lucille Ball , Andy Griffith , Danny Thomas , and Jack Benny dealing with Silver's pushing his way onto the Channel 2 line-up . That has rarely happened since . It was not a bad series ( I rank it a " 6 " out of " 10 " ) but it broke no new ground for Silvers or his writers . Instead of a Midwest Fort it was in a Midwest factory . Instead of being named " Ernie Bilko " he was " Harry Grafton " , and now he was not running the motor pool , but he was in charge of the factory kitchen and factory morale . Paul Ford had been a wonderful foil for Silvers in the first series , but Ford had a splendid pompous delivery and good timing . Here Silver's " enemy " was Stafford Repp ( soon to get his great television role as " Chief O'Hara " in BATMAN ) who was the factory manager . Repp was a competent actor , but he did not have Ford's self-image and timing . The owner of the factory appeared a few times ( Douglas Dumbrille ) but while he certainly matched the pomposity he did not show up enough . The episodes followed the path laid out by the Bilko episodes : Grafton would concoct some scheme to con money out of the workers or someone on the outside - but somehow the scheme never quite worked well . But what seemed really amusing on that Fort set was not as funny here . In fact , two jokes I recall from the show were throw away types that were not meant to be major jokes at all . The first opened each show . Grafton always slept as long as he liked . He rarely arrived at 8 : 00 A . M . like the others . This should show up on his time cards . Instead , Grafton ( who is handy with his hands ) pulls out a remote control at the time-clock and uses it to readjust the time on the face to be at 8 : 00 A . M . and then return it to 9 : 30 or whatever time it is . This joke was part of ever episode showing him coming into work . The other was that ( as he planned the lunches for the workers ) he and his cohorts would come out on a food truck dressed in the national dress ( French , Italian , German , Russian , Spanish , whatever ) of the country the food supposedly came from . You can see that those two jokes are throw away ones , and ( at best ) cute . It is not the same as well laid out joke schemes or plot keys . In any case I find it amazing that I recall so little of this show . I recall that a cartoon image of Silvers opened each episode saying , " Glad to see ya ! " , but not a single one of the story lines . I watched it for the first four months , hoping it would pick up . It never did . Possibly it was that the writers were not able to get enthused about the setting : taking on the stiff braids of the military was more interesting than taking on the world of upper and middle management in a small factory . What suggests that this was the matter is that the second season the factory setting was dumped entirely . Instead we concentrated on Grafton's home life with his sister and the sister's children . Bilko's home life rarely came up ( he was always , even at his crookedest a career army man ) . The only non-military side to Ernie Bilko was his on-again / off-again love affair with a female sergeant at the camp . The last thing we would have though of was his being an uncle or daddy or husband or brother . In any case , the audience ( what remained of it ) evaporated ) . After a full season THE NEW PHIL SILVERS SHOW was canceled . I have never seen any of the episodes re-aired since 1964 .
This Film Is Also In Honor of those Escapees . . . And the Commandant of the Camp	I am noting that of the previous comments of this film two of them are rather picky about the factuality of the aftermath story of the Great Escape . There have been times that I have been picky like that too , but I also note that the very fact that a film is made to show what happened after is a triumph for at least partially telling the full story . This film begins when the escapees are beginning to be rounded up and brought back to prison camp ( or . . . as we later learn . . . exterminated ) . One of them is in a prison for interrogation near Berlin . One night he goes to his cell door because he hears another prisoner's door being opened for interrogation purposes . He looks out the window of the door and sees Colonel Von Lindiener ( Manfred Andrae ) the commandant at the stalag the escape occurred at being hustled out . He has obviously been worked over pretty fiercely . Subsequently it is learned that the Colonel was executed for failing to prevent the escape . Now Von Lindiener was not an idiot like Werner Klemperer's " Col . Wilhelm Klink " in HOGAN'S HEROES , nor an easy-going man , but he had been running the camp to the best of his ability as per orders . Unfortunately ( as the first film showed ) there were prisoners in the camp who had escaped other camps before and were expert in various specialties needed to properly aid in an escape . He did his best , but was outmaneuvered by them . A demotion in rank might have been proper punishment for the man , but when you have a bunch of opportunists , criminals , and fanatics running a government under a racist madman you can't count on normal behavior or balance regarding punishments . The Commandant was as much a victim of the backlash as those escapees who were unlucky enough to be captured by the Gestapo . The film follows how the surviving officers who led the escape start learning of the massacres of their comrades . An American officer , played by Judd Hirsch , is put in charge of the investigation aided by Christopher Reeve as Major Dodge . Slowly ( with the assistance of Anthony Dennison as Lieutenant Corery and Charles Haid as Sergeant MacKenzie ) the actual fates of the dead escapees , and the identities of their killers come out . And the killers rounded up for trial and punishment . But as they get closer and closer to the ringleader of the assassins Hirch , Reeve , and Company find not only a ruthless , unrepentant adversary , but evidence of a still in place Nazi underground . Now how much of this is true I can't say . Certainly the criticism of the failure of the film to note a large scale British trial of the murderers is noted . However the film on its own merits was quite good , and deserving of being shown again . Best performance in it ( I thought ) was Hirsch , though Reeve did well in support . I noticed that the one man the British condemned to death was reprieved . I would not be too harsh on the British for that . After World War II there was an American trial dealing with the massacre of captured Americans during the Battle of the Bulge by SS troops . The " Malmady " Masacre trial similarly ended with a death penalty for the leader and several others . However there were voices against it - the Junior Senator from Wisconsin , Senator Joseph McCarthy ( for whatever reason - the heavy German voting population in that state may have been one ) arguing that the SS troops were ordered to shoot prisoners . It's doubtful that McCarthy's worthless grandstanding did anything but annoy the Truman Administration , but new political realities dictated leniency . The death sentences were reduced to relatively light prison sentences . However , the head of the death squad , in the 1970s , was shot to death fleeing from his burning cabin . Sometimes justice is slow but complete .
Some Characters Do Not Age Too Well	I was nine years old and a new comedy show was on the air . The show was named for it's star , but the fact was that the public knew the star from his " stage " / " television " persona - it really should have been called " The Jose Jimenez Show " . Some stereotypes are not meant to be offensive , but eventually are considered that way . Bill Dana created a character named " Jose Jimenez " on the old Steve Allen TONIGHT show . The character was part of Steve Allen's regular troop of characters , frequently popping up in his " Man on the Street " interviews . There was the nervous Don Knotts , constantly shaking at the interviewer and his cameraman , and saying " Noop " instead of " Nope " . There was Louis Nye as " Gordon Hathaway " , the overly smooth hipster who always addresses his questionnaire as " Stevarino " . Tom Poston was a slow witted type , constantly having problems with the questions . The long forgotten ( unjustly I felt ) Dayton Allen would begin his complicated answers with , " WHY NOT ! ! " . And there was Dana , using a " Mexican " accent as " Jose Jimenez " , who in a quiet and gentle manner would try to answer the question in his broken English , frequently making a ridiculous point that most of us never thought of . Dana's opening line " My nam ' Jose Jimenehs . . . ' became a minor catch phrase of the late 1950s and early 1960s . Unfortunately it would go the way of the " Frito Bandito " and other Latino stereotypes after about 1967 or so . As a partial backlash from the more vocal Latino community ( being spurred on by the Civil Rights movement , as were feminists , gay rightists , and other minorities ) , these figures - even if meant as relatively harmless - were seen as bad as " Amos and Andy " were . So the characterization was doomed anyway . Therefore , in retrospect , Mr . Dana getting his own television show may be considered his high point . I have to agree it was not a well written show , and it really only gets a " 6 " from me because of the performances of it's three main leads : Dana , Gary Crosby , and Jonathan Harris . Occasionally Don Adams added his comic abilities , but he did not appear as frequently . Set in a hotel , Dana / " Jimenez " and Crosby were bellboys , and Harris the hotel manager . Although one of the other comments suggested Harris like " Jimenez " , in truth he found " Jimenez " constantly getting into his hair due to his involvement with Crosby's wild schemes . Crosby would usually have a scheme that would get him a date or some money , and would ask " Jimenez " to assist him , and " Jose " would reluctantly be drawn into it , but would find his own ass in a sling as a result . But he would drive the pompous Harris ( honing the domineering tones of Dr . Zachary Smith quite well ) up the wall . In one episode that I can recall , Crosby's scheme deals with hiding a large animal ( an elephant I believe ) in the hotel without Harris finding out . He convinces " Jimenez " to help " gaslight " Harris , making him believe he is hallucinating or failing to see things ( one of the funny bits in the episode is Harris repeatedly trying to act as though nothing is happening to him , but also holding onto walls and banisters to support himself in his illness ! ) . The climax is that Dana and Crosby and the elephant are on the hotel's sun roof when Harris comes upon them . Harris is wondering what the elephant is doing on the roof when they convince there is no elephant , but the distant Empire State Building . Remembering previous hallucinations he has had , Harris is buying this , when some other people turn up on the roof , and ask him what the elephant is doing there . " Oh , that's not an elephant , but the Empire State Building ! " he announces , before it dawns on him that they are seeing the same thing he just thought he saw . It was , as another account on the thread suggests , bad writing that hurt the show . It was not that the show could not rise , but it rose above due to the three or four leads . Dana is actually a good character actor ( you may recall he had a running role on THE GOLDEN GIRLS as Estelle Getty's younger brother . . . and he was quite funny in the role ) . In one episode his so-called stereotype actually showed some gumption . An episode dealt with the problem that " Jose " and Gary Crosby have with a spoiled heiress at the hotel . Besides the normal demands she puts on their service , she's mean enough to play humiliating pranks on them for her and her friends entertainment . Finally , " Jose " actually ( if in his gentle manner ) tells her off to the extent of being a spoiled brat . In the episode Harris has tried to keep the staff in line about accepting this brat's behavior until she leaves , so when " Jose " tells her off he lectures " Jose " about not insulting the guests . As it turns out , the girl's father shows up and thanks " Jose " for not being like so many other employees : being too obsequious to his bratty daughter . Harris of course is amazed by this turn about . It was not a great series , but it certainly had a few good moments due to its leads . It also showed us ( briefly ) that Gary Crosby had some of his dad's acting talents ( his manipulations of " Jose " remind me of Bing's manipulations of Bob Hope in the ROAD pictures ) . Unfortunately , unlike Harris , Adams , and Dana there was no real follow up for Gary , who made news before he died by trashing his old man in a memoir .
Rosalind's Farewell , and a sad missed opportunity	I remember seeing this in 1972 on television , little realizing as I watched that the reason I was watching had an ironic side . I always was a fan of Rosalind Russell , and here she was playing a rare television movie role opposite two other figures from the 1930s - 1940s " golden age of movies : Douglas Fairbanks Jr . and Maureen O'Sullivan . What I did not realize as I watched this brief television film was I was watching the last original production on film of any work by Ms Russell , who would drop all further work projects probably because of worsening health problems ( she died in 1976 of breast cancer ) . Her comic abilities did not fail her here , and were abetted by her male co-star's classy charm . Maureen O'Sullivan is the owner of a dating service , and Russell comes to sign up for it . We quickly realize that she is typically sharp witted , but we also realize that she is totally unscrupulous - she puts down vast resources and wealth on her application that she does not have . Obviously she is interested in meeting a wealthy man . Soon she gets word that a male member of the dating service , Fairbanks , wants to get to know her . She sees him , and senses charm , wit , charisma , and money . . . plenty of it . Soon they are a real item , and the two seem to fit well together . But gradually we are let into a second secret : Fairbanks too is a fortune hunter , and he is convinced that Russell is what she lied about - a wealthy woman seeking matrimony . It becomes a tale of two liars who catch each other . As such it is not a bad television film , though a minor one for Russell ( who one wishes had left on a higher note ) . The cast , which also had Ross Martin as a good natured but suspicious police officer , was a game one , and did not fail to entertain the audience . But the plot required that the two grifters end up trying to cheat each other and discover each other's falseness . Only a third switch in the plot makes the story a trifle more sour , as one of the grifters tries to silence the other one . It would have been better , perhaps , if the script made them join forces - they fit so well together while dating . The final movie is not a bad one , but it might have been more charming if it had been better thought out .
Sadie and her men	A Joan Crawford vehicle ( prior to 1940 , when she got more control over choosing her properties ) tended to have her the center of attention of several men at once . In THE GORGEOUS HUSSEY she is of interest to Melvin Douglas , Jimmy Steward , Robert Taylor , and Franchot Tone ( she ends with Tone , but Taylor apparently married her for awhile ) . Here her beaus are Tone again , Gene Raymond ( who in a poignant moment sings " ALL I DO IS DREAM OF YOU " across the footlights of a packed theater to Crawford ) , and Edward Arnold . But while Peggy O'Neill in THE GORGEOUS HUSSEY is genuinely attracted to her beaus , Sadie Magee really only is interested in Tone and Raymond . Tone is jealous of her interest in Raymond , and Raymond throws her over for Esther Ralston . But she meets Arnold , a nice guy millionaire ( who is the son of a cook , like Crawford is the daughter of a cook ) , and she agrees to marry him for security . The problem is he's an alcoholic ( and while normally a decent sort , he can be violent - he socks her at least once ) . However , she is decent too , and finally ( despite the well-meant but stupid behavior of his butler , Leo G . Carroll ) helps cure him . All in time to return to a dying Raymond . All in time to end up with Tone again . This is a very kitschy vehicle . But it is well acted and directed , and worth seeing .
An Unusual Ending For Sophia	This is not a great film , but it's enough of a curious film to merit watching . The story deals with a wife who loathes her husband ( Anthony Perkins ) and thinks him dead . If it is true she is well rid of him . It is not true , and he forces her to go through a life insurance swindle ( for a big paying policy on his life ) . In the course of the movie she meets an insurance investigator ( Gig Young ) who she would really feel good with . But she has to keep up the lie that Perkins is dead , and Young grows more suspicion . And the pressure of the lie , and meeting Perkins demands , and facing Young's questions is building up more and more on Loren . The conclusion ( which I will not reveal ) was a surprise for Loren fans , and remains the only time she ever did this in a movie - she goes mad .
A Prototype For Neil Simon	If you look carefully at " Come Blow Your Horn " you will see it is a two set play that was expanded for this funny movie version . The two sets are the home of Mr . and Mrs . Baker and Buddy in Yonkers , and the apartment used by the older Baker boy Alan as his swinging singles pad . Most of the film is concentrated in those sets , except for scenes involving Alan taking Buddy under his wing to properly groom him , scenes with Barbara Rush outside the apartment ( one briefly showing her apartment ) , and scenes involving Alan and the Eckmans ( Dan Blocker and stiletto heeled Phyllis Maguire ) . Of the scenes outside the apartment , the two best are Alan's meeting with Mr . Eckman , and it's sequel at a restaurant , involving a raw steak and a bum ( who turns out to look very familiar ) . Simon is one of the leading American dramatists of the 20th-21st Century , certainly the most successful comic dramatist . Seeing " Come Blow Your Horn " you see certain themes appearing for the first time . The twisted relationship of the two brothers , who do love each other but find they get on each other's nerves ( as Buddy slowly overtakes the older Alan as a hipster ) . It is similar to the relationship of the brothers in " Brighton Beach Memoirs " and " Broadway Bound " ( especially in he second play , where a real argument between the brothers breaks out ) . The question of relatives with sleazy or questionable activities like Alan's sexual escapades , comparable to the mobster brother in " Lost In Yonkers " or the embezzler , long-lost father in " Max Dugan Returns " . The father losing the respect of his sons ( found in the ranting Mr . Baker ) is similar to the position of the father in " Broadway Bound " , who has discovered his sons have reduced him to a comic stereotype in a sketch they sold a radio comedy show . The very fact that the Baker brothers become roommates who get on each other's nerves in an apartment is a constant thread in Simon's plays : " Barefoot In The Park ( newliweds ) ; " The Odd Couple " ( and it's variation and sequel ) , " The Sunshine Boys " ( in the rehearsal scene and in the conclusion where both Al and Willie seem headed for the old actor's home ) , even " Plaza Suite " ( how three couples act together over the course of one year in a hotel suite ) . Simon is a master of building humorous tension out of trivialities . In " The Sunshine Boys " just setting up furniture to do a scene both vaudevillians can do in their sleep is frustrating as both see the furniture differently . In " Come Blow Your Horn " , when Alan tells off buddy that his swinging lifestyle is going too far , he also mentions that he should keep his hands off Alan's fig newtons ! Despite the claustrophobia of the sets limitations " Come Blow Your Horn " is a funny movie , benefiting from the performances of Sinatra , Jill St . John , Lee J . Cobb ( usually a master of straight drama , here quite funny ) , and the glorious Molly Picon . One wishes more of Dan Blocker could have been used , but what was used was quite effective . There is an odd moment in the latter part of the film , connected to a party that Buddy throws , and a hypnotized guest blaming Alan for failing to support an education bill . Alan does an imitation of President Kennedy to reassure the woman . No doubt Sinatra felt it was a good imitation . It was meant to be funny , but now seems macabre .
Score another one from " You Tube " , but not as good as it could have been	This is another film where you get some kind of trivia question that seems unusual : Name the film that had a cast including Norma Shearer , Joan Crawford , Loretta Young , Barbara Stanwyck , Irene Dunne , Hedda Hopper , Fay Wray , Polly Moran , Maurice Chevalier , William Haines , Wallace Beery , Gary Cooper , Edward Robinson , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , Frank Faye , Edmund Lowe , Victor McLaglen , Richard Dix , Richard Barthelmess , Charles Butterworth , Buster Keaton , Gabby Hayes , " Our Gang " , Mitzi Green , George E . Stone , Wheeler and Woolsey , El Brendel , Jack Oakie , Joe E . Brown , Laurel and Hardy , Eugene Palette , Stu Erwin , and Skeets Gallagher . It is THE STOLEN JOOLS ( also called THE SLIPPERY PEARLS ) . It was a specialty little film done for charity by Chesterfield Cigarettes in 1931 . It is a relatively minor comedy - and it is it's stars and some of the humor they bring to it , that make it worth watching today . A bit better planning about the material and maybe the film would be worth real revival on television or by movie societies . Plot Summary : Norma Shearer threw a big Hollywood party at her home for a charity , and during it her pearls were stolen . We learn it was Eddie Robinson and George E . Stone who stole them , but the pearls were stolen from the thieves . Robinson and Stone report the theft from them to a bemused Wallace Beery ( more interested in writing a film script than in pursuing criminals , despite being a police sergeant ) . He sends for Buster Keaton ( his assistant ) to get the police out . The investigator is Inspector ( Eddie ) Kane - who goes to the Shearer mansion with his two best men ( Stan and Ollie - whose car falls apart when they arrive ) . The rest of the film follows Kane's questioning all the prominent guests , with varying degrees of success due to their cleverness or density . The end result is Kane finds the stolen jewels when the party who took them from Robinson and Stone confesses . The film had vast potential , but like so many " let's stuff the film with stars " ideas , the appearance of the stars out stripped the actual result . Like those World War II all star war-effort films , the idea sounds appealing , but the results are less so . Laurel & Hardy ; Wheeler & Woolsey ; Beery ( with or without Robinson and Stone ) ; Stanwyck with her then husband Faye ( and Kane ) ; Irene Dunne ( all too briefly ) ; Palette , Erwin , Gallagher , and Cooper ; Our Gang , all have the best moments in the film . Kane ( a useful character actor , but nothing really special ) does happen to prove funny as the struggling detective . But the fact is that the material is so slap-dash it is not really memorable at all . Stan and Ollie drive Kane to Norma Shearer's mansion - and their car collapses . Kane asks them to wait for him . As he walks away , Ollie hits Stan on the shoulder and says , " Didn't I tell you not to be so fast on that last payment ? " Cute bit , but not one of their high points . Wheeler and Woolsey are in a diner watching Kane ( disguised as a counter man . They don't trust him , but Bert is unwilling to leave without a cup of coffee ( he is sitting in back of a mountain of empty coffee cups - the best sight gag in the film , and probably not noticed by most viewers ) . They end up in a slapping situation with Kane over remarks that Bert said that Robert told him to say . Kane finally asks if they've ever done this before . Woolsey says , " Yeah , in RIO RITA ! " . That happens to be the most interesting aspect of THE STOLEN JOOLS : the topical references to Hollywood in 1931 . William Haines is in a sequence as a friend of Joan Crawfords . Still a recognized leading man in 1931 , Haines retired soon after because he was coming out of the closet as a gay man , and would soon have a successful career with his boyfriend as interior decorators and furniture designers in Hollywood . Beery's involvement with Listening to robbers Robinson and Stone ( who , remember , actually did steal the pearls from Shearer ) is a reference to Robinson's first big role ( shared in many scenes with Stone ) in LITTLE CAESAR . George Sidney is with his film partner Charles Murray , who appeared as the warring heads of the mixed couple marriage in THE COHENS AND THE KELLY series . Mitzi Green was a popular young child actress in that period , and the " Our Gang " group includes Norman Chaney ( soon to be replaced by the better remembered Spanky MacFarlane . Lowe and McLaglen are with a female extra in a restaurant ( run by El Brendel as waiter ) and obviously dressed as Quirt and Flagg from their " What Price Glory ? " series - in fact McLaglen gets upset finding that Lowe went with the girl to Shearer's party the night before ! The soon to be over marriage of Frank Faye and Stanwyck is referred to as currently existing in their scene . By the way , Dunne and Stanwyck do the best comic performances of the regular stars among the females - Dunne describing the missing item , but claiming she never saw it , and Stanwyck reciting an awful poem she wrote , and getting rewarded by Kane ( with Faye's approval ) for reciting it . The best of the regular actors who appeared was probably Beery , who is barely concerned at news that Los Angeles is burning as he concentrates on his writing . Warner Baxter does a nice trip on his Cisco Kid performance flirting with his Spanish accent to Fifi D'Orsay with her French accent . When Kane demands of Baxter if he attended the Shearer party and danced , Baxter says , " Excuse me , I do not dance English ! " . It needed a major script rewrite - but it's best moments are cute enough .
Answer to a trivia question - mixed results as a film	Question : In 1943 what movie starred Katherine Hepburn , Katherine Cornell , and Harpo Marx ? ANSWER : STAGE DOOR CANTEEN Question : In 1969 what movie starred Katherine Hepburn , Dame Edith Evans , and Danny Kaye ? ANSWER : THE MADWOMAN OF CHAILLOTOdd that Kate Hepburn should pop up in two unfair trivia questions , but it does happen . Actors do run into each other in all kinds of films , both good and bad , memorable and forgettable , and regular or short film ( look at a comic short called THE STOLEN JOOLES which has most of the stars of Hollywood in the 1930s in it ) . STAGE DOOR CANTEEN was done for patriotic morale boosting for our soldiers , and it celebrated the canteens used to entertain our men on furlough . So the making of that film had a reason that transcends it's current obscurity . I might add , as it is the only major movie that stage star Katherine Cornell popped up in for just a few minutes , it is worth it as a time capsule as such . But THE MADWOMAN OF CHAILLOT was based on a Giraudoux play about modern society endangered by the forces of power and greed . It is about the discovery that the city of light , Paris , is reposing on a huge , untapped oil field , and that various power figures without any soul ( Yul Brynner , Charles Boyer , Paul Henried , Oscar Holmolka , Donald Pleasance ) may be able to empty the city of it's neighborhoods , it's citizens , it's life and light , and replace it with derricks . Giraudoux made sure that the villains represent everything that he suspects . Brynner is the ultimate ruthless billionaire ( he is upset when a waiter accidentally spills water on him ) . Boyer is a stock broker . Henried is a General . Homolka is the French head of the Communist Party ( Giraudoux has no illusions about what a political label means - there are power mad people in all political parties ) . Pleasance is a prospector for oil . There is also John Gavin as a right wing religious demagogue . Opposed to these villains are Kate Hepburn ( the leading local social figure from the past - called " the madwoman of Chaillot " ) and her friends Giulietta Massina , Margaret Leighton , and Edith Evans ( who is still trying to campaign in 1969 for Mr . Wilson's League of Nations ) . Also aiding Hepburn are the " rag picker " ( Danny Kaye - in the best dramatic performance in a major motion picture in his career - also his only Oscar nomination ) , Richard Chamberlain , Gordon Heath , and Nanette Newman . Although Hepburn , Massina , Leighton , and Evans have social position , none have the political clout of the villains . So when they are made aware of the threat to their beloved Paris ( and by extension western culture and morality ) they hold a trial ( in absentia ) of the villains , and find these villains have to die . This film is better for the brief vignettes of it's stars than for the total impact . Brynner's malevolent , general ruthlessness is one of his best acting jobs . So is Henried's almost comical criminal activity : he confesses to having arranged the murder of four promising young aides of his , because he suspected one of them ( but not knowing which ) of sleeping with his wife - it turned out his wife had been faithful after all ( Brynner , Boyer , Homolka , and Gavin congratulate him on his luck ! ) . Kaye has several great set pieces - a rag picker he wraps eloquent about the great , glory days of garbage in the past where each neighborhood's garbage had a special character all it's own ( as opposed to the garbage of the modern homogenized neighborhoods of Paris , that those villains forced on the citizens ) . He is superb in the scene where he is the " defense " counsel for Brynner and his group - demoniacally showing what these people are really like while " defending " them . All those comic , scatterbrained , sequences in his movies built up to these scenes of poetry and passion . Hepburn , of course , was great - that last sequence where she mistakes Chamberlain for the lost love of her youth , and mournfully laments his loss , is a highpoint in her career . She rarely had so poetic a scene of tragic delicacy . But the story , oddly enough , for all we may approve of the hatred shown for the powerful who use and discard us , is not fully acceptable . Henried's general is too stupid ( he almost launches a missile attack on Russia while talking to Hepburn ) . Brynner is so impossibly arrogant that a consortium of his fellow billionaires would probably ruin him to shut him up . But the acting is still so good that it one can forget these minor problems . Any film where Donald Pleasance uses his prominent proboscis by putting it into a drinking glass to smell for oil cannot be all bad . So I'll give it a " 6 " , if not higher .
George F . Kaufman's hate of musical comedy	George F . Kaufman is probably the greatest collaborator dramatist in American theatrical history . Best recalled for his collaborations with Moss Hart ( YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU ; ONCE IN A LIFETIME ; THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER ) , he also collaborated with Edna Ferber ( STAGEDOOR ) , Morris Ryskind ( THE COCONUTS ) , and with Ring Lardner on this play . But although he was involved in many plays that were actually musicals , Kaufman hated musicals . He felt they were unnatural - people suddenly breaking into songs that interfered with the flow of the narrative . The classic story of how this actually hurt his work is told about THE COCONUTS . Irving Berlin wrote the score , and most of the tunes are third rate Berlin , but he had a tune which Mary Eaton was to sing to Oscar Shaw in the show when he was arrested . It was " Always " , which remains a standard to this day among Berlin's tunes . Berlin proudly played the melody for Kaufman , Ryskind , and the producers of the show . Kaufman got bored , and when it was finished revealed how he felt about that song . He went to the piano and played the musical line for " I'll be loving you . . . always " , but sang , " I'll be loving you Tuseday . " After a few minutes of this , Berlin angrily took back the best tune he had composed for that show . He left such tunes as " When My Dream Comes True " and " The Monkey - Doodle - Doo " in , which are only recalled now because the film is still a living comedy due to the Marx Brothers . Kaufman probably never cared ( the show was , after all , a success without " Always " ) . However , when he wrote JUNE MOON with Ring Lardner , he aimed at Tin Pan Alley the shafts he always felt it deserved . For example , the big hit ( so far ) in the career of Jack Cassidy's / Paul Sears ' is a ditty called , " Paprika , Paprika , The Spice of My Life . " Hardly a great sounding tune . Cassidy's character has had a long dry spell since that success . He has found a new partner in Tom Fitzsimmons ( Fred Stevens ) who seems gifted to put Cassidy's words to music . The play has not really dated , but in this production the more serious side of the comedy took over . Basically Cassidy and Stevens are being undermined by Cassidy's wife ( Susan Sarandon - playing a good villain role for a change ) and her sister , who see the newly successful team as good to milk for every cent they can get . Both men eventually do realize they are being used , but it takes awhile for this to happen . Kevin McCarthy plays the head of the music publishing company - he only has one good scene though . Stephen Sondheim plays a cynical piano player who helps straighten out the boys about the women they have been tied to . Estelle Parsons and Austin Pendleton also add to the cast . But it is Cassidy whom I find most interesting as the betrayed Paul . His increasing suspicions are touching , as he realizes something is wrong but he can't quite grasp it . It shows that doomed acting talent in another light , quite different from his appearance in THE ANDERSONVILLE TRIAL , where he was not so naive or trusting for so long . He was a very gifted actor who died too soon . For all the positives in the play I'll give it a " 6 " . As I like Broadway musicals ( unlike Kaufman ) I can't give it anymore than that .
That First Monte Carlo Rally - 1924	It tries hard , and it has some energy from a few of the stars in it , but MONTY CARLO OR BUST lacks the verve of it's predecessors , THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN IN THEIR FLYING MACHINES and THE GREAT RACE , and some of the goofiness of it's less remembered successor , ROCKET TO THE MOON . It may be the script , which lags at times , or it may be the fact that the super-nationalism of Pre-World War I Europe is not translatable in the 1920s ( oddly enough ) . The cast includes people from the two preceding films including Tony Curtis ( THE GREAT RACE ) , Terry-Thomas , Eric Sykes , and Gert Frobe ( THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN ) , and some welcomed new faces ( Susan Hampshire , Peter Cook and Dudley Moore ) . But there is less time for the character development found in the earlier films . For example , the three French female drivers and the two Italian male drivers never really have individual personalities , although one of the Italians has " topic A " constantly on his mind when he thinks of the amorous awards awaiting him if he wins . The idea is that 1924 marks the first Grand Prix to Monte Carlo across Europe . The various characters are interested in winning the race - well most of them are . Poor Gert Frobe ( in a far more sympathetic role than his pompous German Colonel in THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN ) is Willy , a well-known superior " getaway - car " driver in Germany who has been sprung from prison by the Count ( Jack Hawkins , in one of his last - really silent film parts ) . He resembles a wealthy playboy who has been entered in the rally , but has been " removed " so that Willy can replace him . A fortune in stolen jewels is in Willy's car , and it is going to be transported secretly across Europe so it can be brought to the men who can sell it . Willy doesn't mind , at first , but he resents the constant threat over his head by the Count's men ( who are everywhere ) , and he knows he could win the rally - he's a better driver than anyone else . But the Count doesn't care . SMALL SPOILER : At the conclusion , Willy is freed from the threat from the Count , and cuts loose . Although he does not get official recognition because of his fraudulently replacing the actual driver who entered , Willy actually does win the race for a few minutes . There is also the British Army Colonel , Major Digby-Dawlish ( Peter Cook ) and his batman / assistant Lt . Kit Barrington ( Dudley Moore ) . There addition to the cast actually is a recognition of two previously successful comedies this team appeared in : the original BEDAZZLED and THE WRONG BOX . Digby-Dawlish is an inventor of motorcar devices he has tested in India , and he hopes to win the rally so he can market these to the world . The devices ( like attaching skis to the car in the snowy regions ) seem to be sensible , but always come acropper - but Dawlish and Barrington never say die , and always seem to have another device to undue the chaos and damage of the first device ! Then there is the antics of Terry-Thomas and Tony Curtis . Terry-Thomas is Sir Cuthbert Ware-Armitage , the son of the Sir Percy Ware-Armitage who tried to cheat his way to the trophy of the 1910 London to Paris flight in THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN . Daddy has been killed at the start of the new film in the crash of another airplane , and Cuthbert is as happy as possible - he is now owner of the family industrial empire . But then he learns that daddy sold half the business to Chester Schofield ( Curtis ) , an American with ideas of his own . Ware-Armitage is not going to let a Yank control half that empire . He bets Schofield that he will beat Schofield to Monte Carlo - the winner gets to keep the entire industrial empire . Schofield agrees , not realizing that Cuthbert is as crooked and ruthless as his father was . Using ( or misusing and blackmailing ) his family retainer Perkins ( Sykes ) to do his dirty work , he also blackmails a young cousin ( Hampshire ) to vamp Schofield and make him lose interest in the race . The reduction of plot themes should have strengthened the script - but there are gaps . Chester is drugged at one point , but Hampshire gives him some medication she has and he snaps out of his sleepy behavior automatically . Perkins puts up with a lot of crap from his boss - far more than most people reasonably accept . In the end he gets a fine revenge , but it should have been earlier in the film . The film is amusing enough - but try to catch the other films in the series which were better .
A Set of Bad Baronets	Following the great success of their masterpiece THE MIKADO ( see TOPSY - TURVEY ) William Schwenck Gilbert and Sir Arthur Seymour Sullivan had time on their hands - THE MIKADO ran for almost two years , their longest hit . It was not until 1887 that Richard D'Oyly Carte felt it necessary to discuss their next production . He and Sir Arthur were dismayed to see that Gilbert was all for pushing his old stand-by , the magic lozenge plot on them . You may recall that this was a lozenge that when ingested allowed the user to change personality and character to whomever they wanted . But Gilbert again met with a decisive " NO ! " from both partners . So he went back to his study . The operetta libretto he came up with was a spoof on Victorian melodramas : set in a seaside village called Rederring , the story is about how young Robin Oakapple is interested in marrying fair Rose Maybud , but faces two major obstacles . First he is not Robin Oakapple , but the missing and presumed dead " Sir Ruthven Murgatroyd " , baronet of Ruddygore ( the name later was changed , but it is slowly returning to the original spelling ) . Robin did not want to be baronet - there is a curse that the baronet has to commit one crime a day for every day of his life or perish in agony . Only his foster brother , the Georgian navy sailor Richard Dauntless knows the truth about Robin's birth . Unfortunately , Richard is also in love with Rose Maybud . That is the second major obstacle . Gilbert had fun with stereotypes from Victorian melodrama here . Richard Dauntless has to be truthful and good - but his use of truthfulness here certainly is good only for Richard , as he uses his knowledge of Robin's real identity to push his own advantage . Robin's younger brother , Sir Despard , gets rid of his evil obligation early in the morning , and then spends the rest of the day using his money to do only deeds . One of Despard's evil acts was to desert Margaret , a young woman who loved him . She goes mad , and pursues everyone with her mad but inane behavior . Later , when Robin reluctantly returns to his role as Baronet , Despard marries Margaret . To control her he keeps repeating the name of a notorious insane asylum : " Basingstoke " . It works ! Rosa's sweet aunt Dame Hannah , recites the song that tells about the " witch's curse " on the bad Baronets of Ruddygore . Later she is kidnapped but turns out to be fully armed with a battle-ax . She happened to be in love with Ruthven's predecessor to the title , Sir Roderick Murgatroyd . It later turns out their pet names for each other were " Roddy - Doddy " and " Little Nanikins ! " . The highpoint of the operetta was when Ruthven had to give his daily accounting of crime to his ancestors . Led by Sir Roderick , they descend from their portraits in the gallery and surround him . Gilbert probably heard of a similar idea in a French production , but he used one in a one act musical he wrote called AGES AGO in the 1870s . RUDDYGORE attracted acceptance by Sullivan and Carte , and was put on . It met with several problems . The title turned off people because it reminded people of the taboo word ( in Victorian England ) " bloody " . That is why a disgusted Gilbert changed the " y " to " i " . Then Richard Dauntless ' opening song about a naval fight in the Napoleonic Wars ended when the French apparently fought indifferently . This led to criticism from France and it's government about the insult . In the end RUDDYGORE ran only eight months , and then was replaced by repeats of THE MIKADO and other productions . Fortunately , in 1888 , Gilbert and Sullivan produced THE YEOMAN OF THE GUARD , which ran for over a year ( followed by THE GONDOLIERS , which also ran for over a year ) . RUDDYGORE ( or RUDDIGORE ) has had a mixed reception ever since it's first production . A cartoon that was in a biography of it's two creators suggested it is a bore . It really is not , having some really effective tunes in it , one of which , the patter trio in Act II , was transposed to THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE in the film with Kevin Kline . Also Gilbert did have some fun with that curse ( Ruthven decides to wickedly disinherit his only son - only to be reminded he has no son ) . But it is usually not considered one of the top tier operettas of the pair . This production was done in the early 1980s , as part of a series of the operettas from TRIAL BY JURY through THE GONDOLIERS . The series had some prominent performers in it , such as Clive Revill in THE SORCERER as John Wellington Wells . Here the role of Despard was played by Vincent Price , and that of Robin / Ruthven was played by Keith Mitchell . They did well with their dialog but both were mediocre in singing ( or in Price's case " talk-singing " ) . Donald Adams , who had been with the D'Oyly Carte Company , was far more effective as Sir Roderick , in particular in singing one of the saddest ballads in Gilbert & Sullivan , his second act duet with Dame Hannah , " There grew a little flower ' neath a great oak tree . " It was nice to see any kind of attempt at producing this rarely shown work by Gilbert & Sullivan , and so I will say it was definitely worth a " 6 " on our scale .
One interesting innovation only	There is only one aspect of this remake of the Gregory Peck - Audrey Hepburn classic that remains of interest . The father of the Princess appears in the remake . The King ( Paul Daneman ) comes to Rome with the plane that contains all the secret agents sent to find the Princess , and we see the King talking to the ambassador ( Francis Matthews ) about the situation - and his surprising sympathy for his daughter's flight from her duty . Finally Daneman does speak with Catherine Oxenberg ( playing the Princess ) when she returns to the embassy . The acting was pretty good in this remake , but the original had more charm going for it . The only really interesting innovation was the role of the King . So for that I'm willing to give it a " 6 " out of a " 10 " .
The Best Known of the Lucy - Desi films	Mildly amusing , THE LONG , LONG TRAILER is the film with Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz that most people recall if they think of the films they did together . That is not because their films were remarkable ( they are entertaining to an extent ) but because they only made three films together ( TOO MANY GIRLS , FOREVER DARLING , THE LONG , LONG TRAILER ) . The best one is TOO MANY GIRLS , which actually was made when the two met on the set of the film . It happens to have a nice cast ( including Eddie Bracken , Anne Miller , and Francis Langford ) , and even a score by Rodgers and Hart . But it is not one of the all time great musicals . FOREVER DARLING co-starred them with James Mason ( that is a casting match almost on level with Bob Hope and Katherine Hepburn in THE IRON PETTICOAT ) . Then came THE LONG , LONG TRAILER , which has some interesting supporting cast ( Keenan Wynn , Marjorie Main , Howard McNear ) and an interesting director ( Vincent Minneli ) . The second and third film could only be made because of the deserved success of the television show I LOVE LUCY , but in reality they aren't that much . Still THE LONG , LONG TRAILER is of interest as one of the few films ever to discuss the phenomenon of trailers in changing American living and vacationing ideas . Trailers actually appeared in films prior to the 1950s . The Laurel and Hardy short , THEM THAR HILLS , showed the boys taking a " restful " vacation using a trailer to go to the mountains . That was in 1938 . But it was rarely shown because it was such a specialized way of travel , and dependent on good roads . But the 1950s saw one achievement that was due to the Eisenhower Administration that is frequently overlooked . Ike pushed for the real development of an interstate highway system . It was a major change to the American scene . Not only in the pushing of many middle class families in using trailers for vacations across the nation , but also in convincing people to travel even by car across state boarders . It is no accident that in the early 1960s one of the most popular television series was ROUTE 66 , wherein two young men traveled across the whole nation on that particular highway having adventures in many states . The Eisenhower years were also the years of economic recovery - the Second World War had pushed American industry into full throttle , and most other major countries had serious economic problems due to the war . The improved American economy gave us a chance to spend more . Although Desi looks worried when he purchases the new trailer ( especially as he also has to modify his car's rear bumper ) he still is able to sign a large check for the down payment of the vehicle . He could not have done that in the 1930s or 1940s . The plot is how Lucy ( who wants to travel ) convinces Desi to buy the trailer , and how the optimism of the purchase ( based on the ideal dream of seeing the world from your moving house ) hides the fact that you are driving a vehicle that is as difficult to maneuver on land as a yacht is at sea . From the start when Desi is shown the proper way to move the car and trailer ( " Trailer , Brake , Forward " ) he is constantly aware that he is pulling a dead weight behind him . A weight made even heavier because Lucy insists on a new hobby ( collecting rocks from every site they park their new home ) . There are problems with pulling it into the driveway of Lucy's aunt's house , or of stopping at a red light ( and by not doing it properly , annoying traffic police officer Keenan Wynn ) . There is also the problem of water supply and the pipes ( when Desi tries to take a shower ) , and even of cooking when the trailer is in motion ( my favorite section of the film : Desi singing contentedly while driving , thinking of the fine meal Lucy is supposed to be cooking him , and then discovering at the conclusion that Lucy is covered in food and flour due to bumps and jumps made by the car and trailer while moving ) . At the conclusion he has had enough , and his explosion threatens to destroy the marriage . If it was not that Vincent Minelli's name is on this film one would be hard pressed to see his traces here . Some of his artistic taste is evident in the design of the trailer , and the colors in the film , but the material is not the sort he normally dealt with . He could do comedy ( witness THE RELUCTANT DEBUTANTE ) but his characters usually have meatier stories to tell . This is not one of them . Still for a pleasant viewing it is easy to watch and smile at . But if you want to see Lucy and Desi at their best , stick to their classic comedy show .
E . C . Bentley's Mystery Classic - a Mediocre film	When TRENT'S LAST CASE first appeared in 1913 it shook up the detective mystery reading public because of the " daring " of the author's approach to the style of the novel . Up to then you had the classic straightforward mystery story from Poe to Collins to Conan Doyle , wherein you have a person who is confronted by a mystery ( usually a murder case , although a theft of a jewel or property is possible ) . The one real innovation in this form was in 1905 , when R . Austen Freeman suggested the " inverted detective story " . You may be familiar with this if you watch Peter Falk as Inspector Columbo on television . Instead of the hero of the mystery story stumbling onto the scene of the result of the crime , and then piecing together the solution using the clues carefully , Freeman looked at the behavior of the perpetrator ( not always a villain , by the way ) , and how he or she commits the crime , and how the brilliant detective slowly reveals the various inconsistencies that make the crime look less and less an accident than was intended . This became an acceptable development in detective novels . But along came Bentley . He had the audacity to suggest the fallibility of the detective . A Dupin , a Lecoq , a Holmes , a Father Brown , a Dr . Thorndyke , could be momentarily stumped or wrong , but inevitably would solve the mystery . But Bentley suggested that even a brilliant detective like Philip Trent was human - he comes to a wrong solution in this story ( he suggests the victim plotted his own suicide to entrap his victim ) . Instead , Trent's uncle solves the case . It only shows that the trickiness of circumstantial evidence and clues can fool anyone . The story is dated - there was very casually accepted anti-Semitism in British fiction at the time ( and since Sigsbee Manderson is extremely rich from stock-market manipulations , the image of Jewish stock brokers is overused in the book and even , at one point , intrudes into the movie - a newspaper editor , dictating an editorial , mentions the death of Manderson leads to suicides and panics including one in Jerusalem ! ) . Bentley was not the only person who wrote like this . Chesterton did ( and more vehemently ) . Even Conan-Doyle ( despite his real life aid to Oscar Slater , a Jewish German suspect in a Scots murder case ) occasionally used negative terms for Jews - see his " The Adventure of the Stock-Broker's Clerk " . Freeman , like Chesterton and Bentley , was more openly bigoted . On the other hand , the story is interesting enough for the viewer to keep his or her opinions on the bigotry aside . The main problem about it is the suspension of disbelief regarding whether a brilliant malevolent millionaire would actually put his being in jeopardy by putting such a weird plot into motion . I suspect not . It would be easier to fire or even kill the rival . In 1952 Orson Welles was working around Europe raising money for projects , chief of which was his movie of OTHELLO . Welles performed in many films , frequently in second rate ones . He agreed to do the role of Manderson , who ( like Harry Lime in a better film ) only appears on screen in the last quarter of the movie , but whose spirit permeates the entire film . To make the evil millionaire more detestable Welles made the face of Manderson striking but ugly . His eyes are made beetle like by a wide brown under a strikingly straight , large nose . He looks formidable indeed , but utterly untrustworthy , and unlovable . Welles performance ( mostly against Margaret Leighton and John McCallan ) is pretty good . But most of the film is in the hands of dapper , clever , Michael Wilding . Wilding is not an actor of the same caliber of Welles , but he does nicely with the part of the competent and self-confident Philip Trent . Also doing a nice ( and as it turns out , surprising ) job is Miles Malleson as Trent's uncle . For these three I will give the film a six . But that said , the film is otherwise too talky , not enough action ( until we see what actually happened - far too late in the film ) . If not for the performances listed above , this film would be easily dismissible . Well , it would have one other moment of unintentional amusement . A better screenplay writer might have gone to town with a small mistake that Wilding's Trent makes when confronting McCallum . He mentions that he is aware of the latter's brilliant performance ( at university ) in a production of Shakespeare . The problem is that the play he mentions and the role that McCallum appeared in were not connected ( i . e . , the role was in another Shakespearean play ) . I wonder if Wilding and McCallum were aware of the blunder . If they were they didn't show any awareness of it in the filming .
Rather Strange Story Line	They try , but for a short film made on a shoestring it shows it . Trying to gain some mileage from the big sleeper hit of 1931 , THE SIN OF MADELON CLAUDET , which won an Oscar for Helen Hayes , and to use the novel narrative style of THE POWER AND THE GLORY , THE SIN OF NORA MORAN has neither a major studio backing it with it's resources nor the screenplay from one of Hollywood's all time top talents ( Preston Sturges ) . It is a curiosity today because of it's twisty " the wrong person is going to die in the chair " plot , and due to some of the performers - all of whom did better films . Zita Moran ( as was mentioned in the synopsis ) is sentenced to die for a murder she never committed . She does not want to hurt all the people she cared for by revealing the truth . So she does die in the end . SPOILER COMING UP . She had been having an affair with the Governor of the state , played by that underrated cultivated actor Paul Cavanagh . His performance is worth watching because he is torn by his own knowledge of her innocence and his sense of duty ( somewhat comparable to " Governor " William Powell's sense of duty versus friendship for the doomed murderer Clark Gable in MANHATTAN MELODRAMA , a far more interesting and better produced film ) . In the end Cavanagh's tragedy is not being able to live with what has resulted from his actions and lack of them . Because of it's attempt to be far better than it is , and for Paul Cavanagh's under-appreciated career , I rank this a " 6 " .
The " Reconstructed " HAT'S OFF on You Tube	About two years ago there was a special shown on Halloween Night on Turner Classic Movie channel about a " reconstruction " job on the film London AFTER MIDNIGHT with Lon Chaney Sr . That silent film is unfortunately lost ( the last known copy having been destroyed in a fire in the 1960s ) . Using the script , still photos that survived , and the remake MARK OF THE VAMPIRE , the Turner network did a good job reconstructing the lost film . Most of the work of Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy remains in existence ( as is most of the best work of Lon Chaney Sr . , fortunately ) , but there are serious missing works . A French version of their early feature film , PARDON US , is no longer in existence ( although the English and Spanish versions are ) , and it had them co-starring with Boris Karloff in it ( the only time they did ) . Their sound film ROGUE SONG with Lawrence Tibbett is mostly gone , except for some fragments ( fortunately also on You Tube ) . There are some early shorts that are missing too . The most serious one is HAT'S OFF . It is about how Stan and Ollie try a new career selling washing machines door to door . The film shows them lugging a heavy machine up a steep set of steps in one effort after another to sell this heavy machine . Unfortunately they never do make a sale . But they do keep getting more and more frustrated lugging the machine around . If this sounds familiar it should . HAT'S OFF set the basic story line for their one Oscar winning film : THE MUSIC BOX . The same set of stone steps were used in both films . But there are apparent differences in the two films as well . One of them ( a joke involving Anita Garvin ) actually resembles a contemporary joke in a W . C . Fields film that was repeated in his short THE PHARMACIST . Stan and Ollie are at the bottom of the stairs when Ms Garvin calls them . They come up thinking she's interested in the washing machine . It turns out she wants Ollie to mail a letter for her downstairs . They head downstairs , when she calls them back . Stan goes back to her and finds she wants Ollie again . He comes up and finds Garvin did not give him a postage stamp for the envelope . Fields , in one of his silent feature films , had a sequence where a woman drives through the night to his store , demandingly orders him to open up , and turns out she wants a postage stamp . Fields also milked the joke - he has the woman charges the $ . 03 postage to an account , and demands the stamp in the center of the sheet ( it has not been touched by Fields when he picked up the sheet . So he has to cut the center out of the sheet ( destroying unpurchased stamps ) and gives the central stamp to the madwoman who leaves . In the later THE PHARMACIST Fields actually also gives away a free vase with every purchase ( even a non-purchase like this ) to the purchaser . HAT'S OFF ( from what is left of it ) then changes direction . It does not go off into type of conclusion of THE MUSIC BOX ( there was no apparent character like Billy Gilbert , who was to be the recipient of the player piano ) . Instead the film follows the path of THE BATTLE OF THE CENTURY or YOUR DARN TOOTIN ' where the films end with massive fighting between men in the streets over trivialities that the boys cause without quite planning to do so . In YOUR DARN TOOTIN it was tearing off pants from passersby . In the sound short BERTH MARKS it was men in a railway car who were ripping off each other's shirts . Here it was hats . Apparently during the film Stan and Ollie kept knocking off each other's hats and putting on the other's hat . This leads to a battle where the hats of passers-by are knocked off from one another into a massive ruined pile . The " reconstruction " is pretty good . But there is just too little in it to really tell the full effect of the comedy , though it is easy to see what is being led up to . Jimmy Finlayson is the man who hires the boys to sell his washing machines , and he is demonstrating the machine . We can guess that he'll end up covered in water due to Stan ( as one of the stills suggests ) . Still the fact that the reconstruction could be made is a plus , and hopefully a copy may still turn up one day .
The original stories were better .	By the time the Jeremy Brett series of Sherlock Holmes adaptations reached THE MAZARIN STONE , Brett's health was declining very swiftly , and the writers attempted to shore up the series by expanding the role of Charles Gray , as Sherlock's older brother Mycroft . It was an interesting experiment , which the performances of Gray and Edward Hardwicke as Watson made bearable . The sets were all right to . Unfortunately , the script was not . First of all it was not all THE MAZARIN STONE . Two of the final original series of Sherlock Holmes stories ( known as " THE CASEBOOK OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ) were dusted off and unified . If both had been first rate stories by Conan Doyle this would have been fine , but they weren't . THE ADVENTURE OF THE MAZARIN STONE and THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE GARRIDEBS both are below-par Doyle . They are repetitive of earlier stories ( THE MAZARIN STONE uses a ploy from THE ADVENTURE OF THE EMPTY HOUSE , while the central element of the mystery of THE THREE GARRIDEBS resembles THE ADVENTURE OF THE RED HEADED LEAGUE ) . THE MAZARIN STONE deals with the theft of a valuable Crown Jewel , probably stolen by one Count Negretto Sylvius . Holmes suspects that Sylvius has secreted the jewel on his person , but has to catch him at it . He lures Sylvius to his rooms at Baker Street and goes into a neighboring room apparently to listen to some music . Sylvius , earlier , had thought a wax statue of the Detective in another room behind a curtain was the genuine article . But Holmes stops him from damaging the statue . Now , alone , Sylvius confers with an underling regarding what to do with an offer from Holmes that if he return the jewel no questions will be asked . This is not the Count's intention . What will be done ? THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE GARRIDEBS deals with an American and an elderly pedant who both have the same last name . They are approached by an eccentric millionaire's will that will make them rich , but only if they find a third person with the same last name . It seems the eccentric millionaire was also a " Garrideb " but he had no family and wanted people with his name to benefit from his wealth . Holmes is brought into this odd puzzle by the two Garridebs , and after asking a routine question , confirms the " American " is not what he says he is ( he recognizes the name of a fictional person as a former Mayor of his home town ) . But what is he after ? Neither story is really that good . By 1921 ( when Conan Doyle wrote the original version of THE MAZARIN STONE ) the novelist was tired of Holmes ( whom he had to resurrect ) , and wanted more notice of his historical novels and his quest regarding psychic research and the afterlife . So he would frequently write Holmes stories with discarded plots , or would repeat earlier , better stories . THE MAZARIN STONE was originally a one act play Doyle wrote called THE CROWN DIAMOND , in which he resurrected the villain of THE EMPTY HOUSE , Colonel Sebastian Moran , as the villain here . This popped up in THE MAZARIN STONE where Moran is mentioned in passing by Holmes . ( Like many great writers , Sir Arthur failed to see that his best work was as mystery short story writer ( actually as a short story writer - he was the best teller of short tales in late Victorian - early Edwardian England ) . Today the supernatural research is curious , and still debated , but he is recalled for the Holmes and Watson tales , as well as his science fiction tales regarding Professor George Challenger ( THE LOST WORLD ; THE POISON BELT ) ; and his humorous stories of the Napoleonic soldier Brigadier Etienne Gerald . Only THE WHITE COMPANY and SIR NIGEL of his historical words survive as novels . How many people read THE MARACOT DEEP or THE TRAGEDY OF " THE KOROSKO " today ? ) The resulting teleplay was okay , taking the scheme of the conniver in THE THREE GARRIDEBS as a subplot used by Sylvius to confuse Mycroft . It is just as well . Unfortunately , because of this restructuring of the stories , one of the most moving moments in the " Canon " of Holmes stories is lost to the television viewer . You see , in the original - due to an act of violence - Holmes finally shows how deeply he feels about Watson . It happens to be the best reason for the remembering THE THREE GARRIDEBS . Still the series ended on a good note , with Brett returning at the conclusion to show his approval of his brother's handling the case . It almost made up for the loss of the moving moment of the short story .
Amusing Follow Up to the Two " Grumpies "	After the making of GRUMPY OLD MEN and GRUMPIER OLD MEN , the box office success of those two films made it evident that another film property co-starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau was needed . They found one property , THE GRASS HARP , where they shared one scene together . But then this film was made which was fully their film together . Like most of their films Lemmon is the quiet partner who is dragged into the troublesome situation by the noisy partner Matthau . Here they are brother-in-laws ( Matthau's sister , who is dead ) . Matthau convinces Lemmon that he needs to take a sea cruise to end his long period of mourning . Lemmon does not realize that Matthau got them free passage by signing them onto the cruise as social dancers ( partners for elderly lady passengers ) . Lemmon can dance , but Matthau cannot , and one scene has Lemmon trying to teach Matthau , only to be caught by Donald O'Connor and Hal Linden dancing together ( O'Connor and Linden jumping to the wrong conclusion ) . If they can't pull their weight as social dancers , they will have to pay the $1 , 500 . 00 per person fare as travelers . Neither can afford that . Matthau really could not care much about this - he hopes that he will be lucky to find , romance , and marry a wealthy woman . Lemmon is encouraged to do the same , but he is not as mercenary . As it turns out Lemmon does meet Gloria De Haven , and Matthau meets Dyan Cannon ( and her mother , Elaine Stritch ) . But the course to true love is never smooth in movies . Matthau has a rival for Cannon , in Edward Mulhare . And Brent Spiner , the cruise entertainment director , is an evil martinet determined to impress the cruise line owner ( Rue McLanahan ) to put him in control of all the cruise ship's entertainment centers . It is a well-cast film , which helps ( this is reminiscent of the two " Grumpies " films that preceded it . But those films had better balance to them . They had moments of pathos where one could see Lemmon and Matthau were not just funny men but human types . Here Lemmon is shown to have such a weakness - he has romanced De Haven in spite of his qualms , but at a critical point remembers his deep love for his first wife . But Matthau's personality is so mercenary ( a " cousin " to his " Whiplash Willie Gingrich " in THE FORTUNE COOKIE ) , that his turning into a legitimate lover of Cannon doesn't quite sit well . Nor does it sit well when we find other likable characters can be equally mercenary . However there are plenty of great moments in the film . Spiner's unplanned involvement with a colorful local parade is one . So is Matthau's ridiculous dance with Rue McLanahan that looks atrocious ( he calls his non-steps , " the crawl " ) but that she enjoys . Spiner , better known as " Mr . Data " the android in STAR TREK , THE NEXT GENERATION , turns in a fine comic villain performance . My only criticism is that Linden and O'Connor seem too peripheral in the plot ( although both do give filler about the ruthlessness of Spiner , whom Linden really dislikes ) . But the film is still very amusing , and worth while seeing . Unfortunately it was not their final film . That would be THE ODD COUPLE II .
Warner's last " big " role	Of the original Oscar winning actors ( prior to Lionel Barrymore , Fredric March and Charles Laughton ) , an unfair curtain of neglect has descended on them . In one case , Emil Jannings ( the first Best Actor winner ) , he only had himself to blame because he insisted on not only working for Germany in the Nazi period , but he was a full throated supporter of Nazi policies . Despite doing some first rate work after 1927 ( including Profesor Emanuel Rath in Von Sternberg's THE BLUE ANGEL ) , most of his film work is ignored as Nazi propaganda . The second winner - well more about him in a moment . The third was the splendid George Arliss , the first British actor to win Best Actor ( for DISRAELI ) and who really gave pretty entertaining performances in his talkies that hold up pretty well . But too many modern critics decry his many " biographical " films , claiming he made Dizzy , Alexander Hamilton , Cardinal Richelieu , Nathan Rothschild , Voltaire , and the Duke of Wellington all look alike and all seem to have two traits : reorganizing or saving society , and uniting young lovers . Actually , Disraeli , Richelieu , and Voltaire do look something alike from their paintings and pictures , but Hamilton , Rothschild , and Wellington don't look alike . As for the second winner ( and first American born actor to win the Best Actor Oscar ) , Warner Baxter is a peculiar case indeed . From 1928 through 1933 he was turned into a cog in the Hollywood dream factory , turning out one picture after another in rapid succession . Most of these ( including his Oscar Winner , In OLD ARIZONA ) are rarely shown . Yet some of them ( SUCH MEN ARE DANGEROUS , DADDY LONGLEGS , TWELVE HOURS TO LIVE ) are pretty good performances . Later films he made showed he was not a performer to brush aside : THE ROAD TO GLORY about the hopeless trench warfare of World War I , THE PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND about Dr . Samuel Mudd , and KIDNAPPED based on the Stevenson novel , were all worthy films . Yet most people , when asked for his typical film role , recall only one ( maybe they'll recall SHARK ISLAND too ) : Julian Marsh in 42ND STREET . His fate was to be broken by overwork . His last major performance in a leading production was as " Kendall Nesbit " the wealthy publisher and suitor in Mitchell Leisin's LADY IN THE DARK ( 1941 ) with Ginger Rogers , Ray Milland , and Jon Hall . He also played the title role in ADAM HAD FOUR SONS which helped introduce Ingrid Bergman and Susan Hayward ( as " good " girl and " bad " girl respectively ) to American audiences . But he suffered a nervous breakdown due to overwork in the early 1940s . So his output decreased afterward . And his appearances were somewhat easier to take - his intensity was removed , for better or worse . It was Baxter's luck that he got a detective series ' role to play with . In 1943 he first appeared as psychiatrist , Dr . Robert Ordway . Ordway gets the moniker of " the Crime Doctor " in his series , and solves murders like Nick Charles or Sam Spade or Philip Marlowe . Yet the films about those three sleuths ( and Charlie Chan and Mr . Moto ) are still remembered quite fondly , whereas " The Crime Doctor " series was as forgotten as Chester Morris ' " Boston Blackie " or George Sanders / Tom Conway " The Falcon " . ( Interestingly enough , in the unrelated Sherlock Holmes spoof , WITHOUT A CLUE , Ben Kingsley as Dr . Watson offers his services to a skeptical Scotland Yard as a replacement detective to Holmes , to be called " the Crime Doctor " ! ) The series did have a good number of character actors supporting Baxter . In THE CRIME DOCTOR'S COURAGE the cast included Jerome Cowan , Lloyd Corrigan , Hillary Brooke , and Emory Parnell . The production values may not match MGM's values for THE THIN MAN series or Warner's for THE MALTESE FALCON , but they aren't to be sneezed at . Look at the sets for the nightclub scenes in this film , where the Bragas ( a brother and sister dance and magic act ) perform an illusion in which the sister vanishes in front of the audience . It does look like a realistic theater setting . Dr . Ordway is on a vacation trip to California , and gets drawn into the murder of a fortune hunter . The man apparently committed suicide in a locked room . Ordway is certain the victim was murdered . Gradually methods of entry are turned up ( one by Corrigan , who notices a trap door's frame under the carpet - oddly the police did not notice it ) . The plot soon bogs down into motives and theories of guilt . The Bragas are odd - they never appear out of their home before sundown . They have no mirrors in their home or in their make-up room in the nightclub . And at least one seems able to be invisible . Could they be vampires ? Baxter does solve the case later , and finds a more prosaic explanation . But the film lacks any sense of reality - it gets so bogged down in details about the supernatural that one suspects it should have stayed in that area for it's solution . Also , Baxter is workmanlike in his detective work , but he's too relaxed ( even in his final battle with the villain ) . One gets the impression that the production staff decided to go easy on him due to the recent breakdown . My favorite character in this is Emory Parnell as Lt . Birch . Typically impatient and ham-handed ( like Donald MacBride or Nat Pendleton in similar films ) , he admits ( at one point ) to Baxter that his father wanted him to have a career as a real estate broker . As the film ends , we realize that Parnell would have been an excellent real estate broker !
The novel had a better conclusion .	Unless one really digs Ayn Rand's philosophical theories , THE FOUNTAINHEAD will leave you pretty cold . Yet the film has it's fascinations . Cooper , Massey , and Neal manage to make their ridiculous dialog sound meaningful ( particularly Cooper's courtroom defense ) . King Vidor was able to have some fun with the sexual symbolism of skyscrapers and Neal's yearning for Cooper ( a real yearning as it turned out - as they began a long love affair while on the movie ) . But to me the most interesting fascination is that of the character of the chief villain in the story , Ellsworth Tooey ( Robert Douglas ) . Douglas normally played ( in the words of the novelist George MacDonald Fraser ) one of those villains with the " sibilant " esses in their speech ( like Henry Daniel , George Macready , Basil Rathbone ) , who usually played costume parts . Douglas was Sir Christopher Hatton in THE VIRGIN QUEEN , and the Duke of Lorca in Errol Flynn's DON JUAN . His characters are always plotting or carrying out some political double cross . Here , he is out of his normal background . It's modern times , and he is the critic ( on Raymond Massey's newspaper ) on architecture . But he is on costume even here - usually wearing tales and a top hat . How such a ridiculously dressed character would imagine he'd be taken seriously by the world is beyond me . Most people really don't care about architecture , unless they are going to be affected by a building they will live in or work in . They rarely read books about it , or newspaper columns about it . Yet Tooey ( we are told ) has great influence , and uses it to hurt the public . He boasts to his friends that he favors anything that will give the common man ugly looking housing and business structures . Just how come he gets his jollies from this is never explained - sheer cussedness I guess . But given his appearance ( like former Governor Dewey of New York , he looks like the groom on top of a wedding cake ) how can he be seriously taken by that public ? If he dressed like a common worker he might have a chance , but in the garb he wears everyone would suspect him . In the film he succeeds in manipulating his acolytes and allies into most of the important departments of the newspaper owned by Massey , so that he basically takes it away from Massey , who kills himself when he realizes his dreams of guiding public opinion are sand castles in the wind . That is not quite how the novel ends - in fact the novel deals with Tooey in a far more effective manner than the movie did . When the movie last sees Tooey he is in court listening in anger to Roark's courageous ( or long-winded , depending on your view ) defense of the artist's right to control his vision . In the novel , there is a follow up to Tooey's apparently successful coup at the newspaper . In the novel , a day or so after Tooey has demonstrated his control of the newspaper's staff and policies to Gail Wynand ( Massey ) , he comes back " in triumph " to resume his control of the paper . He is told to report to his desk , which is on the top floor ( where Wynand's office is ) . As he enters the building , Tooey notices how few people seem to be around , but goes upstairs . A secretary ushers him into the office , and he finds his desk there - opposite Wynand's . This pleases him to some extent ( it is symbolically showing he is equal to the publisher ) . Wynand is busy with some paperwork at his desk , and looks up and nods at Tooey , and then resumes his paperwork . Tooey walks to his desk and sits down . He starts readying his desk for work , but is amazed to find nothing on the desk to look at or deal with . He waits . He taps the desk . He looks around the room and out the window at the nice view . It begins to bother him - this absolute silence from Wynand . Why no comments ? He considers the situation , and realizes that the publisher has just been humiliated and trounced by him , so that may explain it . Tooey starts speaking to Wynand , and explains that although what happened was . . . perhaps somewhat high-handed and humiliating to Wynand , actually Tooey is a human being and they can probably get along very well . Wynand looks up , doesn't say a word , and resumes his paperwork . It slowly begins driving Tooey mad . Why is he here if there is nothing to do but watch Wynand ? Didn't the paper tiger publisher learn his lesson the other day ? And where is everyone else ? Suddenly the clock strikes noon . Wynand looks up , and puts his papers into his attaché case . He gets up from behind his desk . He then tells Tooey : 1 ) as of this moment the newspaper ceases to exist . It is being closed down . The staff has been paid off , and the various company properties are being sold . 2 ) . Tooey will find a check for the balance of his contractual salary for the time left on the contract . As for his future , Wynand does not care what he does , but he won't get any reference from him . Tooey pops up one last time just before the novel ends . He has found another job , but he has to start at the bottom again ( he won't be headlining any column like he did on Wynand's newspaper ) . While he is politely listened to by others at his new job , his reputation is not great because his allies at his last job all lost their jobs . Somehow that was a more satisfactory conclusion to the novel than what is in the film . I wish they had used it - it might have made the movie more amusing .
" The Big Nail " and " The Bigger Lie "	It is somewhat sad that for all the interest shown regarding the South Pole ( the movie SCOTT OF THE ANTARCTIC , and the series THE LAST PLACE ON EARTH ) , the only film dealing with the great North Pole controversy of the same period is this mediocre retelling of the story from the point of view of die-hard Cook supporters . As such it puts the best spin on the case for Dr . Cook , but it leaves many issues unresolved . But first let me try to fill in the basic problem . Between 1890 and 1909 there were four explorations done by Lt . Robert Peary to the North Pole . Peary , a United States Naval Officer , had originally been involved in exploration in Nicaragua's jungles , looking over the possible routes for a transoceanic canal . He was assisted by a servant , Matthew Henson ( a African-American ) . When Peary turned his attention to the Pole , he took Henson with him . They worked well together , but Peary saw that Henson could be good as a go-between with the native Inuits . However they went on the four journeys together , and Peary slowly got promoted to Commander , Commodore , and finally Rear Admiral ( Henson rose in naval rank too , though never as high as Peary - however , among explorers Henson was widely respected and was a member of the Explorer's Club with Peary ) . Peary suffered on these journeys - he lost eight of his ten toes to frostbite . But he learned the lesson of the Arctic through Henson and the Inuits . You had to live off the land , and to travel like an Inuit to get through the Arctic . His determination to reach the North Pole won him many wealthy supporters in the U . S . But after each of the first three voyages ( especially the third ) there was increasing skepticism about whether the burning determination would help him nail the " big nail " ( as the Pole was called ) . He certainly had many rivals - one was Fridjof Nansen , the great Norwegian explorer whose drift in the " Fram " in 1893 was one of the greatest scientific journeys in the golden age of Arctic exploration ( 1821 - 1928 ) . Another was Nansen's younger Norwegian rival Raoul Amundsen , the first to sail through the Northwest Passage completely ( 1903 - 1905 ) . Both of them intended to try to reach the Pole . So did some lesser explorers like Anthony Fiala . A Swedish aeronaut , Saloman Andree , disappeared in 1897 with two companions in an attempt to fly to the Pole ( their remains were found in 1930 ) . One unexpected rival was Dr . Frederick Cook . Dr . Cook had experience on an Antarctic Exploration in the 1890s , and had served as the medical officer on one of Peary's journeys . But he soon branched out on his own . In 1906 he announced at the Explorer's Club that he had reached the summit of Mount McKinley , and soon published TO THE TOP OF THE CONTINENT with photographs of his assent . Based on this he announced his intention to reach the Pole . This was upsetting to Peary , who felt he had first rights to it . The television film follows the journey of the two rivals in 1908 - 1909 . It gets part of the story correct - although Peary is officially credited with reaching the North Pole on April 6 , 1909 accompanied by Henson , the evidence is . . . err . . . " spotty " . It has not stood up too well , particularly sledding speeds and distances that have rarely been duplicated in the Polar areas by others . However , Cook by this time had returned to civilization and announced he reached the Pole in April 1908 accompanied by two Inuits . Here the film jumps totally into the pro-Cook camp , and never recovers it's balance . Cook did not document his trip too well either . The two Inuits said that he spent the period living with them among some islands in the North of Greenland ( ironically , if Cook had told the truth about this , and published the results , his fame as a daring explorer might be greater now than if he had reached the Pole ) . Documents he claimed supported his travel speeds were left behind in Greenland . He claimed Peary should have brought them back , as he ( Cook ) requested . Quite rightly Peary had refused because ( as he pointed out ) if the documents did not support Cook's claim he would have been accused of tampering with Cook's records . Cook soon found that others were attacking him . Several mountain climbers tackled Mount Mckinley , and found massive holes in the story of Cook's climbing it in 1906 ( one photo of him at the " summit " turned out to be a fake ) . By 1910 Cook's reputation was tattered . Subsequent actions by him , such as stealing credit for a Polynesian dictionary that a missionary wrote , and the sale of valueless oil stock in the 1920s ( leading to a prison sentence ) finished his credibility with most of the public . However a sizable number still insist that he did climb Mt . McKinley to the top and that he did reach the Pole , but because he was a poor individualist ( and not - like Peary - supported by bloated rich men ) he was traduced by his enemies . Richard Chamberlain and Rod Steiger give excellent performances as Cook and Peary . I recommend the film to see the pro-Cook argument . If they ever do a more even-handed account showing the defects of both explorers ' claims it would be all to the better .
Some Background on " The Missionary "	This is not the funny film it could have been . Given that Palin and Maggie Smith ( and Denholm Elliot ) were in the very funny " A Private Function " a short time after this film , this is slightly disappointing . I agree that Michael Hordern's brief appearance as the ultimately lost butler is the movie's finest moment - and I wonder if the germ for this idea was the Monty Python's sketch " The Golden Age of Ballooning " , where Graham Chapman , as the butler for the Montgoffier brothers can't recognize what piece of furniture he is supposed to go to , and keeps requesting instructions . Hordern's hopeless invasion of room after room of the immense Ames mansion is quite funny . It was a good moment , but one of too few . Another is the business of Lord Ames ( Trevor Howard , sort of spoofing his performance as Lord Cardigan in " The Charge of the Light Brigade " ) thinking of his favorite words - note how he loves to spell " flog " with two gees . The film is actually an anachronism of an historical scandal . It is set in the 1906 or so , but actually in 1931 there was such a scandal involving an English clergyman , Reverend Harold Davidson " the Rector of Stiffkey " ( pronounced " Stewkey " ) . He had been leading a mission in the East End of London , and it turned out that for some curious religious motive he had actually had relations with the prostitutes . The Rector was defrocked as a result . Davidson was something of an exhibitionist , and he eventually met an odd fate - he tried to be a lion tamer and was mauled to death . That part of the story is not in this film ( probably just as well ) . But the film still lacks real juice . Fortunately " A Private Function " turned out to have juice . And Palin also had " A Fish Named Wanda " in his future as well .
The Dangers of Chokers	This should have been a better episode of ONE STEP BEYOND , but a fatal error was made with trick photography too early . At the start we see Michael Barry ( Sean McClory ) in a hospital bed , apparently on his last legs , explaining that he was innocent of the two deaths that were involved in the crime blamed on him . And he begs that his listener ( John Newland ) hear his story . Countess Ferrengi is a selfish , nasty old lady ( Iphigenie Castiglioni ) who has two servants , Barry ( her butler ) and Nina ( her maid - Estelita Rodriguez ) . Barry has a girlfriend , Grace Harkness ( Jan Minor ) , who is losing interest in him because he can't give him anything that she wants , like jewelry . Barry keeps noticing the Countess's extensive jewelry collection - possibly he could steal some . He also has to keep Nina , who is really interested in him , from pursuing him . Then the Countess is found dead . The police are called in , because the woman was choked to death . But although plainly strangled , no fingerprints are found on the woman's throat . However , the police notice that the chief piece of jewelry that belonged to the Countess has vanished - a stunning choker . They narrow their questions to Barry , who claims he knows nothing about the theft and murder . Barry is packing his own property , when Nina approaches him . She wants him to run away with her - they can afford it . How , he asks . She says she'll show him . She goes into her room , and we see her putting on the choker . Then we hear her scream . Barry runs in , and finds Nina strangled , and the missing choker on the ground . He picks it up and flees with it . He goes to Grace , and tells her he has just found the choker - they can go abroad with it and they'll be set . She asks if she can try it on . He gives it to her , and she puts it on , and then starts screaming that she can't breath . She tries to rip the choker off , and Barry does . Grace collapses breathing heavily , while Barry ( thoroughly confused ) looks at the choker - and sees it twisting together like two hands of a strangler . At the tail end of the show Newland explains that there have been several cases of property ( especially jewelry ) picking up kinetic energy of a destructive nature from owners that cruel or nasty . He even mentions a young woman in the 19th Century strangled by her necklace . I couldn't say if that is true or not ( I tend not to believe it ) . But I will say the effect of the episode was ruined when ( after the death of the Countess ) they show the choker close up , and it is trembling and twisting as though it is strangling a throat . In short , the secret of the plot was prematurely revealed to the audience . Too bad .
Forty Two Years Before the Declaration , and Fifty Three Before the Constitution	This is another episode of this anthology series which picked up stories from history and dramatized them . Again I never saw this one , so I regret not being able to discuss it in depth . But looking at the cast , including Thomas Mitchell and Reginald Denny ) , I suspect it may have been better than average . And the subject matter certainly is significant enough for me to give it a " 6 " . When we learn about the history of the nation , after a brief discussion of the discovery of the North American areas that formed the the modern U . S . A . we are swept into a brief discussion regarding the settlements of the continent by Britain , France , Spain , Holland , and Sweden ( Delaware and southern New Jersey ) . The eventual confrontation of Britain and France for control of the Ohio Valley , and the events leading to the French and Indian War follow , and Britain's victory over France . . . leading to the growing conflict with the colonies that end with the Revolution and the establishment of the United States . Little really goes beyond that ( maybe a look at the Salem Witch Trials in 1692 , because they are so well known ) . That there were serious pre-1763 confrontations between the colonists and Britain are overlooked by most of us : New England deposed Governor Sir Edmund Andros in 1689 ; Nathaniel Bacon led an open revolt against Governor Sir William Berkeley of Virginia in 1675-76 - one biographer called him the " torchbearer " of the Revolution ; and the luckless Jacob Leisler took over New York's Government in 1689 , ran it for two years with public support while waiting for Britain to send a new governor , made the mistake of suggesting to the other colonies of " unifying for common defense against foreign danger " - he meant the French - and ended up being hanged for treason with his son-in-law . Specialists discuss these events . Most of us find them confusing and dull . ( I should add that in recent decades , African-Americans have taken a keen interest in the hidden history of their ancestors as slaves and freedmen in colonial America . The recent opening of the African Burial Ground in New York City is a result of this interest . So is the re-evaluation of the so-called Slave Arson plot against New York City in 1741 , which ended in many executions for probably nothing at all . ) But one event stood out even in public school when we learned about American colonial history . This was the trial of John Peter Zenger , a printer and newspaper editor , for sedition in 1734 . Zenger , an immigrant from the Palatine in middle Europe , settled in New York City and published the New York Weekly Journal . At the time the colony was under Governor William Cosby . Colonial governors were usually picked by nepotism or by favorites at court . The governors were not all bad , but some were out for as much gain as possible . Apparently Cosby was like this , and had been making alliances with a group of local New York land owners against their rivals . The rivals were stripped of offices they usually handled . Their leader , Mr . Lewis Morris , led them to back Zenger's newspaper . Zenger started printing unflattering and unpleasant stories about Cosby and his allies , and what they were doing . Cosby finally had the city authorities arrest Zenger for seditious libel . The case is famous for what happened . By himself Zenger would probably have gone under . But instead , his backers contacted Andrew Hamilton , the best known barrister in the colonies of that day ( call him the " Johnny Cochran " of 1734 ) . Although usually practicing in Philadelphia , Hamilton showed up in New York City and defended Zenger . They won the case and smashed Cosby's attempt to silence the press . Cosby never attempted the attack on the press again and was dead within two years . The result was that freedom of the press actually was established in the colonies ( though it would be endangered several times ) decades before the Revolution or the Bill of Rights officially put it down as a liberty . Mitchell played Hamilton in this program , and Denny was the corrupt Cosby . I note that Zenger was played by Barney Phillips . For actually dramatizing the story at all I congratulate this series .
Mediocre history , but some nice moments .	Cecil B . DeMille had been doing a series of films about American History from 1937 ( THE PLAINSMAN ) to 1940 ( THE NORTHWEST MOUNTED POLICE - although actually it was a film regarding Canadian history instead ) . His two film in World War II were THE STORY OF DR . WASSELL , which is a war picture set in the far east - but dealing with an American war hero , and REAP THE WILD WIND ( set in the Caribbean , but dealing with pirates attacking our merchant marine in the 1840s ) . UNCONQUERED dealt with a period that he had not covered - the pre American Revolutionary period . It would turn out to be his last historic film about America ( unless one looks at THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH as a view of part of our theatrical and cultural history in 1950 ) . His choice was curious - he might have done a film on the fall of Quebec and deaths of Generals Wolfe and Montcalm , or a film on the American Revolution . Instead he chose events in 1763 , just as the split between England and the colonies began to develop . But the events deal with the situation that led to what is called the " Conspiracy of Pontiac " , where an intelligent Indian chief united many of the tribes in the Ohio Valley to revolt against American settlers and British troops , to preserve it for the Indians . The result was that many settlers and Indians were killed before the fighting ended , and Pontiac was killed . That is the story , but most is jettisoned for a fictional account of events in the Ohio Valley . The villain is Howard De Silva , intent on keeping out the colonists by arming the Indians , so that he could have a monopoly of the fur trade . He is also responsible for illegally bringing Paulette Goddard into the colony of Virginia as an indentured servant . Gary Cooper is the man opposing De Silva in his plans regarding the Indians and his plans regarding Goddard . The film is not DeMille's best , but it's Technicolor , De Silva's performance , the appearance of Boris Karloff as a villainous Indian ( he would play an Indian again a few years later in TAP ROOTS ) , and the two leads make it entertaining enough . But my interest in it deals with two supporting roles . Porter Hall is Mr . Leech , who is bribed ( although he is aware it is a hanging offense ) to send the pardoned Goddard to the colonies as an indentured servant . He's not in much of the film , but it is a nice performance . But better is Mike Mazurki . The ex-wrestler was not an actor but occasionally turned in first rate performances such as his love-struck thug in MURDER MY SWEET , and Joan Blondell's boy-friend ( and moral superior to Tyrone Power ) in NIGHTMARE ALLEY . Here he is a minor villain - a thug for De Silva . For most of the film he is doing De Silva's dirty work without a thought . But at the film's conclusion he is faced with a moment of truth . De Silva , Cooper , Goddard , and Mazurki are trapped in a cabin , but have weapons to protect themselves . Cooper knows that troops will be arriving soon to rescue them . But De Silva is deluded into thinking he ( and Mazurki ) are safe because they have been arming the Indians - he's ignoring that as a white , Englishman / colonial he's as hated as the others . He tells Mazurki to open the door and signal the Indians to let them go . Mazurki , showing a commendable intelligence , refuses . De Silva orders him again , and then he decides to do it himself . He opens the door and an arrow hits him in the center of the chest . Mazurki gets up and closes the door from the back . He then tells Cooper they'll all wait until the troops arrive . The film soon ends , but to me that moment was one to treasure . Rarely has a subordinate have such a satisfactory way of being proved correct over his boss .
Hitchcock's Courtroom Fizzle	There are some films that are forever lost that one wishes still existed : the complete GREED and THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS ( Welles final cut ) for examples . In the cinema of Alfred Hitchcock , THE PARADINE CASE as he originally shot would have been of great interest . Whether it would have been better is another matter . THE PARADINE CASE is generally conceded as among Hitchcock's lesser films . It's most interesting parts of the performances of the leads ( except for Alida Valli , who is quite dull ) , and the famous sequence of the portrait of Valli whose eyes seem to follow the camera ( standing in for Gregory Peck / Anthony Keane ) as it passes from one room to the next . Hitchcock told Francois Truffaut that he felt the casting was wrong . He wanted Greta Garbo for Mrs . Paradine ( but Selznick had Alida Valli signed up ) . He wanted Ronald Colman or Laurence Olivier as Keane ( but Selznick had Gregory Peck signed up ) . He did not want Louis Jourdan as LaTour , but wanted Robert Newton . Again Selznick said no . As a result of our general respect for Hitchcock the suspense film artist we sympathize with his comments , and dismiss Selznick as a bullying producer who destroyed a masterpiece . I seriously question this view . First of all , David Selznick ( for most of his career as a producer ) was way ahead of the majority of such Hollywood figures because of his taste and ability . Anyone who could create GONE WITH THE WIND , David COPPERFIELD , SINCE YOU WENT AWAY , and other high caliber movies is not one to dismiss so cavalierly . Most of the films he did with Hitchcock ( whom he brought to Hollywood in 1939 ) were very good films : REBECCA , SUSPICION , SHADOW OF A DOUBT , LIFEBOAT , FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT - they were not crappy . Secondly , he was aware of difficulties in getting performers : Olivier was working in England in 1948 . Colman was working mostly at MGM , but was a bit too old for the role . And Peck was not an unknown talent : He had worked with Hitchcock already . As for Garbo , she had been in retirement for six years , and there was no sign she was interested in a film come-back . The Jourdan - Newton problem is another matter . LaTour , in the film , is Colonel Paradine's loyal batman , now a valet and groom on the estate . Mrs . Paradine has made a play for his affections , and he has rejected them out of loyalty to his master . Hitchcock felt that Robert Newton , with his physical appearance , would have looked more like a man who worked in the mire of a stable than Louis Jourdan did , although as Jourdan remained the Colonel's personal servant that seemed a minor casting point in favor of Newton . Hitchcock also skirted the issue ( soon to be handled in ROPE , STRANGERS ON A TRAIN , and NORTH BY NORTHWEST ) of a homosexual relationship between his characters . LaTour was supposed to be more openly close to the Colonel in Hitchcock's opinion . But it was a 1948 film - how close was the relationship supposed to be ? Furthermore , Selznick as producer would be aware of one defect regarding Newton not found in Hitchcock's account to Truffaut : Newton's alcoholism . Given the size of Newton's benders he was a poor risk in most film acting roles ( no matter how available he was ) . Not so with Louis Jourdan . The film was brought in under 93 days , and that record would not have been possible if Newton had been in the cast and kept getting drunk . As for the homosexual relationship , it never is fleshed at all in the film . But would a 1948 audience have been willing to accept that ? I don't think so . The supporting players , particularly Ann Todd , Charles Laughton as the sadistic Mr . Justice Lord Hawfield , and Ethel Barrymore as Lady Hawfield , gave good accounts of themselves in the film , especially Laughton as the Judge who takes out his frustrations with Mrs . Keane ( ANN TODD ) to wreck her husband's case . His best scene , where he compares a walnut to a human brain sums up the character's beastliness . I think that what Hitchcock fans fail to notice here is that it is Hitch's only real courtroom film . While his characters face hearings and sentencing in court ( like in the start of NOTORIOUS ) , they rarely are shown being tried . I CONFESS is an exception - and the bulk of the film is not a trial . Here the bulk of the film is the trial of the anti-heroine Mrs . Paradine . It is not typical Hitchcock , and fails to fascinate the audience . The highpoint is the verbal clashes between Laughton and Peck ( sometimes assisted by Leo G . Carroll as the prosecutor ) , Jourdan's collapse in the witness box when Keane attacks him for secretly betraying his master with the defendant , and Valli's final condemnation of Keane in court . But the circumstances and the dialog do not fascinate the viewers . Compare the way the trial in THE PARADINE CASE compares with those in Billy Wilder's WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION , and in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD . Laughton's Sir Wilfred Robarts enlivens the film , and his tactics in attacking Torin Thatcher's case for the prosecution of Tyrone Power are solid and interesting in the former . Gregory Peck's Atticus Finch , in defending Brock Peters on a rape charge in a segregated , bigoted South , are cutting and sensible . The key is the script - both of those films have better scripts , based on better writings ( Agatha Christie and Harper Lee ) than the Robert Hitchens novel . One can bemoan the loss of the three hour version or the 119 minute version that we lack now , but if it was anything as dull as the slow moving courtroom sequences of the currently extant film , I doubt that any improvement would have appeared .
An Unforgotten , Tragic Footnote	The tragedy of the week and a half reign of " Queen " Jane Grey Tudor is one of the bizarre briefly successful coups that collapsed . Lady Jane Grey was a blood cousin of King Edward VI , and his two half sisters , Princess Mary and Princess Elizabeth . Edward VI is recalled today , if at all , for the novel by Mark Twain called THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER , as the son of Henry VIII who trades places with the poor street boy Tom Canty . That was a piece of creative fiction , but it shows how relatively unimportant Edward VI really was because he died after a six year reign ( 1547 - 1553 ) in which he was never an adult but under a series of grown-up advisers called protectors . The first one was his uncle Edward Seymour , Duke of Somerset . Somerset's attempt to carry out the religious policies of his late brother-in-law King Henry VIII came apart due to the opposition of other powerful nobles , and the antics of his ambitious and stupid brother Lord Admiral Thomas Seymour . Thomas Seymour had married King Henry's last queen , Catherine Parr , and when she died , he attempted to carry off and marry the Princess Elizabeth . He was arrested and executed for treason ( this is the story in the Steward Granger film YOUNG BESS ) . It seriously compromised Edward Seymour , who was overthrown , tried for treason , and executed as well . The man who gained by all this was Edward Dudley , Duke of Warwick ( Cedric Hardwicke in the film TUDOR ROSE ) , who was made Duke of Northumberland by King Edward VI , and was Lord Protector when Edward was dying . Northumberland was too ambitious , as Thomas Seymour had been . Seymour hoped , by marrying Princess Elizabeth , to have her replace King Edward when he died , and he would be the real power behind Elizabeth's throne . As it was , Seymour actions were to bring Elizabeth under a cloud of unjust suspicion for awhile ( there is no evidence that she had agreed to this harebrained scheme ) . But Northumberland considered the situation similarly to Tom Seymour . He did not want to see Princess Mary , the oldest of the two half sisters ( and a Catholic ) succeed Edward . But he thought Elizabeth ( already showing her brains and independence ) unmanageable . Instead , he turned to their cousin Lady Jane Grey . Northumberland figured that Lady Jane would be a perfect match for his son Guilford . So Northumberland plotted two steps . First , he arranged Lady Jane and Guildford be married . Then he arranged that the dying Edward be pressured into altering the line of succession , disinheriting both his half-sisters , and putting his cousin on the throne . It was not too difficult to manipulate the poor dying boy , but Northumberland failed to realize that unless he could fully count on a sizable number of nobles accepting this weird dynastic switch it would be doomed . That was the failure of the scheme . Although Edward's death was followed by the announcement of the reign of Queen Jane , the public did not buy it . Lady Jane was known from being a court personage , but she was a non-entity for all that . Both Mary and Elizabeth were far better known , moreover they were the children of King Henry VIII ( not of one of his sisters ) . As for the nobles , they had not liked Tom Seymour's scheme with Elizabeth , so why should they like Northumberland's scheme with Jane and Guildford ? The Protestant nobles and government officials , like William Cecil , favored the Protestant Elizabeth . The Catholic nobles and even some Protestant clergy ( like Stephen Gardiner ) favored Mary . All Northumberland's stupid plan did was to unite the two rival Princesses factions in a determination to remove a usurper . It's amazing she lasted nine days . One can only conclude that due to communication problems in 1553 , and a general sense of amazement at the speed of this coup , nobody acted quickly at first . But once they got over it the two factions united and poor Lady Jane was removed to the Tower of London . Interestingly enough she had barely known young Guilford , but now they got to know each other - and found they actually liked , even loved each other . One of the supreme tragedies of this story is that Jane Grey and Guilford Dudley might , had they been left alone by Northumberland , have found happiness together as a married couple at the court . Instead , within a year , Northumberland , Guilford , and finally Jane all were beheaded . The film is a short one ( the film made in the 1990s with Helen Bonham Carter is longer and more detailed ) , but it gets the main points of the tragedy . Ms Pilbeam was a sweet , charming young lady , and gave a memorable performance . So did a youngish John Mills , really just getting his great career underway . As Northumberland Cedric Hardwicke is properly unscrupulous , and ( in one fictional scene ) shows his real character to the dying Edward VI by treating that monarch , when alone , with the contempt of a grown man for a sickly youth . Felix Aylmer ( as Somerset ) has one moment , when he realizes how his idiot brother's actions with Elizabeth have compromised and destroyed them both . One final irony . After she finally ascended the throne in 1558 , Elizabeth noticed a young man in court named Robin or Robert Dudley . He was the younger brother of Guilford , and he was married to a young woman named Amy Robsart . Elizabeth and Robert became very close - how close is still a question historians debate . They usually conclude that under normal circumstances Elizabeth would have married Robert . However , Amy Robsart died in 1560 under peculiar circumstances ( she fell down a staircase when alone in the Dudley mansion at Kenelworth ) . Robert was now free to marry . Elizabeth rejected his availability . She kept him close to her at court as an important adviser , but never went beyond that . She couldn't trust him , not only because of what happened to poor Amy , but because of his family's involvement with poor Jane .
A Problem About British Humor .	This episode of the popular British comedy series illustrates a real problem regarding English ( and I suspect European and Foreign humor ) that Americans have been trying to deal with here since the age of Lenny Bruce . Although humor deals with discomforting images of people , humiliated or momentarily hurt in some manner ( deserved or not ) , there has also always been elements of bigotry or bias to different groups in humor . It the humor is self-deprecating ( a Jewish comedian talking about himself and his fellow Jews , like Jackie Mason , or an African-American talking about African-Americans , like Redd Foxx ) the audience does not care because we are laughing with the party . But when a Caucasian makes remarks about other groups , we start thinking differently about it ( unless , like Don Rickels , he or she attacks all the groups including his or her own ) . We call it " political correctness " for better or worse . Other countries in the west struggle with it , but I suspect the U . S . ( with it's really polyglot population ) deals with it more frequently . The issue is should we do this , or should we just enjoy the joke ? The British are slowly getting it into their heads that with increased foreign ( i . e . , non-White ) peoples being third or fourth generation English , they have to clean up their act too . But there are vestiges that are visible from a few decades ago that surprise and baffle us , and probably ( when they appeared ) did not bother the British public for the most part . This was the " Christmas Episode " for 1981 of ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? , which usually had a number of musical sequences for the regulars . Here they are having a 90th Birthday party of old Mr . Grace ( Kenneth Waller ) and even bring back his predecessor and younger brother young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett ) . In 1981 the success of the television program ROOTS from the U . S . was an international phenomenon . That series , you recall , was Alex Hailey's attempt to trace his ancestry in the U . S . back to Kunte Kinte , the African who came to the U . S . as a slave in the 18th Century , through other figures in the 19th and 20th Centuries like Chicken George . It is a phenomenon still affecting us - just look at the number of genealogical sites on the internet some forty years after that show . Keeping this in mind , the episode followed how the staff of Rumbolt's floor are assigned to do genealogical research into the Grace family , and to present a pageant of that research with a song from the part of England the Grace's originated from . Well , the Graces are first shown as Scotsmen , then Yorkshiremen , then Welsh , with slight changes in their name . SPOILER COMING UP : Then we are told they are further south in origin than that . To the tune of " Waitin ' For the Robert E . Lee " we see the cast come out in top hats , tales , and black-face ( yes , black-face ) for the finale . Now the effect , to me , is mixed . A similar kind of joke on a " Benny Hill " show ( where Hill , back in the late 1970s , was playing the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin ) also has that on me . Hill was in a military tunic and wore black face . He behaved . . . well as nutty as Benny Hill usually did . But the black face got me , as did a joke on the tyrant's name ( the tyrant's desk had two " in " and " out " mail boxes , labeled " Amin " and " Amout " ) . But Hill's hit and run comedy , if here unsettling , could quickly pass to the next matter . Not so with the finale of ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? for everything in the episode led to that conclusion ( which made a referenced pun of the title of the episode " Roots ? " ) . While as well produced and performed as any other , the conclusion is out of kilter with what we currently expect - or what American audiences would have expected even in 1981 ! So I give it a " 6 " out of " 10 " . . . and it is a rather weak " 6 " at that ! !
The last moment was ridiculous	I am giving this film a " 6 " because of my fondness for Stephen Foster's melodies ( and my pity for his fate ) , and because - whatever one thinks of his racist " blackface " act , Al Jolson was a wonderful singer . If it had been shot as a concert film of Foster's best tunes , it would have been worth an " 9 " or even a " 10 " . Instead it is tied to one of those idiotic Hollywood composer biographies . It is a sub-set to Hollywood biographies , all of which have fact problems . Here it is trying to concentrate on Foster's alcoholism ( a fact ) , but not on the business problems he confronted in his career . Foster was the first American composer of lasting merit ( although his contemporary Louis Moreau Gottschalk came close ) . His compositions were totally composed by him ( including lyrics ) . But he never had any business abilities , so that while tunes like " Old Folks At Home " , " Beautiful Dreamer " , " The Camptown Races " , " I Dream of Jeannie " and " Oh Susannah " were massive popular hits , Foster got remarkably little of the profits . Added to his problems were the lack of efficient copy-write protection in the U . S . ( or on the globe , for that matter ) to prevent pirating of his work . He was also the first composer who tried to live on the successful profits of his compositions . Had he been frugal , and not a drinker , it just might have worked ( for a few years he did prosper ) , but he fumbled it . His last years were spent still composing , but living as a Bowery derelict . His end is not quite the melodrama of the film - he fell in his room cutting himself ( not cutting his throat ) . Due to his alcoholic condition weakening his body , he died a few days later in Bellevue Hospital . Don Ameche is a terrific actor , and does what he can here - but it reminds us of an extended development of his Edward Salomon ( Lillian Russell's doomed composer husband ) in the Russsell biography . He is talented - greatly so - but drink and ill health doom her here . No new extension of his acting range as Foster . By 1939 I wonder if there was increasing criticism by African - American groups regarding stereotyping in Hollywood . Probably not too much yet , or at least enough for the industry to take notice . Films about D . D . Emmett ( DIXIE ) , and other films with minstrel segments in them would still appear within the next decade . It really is not until the end of the 1940s and into the 1950s that an effect of World War II is felt - a dislike for the disparate treatment of African Americans - and begins to have an impact . So the minstrel portions , historically correct ( unfortunately ) , were totally acceptable in this film in 1939 . Oddly enough , given the accidental tragedy that ends this film , the fate of E . E . Christy is overlooked . Christy apparently had a nervous breakdown in the 1860s , and threw himself out of a window . One would not know that watching Jolson's performance , based on this script . The concluding moment of this film always stuck in my craw . Tragically announcing the death of Foster at what was supposed to be the benefit to resurrect his career , Christy / Jolson announces the first performance of Foster's latest and greatest tune . He starts singing " Old Folks At Home " ( renamed " Swanee River " - as in the film title ) , Jolson starts singing it ( remember for the first time ) . When the music reaches the chorus , " All the world is sad and weary . . . " the whole audience arose and sang it's chorus lines . Remarkable example of massive psychic transference , or poor screenplay writing : I leave it to the viewer to guess which .
An amusing take on the classic Stevenson novella	Despite the closing line of DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE , the closing sentence " I bring the life of that unhappy Henry Jeckyll to an end " , has never been true . I don't think any of Stevenson's stories ( including TREASURE ISLAND and KIDNAPPED ) ever generated as many plays or films or television treatments , with variations . And while not as amusing as earlier comedies they did in the 1940s , ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE is quite amusing on a lesser level . My favorite piece in the film is towards the end . Scotland Yard is determined to capture the notorious Mr . Hyde ( Karloff in ape-like make-up ) . Reginald Denny , the Inspector in charge of the case , has stationed his police officers around London to track Hyde's movements - so they can find his lair . They do not know that Jeckyll becomes Hyde by taking a compound into his veins with a hypodermic needle . Nor do they know that not only has Karloff taken it ( as usual ) , but so has Costello . So there are two monsters , identical in appearance , roaming the streets of London . The bobbies dutifully report the movements of " Hyde " to the Yard , and the movements are plotted - except he seems to be in different parts of London at the same time . At the conclusion of the film we see Denny looking hopelessly at the map of London which is covered with hundreds of lines going in all types of directions . Denny looks absolutely helplessly at what should have been a foolproof plan .
A Series About Why We Should Not Be Crooked	Mildly interesting now - that's the best to say about this odd series of shorts made in Hollywood in the 1930s and 1940s . It is watched now because in some of the early episodes one catches glimpses of future mega-stars on the rise ( Robert Taylor popped up as an embezzler in one of them in the late 1930s ) . But the spirit of these episodes works against them now . We like to think crime never pays , but given how a thug may become a celebrity in the U . S . or abroad , or how many criminals seem to get away with their crimes ( remember O J , or Harry Thaw ? ) we can really question the total value of the series . I find the real interest in looking at the various scams and crimes they present . . . but that is a personal view of a criminal historian . This particular episode dealt with the con-games of fake spiritualists . Arthur Shields sets up a scam in a small town , and with his assistants he fools people who come to him into believing he is able to communicate with the dead . As long as the money comes in he will produce fake results , but once the money dries up he slams the door . Ann Shoemaker is married to Frank Reicher . Their son is a missing in action G . I . Shoemaker keeps going to Shields to try to keep in touch with the boy , whom she gets " messages " from through Shields , but always they fade out just before the end . So she comes back , spending more money and getting her hopes up higher and higher . Finally she has gone through the savings of herself and Reicher , and Shields slams the door on her . She tells Reicher and then walks in front of a car . Shields at first does not concern himself , but he is warned that the police ( Crane Whitley ) are observing him . He begins to plan to flee , but his nervous behavior raises the suspicions of his assistant and partner ( Harry Hayden - who usually appeared in Preston Sturges comedies like " Christmas In July " and " The Great McGinty " ) . He returns to his office and is confronted by Hayden whom he fights and shoots . But before he leaves he suddenly finds Reicher is there too , and ends up shooting him as well . By the time he has finished the second killing Whitley shows up with the police . We subsequently see that Shields was hanged for the double murder . If you believe in such neatly packaged justice ( for all except the unfortunate Reicher and Shoemaker ) than you would swallow this . Somehow I just don't think successful grifters would collapse so easily ( although occasionally they do - look at the celebrated " Yellow Kid " Weill , possibly America's most creative con-man , and ( I believe ) the model for Paul Newman's " Harry Gondorf " in THE STING - Weill did end up a prisoner , and a pauper , though he wrote an interesting book of memoirs . ) . But it is curious to see Shields in a lead role ( usually he was one of John Ford's " family " of character actors , his best known important parts being the intolerant little village tyrant in HOW GREEN WAS OUR VALLEY and the Protestant minister in THE QUIET MAN ) . So I found the film , despite my misgivings about it's " justice triumphant " message , worth watching , and gave it a " 6 " out of " 10 " .
Weak Arliss feature , but it has one interesting moment	Of the various Arliss biographies , THE IRON DUKE is the weakest one . It is about Arthur Wellesley , the Duke of Wellington , who is recalled for his excellent handling of the British troops in Portugal and Spain against the French in what is called " The Peninsula War " ( 1809 - 1813 ) , his leading the allied forces in finally defeating Napoleon I in the battle of Waterloo ( June 1815 ) , and his post-war political career , culminating in his three year Premiership of England ( 1828 - 1830 ) . His main accomplishment as Prime Minister was to get Catholic Emancipation granted in Parliament . Problem ( as pointed to on another comment here ) is that Wellington was in his late 40s and early 50s in the period this film deals with ( 1814 - 1816 ) . Arliss is far too old for the role . He is also too short ( C . Aubrey Smith who played the role opposite Arliss in HOUSE OF ROTHSCHILD was closer in age to the role , and physically closer ) . Christopher Plummer's Wellington in WATERLOO is also closer to the Iron Duke , in age and physical condition . The story deals with what Wellington did to stop Napoleon and in the immediate period after . He was appointed to be British ambassador to France , and to advise the French government of Talleyrand and the Bourbons ( under King Louis XVIII , oldest surviving brother of Louis XVI ) on setting up their restored monarchy . In truth , King Louis and Talleyrand did not need much help from Wellington , but in one area they made a critical decision that almost sank the regime . This was the " Ney Affair " . When Napoleon returned from the Isle of Elba in March 1815 , he quickly regained thousands of followers throughout France . Most of the old military leadership did not return to Napoleon's standard , because King Louis was smart enough to offer an olive branch to them , and incorporate them into his court . One who got a high military post was Marshall Michel Ney . Ney was Napoleon's most popular general , known as the " Bravest of the Brave " . He decided to return to Napoleon's side . He fought under Napoleon in the last campaign , and was one of the defeated at Waterloo ( leading the last charge against the British ) . Ney was arrested by order of King Louis . In 1816 he would be tried for treason , and ( after a trial ) convicted and shot . The French public was very angry about this decision , and it did hurt the Bourbon restoration . However , King Louis was smart enough to weather the storm . In 1824 the King died , and his brother became King Charles X . Unfortunately Louis ' abilities at weathering political storms was not shared by Charles , who would be toppled in 1830 by his cousin , Louis Phillippe of Orleans . The film suggests that Wellington was opposed to the judicial killing of Ney , because he respected the bravery of his old opponent , and he saw the vicious action behind it due to the Duchess d'Angouleme ( Louis ' niece , and the only surviving child of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette ) . In fact , Wellington did not get involved ( he really did not have any legal standing to get involved , even as a friendly observer / adviser to King Louis ) . But this is the plot of the film . The cast , aside from Arliss , is mediocre , except the Duchesse is played by Dame Gladys Cooper - who certainly shows a fanatical vicious streak towards any " revolutionary " heroes . But in one scene , one appreciates what Arliss accomplished as an actor . Arliss believed in a natural , slightly hesitant style of acting that rarely became bombastic . If he had to display anger , he could do so by raising his voice normally . But he did not like the outlandish over-theatricality of Victorian and Edwardian acting that was the norm in it's day . At one point , the actor playing King Louis ( Alan Aynsworth ) is scared by the overly hostile reaction of the French people to the execution of Ney . Arliss is at the court , lecturing them on the blunder they have committed . He is speaking sternly , but normally . But Aynsworth is chewing the scenery in despair at the blunder ! If you see the film watch Arliss's eyes looking at Aynsworth . He is really angry at this overacting ham . It is a moment of revelation at how George Arliss did know what good acting and what bad acting really was . It is also the most interesting moment of this weakest of his biographical films .
Buster enters the Sound Age - and plays Pagiacci	In 1928 Buster Keaton was convinced to sign a contract with MGM in which they would produce his films . As the first film under this contract was THE CAMERAMAN , which is a good Keaton film , it seemed to be a good idea . But Keaton's key man at M-G-M was Joseph Schenck , his brother-in-law . Schenck died . The head of M-G-M , Louis B . Mayer , never liked comedians , whom he felt were there to just be funny with whatever material they were given . As Keaton had family problems ( his wife would take away his children in a messy divorce ) and a growing drinking problem did not endear Mayer to him at all . Keaton had specific ideas about the use of sound in movies - he felt that most films were too talky ( he was right ) , and talking should be used sparingly . Sound effects were a better idea . But by 1929 all the leading stars in Hollywood ( exceptions included Keaton , Lloyd , Chaplin , Garbo , and Lon Chaney Sr . ) had started to turn towards talking films . Some with disastrous results - one , by the way , in this film . Keaton had no problem with his voice ( a kind of flat baritone ) , but it was not something that really added to his planned zaniness . Mayer could hardly care for Keaton's feelings . He gave him the script for FREE AND EASY as his entry into sound movies . Typically for Mayer he gave Keaton a lousy comedy , with an oddly sad ending . Throughout his M-G-M films in the early 1930s , Keaton was saddled with characters with the same first name : Elmer . Here he was Elmer Butts , from Gopher City , Kansas . He is sent by that town's chamber of commerce to be the agent for the winner of a beauty contest , Anita Page ( as Elvira Plunkett ) . This leads poor Buster into repeated collisions with Page's battle ax of a mother ( Ma Plunkett - played by Trixie Friganza ) , who liked other overly ambitious star-making mothers ( " Mama Rose " in GYPSY comes to mind ) can't understand why Elmer is there at all . On the train to California Elvira meets Larry Mitchell ( Robert Montgomery ) , one of the leading stars at M-G-M . He is quite interested in the young woman , though honorably or not is up in the air ( at this time Montgomery played mostly fashionable cads or weaklings in his films ) . He invites the trio to see the shooting of his current film at M-G-M . It is a costume musical set in a " Ruritanian " setting . I won't go into all the details of the improbable script here . Keaton does have a few opportunities to show his put-upon situations ( looking for a parking spot while he misses a Hollywood premiere he's been invited to ) ; demolishing several film sets and shootings under directors Fred Niblo and Lionel Barrymore , as well as involving him with such figures as actor John Miljan and comedian Karl Dane . He also tries to influence a less than interested Cecil B . De Mille in his protégée . And such luminaries as Jackie Coogan , William Haines , and William Collier Sr . pop up at the premiere . ( When I mentioned " disastrous results " due to the coming of sound , I had poor Dane in mind - he eventually shot himself when his once high career as a film comic went under due to his thick Danish accent . ) He's wasted - positively wasted as a seasoning for the wretched plot about whether Montgomery really loves Page beyond a pretty evening of sex . In the end the audience knows Keaton does love Page ( despite her mother ) , but is too shy to fully come out and say it . Instead , in the final moments of a film that is comic , Keaton's heart is left broken ( with a degree of irony as he is dressed up like a clown ) . It is the oddest ending of any film he ever appeared in . He does sing ( two songs - one being the title song which is also a dance ) . So does Montgomery , whose singing is adequate and no more ( it also weakens the film - why waste a star in singing in some ridiculous musical ? ) . I give the film a total of " 6 " because I am a fan of Buster Keaton and of Robert Montgomery , and it gives one a rare opportunity to see all those other film figures like Niblo , Barrymore , DeMille , Coogan , Miljan , Haines , Dane , and Collier . I also feel the rest of the film cast is trying ( note too the dependable Ed Brophy , as Niblo's assistant who is fed up with Keaton ) . But except these " plusses " FREE AND EASY is a real waste of talent and time .
A Voyage Into Danger	The Sherlock Holmes Series is actually fun for the fans of Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce , but the individual films are a mixed bag as mysteries themselves . The best mysteries are THE SCARLET CLAW , THE HOUSE OF FEAR , THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES , THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES , SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH . The ones about the war are mediocre - more like curiosities dealing with patriotism and the war effort . After the war the series resumed plots dealing with regular crime . The best of these was THE PEARL OF DEATH , but it was not up to the top five films . One of the final films was this one , PURSUIT TO ALGIERS . Although all the other films were rewritten from the original Conan Doyle stories , PURSUIT TO ALGIERS was totally made up from a comment dropped in the original " Canon " . Doyle wrote four novels and fifty six short stories about Holmes . But in this material ( equal in size to say LES MISERABLES or DON QUIXOTE ) were many little comments and statements that actually have helped lead to the myriad of essays and books by Holmes ' fans . Among other things are the large number of cases of Holmes that he or Watson mention casually , but never write of . In this film , the untold story is " the affair of the steamship " Friesland " that so nearly cost us both our lives " . It is mentioned in one of the stories of the series called THE RETURN OF SHERLOCK HOLMES , and is usually said to be set in 1895 . The actions of PURSUIT TO ALGIERS take place on the steamship " Friesland " , and do almost cost Holmes and Watson their lives , but this film is set after the end of World War II . Since there was no real short story that is nothing to be critical about . Holmes is not in part of the film ( and at one point it seems he has been killed ) , but he does appear about the middle , and he is in good form when he is . Witness the way he takes care of Martin Kosleck , and the way he makes a typically ironic comment to Kosleck as to why he was able to be prepared . Also the business about party favors is quite nicely done . So are the supporting parts - especially Bruce's comments regarding Rosalind Ivan and John Abbott and his partner . As an entertainment it is a fine film . As a mystery it really never gets very involving . We never understand who is in the background backing the anti-royal assassins . Presumably the Communists ( this is 1945 ) , but such a guess is based on the number of Eastern European monarchies that fell following the end of World War II . Still it would help to know who the super-villain is . But then Hitchcock always ignored the central rationales of his " MacGuffins " . Why not on this lesser level then ? So forget the pleasure of realism , sit back , and just enjoy the antics of the characters . And keep in mind , Basil and Nigel made only two other of these films afterward . It was nearly the end of the series for them and their fans .
Pleasant Fluff - but little else .	There is a persistent rumor that Jack Benny only made one good film in his career : Ernst Lubitsch's TO BE OR NOT TO BE . Actually , the radio and television comedy star did make other comedies that were worth watching - most notably CHARLIE'S AUNT , IT'S IN THE BAG and LOVE THY NEIGHBOR ( both with Benny's radio feud partner Fred Allan ) , and GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE ( with Anne Sheridan and Charles Coburn - a kind of dry run for Cary Grant and Myrna Loy's MR . BLANDINGS BUILDS HIS DREAMHOUSE ) . But he certainly made one or two serious misfires : BUCK BENNY RIDES AGAIN and THE HORN BLOWS AT MIDNIGHT ( the last one even Benny realized was awful ) . MAN ABOUT TOWN was typical of the rut that Benny frequently fell into . Because of his radio personality , the movies rarely thought of experimenting with him in a variety of roles . Different aspects of his cheap tightwad and his narcissistic would-be great lover popped up in many of his films , even his best ones . In MAN ABOUT TOWN he is a musical comedy star and producer in London , playing opposite Dorothy Lamour ( whom he is in love with ) . But she is tired of his finding excuses not to marry her , so she is cold shouldering him . Benny tries to get her back in line by showing too much attention to Binnie Barnes , an English aristocrat . Barnes , upon the advise of Isobel Elsom , reciprocates to make her husband , Edward Arnold , jealous . As is pointed out in another of the reviews , Elsom is determined to reignite her husband's ( Monte Wooley ) jealousy the same way . Benny is not upset by this development - besides making Lamour smolder ( as he hopes ) he is getting a lot of publicity for his new show ( which has a final musical number where Benny is a potentate with a harem ) . Arnold and Wooley both are certain that each other is the cuckold here , but when they both realize that both of their wives have been seemingly carrying on with Benny , they both decide to rid the world of him . So while on stage in that final number , Benny sees both men standing side by side with murder in their eyes , and makes a fair shambles of his show's finale . Lamour and Benny's faithful valet / factotum Eddie Anderson save his bacon . It is amusing at points , and besides " Rochester " it is of interest to Benny and old radio fans to see his first " juvenile " singer , Phil Harris , in the film too . But it is little more than a mild amusement . See it once , and that is all there is to it . Amusing but not a film for the ages .
Has some potential . . . but little more	If you like surrealistic films , like Cocteau's or Salvador Dali's , THE HEARTS OF AGE may appeal to you . It certainly throws symbols around , but it is the work of two teenagers at a prep school , not of a major French 20th Century poet and film maker and a major Spanish artist . When the latter two put in symbols , and repeated them , there was a rhythm and sense in their use - especially as their films were meant to shock or to attack the Church . Here two preppies , William Vance and George O . Welles , are trying to make a surreal movie . It has some nice touches . A hand reaches out of the crypt of a cemetery ( or seemingly so ) to grab a stone marker cross . But it's " dollar book " symbolism . In high school I was involved in making a film , and it involved a rare tablet that unlocked hideous power secrets . I suggested , in a scene supposedly shot at a religious altar , that the tablet be placed in a skeletal hand . Disembodied or fossilized hands scare people , and are useful in keeping an audience's attention . That was why I suggested it . From my above reduction of one of the two creators of this film , calling Orson Welles by his first name , I am sort of hinting at the problem at watching THE HEARTS OF AGE . If it's creators were a pair of non-entities we would not care to even consider the film . But it was co-directed by Welles , some three years before " THE CRADLE WILL ROCK " , some four years before " THE WAR OF THE WORLD " broadcast , and some seven years before CITIZEN KANE . Welles ' creative ascendancy was about to blossom , so we look at this early stunt as full of suggestions of greatness . That's stretching it . It shows potential . Mr . Vance , Virginia Nicholson , and Paul Edgarton do as well with their acting parts as the normal teenagers who are in a school production . It's when Welles shows up that we see more spice in the acting . This is not based on a blind Wellesian hero worship . He shows a subtlety in his playing the part of the mysterious male figure that is lacking in the other three performances . Ms Nicholson seems bad tempered and suspicious at times ( mostly at Mr . Welles ) but she fails to gain our interest or sympathy . Mr . Edgarton as a doomed bell ringer / slave ( he's in black face ) gets some sympathy as he is forced to constantly labor , and eventually he dies by hanging . But the lack of any rational or symbolic reason for this kills the effect of his demise ! Welles obviously was given the best part because he can act . He first appears as a jaunty figure , in top hat and tales . His thin body ( he could not have played this part forty years later ) seems to be springing down various ladders and walks as in a dance . With his pale , bald features he may represent death dancing ( and later playing the piano ) . But is he ? Or is he simply an old man , who is happy to survive his wife ( Ms Nicholson ? ) and buries her quickly when he finds her corpse ? When Pauline Kael did her hatchet job on Welles ' contribution to CITIZEN KANE , she pointed out that his make-up in THE HEARTS OF AGE mirrored the elderly Kane . There is a resemblance , but then keep in mind that in both films we are seeing the frame of Welles ' face covered by a bald wig . So there would be a resemblance anyway . Moreover , Kael was so determined to rob Welles ' Kane performance of any originality that she also found he looked like Peter Lorre as Dr . Gogol in MAD LOVE , a 1935 thriller where Lorre is an insane surgeon terrorizing a crippled pianist ( Colin Clive ) . When Welles was asked about this , he said he never even heard of Lorre's movie before . He probably hadn't . My guess is that any resemblance between Welles ' performance in THE HEARTS OF AGE and CITIZEN KANE are solely due to both characters he played having to age or be old . Certainly when he played the old Charles Foster Kane , he moved slowly like the elderly , slightly obese , Kane would have moved - not like the jaunty death's head he played in THE HEARTS OF AGE .
A film with a conclusion one has to see to believe	I wonder if the screenwriter for this film had somebody in mind as a model for the criminal Humphrey Bogart plays . In the 1920s and 1930s there was a major war between Joe Masseria and Salvator Marranzano for control of New York's criminal underworld . Marranzano , on the surface , seemed more modern to the younger crowd of gangsters like Luciano , Costello , Siegel , Lansky , and Lepke , and they helped him get rid of the " Mustache Petes " or old style gangsters supporting Masseria ( and eventually Masseria himself ) . But they found that rather than restructuring the criminal world into a model corporate structure , Marranzano had delusions of grandeur . He was intoxicated by the image and memory of Gaius Julius Caesar , and intended to make himself the Caesar of the New York Underworld . Eventually " Caesar " Marranzano was bumped off by the disgruntled young Turks who did not plan for him to be a " Capo di Capo " . Interestingly enough he was stabbed to death in his office - one wonders if Luciano and the others purposely copied Caesar's demise in the forum . In this remake of an early Paul Muni film , DR . SOCRATES , Kay Francis is a female doctor who discovers that her late husband was tied to a powerful mobster ( Bogart ) and got killed helping him with some medical attention for one of his gang . The police and A . D . A . ( Pierre Watkins ) arrest and try Francis on really weak grounds as an accomplice , but the jury is deadlocked and she is released while the A . D . A . decides whether or not to retry her . Francis is determined to prove her innocence by catching Bogart . Humphrey Bogart played many gangsters in the 1930s , and most of them were quite dangerous types , like Duke Mantee in THE PETRIFIED FOREST or Baby Face Martin in DEAD END . But his gangster boss here is ridiculous . The reason is that the screenwriter created a personality point about this gangster that is never pursued properly in the film . Bogart is enamored by the career of Napoleon Bonaparte , and keeps mentioning this . Never once in the course of the film , outside an occasional reference to say Waterloo or some incident like that , do we see Bogie trying to use Napoleons aphorisms and strategies in his crimes ! For example , Bonaparte once dismissed military brilliance and said something to the effect that he preferred " lucky " generals to brilliant ones . He realized that a brilliant general could get so hung up about his own brilliant schemes that he could blow a major battle , whereas a " lucky " general looks quickly at a situation and grabs the initiative . Bogart does not show any inclination to follow that particular piece of wisdom , and does not even mention it . Bogart also is never shown using any of the strategies that made Marengo or Austerlitz or Jena victories that rang down through the last two centuries in his robbery schemes or crimes . For a man who supposedly admires a great figure he doesn't seem willing to learn from him ! In the plot Francis hides in a small town and Bogart shows up there to rescue two of his men from the local police ( actually similar to an incident involving gangster John Dillinger ) . Bogart has also picked up a traveling writer ( James Stephenson ) who he realizes can ghost write Bogies criminal memoirs . Stephenson is arrested in the incident , but he is released into Francis ' custody ( she is now a doctor in the town ) , and subsequently kidnapped by Bogie ( not quite like the unfortunate Duc de Enghien ) . Soon Francis is in pursuit , and notes Bogies health as a potential key to undermining his control of her fate and Stephenson's . It involves giving him a peculiar drug that has to be also given to all his men at the same time to disable them all . This part of the script is absolutely unbelievable as Bogie's gangster does not accept the simple solution of selecting one of his men as a guinea pig to test the drug on ( Francis manages to browbeat him into taking the drug ! ) . There are elements of other , better films in KING OF THE UNDERWORLD . Most notable is James Stephenson's writer / hobo who resembles Leslie Howard's in THE PETRIFIED FOREST . The acting is pretty good ( best are the scenes involving the local bigwig doctor who resents the arrival of Francis in the small town , and starts making problems for her ) . Stephenson was a fine young actor , whose best role ( the troubled barrister defending Bette Davis ' " Leslie Crosby " in THE LETTER ) was yet to come , and his death in the early 1940s was a true loss to movies . Francis does nicely in her role , even if her victory over Bogie is asinine . Bogie is good - wish I could say the same for his character or the script .
Jack London - An American Original With a " Jules Verne " Problem	Jack London was a phenomenal writer , who came up from poverty and turned out some amazing books . These include ( but are not limited to ) THE SEA WOLF , WHITE FANG , THE CALL OF THE WILD . London is usually brushed aside today as a " kids " author . The same idiocy that relegates Jules Verne to be a writer for children and ignores his savage comments on politics affects London . After you are encouraged ( about eighth grade ) to read THE CALL OF THE WILD , you are told that London is always writing about man and animals in Alaska in the Gold Rush of 1898 , with an occasional look at an exciting sea story . Actually he's sharper than that : THE CALL OF THE WILD and WHITE FANG were his attempts to tell a story from an animals ' point of view . THE SEA WOLF is his attempt to attack the prevalent socio-economic doctrine of the day ( 1900 ) : Social Darwinism , as practiced by Captain Wolf Larsen . He wrote one of the first good novels about America under a dictatorship : THE IRON HEEL . He discussed his early life in MARTIN EDEN . He discussed his alcoholism in his book JOHN BARLEYCORN . He was the first American novelist of real international stature to embrace socialism ! A reporter as well as writer , his experiences watching the Japanese government prevent him from carrying out his job during the Russo - Japanese War turned him into a perpetually hostile critic of Japan's goals in the Pacific ( although , to be fair to the Japanese , London did show some racism here ) . Keeping this in mind , one realizes that THE ASSASSINATION BUREAU , LTD . has to be tackled differently from say THE CALL OF THE WILD or the short story TO BUILD A FIRE . London is looking with jaundice eye at the political system that had ruled Europe ( and most of the world ) since 1815 or so . It was oppressive and uneven , and even in the United States ( probably the best major power to live in in terms of opportunity and social mobility ) it was still badly flawed . Assassination had become a serious tool for trying to influence European affairs from 1881 to 1910 ( when the novel was begun by London ) . Tsar Alexander II of Russia was blown to bits in 1881 by a Nihilist group called " The People's Will " . Although it was captured and most of its members hanged , others copied it . Assassinations continued in Russia up to 1911 including Interior Grand Duke Serge in 1904 , Minister Von Phleve in 1905 , and Prime Minister Peter Stolypin in 1911 . Elsewhere the other states suffered . Presidents Garfield and McKinley were assassinated in 1881 and 1901 ( the latter by a self-proclaimed anarchist ) . President Sadi Carnot of France was stabbed to death in a public parade in 1894 , in the middle of a series of anarchist attacks ( including a bombing at the Chambre of Deputies ) . Empress Elisabeth of Austria-Hungary , King Umberto I of Italy , the Prime Minister of Spain , King Carlos III of Portugal , were all killed . So were Lord Frederick Cavendish and Thomas Burke by Irish nationalists in Phoenix Park in 1882 . Many smaller public figures were killed as well . The topic of an " assassination bureau " was timely - especially as some of these victims fit what the bureau decided : were the targets worthy of being assassinated . Of course not all of them were ( Empress Elisabeth for example ) . But London's vision was not totally flawed . It was just that being a realist he knew that the " pure " idea of the bureau would be corrupted sooner or later . So his plot involves the head of this international bureau being offered a huge reward if he orders his own assassination . Note that Oliver Reed's character is a Russian , as though the author knew who was most likely to be the head of an assassination group . Probably due to other commitments London never finished the novel . Robert L . Fish , a successful mystery novelist , wrote a completion which was rather amusing . I tend to believe that was an error - London was seldom an amusing writer . The film treats the moral issue as a joke , and uses the characters as caricatures of the nations they represent ( the doleful Russian , the gluttonous and sexually active Italian , the pragmatic Frenchmen who runs a bordello too , the English newspaper tycoon ) . These characters need good performers , and Philippe Noiret is on target as the bordello owner / assassin leader ) ; and ( although not Italian ) Clive Revill is quite good as the Italian . The Russian ( it's not Reed ) is doleful , but hardly memorable . As for Lord Bostwick , Telly Savalas is not convincing as an English aristocrat ( one can't even imagine him as a Canadian transplant to England , like Spencer Tracy in EDWARD , MY SON ) . Curt Jurgens ' German assassination leader , General Von Pinck ( the name suggested , perhaps , by his handiness with a sword ) is either sadistically high-spirited or vicious : no other characteristics there . Diana Rigg , as the budding journalist who's first job is actually as a cats-paw for Savalas ( her boss ) is pretty good , but her performance as Vincent Price's daughter in THEATRE OF BLOOD was livelier . She seems determined to maintain her suffragette style dignity here no matter what . However it happens to work for the film . As for Reed , his straight villains were usually far better than his heroes . He appears to be too laid back at times . A bit more jittery behavior would have been better . One final point : One minor character , an Austrian nobleman marked for death , is killed when he cuts into a large knock-wurst ( that has a bomb in it ) . This gag probably is not original but it was reused in the television movie MORE WILD WILD WEST with Jonathan Winters as the victim .
A 19th Century Art Collector ?	This was a run - of - the - mill WILD WILD WEST episode , but it is amusing because of a current art scandal going on today in California and Italy . If you have not been following the newspapers The Getty Museum has been negotiating with the Italian Government ( while legal action is going on in the Italian courts ) regarding a large number of stunning acquisitions in Etruscan , Roman , and Italian art that were bought over a decade or so by the Getty for its collections . Most of these items were stolen or gotten from people with " illegal " title to them . It looks like the Getty will be returning most of these . This particular episode recalls the Getty mess because it deals with a Governor of California ( Henry Beckman ) who is manipulated into handing over the treasury of the state to one Professor Horatio Bolt ( Alfred Ryder ) . Ryder is trying to build up the greatest art collection in the world for California - he's purchasing art for millions of dollars of public money . Don't ask . . . that's the evil plot of the episode ! At least the Getty is privately financed . This plot is ridiculous . The conclusion , a confrontation between Ryder and James West ( Robert Conrad ) deals with Ryder holding a weapon at Conrad's body , but Conrad picks up the one painting of all ( you guessed it : THE MONA LISA ) that he knows Ryder would never risk damaging . More artistically sensitive than Burt Lancaster or Paul Schofield in THE TRAIN , Ryder reluctantly surrenders his weapon because he loves art too much ! Apparently he never heard of art restoration .
The Man Who Popularized Trousers , and his one-time " Fat Friend "	Stewart Granger , in his prime , was damned by being too handsome and too British . It is fascinating to see the way he was used in films in England in the late 1940s and films in Hollywood in the 1950s . His countrymen recognized he was good looking , and muscular , but while he could play an adventurous rug dealer in CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA , it was a supporting part ( the male lead was the less handsome looking , but greater actor , Claude Rains ) . In CAPTAIN BOYCOTT , he played an Irish farmer and horse racer ( there the title character was a supporting character - played by Cecil Parker ) . In BLANCHE FURY he was a scheming murderer after an estate , based on the 19th Century killer James B . Rush . In THE MAN IN GREY he was one of a pair of doomed lovers ( and the main role was a Regency buck villain played by James Mason , who in venting his anger on Margaret Leighton for her evil gained the audience's support ) . In short , Granger's English roles were a wide variety of types ( they also included the violinist Paganini , and the unfortunate courtier Count Koenigsmarck ) . He had a wide variety of parts , and sometimes was not at the center of his films . Hollywood was determined that he was at the center of the films . At his best ( KING SOLOMON'S MINES , YOUNG BESS , SCARAMOUCHE ) he was given good material , and good direction , and some humor ( in SCARAMOUCHE anyway ) . But he was soon straight jacketed into costume films no matter how weak they were . Granger did occasionally break away from sword and leotard flicks , like ALL THE BROTHERS WERE VALLIANT and THE LAST HUNT and ( a little later ) NORTH TO ALASKA - a welcome comic part . But most of his Hollywood films were like BEAU BRUMMEL and FOOTSTEPS IN THE FOG : Weak stories with Granger pushed into British historical costumes . BEAU BRUMMEL had been a play written at the turn of the century by America's leading dramatist of the day , Clyde Fitch . Forgotten ( somewhat unjustly today ) , Fitch was usually a social comedy writer . His best known comic play ( not revived for many decades ) was a vehicle for a young actress named Ethel Barrymore called CAPTAIN JINKS OF THE HORSE MARINES . After watching Barrymore pursue the actor portraying Captain Adolphus Jinks ( yes , that's his name ) for two and a half hours , the play was so successful that Ethel added a line at the end to still the demands for encores : " That's all there is , there isn't anymore . " Ironically , due to savage critics like Brooks Atkinson , Fitch's plays are rarely staged , so that final line is better remembered than it's play . A number of years back ( about 1986 or so ) a group of female actors put together a review , called " The Club " ( I believe that was the name ) . They were dressed in turn of the century clothing as male members of a club . Part of the review was a one act play of Fitch's . The critics felt it was quite well acted and even entertaining . Fitch was known for historical dramas as well . He wrote one on NATHAN HALE . He also wrote this play , BEAU BRUMMEL , for Richard Mansfield . It is actually a study in a dandy's fall from " greatness " or social fame into tragedy . The real Brummell was to lose his social position , his fortune , his friendship with George , Prince of Wales ( " Prinny " or " Florizel " - later George IV ) , and finally his sanity . The original play was grim . For an actor like Mansfield , who reveled in roles that emphasized opposites ( the original " Dr . Jeckyll and Mr . Hyde " ) he must have enjoyed going from plushy costumes to rags . The 1924 film version with John Barrymore as Brummel is closer to the original . Brummel was a leader of social fashion . One of the Regency figures ( including his " fat friend " the Prince ) who created the style known as " Regency " that is for the period of 1795 to 1837 . He influenced the Prince about wardrobe and social behavior - so much that George was called " The First Gentleman of Europe " . But he had no political influence . He probably had no political ideas of importance at all . The film tries to make him more important historically than he was . He was a fop who briefly influenced culture - but he did not confront William Pitt the Younger as this film suggests . In fact Prince George was not the best person to try to influence politically at all . Although in his youth he was frequently seen with Whig figures like Charles Fox ( Peter Bull in the film ) or Richard Sheridan , this was to spite his Tory father George III ( Robert Morley in this film ) . If you saw that better historical film , THE MADNESS OF KING GEORGE III , the poisonous relationship of the King and his heir was shown quite well . As Prince George grew older , his basic conservatism grew . By the time he was acting Prince Regent and then King ( 1811 - 1820 ; 1820 - 1830 ) he was firmly in the Tory ranks . But Pitt the Younger was dead by then . As mentioned in another comment on this thread , Morley as the mad King , and Ustinov as the Prince ( later King ) were the best performers in this film . Poor Granger tries , but he has a terrible script to work with . They should have kept to the original - it might have been worth while as a film . For the sake of Ustinov and Morley I am giving this film a .
What this tells an American of our image in Asia	I'm a little surprised I gave this a " 6 " , but it a smidge better than average . I'm not a fan of the Hong Kong - Korean - Japanese - Singapore " kung fu " or martial arts films . Most are basically garbage , but then most of the westerns that were made in Hollywood are not of the HIGH NOON or STAGECOACH or SHANE standard . But it is instructive to watch one from start to finish , and to try to comprehend what is going on . Basically this is a tragedy of how the happiness of four friends is destroyed by power and greed . And the greed is centered in the good old U . S . A . ( more about that later ) . Tango and Koo are pals and Tango is in love with Blue Szeto ( who is also a friend of Koo ) . Koo is also getting married to another friend , Grace - the wedding to be held in Miami , Florida on a yacht . Most of the story is set in Hong Kong , but it has global implications . Grace works out of a Hong Kong think tank for the C . I . A . , so they are interested in who she knows . We see them spying on her and on Blue Szeto . That ought to tip us off about the view of the film maker ( and possibly his audience ) to the U . S . A . Since this film was made in 1998 - prior to the disaster of the three middle east wars - it actually is the view of the U . S . A . from Asia in the course of the more benign Clinton Administration ! The C . I . A . comes across in this film as conniving , vicious , short sided , and corrupt . When the villain behind the actual crimes and scheme here becomes known , the C . I . A . is told to lay off because , " It may be good for Wall Street ! " That is a quote from the film ! A project that was being handled by the C . I . A . Hong Kong office is facing possible destruction by government defunding . It is a method of making supermen agents out of operatives . Our four young friends and lovers know of the system , and Grace actually is seen defending it from cut-backs . The wedding in Miami turns tragic , when Grace and Szeto are isolated on a boat launch which is captured by a woman who works for a terrorist for hire named Alien . Szeto is kidnapped ( we later learn there were other kidnappings of C . I . A . people ) by helicopter , and Alien shoots Grace to death . Based on what they know , Tango and Koo offer themselves to the C . I . A . scientist on the project as guinea pigs in an effort to find Alien . They have already contacted the person at Langley to get his help , but he is one of these unsympathetic bastards in upper bureaucratic positions that always insist on moving as little or as stupidly as possible ( think of Ned Beatty in the comedy HOPSCOTCH ) . This one even looks sinister with a pointed beard . The two heroes do go through a crash course in becoming supermen . Then they invade the enemy headquarters , where Alien is working with a scientist ) . This is also one of those films where the amoral assassin and his partners remain ( until near the end ) one step ahead of everyone else . It turns out that the man behind the scheme is a big time media mogul ( a Murdoch-clone , or Turner-clone ) with a Jewish name ( Rosenbloom ) , who is scheming to use subliminal messages sent over his satellite system throughout Asia to cause massive rioting and unrest for his own fun and profit ( he even is quoted as saying , " Should be fun ! " ) . Remember , this is supposed to be good for Wall Street . I am trying to figure out how - it's never explained but taken for granted . To add to the problem of the story , the C . I . A . idiot who is a secondary villain arrests Szeto , Koo , and Tango because they have " gummed up the works " ( although they actually broke open the case and rescued all the kidnapped C . I . A . personnel ) . In a crazy moment Koo manages to break free , grabs a gun , and in defending himself shoots several C . I . A . agents ( to the applause of the audience I imagine ) . His adrenaline is up , as is that weird untried training system . Tango has been handcuffed to a bench , but Szeto tries to stop Koo , and he accidentally kills her . Koo escapes . Tango is " treated " at Langley to forget much , but to be used to kill Koo for murdering Szeto . The last half hour of the film is Koo trying to reach out to Tango ( at least temporarily ) to stop the scheme and to get Alien . The acting is tolerable , and towards the end even a trifle sad in seeing what the C . I . A . did to Tango and Koo . The story , aside from going into bizarre heights to attack our secret police agency ( there are subtler ways to do so ) actually is coherent . Interestingly Mr . Rosenbloom is never seen paying for his share of the crimes as his cohorts do - maybe Wall Street ( far healthier in 1998 than now ) protected one of its own ! !
A Good Western , but one moment I shudder at	It is generally considered that the best of Errol Flynn's westerns was THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON , with DODGE CITY second best . SILVER RIVER has his most interesting western role - he's a greedy empire builder in it . VIRGINIA CITY has a plot that strains the mind ( and the only real U . S . patriot in the film is not one of the leads but a man who usually plays villains ) . SAN ANTONIO is the best looking due to the richness of the colors in the film . It has a fairly good plot , and a pair of worthy ( and cross-purposed ) villains ( Paul Kelly and Victor Francken ) . Wisely Flynn's leading lady from GENTLEMAN JIM ( Alexis Smith ) is back - their chemistry is not as good as Flynn's with Olivia De Haviland , but it comes close . I have no problem recommending it . . . except for one moment that always bothers me . Warner Brothers was blessed with a great set of available character actors ( including Francken , who helped spice up many productions like THE BEAST WITH FIVE FINGERS and THE MASQUE OF DEMETRIOS ) . One of the best for comic spicing was S . Z . " Cuddles " Sakall . A lovable Hungarian , he appears in many of the best Warners films of the period , such as YANKEE DOODLE DANDY , Christmas IN CONNECTICUT , TEA FOR TWO . He was a great scene stealer , and had a rivalry with Alan Hale Sr . regarding Hale's equal ability to steal scenes . He was many things - he was not meant to be a corpse . In this film he witnesses a serious crime by Francken , but the latter realizes it . Since he is a careful man he is not going to be foolish enough to blab about the killing , but Francken is no fool either , and basically warns Sakall that if he even thinks of talking he ( Francken ) will kill Sakall . It is necessary for the film plot , but it is very unsettling to think that anyone could think of putting a bullet into " Cuddles " .
The title should have been " Witless "	I am going to give this lousy movie a " 6 " , mostly due to the acting of Debbie Reynolds , Tony Curtis , and ( best of all ) Walter Matthau in trying to lift the idiotic plot . Also it's a nod to Vincent Minelli , a director who when good is indeed good - but not here . I have nothing against sex in comedy : they go hand in hand ever since Aristophanes wrote LYSISTRATA . George Axelrod was no Aristophanes ( he would barely touch that master's knees ) . However , he could construct plays of interest ( THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH ) and he had a hand in the screenplays of a number of first rate film ( Wilder's version of THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH , BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S , THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE ( 1962 version ) ) . But this film is crap . The story should be more promising : Charlie is the friend of fellow writer George ( Tony Curtis ) , and both are ladies men . While on the yacht of Hollywood producer Sir Leopold Sartori ( Matthau ) he makes a play for Lady Rusty Sartori ( Laura Devon ) , and is caught by the husband . What follows may be based on the popular idea of the fate of film producer Thomas Ince in 1924 on William Randolph Hearst's yacht . Charlie is shot dead jumping overboard . His body is not recovered . Friend George is supposed to handle the funeral . Only a few people show up - Charlie's sex escapades and his debts left him with few friends . George finds he has been left executor of a bankrupt and debt encrusted estate , and he can't do anything to fix it . Shortly after all the mourners leave , and after George falls asleep , his doorbell is knocked on . He finds a young man named Bruce Minton III ( Pat Boone ) with a woman who seems to be in shock . The woman is Debbie Reynolds , whom Minton found wondering around the highway naked and dazed . Minton does put her into his coat , but deposits her ( out of necessity - for want of any sensible explanation ) with an outraged George . George allows her to spend the night , but the next day she suddenly reveals that she is the dead Charlie , cruelly reincarnated as a woman ( albeit an attractive woman ) . When George finally realizes this he tries to help Charlie get back to normal . But Charlie has other ideas . Like blackmailing old girlfriends and romancing every man in Hollywood - starting with Sir Leopold , whom he / she owes a " favor " to . That is the foundation of this story . There have been attempts to do justice to reincarnation stories , but this is hardly the best attempt . Axelrod basically gets his best jabs when the female Charlie keeps acting too masculine ( he / she slaps the rear of a female employee of the beauty parlor he / she is attending ) . That Charlie and George inevitably start falling for each other ( despite their mutual realization of how sick the situation is ) is inevitable , but it too is not funny . Still , as I said , the leads and some of the supporting actors ( including an up-and-coming Ellen Burstyn ) give a good try for it . Best is Matthau , who ( despite a poor Hungarian accent ) does well as Sir Leopold ( a film clone of the real English movie producer / mogul , Sir Alexander Korda , who was married to the gorgeous Merle Oberon for many years ) . He is childish , monstrous , and inept in trying to be smooth at the same time . But this material is lousy , and it is a monument to Matthau's ability that he pushes it as far as he can . Reynolds is too shrill at times at the transformation she has suffered , and is best as the poisonous blackmailer / user . Curtis is fine , but has few moments to rise in the material given him . Boone does well , but he has little to do but look like a love-sick puppy dog towards Reynolds . See it once for the cast and Minelli , and then never watch it again if you can avoid it .
Protecting A Center of Evil	I saw this odd " comedy " in the early 1970s when I was at college . It is not a great comedy - barely a passingly good comedy . But it has a situation in it that is still somewhat relevant , even if the characters have changed . The issue is : if you know a foreign government is evil and hates your country , your country's governmental philosophy , and most of the people in your country , how can you formally protect its representatives when they are under diplomatic title ? Claire Booth Luce wrote one of the best comedies of the 1930s , " The Women " , which was turned into a memorable film comedy with Joan Crawford , Norma Shearer , Rosalind Russell , Joan Fontaine , Paulette Goddard , and Mary Boland . As the film's advertisements said , " It is " The Women " , and it's all about Men ! ! ! " , as the film is about the way women manipulate and fight over men . Despite some dating due to social changes ( the social set is centered on the " gold coast " of Long Island ) it still can be revived on stage - and has been in the last three years successfully . Not so with " Margin For Error " . Ms Luce , like her husband Henry ( the publisher of " Time " and " Newseek " and " Life Magazine " ) , was a mixture of good and bad ideas . The bad ones included a snobby anti-Semitism that arose from time to time . Alexander King once pointed out that every time TIME mentioned Leo Trotsky , Luce would have " ( nee Bronstein ) " after Trotsky's name . But Luce and his wife were aware of the real threat of Hitler's type of anti-Semitism . They were therefore aware that while they disdained social contact with Jews ( and definitely disliked left wing Jews ) they would not plan to kill every Jew . It never crossed their minds , of course , that the Hitler style of anti-Semitism was aided by the Luce style of it . Fiorello LaGuardia , known as New York's greatest Mayor , is recalled as our first Italian American Mayor . But his mother was of Hungarian Jewish ancestry . LaGuardia was therefore half-Jewish . He resented Hitler's anti-Semitism , and in the 1930s , while Fritz Kuhn led the American Bundists in Yorkville ( in Manhattan ) , LaGuardia purposely put Jewish-American cops in front of the German consulate to " protect it " . They did , as a matter of fact , as LaGuardia realized that the presence of the Jewish cops was a provoking insult to the Nazis . Claire Luce was aware of this , and it is the basis of " Margin For Error " . The consulate of the Nazis , headed by arch Nazi Karl Baumer ( Otto Preminger ) , is a center of spying against the U . S . A . , and of third column work by Bundists . Baumer is married to Sophia ( Joan Bennett ) who is carrying on an affair with his secretary Baron Max von Envenstor ( Carl Esmond ) . The Bundist leader is Otto Horst ( Howard Freeman - doing a watered down version of his " Himmler " performance in " Hitler's Madman " ) . Baumer is not lovable at all ( which explains his wife's affair ) . He is thoroughly involved with destroying the U . S . A . for his masters in Berlin . He is also aware that Horst ( who has dreams of becoming America's " Fuhrer " , like Kuhn did ) has been dipping his hands into the till of the Bund . After a particularly nasty incident involving anti-Semitic comments , Baumer is sent word from City Hall that there will be a new police officer protecting the consulate . Enter Officer Moe Finklestein ( Milton Berle ) . Baumer of course is absolutely furious at this individual being " given " to him for protection . Since Finklestein is not a German national or ally , he returns the comments that Baumer shoots at him with interest . As you can see the play has many plot lines in it - perhaps too many . The crisis comes when there is a confrontation scene involving Baumer with his wife and his Secretary , and Horst , and Finklestein within earshot . Baumer has his own agenda , including framing Finklestein in an attempt on Baumer's own life to give a reason for Germany to break off diplomatic relations . But in the course of the confrontations , which occurs during an evening where there is a power failure , Baumer is found dead in his study with knife wounds in his body . Who is responsible ? While it may seem somewhat interesting the film moves too slowly . It is best served by Preminger ( as several reviewers point out ) who makes himself at home as the charismatic but evil diplomat . Freeman adds to it , playing Horst as an ambitious but rather fatuous type ( his bund uniform looks a size too small for his plump form ) . Bennett has had far better roles in other films - this is not in her top 20 films . Esmond is adequate . As for Berle , he really never got into the swing of film acting until after his success as a television pioneer . He'd prefer being remembered for " It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World " and " Who's Minding The Mint " than for this film . Even his sleazy film agent in " The Oscar " was a surer performance . But then his material is not great . Yet for a minor film " Margin For Error " remains on one's mind . Whenever we have an incident where a country's diplomats ( Cuban , or North Korean , or Libyan , or Iranian ) have insulted our population or segments of it , and then insisted on protection for the same diplomats in their work , we have to grit our teeth and do it . We are not handing Nazi German diplomats anymore , but the central issue at the heart of the plot remains with us to annoy us .
Chewbaca's Cousin in the Oregon Woods ?	When a horror film is done properly it grips the imagination ( and secret dread ) of the viewers , so that they admire the end result despite the fears it has resurrected . A good horror film can achieve these results even with the barest of film budgets ( such as THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT a decade ago ) . One marvels at one of the most effective moments in that film - when the female is all alone in that spooky , haunted , deadly wood at night , in her tent , speaking into the video machine's recorder and holding a flashlight to her face showing the strain her isolation has left her in . The thought for that effect must have been considerable , but the expense was minimal . And it remains in our memory as effective . NIGHT OF THE DEMON shares a similar sounding title to the American release title THE NIGHT OF THE DEMON , which was known in England as CURSE OF THE DEMON , and is one of the best horror films of the 1950s . NIGHT OF THE DEMON is an attempt to build a horror film about the question of the existence of " Big Foot " , the American " Abominable Snowman " that supposedly exists in the forests of Oregon and Washington . Tall and furry with reddish hair , " Big Foot " usually is supposed to look a little like Chewbaca in the STAR WARS films . Whether or not " Big Foot " really exists is an issue I am not prepared to discuss . The creature has appeared in other films , probably most notably the comedy HARRY AND THE HENDERSONS . Here the story is about how a group of students accompany a professor on an anthropology trek into the north-woods to see if they can find the creature . The students are made aware of the history ( as it is ) of " Big Foot " , where he supposedly came from , whom has he terrorized and killed . We see how his father creature raped his mother ( a farm-girl that was thrown out by her fanatical father ) , and how the father shot and killed the father of " Big Foot " after the rape . Eventually they do meet the creature in a deserted cabin , only to be destroyed by him ( only the badly burned professor survives the encounter . It is the professor that is telling the story of the creature's crimes . One is , of course , listening to his retelling these tales , of lovers being butchered , or wanderers being killed , wondering why anyone would seek to meet such a creature at all . It vaguely reminds one of the old cliché from the Universal Horror cycle films of the 1930s that there were some areas of knowledge mankind should not delve into . The film has memorable sequences . It does give pure shock value - most notably when a motorcyclist taking a pee by the side of the road gets his penis ripped off by " Big Foot " as a result . What I find fascinating is that the shock value of this and some other really awful moments are treated as so funny by many viewers . Somehow total amputation of a sex organ is hardly humorous . Nor is the use of a person's large intestine as a whip like devise to attack other people with . But both sequences stick to the memory even if they certainly go beyond the point of good taste . A better effect is the murder of a young couple in a van having sex , particularly as the bloodied corpse of the young man is slowly dropped from the vehicle's roof . I will give the film's creators their due in the use of music that lulls the viewer into a sense of false security , and some effects in the film ( making the lens seem to be a green and red tinted eyeball at times ) . For it's strengths I willingly give the film a . But the graphic nature of some of the effects make it less enjoyable to most viewers ( I think ) than other horror films are . One sequence that I watched I will try to correct a small error in the descriptions that are given of it . Two young women are mentioned by as having been probably killed by the monster . We see what happened : they are shown walking together when they start running from " Big Foot " , who catches them . They are stabbed to death . Now the sequence has been dismissed as another silly joke by some viewers . Reason : the girls are holding knives when they are walking through the woods , and continue holding them when they are running from the monster , and when caught . So that " Big Foot " ( according to one reviewer ) does a crazy " Hoky Koky " dance causing the two girls to stab each other to death by pushing them into each other . This is criticized as being stupid because the girls should just drop their knives . The two young women are scout leaders , and they are holding the knives because they are protecting themselves in that dense wood . The appearance of the monster causes them to get flustered , and ( even before " Big Foot " reaches them ) bump into each other while holding their weapons ( though without wounding each other ) . They don't drop the knives because they still rely on these weapons to help protect them . In doubling back to escape they run into " Big Foot " , who grabs them by the arms they hold the knives in - AT THE WRISTS ! They can't drop the knives . He then keeps knocking the two into each other's arms ( severing blood vessels in those limbs ) and then forces the girl's hands into each other's chests and necks . We watch them both gradually get fully bloodied by each other , until they both die from blood loss . It is a rather grim sequence - hardly funny at all .
Savor a bit of Swedish History	I have commented before on the paucity of American films dealing with the history of Canada and Mexico ( our next door neighbors ) . We are easily receptive to films made here or in the British Commonwealth about the history of England , and then we have a tendency to enjoy films about the history of France . But then it is spotty . Films about Germany deal with it's military history or the Nazis ( how many Americans would sit through a film about Goethe or Schiller - a few years back a film about Beethoven appeared , and was not a box office favorite ) . It gets weaker too when we edge to Scandanavia . Ask how many historic films deal with Sweden ( which once was the dominant power in Eastern Europe ) I can only recall two historical films made in America : " Queen Christina " and " Desiree " . The former showed Greta Garbo ( finally playing a Swedish person of importance ) as the 17th Century ruler who abdicated in 1655 . The latter dealt with French people surrounding one of the world's most fascinating men : Napoleon Bonaparte . But Napoleon was Marlon Brando , and the film followed the career of one of the women in Napoleon's life who ended up not in bed with him but with one of his rivals . Desiree Clary ( Jean Simmons ) had dated Napoleon when he was a young officer , but his career and ambitions took him away from her . However , she met a rival of Bonaparte , Jean Bernadotte . Bernadotte ( who would eventually rise to be one of the Emperor's Marshalls , and a persistent critic , was sent into ambassadorial exile in 1809 to Sweden , taking his wife and son with him . As French Ambassador to Stockholm , he ingratiated himself into the affections of the childless King of Sweden , as well as the people . In 1811 , shortly before his death , the King of Sweden made Bernadotte his heir - and the Swedish public acclaimed the decision . It turned out to be very wise : Bernadotte had grown disgusted by Napoleon's continuous warfare , and once he became King of Sweden he joined with the Russians and Austrians and Prussians in working for the end of Napoleons wars . As a result , in 1815 , the Congress of Vienna accepted Bernadotte's title as King , and even granted him territory ( all of Norway ) taken from Napoleon's faithful ally , Denmark . This forced union lasted until 1905 ( it was peacefully settled ) . But the family of the Bernadottes still are the reigning family of Sweden . The film is lopsided . Simmons plays her role well enough , but it is not really developed as an independent character . Her husband is played by Michael Rennie , and he does what he can to show his growing disenchantment with his rival . Brando is superb as Bonaparte - witness the scene where to satisfy his sisters who resent having to hold the train of their sister-in-law Josephine ( Merle Oberon , in a touching and sad performance ) , gives them silly titles that they are so happy to get as awards for holding the train . But such scenes are rare . The film is not as static and dull as Sacha Guitry's 1955 film " Napoleon " , but it has an improbable script . While I will note that Napoleon did more than anyone to spread the ideals of the French Revolution around Europe and the world , he never mouthed a statement that he sought to create a United States of Europe ( as Brando , at the end of the film , tells Simmons ) . More likely he wanted a United States of Napoleon , though one where there was more opportunity for everyone to move upwardly than in the 18th Century courts that existed . It is a colorful film , and the performances are not bad ( especially Brando and Oberon ) , but it ain't French history . But I'll give it a 6 for a brief window into Swedish history .
Flawed History , but it had it's moments	I remember watching this series and trying to explain a critical short scene in it ( regarding Charles XII of Sweden and his fencing teacher ) to a friend of mine . Charles is a young man ( like his Russian opposite number Peter ) , but he has a small country of limited resources which by a fluke has become Europe's number three political power in 1699 . Peter has a nation weakened by civil wars and foreign invaders , which he is striving to modernize . It has population and resources . If he can do it , he can make it the third greatest power in Europe ( after France and Britain ) . Charles is aware of this so he will become Peter's greatest enemy . But while Peter is involved in every facet of modernization , Charles rules a modern country . He just has to concentrate on military matters . Charles however has a flaw : he is not a realist but a romantic . He reads Plutarch's Lives of the Ancient Greeks and Romans , and believes he should mold his character to reflect their better characters . So while his political ancestors , Gustavus Adolphus , Queen Christiana , used the military on limited grounds , Charles would use it to avenge his personal honor . This flaw is shown in the scene where he is in fencing training . He is a good fencer , and has cornered his teacher , but momentarily lets his guard down for some trivial reason not concerning his fighting ability . But the fencing master , because he has been trounced so thoroughly , sees he can end the game on a fencing technical error - he moves and prevents Charles from picking up the sword . Charles is award of the technical mistake , but between gentleman in a training session it should be lightly forgiven and definitely not taken advantage of . This does not happen . The fencing master smiles as he politely lifts his foot off Charles ' foil blade but announces the King has lost . Charles waits a moment , and then slices the fencing master on his cheek as punishment . Sadistic - yes , but it was based on the fencing master not behaving as a gentleman and not showing respect to his employer . That was Charles - and he certainly might be considered certifiable . His wars with Peter lasted a decade , and two of them , the Swedish victory at Nerva , and the final Russian victory at Poltava are shown . Charles is frequently said to be the forerunner of Napoleon and Hitler in mistakenly invading Russia . But he invaded Russia when Peter was trying to modernize and organize it . It was a better run country in both 1812 and 1941 . And Charles did one thing the other two never grasped . He never fully had the supply problem of Napoleon ( with his half a million men invasion force ) and Hitler ( with his multi-hundred thousand men armies ) , but when it was cut , Charles simply ordered his men to consider themselves a vast robber-band to plunder the Russians for supplies . It worked for a decade ( longer than Napoleon's half year or Hitler's two and a half years ) - which suggests that there was a possible solution to the supply mess that destroyed the other two leaders . It was a failure of Charles ' army at Poltava that made the Swedish invasion a disaster . Had he returned with his forces intact , we would consider Charles a military genius today . There are little scenes like that that made the series worth watching . But it did not go deeply enough into Peter's motivations and limitations ( like Stalin he could panic too easily ) . His important reforms in government structure were not dealt with ( possibly too boring for the audience - but it is part of his record ) . He is a really important figure . But on many points it struck the record properly . I also recommend the peculiar double tragedy of Peter and his son's religious differences , which led the Tsar to have the young man executed in 1718 . When realizing that the Tsar had to pursue modernizing his country , while his son wanted to maintain his right to worship Russo Orthodoxy in the old ( reactionary method ) - so the boy was standing up for religious freedom of conscience . It was a very odd double tragedy .
For Robert Pasterelli and Phil Leeds	Robert Pasterelli had been a fixture in the cast of MURPHY BROWN as Eldin , the artistic house painter ( and political liberal ) who is painting Murphy's home room by room ( each one with a special mural ) and acting as her political and social conscience . Then , in 1995 , his character was written out of MURPHY BROWN when Eldin suddenly gets a huge sum of money as a legacy , on the proviso of studying art in Europe and doing a certain amount of work . This was done because the producers and network planned a series for Pasterelli called DOUBLE RUSH . He owns a delivery service that works with skates and bicycles , and is barely holding it's own against larger competition in New York City . One of the employees ( the oldest one , nicknamed " the Kid " ) was Phil Leeds . Leeds had been one of the best scene stealing comedians in film and television for decades , and this one show was his only chance to show himself as a regular . And he did do well . But the show was a flop . Bad time slot , and a lack of network pushing caused it to only last one season . Which was a sad because , if the show was not riotously funny , it had potential . Leeds died within three years . As for Pasterelli , he did return to MURPHY BROWN in it's final episodes , but his career really lost momentum . His personal life also got shattered by the somewhat mysterious drug death of his girlfriend , followed by his own death from an overdose a few years later . This " 6 " is for both performers , who were really affective ( especially Leeds ) at their best .
Possibly could have been called " Bloody Confusion "	" 24 Hours in London " is one of those films you have to watch to know you have seen it once . Then you never bother with it again . Gary Olsen plays " Christian " ( a misnomer if ever there was one ) , who is a sadistic crime boss centered in London at the start of the current millennium ( he and his second-in-command reminisce at one point about their torturing a rival in 1996 at one point ) . Christian is in the midst of eliminating his rivals in London , and capping it off with a partnership with Lloyd ( again a misnomer - a woman with a man's name played by Lorelie King ) who heads an American syndicate . If his plans succeed he will be stronger than ever . The story somehow is similar to that of the rise and fall of the Kray Brothers back in the 1950s to 1960s , usually at the expense of their rivals the Richardson Brothers . But for all the brutality of the Krays ( and they were quite brutal ) , the Krays never really go to the crazy lengths of Christian . Totally amoral ( something not quite true about the Krays - they were critical in their later years at the treatment of elderly people by punks ) , Christian is willing to spread terror to unconnected third parties as tactics in getting what he wants . We see from the start the maniacal determination to remove obstacles when a young woman ( Martha - Anjela Lauren Smith ) stumbles upon the extermination of a rival of Christian ( no better description ) followed by his leading murder squad ( including Sarah Stockbridge and David Sonnenthal ) . All witnesses are executed , but by an error Martha survives . She is taken to police headquarters and reveals what she knows . The police are happy because they've wanted to get the goods on Christian for years . But they are dealing with a dangerous opponent . Christian has one officer in the headquarters under control , and is aware of every move made by Scotland Yard . He also is brazen enough to shoot his way into the Yard to get at Martha . Later he is also willing to give the London police a series of bombings ( with high casualty rates ) to occupy their time . This is not going to be an easy road to a conviction . The problem is that the unstable nature of his own people work against Christian . Stockbridge and her fellow killer / lover are psychos who get the right mood by their mayhem . They do shoot their ways into the Yard , but Stockbridge's lover gets fatally injured by one of the police ( he gets a spike in his eye ) . It unsettles her when she is alone to carry out her mission , so she goes out of an elevator guns blazing . She faces a lone armed guard ( Polly Moore ) who has been told to stay there or be shot . As a result of the double pressures on both women they succeed in fatally shooting each other ( though a determined Stockbridge does get to the room where the witness is , only to die there ) . The film is saved from being a total waste because the acting is okay ( no more than that though ) . Stockbridge is a sexy enough killer , and Olson is threatening - but more should have been showed of his interest in the far east ( he has personal judo lessons and Asiatic tattoos , and he likes using a sharp Japanese sword as a weapon ) . There is also some amusing moments ( oddly enough ) , when Olson uses an annoying rival gang to try to kill the witness . That gang actually makes so many errors that they kill a man who is sleeping in bed ( an undercover cop as it turns out ) , and one of their own members before getting shot by the police . But the film is best appreciated by people who just enjoy mindless violence . The plot actually gets so convoluted with hidden agendas and secrets of the characters , that the viewer finds it impossible to follow the mess . I wish that I could say something more positive , but that is about all I could say .
An interesting introduction to the works of Kurt Vonnegut ( thru 1972 )	When I went to college in the early 1970s the leading contemporary American novelists who were popular were Kurt Vonnegut and Richard Brautigan . Brautigan's TROUT FISHING IN America was very popular , but his subsequent writings failed to maintain his popularity . Not so Vonnegut , whose string of successes lasted far longer . I read SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE , GOD BLESS YOU MR . ROSEWATER , CAT'S CRADLE , THE SIRENS OF TITAN , MOTHER NIGHT , and the other books . So this particular television show really interested me . It was like a selection of episodes from the various novels and short stories of Vonnegut , hosted ( as news reporters ) by Bob Elliot and Ray Goulding . Goulding is reprising the role of " Walter Gesundheit " he played in a movie a few years earlier . Eliott is playing an astronaut ( like Wally Schirra , who frequently appeared with Walter Cronkite at space shots ) . They get bogged down trying to recall Neil Armstrong's first words upon the Moon surface . William Hickey played Stony Stevenson , the best friend of the hero in THE SIRENS OF TITAN . He is chosen to be the world's first time traveler , and we see him going from one place to another . Hickey meets Dr . Hoenikker / Hurd Hatfield ( creator of " Ice 9 " - and an example of the short sightedness of government sponsored science ) , and Bokonon / Kevin McCarthy ( the ultimately powerless religious leader ) from CAT'S CRADLE . He meets Wanda June from Vonnegut's play . He sees the threat of puritanical-ism mixed with inane political correctness in the future when he crosses the path of one woman vigilante Diane Moon Gompers . The show as an introduction to Vonnegut was very good . Parts of it were shot in Flushing Meadow Park , not far from my home . So I thoroughly enjoyed the program .
The Best Remembered Earthquake ?	The San Francisco Earthquake happened 99 years ago next week . Ironically it's anniversary is a few days after the anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic , as well as the assassination of Abraham Lincoln . Forgotten is also the anniversary on April 27 of the explosion and burning of the steamboat Sultana in 1865 ( which killed more people than the Titanic did ! ) . Truly T . S . Eliot's comment , " April is the cruelest month " has some substantial facts to back it . There are not many movies dealing with famous earthquakes , although they do appear in films like PENNY SERENADE ( where Irene Dunne and Cary Grant survive the great Tokyo earthquake of 1923 ) . The San Francisco Earthquake has popped up in other films besides SAN FRANCISCO . Within two years of this film Warner Brothers produced THE SISTERS starring Bette Davis and Errol Flynn , in which Davis survives the earthquake . There was at least on silent film dealing with the earthquake too . But SAN FRANCISCO is the best known . I find it good as an entertaining film , and mediocre as a study of the actual events of April 18 - 25 , 1906 . The performances of Gable , MacDonald , Tracy , Ralph , and Jack Holt are all good . Al Shean gives a nice cameo as a musician who champions MacDonald . Even Ted Healy is less obnoxious here - he has a good dying scene . The most interesting thing about the film is the way the focus of villainy keeps shifting between Gable and Holt . We know that Clark Gable's Blackie is the hero of the film , but he frequently acts like an antihero in pushing aside MacDonald's operatic ambitions . We know that Holt is Gable's ruthless business rival , and the leader of the money people who refuse to consider fireproofing the buildings of the Barbary Coast area ( it's not economical ) . But he does love MacDonald , and can't believe Gable's totally selfish intention to keep her working in his saloon rather than putting her in her proper spot on the stage of the San Francisco opera home . This seesaw effect is usually not noted by critics of the film . It is actually a plus in keeping one's interest in the actual plot . My carping criticism is of a typically historical nature . The best study of the earthquake is Gordon Thomas and Max Gordon Witt's THE SAN FRANCISCO EARTHQUAKE , which points out the huge amount of official corruption in the background of the earthquake . The city was run by Boss Abe Ruef and his mayor-stooge-partner , Eugene Schmitz ( a former bassoon player in an orchestra ) . They ignored improving the fire department's equipment , and as a result the earthquake would touch off a fire that was impossible to control . The fire was only stopped when federal troops under General Frederick Funston took over the city , set up martial law ( possibly going too far - there were too many reports of killings done to prevent looting but that killed innocent people ) , and using dynamite to blast holes into the paths of the flames . Some aspects of this are shown in the earthquake sequences , but Schmitz and Ruef were not mentioned , nor was Funston ( a war hero - he helped end the Phillippine " Insurrection of 1899 - 1902 " by capturing Emilio Aguinaldo , it's leader , by a trick ) . Also more recent studies show the extent of the damage of the earthquake was greater than admitted in 1906 . For years the casualty rate was estimated as only 500 ( roughly the same as the Chicago Fire in 1871 and one third of the Titanic ) . About a decade ago a more careful study of census information , etc . showed the death toll was between 3 , 500 to 6 , 000 , making it one of the deadliest events in American history . The city of San Francisco did resurrect and rebuild itself quickly after the quake and fire . Ruef was sent to jail and Schmitz sent packing . San Francisco held World Fairs in 1915 and 1939-40 . It is a most beloved city for tourists on our west coast to this day . But they know , with their San Andreas Fault nearby to remind them , that it will inevitably happen again one day . They are better prepared , but it will happen , and it will be a bad day once more when it does .
Nice photography and film , and some information on flowers and the ladies of Japan	It is the excellent film stock and photography of this Fitzpatrick travelogue that make it worthwhile to see in the year 2008 . By now most of the women shown in it have probably died , and one wonders how much modern Japan really resembles the society shown in this 1937 short . But it does have it's point . Fitzpatrick shows the loves of flowers including tulips but also cherry blossoms in Japan , and then shows how the love of flower is mirrored in the dressing and coiffuring of women in the country . The hairdos of Japanese ladies were supposed to tell you everything about them ( married , single , widowed , childless , having children ) . So was the kimono , but even more the fancy styled obi ( sash ) which was to show social class and wealth . So you do learn something still from this travelogue , though how much of it is still relevant is another matter .
Uneven but interesting tragic western	This was one of the westerns made in the 1960s and 1970s , including Ford's CHEYENNE AUTUMN and LITTLE BIG MAN which presented the westward expansion as the disaster it was to the Native Americans . Ford's film concentrated to the attempt of an entire tribe to flee to Canada to avoid being cooped up on a reservation . LITTLE BIG MAN looked at the long series of insults and thefts suffered by the Native Americans leading up to the Battle of the Little Big Horn ( their great victory over the politically ambitious Custer - in this film - and the point where their doom got sealed ) . Those films occur in 1876 - 77 . TELL THEM WILLY BOY WAS HERE occurs some three decades later ( 1909 ) , and shows the hopelessness of their situation . The screenplay is not quite even . It is notable that the author of the original novel , Harry Lawton - who died a few weeks ago - was writing the script with director Abraham Polonsky . This may explain the uneven handling . Polonsky , who was a victim of the Hollywood Blacklist , was notable for his radical point of view ( best shown in his 1947 John Garfield film FORCE OF EVIL ) . But he was an expert screenplay writer , and his view of the rights of Native Americans would be similar to those of Lawton . According to Lawton's obituaries he remained committed to Native American rights and culture throughout his life . Willy Boy ( Robert Blake ) kills a man who was bigoted and goaded him . He is pursued by a posse led by Robert Redford , which is determined to get the young man because of his background . Redford , a bit more fair minded , wants to just catch him to bring him to trial , but one gets the impression as the film continues how hopeless this hope is . It would be sort of like Henry Fonda being in charge of the lynch mob in THE OX-BOW INCIDENT to try to control their passions ( and probably as unsuccessful ) . To confuse matters , the killing takes place near an inn that newly elected President William Howard Taft is visiting on a political trip . Taft's presence in the locale makes the newspaper reporters wonder if they are getting the full facts from the sheriff . Why so much intense searching for this Indian ? Is it ( as they are told ) that he killed a local man and he is quite adept at hiding in the deserts of Utah ? Or , is he part of a massive conspiracy of Indians planning to kill Taft ? To us , knowing the actual incident , it seems ridiculous , but keep in mind that since 1865 three U . S . Presidents were assassinated for political reasons , the last ( McKinley ) in 1901 . Also , while thirty three years since Little Big Horn , and nineteen since Wounded Knee , the possibility of an Indian uprising was not hard to dismiss ( the great chief Geronimo died in 1905 , shortly after attending Theodore Roosevelt's inauguration - we were that close in time to the period when he was on the warpath ) . The film goes to it's tragic conclusion - a long , hard chase to the death of a representative of a defeated people . But the final victory is Blake's . In the end Willy Boy becomes the legend of the Native American who would not surrender .
The Beauties of the " Golden Gate " City	Another of the easy-to-take Fitzpatrick travelogues . This one I find most interesting in it's second half . The film has the great photography and film stock that we expect from Fitzpatrick , as he tells the story of the city of San Francisco from it's first appearance as a mission in 1769 to the modern day of 1940 . The Oakland Bridge and the Golden Gate Bridge are both shown . So is the only building left over from the 1915 World's Fair . Then it concentrates on the Treasure Island World's Fair of 1939-40 , and the cavalcade of American Expansion showing such events as the pioneers in their cover wagons , the Wells Fargo Stagecoachs , the laying of the Golden Spike at Promintory Point , Utah in 1869 , and San Francisco in the gay 1890s . As a record of a long forgotten World's Fair attraction it is fascinating to look at . Oddly though , the most famous event in the city's history is not mentioned : it's determined rebuilding after the 1906 earthquake and fire . But then earthquakes are not good for tourism , and this travelogue was to encourage tourism .
A Nice , Forgettable Little Comedy	I recall that for many years this was the only one of Harold Lloyd's movies that occasionally turned up on screen in New York City . It is a passably funny film about an archaeologist who falls for the daughter of a tycoon and finds himself fighting the forces of Wall Street and fate itself to get the young lady . Lloyd's character is trying to fight an apparent curse from the tomb that he opened . The film literally goes to it's conclusion before the viewers learn if the curse will or will not work . Lloyd is ably supported in the film by Raymond Walburn , William Frawley , Lionel Stander , and Thurston Hall . Phyllis Welch was the young woman Lloyd pursues . She did nicely in the role , but not spectacularly . Her career soon faded from sight . Of the sound films made by Lloyd , " Professor Beware " usually is near the bottom . It is better ( in my opinion ) than " Welcome Danger " or " Feet First " , but it falls below the other four sound films . The problem with it is that it lacks any relationship to the type of film identified with Lloyd at his peak . It's situation comedy plot could have been done by most other comedians or leading men of the day . But it is not a total failure , and is worth watching .
Pleasant on a wet , June , Sunday afternoon	Ambrose Bierce , that perceptive ( if dark ) critic of his fellow creatures and ( especially ) fellow Americans , wrote a pair of definitions in his DEVIL'S DICTIONARY . Academe ( the ancient Greek term ) was a place where wisdom and ethics were taught . Academy ( the modern version ) was a place where knowledge and football were taught . That image , of college as a four year football game with the student body as a big cheer leading squad , was probably ingrained into Americans in the 19th Century by dime novel hero " Frank Merriwell " of Yale who Burton Standish made a paragon of sport and sportsmanship , and who always scored the winning touchdown at the last moment of the game ( isn't that the way it always happens ? ) . The image persisted throughout the 1920s , 1930s , and 1940s . Films as diverse as the Marx Brothers HORSE FEATHERS ( which actually probed the idiocy of this view to it's extreme - Professor Quincy Adams Wagstaff's tenure as new President is shaky unless he gets Huxley a football victory ) to GOOD NEWS ( where June Alyson's expertise as a French Major is dragooned to assist the football hero with failing grades - Peter Lawford ! ) kept up this image . COLLEGE HUMOR is no different from these . To a small mid-western college comes Jack Oakie , the son of a wealthy creamery owner . Oakie does not have to get a degree - he'd inherit the business . But his father sends him , and he was a high school football hero . So he intends to join the college football team . We watch as he is bullied by senior classmates Richard Arlen and Joe Sawyer in a process leading to his acceptance into the college fraternity , and his acceptance by his fraternity brothers . Their bullying does not prevent them cadging cigarettes and money from Oakie . The college's teaching staff includes Bing Crosby , who naturally sings many of his lessons , but actually is teaching drama and singing . We see Jimmy Conlon and James Burke as two other faculty members , but the film does not explain what they teach . Oakie is introduced to the sorority on the campus by Arlen , and meets his future girlfriend Mary Kornman ( who is a feather head , but pretty ) , and Arlen is dating Lona Andre . We see that Sawyer , Arlen , and Oakie make up a great football team backbone , and then Sawyer leaves three weeks before he was supposed to graduate . More about this point later . The new school year begins , and Arlen meets Oakie's sister , Mary Carlisle . She is very sweet to him , but she falls for Crosby ( who falls for her ) . This leads to Arlen's growing jealousy , and his increased alcoholism . He is arrested for drunk and disorderly behavior , and Crosby gets him out in time for the big game - which he wins . But college President Lumsley Hare expels him for unbecoming behavior . In anger Crosby quits the faculty ( and tells off Hare as a pompous fathead ) . At that point I will leave off the remainder of the plot . The music in this film is pleasantly sung , in particularly THE OLD OX ROAD , which is a more earthy version of such later melodies in other films as FLIRTATION WALK and THE KISSING ROCK . THE OLD OX ROAD is " talk-sung " ( like Rex Harrison's style of singing in MY FAIR LADY ) , but I wonder if this method was used because of the current musical film work of Rodgers and Hart at Paramount ( where COLLEGE HUMOR was produced ) . Crosby concludes it with suitably melodic singing . There is also a wonderful song and dance by Burns and Allen during a college party they are catering , centered on Gracie's Irish ancestry . But though the film is pleasant enough it is actually fairly disjointed . The scene where Arlen meets Carlisle is described by Arlen , but we never see it . Was it shot but cut ? Why were Crosby's three cronies on the faculty shown in the opening scene and rarely shown afterward . Arlen's incarceration and release was told to Hare by his sources - my suspicions here is that a bookish fellow who had also gotten drunk and was in a nearby cell ( but escapes when Crosby got Arlen released ) probably told the President of the College . Again this is a guess . Then there is the interesting problem of Joe Sawyer . He tells Oakie that he has to leave school to earn a living three weeks before his graduation . What's the rush ? When we next see him , about a year later , he has a wife and two children with him at the football game . In modern parlance , it looks like he knocked up a girl and felt obliged to marry her . This was still possible to show in 1933 before the tightening of the movie moral codes , but it opens up some problem . When did Sawyer , who was a terrifically good quarterback , find the time and energy to date and impregnate the girl ? But the film's biggest problem is the failure to show ( really show ) the interest in the college to teach it's student body . This is not too hard to understand . College , in 1933 , was a rich person's prerogative - meant for the wealthy to prepare the next generation for it's role in ruling the world . Only gifted exceptions ( scholarship winners or football / sports phenomenon ) could get admission . An escape-seeking Depression audience seeing this film would not have cared to see the Lumsdale Hare version of college ( the realistic classrooms ) . They could tolerate Crosby teaching his students to croon to win at love , or Groucho and his recalcitrant students Harpo and Chico turning a classroom into a vaudeville turn . This film is a fascinating brief antique - it has very little reality in it , except in showing what the 1933 audience expected regarding it's setting .
France's First Revolutionary Dictator	The question will never be really answered : What was the exact set of goals of Maximillien Robespierre , lawyer from Arras , France , who was ( from July 1793 to June 1794 ) the central figure of public attention in France and the apparent dictator of the country ? We won't know because he failed in the end - in possibly the most satisfactory fall from power of any dictator in modern history . His secrets died with him . Robespierre has been painted as the great " green-eyed " monster of the Revolution . That was the phrase used by Thomas Carlyle in describing Robespierre in Carlyle's classic history of the revolution . A prissy , powder-wigged figure , who never found a kind word to say about anybody who was in power - and so undermined several rivals while he grew more powerful . He did give lip service to the Revolution's ideals , but apparently was more in love with the concept of mankind , than in individual men and women . He spoke about a cult of pure reason ( an idea he gathered from the philosophes , especially Jean-Jacques Rousseau ) and even held a festival for the cult shortly before he fell from power . Not really much to say about his program , except that his proscription made the Reign of Terror what it was . But was he blown out of size ? Some historians in the 20th Century feel that he was not all powerful . He was elected head of the Jacobin Club , and he was a member of the Committee of Public Safety - with eleven other men . The Committee was actually a committee set up with extraordinary powers by the National Assembly , and was supposed to run the war effort against Europe , and keep a lid on the problems on the home front . The historian R . R . Palmer ( in " Twelve Who Ruled " ) makes a good case that Robespierre was not the only one with authority , but that all these men did valuable work . In particular , Louis Lazare Carnot , an amateur who turned out to be one of military history's most amazingly , unexpected geniuses . Carnot built the great French Revolutionary armies that were to be the weapon that Napoleon and his marshals used to conquer most of Europe . But it was Robespierre ( along with his two closest allies on the Committee : Robert Couthon and Antoine St . Just ) who was the most fanatical in searching for hidden internal enemies . Their standards are the model for later similar " witch hunters " , like Heinrich Himmler , Laventi Beria , and Senator Joseph McCarthy - you find a weak point , spread a lie , and then pound the lie into everyone until it becomes the truth . Robespierre did this with the Royal Family , the Girondists ( moderates ) , General Lafayette ( fortunately in an Austrian prison when denounced ) , General Dumouriez ( who decided to surrender himself for safety sake to the Prussians ) , and then the radicals . He did not have to go after all his rivals . Jean Paul Marat would be stabbed by Charlotte Corday ( the Girondists later said they wished she had consulted with them , they would have pointed out another target ) . But he did confront and destroy his right of center moderate rival Georges Danton , and later his far left rival Hebert . There are , oddly enough , very few films dealing with this story . Robespierre does show up at the end of " Marie Antoinette " , and is Chauvin's boss in " The Scarlet Pimpernel " . The various versions of " A Tale Of Two Cities " do not need him ( he's not in Dicken's novel ) . Only two films deal with him that I am aware of . A French film , " Danton " , deals with his duel to the death with the great moderate and orator ( played by Gerard Depardieu ) , and how Danton warns the country of the dangers of Robespierre's policies and personality but is unable to avoid being proscribed and executed . Then there is this film . Directed by Anthony Mann , it paints a dismal view of the Paris of the months of May - June 1794 , and how Robespierre finally is brought down . Played ( very well ) by Richard Basehart , his Achilles heel is a book of names of allies and enemies , and when he will destroy them to achieve total power . Robert Cummings and Arlene Dahl , with a cynical assist from Arnold Moss ( as Joseph Fouche , Napoleon's future secret police chief ) demolish Robespierre by getting the book into the right hands . Did the book exist ? We don't know . Stanley Loomis , in his interesting " Paris In The Terror " shows that it did not need to actually be in existence . Robespierre always had a proscription list in mind , and had he been smart he could have revealed it and reassured many who would not have stood in his way . But he was too arrogant and refused to do so . Fouche , who was an enemy of Robespierre , spread the word to almost every member of the National Assembly that they were on the hit list . Robespierre was shouted down when he tried to finally explain his plans , and was shot in the mouth just before he was arrested . On July 11 , 1794 ( " Thermidor " on the French Revolutionary Calender ) , he , Couthon , St . Just , and a dozen close associates were all guillotined . Although conservative , reactionary " White Terror " occurred in 1795 , it was short and not as wholesale . Robespierre's Reign of Terror cost about 14 , 000 lives in France . . . and don't forget it was planned to continue for quite a while afterward . As Loomis writes in his study , the Terror died with him .
Sherlock and His Sibling	Gene Wilder is a very good comic actor , as witness his performance as Leo Bloom in THE PRODUCERS and other films like SILVER STREET . THE PRODUCERS was the first of three films he made with Mel Brooks , and the second and third ( BLAZING SADDLES and YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN ) were spoofs of genres ( westerns and old Universal horror films ) . Brooks is a master of the spoof , as he continued with his film homage to Hitchcock ( HIGH ANXIETY ) and his spoof of silent films ( SILENT MOVIE ) and his spoof of the " STAR WARS " films ( SPACEBALLS ) and his spoof of Dracula ( DRACULA : DEAD AND LOVING IT ) . But Wilder decided , after YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN , to do his own spoofs . He did THE WORLD'S GREATEST LOVER ( an homage to Rudolph Valentino's silent romantic image ) , and SHERLOCK HOLMES ' SMARTER BROTHER . They are good films , but they lack the better aimed blows that Brooks demonstrated in his films . Therefore , I will grant a , but that's because the film , SHERLOCK HOLMES ' SMARTER BROTHER , is amusing and entertaining . But it should have been better . The film shows that Wilder knows his Holmesian canon pretty well . Sigerson is a name that pops up in " The Adventure of the Empty House " , when Sherlock tells Watson that he wrote a book about his travels in Tibet under the name of " Sigerson " . But there is more . While the existing Holmes ' stories only gives one brother to Sherlock ( Mycroft Holmes , government expert ) , Conan Doyle occasionally left traces of what he wanted to do with his characters in manuscripts . In particular his first Holmes story ( written in 1886 , but published in 1887 ) . We know it as " A STUDY IN SCARLET " , but Doyle originally planned to call it " A TANGLED SKEIN " . Fortunately he changed his mind , possibly because he thought in terms of paintings in that period ( like Whistler's " A Study in Black and White " , which we know as " Whistler's Mother " ) . He writes down the names of the two lead characters , roommates who solve the mystery . The great detective is named " Sherringford Holmes " ( fortunately the first name was dropped and we got " Sherlock " ) . His roommate / narrator was named " Ormond Sacker " , a name fortunately changed to the more plausible " Dr . John H . Watson " . However , you will notice that Mr . Wilder's screenplay made the character of Sigerson Holmes ' police associate " Sgt . Osmond Sacker " . He recalled the name , but changed it a little . The film takes up the idea that Sherlock has a younger brother , Sigerson , who is jealous of his brother's fame as a detective ( he refers to him as " Sheer luck " Holmes at one point ) . Sherlock and Watson decide to let Sigerson solve a case which is based on several of the Holmes stories : A British Statesman ( John Le Messurier ) is given a state document to guard , and faces a plot involving Moriarty ( a splendidly wacky Leo McKern ) , Dom DeLuis ( as a blackmailer and opera singer named Eduardo Gambetti - based on a minor villain named Eduardo Lucas in " THE ADVENTURE OF THE SECOND STAIN " ) , and Madeline Kahn . The film has some wonderful moments of total silliness . Moriarty , here finally shown to be an Irishman , has a serious emotional health problem - he has to commit a brilliant crime every couple of minutes , and he complains , " Imagine trying to think up a real corker every couple of minutes ! " He , good Catholic that he is , has figured out how to handle the problem of his sins - he has a mechanical priest who , for a penny coin , will put out a card saying " Absolved " . Gambetti is a well known amateur Italian opera singer , and we see a production he is putting on at his home for his well heeled friends . It has a jealous husband character say , " You touched my wife's bubbies " to Gambetti's character . Sacker has the mental equivalent of a photographic memory - he can hear a conversation and remember it word for word . Unfortunately , if interrupted when repeating it ( as Sigerson has a habit of doing ) , Osmond has to restart his brain by hitting it , like he is turning on a tape recording . Although Sigerson is brilliant , he has incredibly stiff standards . When Jennie / Bessie ( Madeleine Kahn ) first shows up , her story is not totally true . Instead of being quiet and absorbing her tendency to lie ( compare with Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade dealing with Mary Astor's Bridget O'Shaugnessy in THE MALTESE FALCON ) , Sigerson starts screaming that she is a liar . He also thinks he is far sharper than anyone else . When a coded message falls into his hands , Sigerson starts translating one odd word as an anagram of an ancient Egyptian word meaning " to eat fat " . Osmond without blinking suggests the correct code secret is to read every fourth word , which turns out to be correct . It is a film that is better in it's parts than in it's organized whole . The performances of Wilder , Kahn , the great Marty Feldman , McKern , Le Messurier , Roy Kinnear and Dom DeLuis are all quite funny , so it is worth watching . It is also a little sad . This film was made only in 1975 but only Wilder and DeLuis ( among the leads ) are still alive . Le Messurier had a long career in British films before this movie . McKern did too , but his greatest role ( as Horace Rumpole , in the television series ) was still in the future . Feldman died prematurely in the 1970s . Kinnear died under singularly tragic circumstances in an accident while making a film . Kahn , although she did have further film and stage and television success , died of cancer only a couple of years ago - way before her time should have ended . And her death reminds us of the death of Wilder's beloved wife Gilda Radner . So , despite the comic success of the film , there is a feeling of sadness watching it now looking at it's cast .
Against All Comers	THE RACKET is not a great film noir , but it is an interesting variant on the typical formula . In normal film noir , the central figure is isolated - he or she is struggling to survive a secret enemy or to prove his or her innocence of a capital crime charge . Think of Ray Milland in THE BIG CLOCK . Think of Bogart in THE MALTESE FALCON or Alan Ladd in THE BLUE DAHLIA . But here that central figure is hardly sympathetic . Robert Ryan is Nick Scanlon . He is an old fashioned criminal boss - a Capone , if you will , rather than say a Frank Costello . Capone chewed up all his enemies to make himself boss of Chicago . Costello could order violence too , but he preferred modern business methods . Although he had his prison periods , at the end of his life he was a highly respected criminal chairman of the board type ( he enjoyed it when he entered a party or dinner of his cronies , and the band would strike up the theme from THE GODFATHER ) . Although Capone was to be involved in the formation of the national syndicate , he ended up in Alcatraz , and then went insane from syphilis . Scanlon has never sought favors from anyone - he is his own law . He tells crooked politicians ( like Ray Collins here ) what they have to do . And Collins keeps warning Lt . McQuigg ( Robert Mitchum ) to lay off or go easy on Scanlon . But McQuigg has other ideas . So does an unseen figure we hear of called " The Old Man " . His representative is Don Porter , and Porter is explaining to the crime bosses of the area that " The Old Man " does have a specific plan of operations that is more in line with the Costello model than the Capone one . Everyone will be taken care of , and modern corporate technique will replace the tommy gun and dynamite bomb . But " The Old Man " and Porter do not reckon with one snarly critic : Ryan . He is not interested in falling into line for anyone . Who is " The Old Man " anyway ? So Ryan , by his personality and violent nature finds that the authorities represented by Mitchum are pushing in on one side , and the modern criminal syndicate ( represented by Porter ) is pushing in on the other side . And starting with that problem he decides that if they want a fight ( and " they " means all comers ) they'll get it . Capone might have approved - so would have Tony Carmonte in SCARFACE . The situation is worsened by the activities of William Talman , one of Mitchum's best junior officers , who keeps thwarting Ryan's schemes , and inflicts damage on him . Ryan's answer is to mark Talman for destruction , no matter how this worsens the situations with Mitchum and with Porter . As you can see this is an interesting situation . As an interesting enough film noir it is a " 7 " out of " 10 " . A bit more character development of Ryan's kingpin might have raised a bit in the film noir pantheon , but ( sadly ) that was not done here . Worth watching but not as good as it could have been .
Colman as Hafiz in old Baghdad	This is not a bad movie , but it is not an important one . Made in the last decade of Ronald Colman's active career as a movie star , KISMET seems to be an odd choice for him . Normally he was playing English gentlemen types - Rudolph Rassendyll in THE PRISONER OF ZENDA , or Robert Conway in LOST HORIZON or Dick Helgar in THE LIGHT THAT FAILED . If he played Americans , they were the Supreme Court Candidate in THE TALK OF THE TOWN or the title character Boston Brahman in THE LATE GEORGE APLEY . Here he was playing the philosophical thief Hafiz of 11th Century Baghdad . An odd choice indeed . To begin with , as he is playing an Arab , there was nothing physically " semitic " about Colman to suggest a citizen of Baghdad . However , the producers must have thought of him as a good example of a cultured type ( Hafiz sprouts proverbs and examples of Middle Eastern wisdom ) , so he fit half the requirement . Still , it might have been better to have used someone who might have looked more like a citizen of the " fertile crescent " . Robert Donat would have made a better choice . Secondly , if they had to do a story about ancient Islam at it's zenith of glory and power , why did they choose KISMET ? It is an old play by Edward Knobloch which was written about 1910 and became the favorite starring part for the then great stage character actor Otis Skinner . In fact , Skinner did a film version of the play in the silent period . But while not the worst example of a well made piece of hokum , it remains hokum . Skinner was quite well identified with the central role , but he died in 1942 . It may be that Paramount felt they could get away with this just because he was no longer around . Skinner's career , like so many of his contemporary stars like Richard Mansfield and Henry Irving can only be judged by snips and brief glimpses of their work - if they made an early silent film or even sound film ( George M . Cohan in THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT comes to mind ) we can see something of what they were like . Irving actually made surviving gramophone recordings of Shakespearean parts . In Skinner's case , most people who recall him at all today probably do so because Charlie Ruggles played him in the movie OUR HEARTS WERE YOUNG AND GAY which was based on a book by Skinner's daughter Cornelia Otis Skinner . If you can find the 1961 edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica , the article on " Make-up " had a page of photographs of Otis Skinner in a dozen roles , including Hajjj ( the actual name of Hafiz's character - the real " Hafiz " is the greatest of Persia's poets ) . Still the studio went to great lengths - they made it a color film ( a rarity for Colman , by the way ) . They gave the two other best parts to the capable Edward Arnold as the evil Vizier , and to Marlene Dietrich as the Vizier's sexy ( and bored ) wife . This film reunited James Craig and Arnold ( formerly together in THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER ) with Craig as the Caliph . Except for romancing Joy Page as Colman's daughter , Craig really has little to do here . He's a target for Arnold's ambitious murder plans . Old Harry Davenport is the wise old Chancellor - a comparative figure of good to the evil Arnold . It's serviceable and no more . You watch KISMET and you won't be bored , but you will not be enthralled by it . Colman does try to bring some additional juice to Hafiz . When threatened with banishment he seems genuinely surprised , hurt , and horrified - like being told he will now be a fish out of water , although he can live anywhere else in the empire . There are also some humorous moments , such as the threatened plan to punish Colman ( in this film he is threatened with punishment several times ) by cutting off his hands - he was captured as a thief . His anticipated looks at this imprisoned , chained down fists are surprisingly amusing . But the screenplay keeps going from mock philosophy to comedy to romance to melodrama . The ride is made as smooth as possible , but it seems like it's on old fashioned back roads . So , I will say the film can be watched - but stick to THE LATE GEORGE APLEY or RANDOM HARVEST or A DOUBLE LIFE or CHAMPAIGN FOR CAESAR to get a better glimpse at Colman's acting strengths . He was just treading water here .
The Explorer Who Helped Bankrupt His Host	This is the story of the meeting of two Western American Legends in California in 1846 . They were an ambitious ( and slightly unstable ) U . S . Army officer , and a wealthy Swiss born hacienda owner who was so far away from the local government as to be almost a sovereign ruler himself . They were Captain John Charles Fremont ( not " Freemont " , as the cast given here is shown ) and General John Sutter . I have touched on Fremont elsewhere on these threads . His father-in-law was Senator Thomas Hart " Bullion " Benton ( Andy Jackson's once enemy turned close political and personal friend ) . Fremont wooed and married Senator Benton's daughter Jessie . It was a real love match ( Irving Wallace made it the subject of a novel , and there is an error filled television series about the Fremonts with Richard Chamberlain as the explorer ) . Actually Senator Benton did not forgive Jessie for marrying John Charles after he said he was opposed to it . The Senator knew that Fremont had a reputation for his work exploring the western territories and making up various valuable charts and reports used by American settlers going into those territories . But he was aware that Fremont had problems due to his background ( he was considered by some to be illegitimate ) and had an ego problem that was not matched by his intelligence . Also he suspected that Jessie's social position regarding her father may have influenced Fremont in marrying his daughter : Benton was head of the military affairs committee of the U . S . Senate . For years the Senator would not have anything to do with Jessie or John Charles , until a situation regarding the loss of a piece of military hardware ( a cannon he didn't need to borrow ) led to a court martial . Even after that affair Benton was far from totally accepting Fremont as his son-in-law . In 1846 Fremont was asked ( in a roundabout way ) by President James K . Polk to travel to California and " explore " it . Polk ( who had the reputation of " Polk the Mendacious " ) wanted Fremont to spy on that territory , and see how American forces could grab it . Of course he did not put this down on paper ( Fremont's orders simply told him how he was to explore trails ) . Polk , always very careful , wanted to have an escape hatch if something went wrong - pure denial that he gave such instructions to the ambitious , half-cracked Fremont . Throughout his career Fremont did amazing exploration work , but in everything else he touched it all came apart because of cleverer men . Senator Benton , General Stephen Kearney , Presidents James Polk and Abraham Lincoln were just four capable men who saw through him , and except for Benton ( due to Jessie ) all let him soak in his own blunders . Here , Rip Torn is Fremont ( an early television role for him - and he is a little too stiff in the part , but his presence carries the role as an ambitious army officer on an espionage trek ) . He reaches California , and finds he is on the huge property of General John Sutter ( Carroll O'Connor ) . O'Connor is friendly and hospitable , but he gradually realizes that this young explorer is not just exploring . He realizes that Fremont is trying to find out troop strength of the local Mexican authorities and their ability to quickly move troops around . Finally Sutter confronts him , but Fremont points out the inevitability of the U . S . winning the coming war with Mexico . Sutter of course is dubious of all this - and since he's been entertaining Fremont he's capable of bringing the Mexicans down on his head ! The episode does end with Fremont leaving and the word that the war has begun . And so did Sutter's tragedy . He maintained his own neutrality in the war , but after the American's won he watched as they overran his land and created several cities ( including Sacramento ) . This especially happened after one of his men , John Marshall , found a gold nugget on his land , which caused the California Gold Rush . He campaigned for renumeration for decades , but the population was hostile ( they killed one of his sons , and another drowned fleeing the state ) . Finally a deed was given to Sutter for his properties ' values , and it entitled him to huge rents from the " squatters " . He was chased off his land . Still seeking restitution , Sutter died in squalor in Washington , D . C . still having the deed to the greatest fortune on earth in his possession in 1880 . His chief oppressor became one of California's first U . S . Senators , and then ( in 1856 ) the first Republican Presidential candidate ( he lost to James Buchanan ) . Fremont also was one of the early military leaders of the Northern forces in the Civil War , until graft and incompetence caused his dismissal . He never reached the White House , and his last years were involved with a mine stock swindle and his term as an absentee territorial governor of Arizona ( appointed by a temporarily blinded President Hayes , he was quickly dismissed by President Chester Arthur ) . He died in straightened circumstances , still married to Jessie , in 1890 .
Dancing Men and the Professor	In the Universal series of modern Sherlock Holmes stories with Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce , SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SECRET WEOPON is not one of the top films - although it is entertaining . I think the problem with it is that much of the film's " dueling " between Holmes and his nemesis Moriarty ( here played by Lionel Atwill ) seems to delay the actual point of the Professor's work . Moriarty appears in three of the Holmes films with Rathbone . In THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES he was played by George Zucco , who gave real relish to the love of villainy for its own sake to the role . For my money Zucco's performance as the Professor was the best of the three ( there is even a brief moment of comedy in his performance , when he's disguised as the " Sergeant of Police " towards the end - like he's preparing to sing " A Policeman's Lot " from Gilbert & Sullivan ) . Next comes Mr . Atwill's performance here - more of that later . Finally there is Henry Daniell's intellectual Moriarty in SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE LADY IN GREEN . It's a typically cool , classy performance by Mr . Daniell , but his confrontations with Holmes seem to be a tedious bore to him . They keep him from completing the main plan . In the stories that the Professor pops up in , he really senses Holmes is a nemesis who will remain a danger as long as he is alive . Yet , because of the intellectual tennis match between him and Rathbone , Rathbone ( in his autobiography ) actually felt Daniell was the best of the film Moriartys . If Zucco captured the love of evil in the Professor , and Daniell seemed to demonstrate the tired Oxford Don ( in the stories the Professor is a well regarded mathematician , whose volume on the binomial theorem had a " European vogue " , and who wrote an intriguing book , THE DYNAMICS OF THE ASTEROID ) , Atwill demonstrates the Professor as pragmatic businessman . First of all , he's sold his services ( apparently ) to Nazi Germany . This is never gone into , but one presumes ( as this is before the Nazis began to really collapse ) he figures they will win the war . Secondly , he is not a fool . When Dr . Tobel ( William Post Jr . ) has shown he is a state of near physical collapse due to the torturing of Moriarty's gang , the Professor decides to kidnap one of the other scientists who are assisting Tobel , because he's as good a scientist as Tobel and would be able to put together the bomb site . I somehow can't quite see Zucco making such a sensible decision on the spot , and if Daniell had to make it , he would seem annoyed that there is yet another delay to his plans . By the way , one trick used in all the Holmes series regarding the Professor is how to rid the film of him . If you read the Holmes stories , Moriarty appears as the villain three times : in THE MEMOIRS OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ' last story ( " THE ADVENTURE OF THE FINAL PROBLEM " ) , in THE RETURN OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ' first story ( " THE ADVENTURE OF THE EMPTY HOUSE " ) and the last of the four novels / novellas ( THE VALLEY OF FEAR ) . It's amazing how much mileage the Professor got out of so few appearances ( he is mentioned in two or three other stories as well - in passing ) . But because of his fate at the Reichenbach Falls in " THE FINAL PROBLEM " and " THE EMPTY HOUSE " , we always see him fall to his death . Zucco falls off the White Tower on Tower Hill . Daniell ( with more imagination ) tries to flee Gregson and the police , but is shot as he jumps , and wounded fails to hold on to the wall of an adjacent building . Atwill ( here it is not seen , but heard ) seems to fall down a trap door he's planted in an escape tunnel ) . It is really tedious after awhile to see the Professor always fall in these films . One turns to the Gene Wilder comedy ( admittedly a comedy ) SHERLOCK HOLMES ' SMARTER BROTHER , wherein Leo McKern is a wonderfully wacky and villainous Moriarty ( complete , finally , with an Irish accent ) , who is not killed at the end , but just left mulling - in a rowboat - over how his careful schemes did not work out . I rather liked that better . The use of the " Dancing Men " code here , like the use of the " Devil's Foot Root " in DRESSED TO KILL , snags a part of a mystery from a short story . " THE ADVENTURE OF THE DANCING MEN " appeared in THE RETURN OF SHERLOCK HOLMES , and deals with a client of Holmes whose wife has been getting weird , blood-curdling messages in this code . Charles Higham , in his biography THE ADVENTURES OF CONAN DOYLE suggests Sir Arthur may have picked up the code from a magazine game in the 1870s , but we really don't know . The code is basically one of letter substitutions for the figures of the dancing men . The story in the short story is dramatic , but deals with a triangle . The only innovation in the film is that Tobel makes a slight change that confuses both Holmes and Moriarty . The film will entertain , but I still think THE HOUSE OF FEAR , THE SCARLET CLAW , and SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH are better films .
The President Who Tried To Keep Fighting	One day this story should be told properly - it is a tale which would leave mixed emotions because of what the men involved believed it , and yet it showed great determination on the part of the central figure . On May 10 , 1865 , at Dansville , Georgia , a Union cavalry troop captured a number of suspected Rebels . Although the Civil War's fighting was over , and Lee and Joe Johnston had surrendered , the North was in a particularly vicious mood - Lincoln had been assassinated by Booth , and there was evidence of a conspiracy that might go up to the highest echelons of the South . So Northern soldiers were looking for certain missing people : the leaders of the Confederate Government . That day at Dansville they hit the jackpot - they met a bunch of Confederates carrying gold and money in the value of about $150 , 000 . 00 in 1865 ( it would be in the millions today ) . But the leader of the bunch of refugees was Mr . Jefferson Davis , formerly U . S . Senator from Mississippi , Secretary of War under his friend President Franklin Pierce , and first and only elected President of the Confederate States of America . It was , in 1865 , identical in national impact to the capture three years ago of Saddam Hussein of Iraq near Takrit by American soldiers . This episode of THE GREAT ADVENTURE dealt with the decision by Davis ( Michael Rennie ) not to surrender , despite Robert E . Lee's avowed intention of surrendering . On April 2 , 1865 , Davis got word that Lee's forces had been surprised by Phil Sheridan's forces at the battle at Five Forks , and the defenses at Petersburg were fatally punctured . This meant that Richmond could not longer be defended , and that the Confederate capital would soon be in Union hands . Davis called a quick cabinet meeting , and took stock of what options are left . He decided to keep fighting . Lee could keep Grant occupied for a week - Davis would go to Joe Johnston's army in North Carolina to continue the fight . Taking the Confederate treasury , Davis gave orders to destroy all military stores in Richmond ( unfortunately this started an uncontrollable fire that destroyed much of the city before the Northern troops put it out ) . He , his wife , and several cabinet people and soldiers head south through Virginia into North Carolina . Unfortunately , although one step ahead of the Yankees , Davis found Generals Joe Johnston and Pierre Beauregard far more realistic on assessing the chances of the war continuing as Davis hoped . Johnston finally dashed the chances there in Carolina by saying he was asking Sherman for terms of surrender . Davis kept going through South Carolina and into Georgia . He hoped to reach the coast , board some boat to the coast of Texas , and link up with Generals Edmund Kirby-Smith and Richard Taylor ( his ex-brother-in-law ) commanding the last large army of the Confederacy . But that Yankee patrol caught him . Rennie gave a moving performance - a highly respectable actor he could not fail in such a part . His Davis ( like his real-life model ) was a determined man , who could not stand facing unpleasant truths , but would do all in his power to keep his hope for Confederate nationhood alive . But it was not to be allowed by fate and Northern military might . Most readers ( including myself ) probably feel it was just as well he failed - after all , his government was supporting slavery . But keep in mind , Lee had finally prodded ( far too late ) the Confederate government to give conditional freedom to slaves who volunteered to serve as soldiers for the South in March 1865 . But it did take so long because Davis and his government really hated the idea . Still he had guts in pushing despite the hopelessness of his task to the end . And he did not get proper recognition for years of his in-your-face fight . Rumor spread by Northern foes said he was found dressed as a woman when captured - this was unfair . He was taken back to Virginia , and imprisoned in Fortress Monroe for a treason trial . Poor health conditions raised the conscience of the nation about his treatment . Finally Horace Greeley stood bail for him , and Davis waited for the treason trial . It never came . He spent the last two decades of his life pursuing business opportunities in the South , and writing his memoirs defending his actions as the Confederate leader . His death in 1889 was marked by mourning by white southerners , and he did ( until recent post - 1960 decades ) get treated as a hero by them with his birthday celebrated as a " national holiday " . Could he have succeeded ? No . As Rennie finds out at the conclusion of the episode , Kirby - Smith and Taylor surrendered a week before he was captured .
Decent Hitchcock Movie , With a Confusion in Early Titles	SECRET AGENT is notable for being the only Hitchcock film with John Guilgud in it - and a young , dapper looking Guilgud at that . But most people recall it rather for the second ( and , regrettably , last appearance ) of Peter Lorre under Hitch's direction . It is also the only film by Hitch with Robert Young and Lili Palmer in it and the second with Madeleine Carroll in it . Those cast notes being noted , let us now look at a confusion of titles in Hitch's movies of the 1930s . THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS is okay - John Buchan's novel ( one of several with Richard Hannay as the hero - another is PRESTER JOHN ) has a similar plot to the movie . But SABOTAGE is based on a Joseph Conrad novel , THE SECRET AGENT . SECRET AGENT is based on W . Somerset Maugham's novel ( somewhat based on his experiences as a spy in World War I ) entitled , ASHENDEN , THE SECRET AGENT . Maugham would use the character of Ashenden in some of his later fiction , as a peace time writer . YOUNG AND INNOCENT is based on A SHILLING FOR CANDLES by Josephine Tey . THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH is the title of a novel by G . K . CHESTERTON about a socially well-connected man who knows where all the skeletons of the upper crust are buried , but helps keep them buried . It has nothing to do with the plot of the 1934 Hitchcock film . Just why most of his movies changed titles is hard to pinpoint . Obviously box office attraction is involved . SECRET AGENT begins with word ( during World War I ) that Willie Ashenden , the well known writer , is dead . We see a closed coffin wake for the man , and when everyone leaves we discover the coffin is empty . Ashenden has gone undercover to do some espionage for the British military during the First World War . He is assisted by Lorre , nicknamed " The General " or " the Mad Mexican " ( Lorre is not Mexican in the story ) . They make an odd pair , with Guilgud stiff and proper , and Lorre definitely odd looking . They head for Switzerland , where they meet several people : Carroll , Young , and Percy Marmont ( travelling with is wife and dog ) . Marmont soon appears to be the dangerous German agent that Ashenden and Lorre are to do in . And they do , in the most memorable portion of the film - only to discover subsequently that Marmont was not the spy . Of course , barring Carroll , that leaves only one possibility , so the degree of surprise in the plot is less than desirable . Hitch overcomes this by taking our agents into the territories of the Central Powers after Young , and here Palmer enters the story ( briefly - it was an early bit part ) . The conclusion is an exciting confrontation on a passenger train and a disaster . And Guilgud and Carroll are together for the romantic conclusion ( not as good a romantic teaming as those of THE THIRTY-NINE STEPS or THE LADY VANISHES ) . Of the major Hitchcock films from 1934 to 1939 , SECRET AGENT is not one of the greatest . Guilgud was far too reserved in his part - good enough to watch but one would hardly think he was ( at that time ) the leading stage star in Britain . Lorre is better because of his eccentricity , and his blending of the sinister and comical ( he is an assassin after all ) . Young , for the first time , played a villain - but nothing like his later performances in THE MORTAL STORM and THEY WON'T BELIEVE ME . Carroll is adequate , but her role opposite Robert Donat a year before was more interesting . A slightly better than average Hitchcock movie , but not a dull film by any stretch of the imagination .
A Forgotten Christmas Television Show	This was an hour long television show of 1968 , the year I entered high school . I watched it because one of the stars was a favorite of mine : James Mason . Ironically the narrator was Kirk Douglas , Mason's co-star in the Walt Disney production of Jules Verne's 20 , 000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA . Note that the cast given here only mention those two performers . There were far more . The story follows how Pastor Josef Mohr wrote the words of a little poem about the year 1810 , and showed it to his friend Franz Gruber ( Mason ) who was the local church organist . Gruber succeeded in creating ( apparently the only time in his career ) a first rate piece of music for a setting for Mohr's words . Because this is the only work by the two men that we recall neither man has become a household name . Yet at the time it was created in Saltzburg , Austria , the tune was so well-liked that ( as one of the characters says to Gruber ) many thought it was composed by the late , great Josef Haydn ( of the 109 symphonies , such as the " London " and " Surprise " Symphonies ) - Haydn had just died in 1809 . The film shows how gradually recognition for their joint contribution to the Christmas season came to Gruber and Mohr , although sadly enough Mohr had prematurely died soon after the finished composition was first played . The show was well produced and acted ( Mason pulled out his best style for it ) , but it has never ( to my knowledge ) been revived in the forty years since it was shown on Christmas Day in 1968 . Perhaps it no longer exists . If it does , it could easily stand a revival .
The Events Leading to a Tragedy , August 1876	James Butler Hickok made himself one of the great Western legends of his time , first as an ace Pony Express rider , than as a scout for the Union Armies in the Civil War , then as a gunslinger turned lawman ( the Marshall of Abilene , Kansas ) . He was a remarkably fast draw - there is a story ( it's hard to tell how true it is ) that when he was Marshall , both John Wesley Hardin and Ben Thompson were in Abiline drinking together , and considering confronting Hickok to see who was faster . If the story is true , neither Hardin nor Thompson was willing to confront Hickok , after he managed to demonstrate ( peacefully ) how much quicker he was on throwing their preparatory movements towards grabbing their guns than they expected . But by 1869 Hickok was out of the gunfighter trade , and shortly moved east to New York City . This episode of THE GREAT ADVENTURE starred Lloyd Brides as Hickok , and explained what it was that made him lose his interest in his gunfighting career at it's peak . It turned out to be a combination of two factors . In one of the most notorious actions of his career as Marshall , Hickok ( while checking out an area for some criminals ) , thought he heard one of them behind him , rapidly turned around and fired , and killed the man who was behind him . Unfortunately it happened to be his deputy , who was also a close personal friend . The other thing was that Hickok's powers were ebbing . Always a keen-sighted man , his eyesight was failing . So this episode , after spending twenty minutes showing the Hickok of frontier legend , turned to the guilt-ridden man struggling to preserve his sight with eyeglasses . Bridges did a good job as Hickok , but it is the scene of him in the East , reading in a parlor with a pair of spectacles on that always remained on my mind . He could not stand the East . Unlike his old friend Bill Cody , Hickok felt constrained in the East . So in 1876 , hearing of the gold discoveries in the Black Hills , Hickok left his wife and headed for the town of Deadwood in the Dakota territory . He had set himself up there , when he was shot to death from behind by Jack McCall , a young desperado who wanted to make a reputation for himself as a gunslinger . Hickok was playing cards at the time . Traditionally he held a pair of aces and a pair of eights in his poker hand - what has since become known as " the Deadman's hand " .
The Symbol of the Cowboy	I was never a total fan of DEATH VALLEY DAYS , most of which episodes were on television in the period when I was growing up . By the time of this episode in 1962 I was eight , and I watched it for a reason unconnected to liking westerns . The star of the episode was Alan Young , the comedian who was currently appearing on television as " Wilbur Post " on MR . ED . Here he was playing the central figure of a biographical episode , Mr . John Stetson . He does a good job , assisted by Lee Van Cleef . The name is familiar to this day . Stetson was an easterner involved in the fur and pelt trade , who went to Colorado for his health . He had a lung problem , and was told the climate out west would help him out . The episode told how the tenderfoot was trying to find what he could do in the west , and accidentally stumbled into wealth and immortality . He knew ( from his work as a furrier ) how to make a hat . Usually a complex series of steps requiring various metal blocking devices are required . Stetson figured out a way of speeding it out and making the crown of the cowboy hat far more soft and flexible than the corresponding crowns in " civilized " area hats . We see him demonstrate to the cowboy who is with him ( Lee Van Cleef ) what can be done for a quick , useful , range hat . And he is soon convinced to make other cowboys similar hats . And the rest is history . To this day , ask for the name associated with hats , and " Stetson " comes up . Of course the firm eventually went into other styles of hats as well , but the romance of the name in hat lore remains what the old prospector says at the end - that a cowboy is known by his " Stetson " hat .
The Only Doris Day - Cary Grant Film . . . and the Only One to Answer a Sports Trivia Question	Question : Name the film where Art Passarella , famous baseball umpire , tosses out five celebrities from a game . Answer : THAT TOUCH OF MINK . Passarella tosses out Mickey Mantle , Roger Maris , Yogi Berra , Cary Grant , and Doris Day from a game , because of some rule infraction caused by Day ( who is in the dugout with the others during a game ) , and then for escalating reasons in which the three Yankees deny any infraction . The reason Doris and Cary are in the dugout is that they are attending a Yankee Game ( Cary has some stock in the Yankees - this film was in the period before George Steinbrenner took control of the baseball team . Grant is a multi-millionaire whose limousine has damaged Days ' clothing by spraying her when the car went through a puddle . He ( at first ) just wants to repair the damage but he slowly falls for her . But Day is acting like . . . well like Day usually does ; She is a NYC career woman , and does not want to be the victim of hanky-panky from any man . She is egged on in this by her closest friend , Audrey Meadows . Grant slowly uses his considerable economic muscles to get Day to agree to a trip to the Caribbean , but he finds having her there is not the same thing as getting to know her physically there . This film is loaded with nice bits by the supporting players . One of the other reviews points out John Astin as an obnoxious suitor for Day , whom ( at the end ) she does willingly go out to a motel in New Jersey with , only to have him fail to score when Grant shows up . But also see this for Gig Young , as Grant's secretary , who finds that Grant's effortless economic and social success are undermining Young's delicate mental balance . See it too for Alan Hewitt , as Young's therapist , who finds that it really pays to have Young as a client ( because of all the great stock market tips the naive secretary blabs to the Doctor ) . Their last moment on screen together is quite funny , when Young is gushing over the baby he is watching ( actually Grant and Day's child ) and Hewitt is momentarily left thinking that somehow Young and Grant had a baby together . Finally , the late John Fiedler has a good moment as a newlywed husband who concludes that a man's best friend is his mother . An easy to take Day sex romp , I recommend it for the amusement it generates . The baseball trivia connection is also a reason ( though a minor one ) to watch the film at least once .
Reasonably Good Film - But Not Twain's Masterful Attack on " Superior Foreign Culture "	Samuel Clemens had made his newspaper reputation on the west coast by being on the scene in Honolulu when tales of a terrible shipwreck occurred . Shortly after he returned to San Francisco , Twain published his classic short story , " The Celebrated Jumping Frog Of Calaveras County " . Soon he was getting offers from eastern newspapers . He took up one offer for a trip to Europe and the Holy Land ( one of the first tourist trips ) on board the ship " Quaker City " . Sam was to write up his reactions to the sites and sounds of the trip . He left in 1867 , and sent back accounts of his visits in the various stops ( and how he constantly got under the skins of the tourists guides - when shown the tomb of Columbus in Spain , he asks the guide , " Who was he " and " Is he dead ? " ) . The results of the long trip was finally polished up and published by Clemens as " The Innocents Abroad " . It was the first successful book of Mark Twain . I strongly recommend reading this wonderful travel book , certainly one of the best travel books by an American . Twain actually had a growing theme in the book , and one which still bothers Americans ( and to a lesser degree Europeans ) . He insisted that we should not feel inferior to the Europeans for not having such a history or culture as they could produce . He kept showing the shoddy side of the tourist-produced sites , the commercialism involved , that was frequently ignored by others . He also notes that some sites were not as magnificent as had been suggested . When going through Palestine , he was distinctly unimpressed by the locations , the deserts , and the bodies of water : His comment regarding the sea of Galilee was it was not as wonderful as Lake Tahoe . In short , America had wonderful , even better sites than the old world did . Keep in mind that Twain is not condemning the old world - he is being very realistic . Twain's book was not the first American book to look with jaundiced eye to Europe . Nathaniel Hawthorne had spent several years in England in the 1850s as our consul in Liverpool , and he wrote a book " Our Old Home " about how bad things were in England . But Hawthorne's book was aimed at one country , and Anglo-American rivalries had been going on since the American Revolution and the War of 1812 . Furthermore , Hawthorne's book was a type of answer to Charles Dickens ' " American Notes " ( 1842 ) where Dicken attacked Americans for the hypocrisy of claiming to be the land of the free while having slavery . It would not be the last travel book by Twain . In 1872 he would write the sequel , " Roughing It " , about the American west . In 1880 he would do " A Tramp Abroad " , where he went through northern Europe and France . In 1882 he did what can be considered his best traveled book , " Life On The Mississippi " , wherein he wrote from love of the great river that he had served as a riverboat pilot . Finally , due to financial pressures , he did a two year trip around the globe of stage appearances in a one man show . The results were his last travel book , " Following The Equator " ( 1897 ) , which is his longest travel book - but probably his least read one . The 1983 television film was part of a two or three year series of films made for Public Television . These versions were not perfect copies of the original stories ( for example , " The War Prayer " was tacked on , rather well , to " The Private History Of A Campaign That Failed " ) . Here the story's truthfulness ( the hiring of Sam / Mark to go on the Quaker City trip ) was mingled with a romance he gets into with fellow tourist Julia Newell . This did not happen . Nor was there a resulting triangle with Sam's friend , ship's doctor " Doc " . And the Captain of the ship did not try to sabotage Twain's contract by withholding the mailing of his copy to his newspaper . The acting was very good , in particular Craig Wasson as Sam / Mark , Brooke Adams as Julia , and David Ogden Stiers as the really nice fellow " Doc " ( miles away from Major Winchester ) . As the Captain of the " QUAKER CITY " , Barry Morse was excellent as a religious bigot and hypocrite . Also of note was Gigi Proietti as " Fergusson " , the nickname Twain gives to all the various befuddled tourist guides he meets in the trip - Proietti played all of them , constantly wondering what he had deserved to have this crazy " dumb " American as his current client . Not as wonderful as the book , but an enjoyable film to see before you read the book .
A Fair Introduction to a Popular Comedy Short Series	Because of television , most people in the baby boomer generation and since think of comedy shorts as restricted to Laurel & Hardy , the Three Stooges , the Little Rascals ( " Our Gang " ) , Charlie Chaplin , Buster Keaton , Harold Lloyd and that's about it . Actually there were plenty of short subject comedians about ( Burns and Allen , W . C . Fields , Clark & McCullough , Thelma Todd with either Zazu Pitts or Patsy Kelly , Edgar Kennedy , Leon Errol , Grady Sutton , and Robert Benchley to name some of the better known ones ) . In the 1940s two other series were created . One was Pete Smith's series of shorts ( wherein Mr . Smith was the wise guy narrator ) , and the " Behind the Eight Ball " or " So You Want To Be . . . " series by Richard Bare - starring George O'Hannion as " Joe McDoakes " ( Bare's comic turn on " Everyman " ) . In Bare's series , O'Hannion / McDoakes gets involved in some situation or is attracted to some job or hobby , that turns the short into a comic form of " How to " or better " How not to " do something . The entire idea is that no matter what you ( " Everyman " ) would like to accomplish , most of the time the average fellow ( or woman - sometimes a woman is involved ) can't really do it . This seems shortsighted , but unless we accept the inevitable failure of poor McDoakes attempts . . . well we won't have an amusing short before the feature then , will we ? Other episodes of the series included , " So You Want to Be a Detective " , and " So You Want to Be a Dancer " . No matter how much poor Joe tries to do things by the book he always comes a cropper . He either is not smart enough , or lacks the imagination to see what is around the possible corners of his actions . Here we start off with Joe in the shower . The narrator ( the always dependable Art Gilmore ) catches his attention , but Joe does not want to be seen by an audience while bathing . Gilmore reassures Joe that only men are in the audience , so Joe allows Gilmore and the camera to see him getting washed ( of course from the middle of the back up ) - but Gilmore ( sotto voce ) tells the ladies to just restrain from laughing for a moment or two ) . As I said , Joe lacks imagination - like some stranger might lie about who sees you naked . It turns out that Joe is using a bad choice for a shampoo , and as a result he is losing hair ( actually most people lose dead hair when they are washing in a shower or bath ) . Although Joe has a good head of hair he becomes concerned about massive hair loss . So he asks his barber about this . His barber ( Paul Panzer ) insists that he shouldn't massage his scalp . But a second barber ( Leo White ) insists he should massage his scalp ! So it goes , with it soon apparent that on the subject of hair and baldness nobody really has an answer . The series shows Joe trying everything " the experts " suggest , and even seeking the help of books on baldness . But nothing seems to work . He even goes to a specialty hair institute where he is given the works ( quite literally ) with electricity . In the end . . . well you can watch it and see the result . It is fairly amusing ( the one possible catch is a running gag with " Iron Eyes " Cody as an Indian ( get it . . . nudge , nudge . . . " scalp treatment " ) ) several times in the episode . That seems rather dated . But if one keeps in mind it is set in 1946 the general amusement of the short is still effective . Oddly enough , although now sixty years old , the central issue of the short is still true : there is still no real cure for baldness . Of course , they did not mention that heredity really plays a major role in people having hair into old age - there is nothing really funny about heredity . The only addition to the short , if done nowadays , would have been to have Joe experiment with getting hair plugs , as the late Senator William Proxmire did . But one wonders if there is much humor in that either .
Mr . Hearst and his Political Confusions .	In some way historians can argue that certain figures in our history should have had a chance to become President . Senator Robert Taft deserved an opportunity to show his abilities in that job , as did Senators Henry Clay and Daniel Webster and Robert La Follette . Mistakes , political miscalculations , and sheer chance prevented their elections ( and in Taft's case even his nomination ) . But while there is a general feeling of pity for those four gentlemen in failing to reach the White House , most historians agree that William Randolph Hearst did not fully deserve to even approach it . Hearst was extremely good at building up a newspaper empire , and of creating an exciting and stimulating model for the modern newspaper . But his overwhelming desire to reach the White House became such a joke that he became known as " William - Also Ran - dolph Hearst " . Problem with Hearst was that he enjoyed playing with public opinion and guiding it , but he also enjoyed . . . well enjoyed living the life of a remarkably wealthy man . His father George Hearst was a prospector who found one of the great gold mines in the west and rose to the post of U . S . Senator from California ( ironically , a higher national office than his son ever reached ) . The image of Hearst from CITIZEN KANE of the boy whose father was a drinker , and whose mother signs over to the boy ownership of the mine is not true . In the course of doing business , Hearst Sr . got ownership of the San Francisco Enquirer , and Willy ( who'd been tossed out of several colleges ) asked to run it . George allowed Willy to do that , and Willy found his true métier . His bug to become President never left him . He did win a Congressional seat from New York City in 1901 , and held it for two terms . But by then his yellow journalism made so many enemies that he was ignored in Congress ( when he decided to show up - he really could not apply himself to the job of Congressman ) . Yet in 1904 he managed to gather over 200 delegates for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency . Unfortunately he could not get the two thirds majority needed , and the delegates nominated Chief Justice Alton Brooks Parker of New York State's Court of Appeals ( who was thrashed by Teddy Roosevelt in the election ) . Possibly , had Hearst got nominated , it would have enabled him to rid himself of Presidentialitis . That was not to be the case . He would run for Mayor of New York , Governor of New York , and seek a nomination ( in the 1920s ) for Senator from New York . He never won any of these elections , and he did not get nominated for Senator . His influence in the 1932 Democratic Convention was thrown to FDR , but he subsequently broke with the newly elected 32nd President . Hearst , in his career , had pushed for better conditions for the poor , and better treatment of Labor . He had been hard on the trusts . He opposed our entry into World War I and Wilson's League of Nations . All of this is familiar from Welles ' CITIZEN KANE . But his views turned rightward after 1915 . Being German , his anti-war views ( however wise they may have been ) were colored by a pro-German viewpoint . His pro-labor point of view turned sour as he faced more and more serious financial problems ( especially in the Depression ) . He did , however , think that the government of the day was inept in handling the Depression , and thought stronger measures were needed . So he financed and produced GABRIEL OVER THE WHITE HOUSE . His solution was that the President must seize power , despite that antiquated series of checks and balances called the Constitution , and force relief in the form of jobs on the public . This mirrors part of FDR's New Deal ( like the CCC , which built public roads ) , but FDR did try to get this legislation through Congress in the first 100 days . Hearst also was against expensive military build-ups . He has Walter Huston force " THE WASHINGTON COVENANT " on Europe and the World , which will reduce the armed navies . Actually ( and somewhat intelligently ) he shows that the large battleships are dinosaurs - Gregory La Cava uses film of Billy Mitchell's sinking of old battleships by aircraft from 1921 in the movie to demonstrate this . But it is doubtful that in real life such a treaty could be forced on anyone . They would resent the strong arm lecturing involved . The film is fascinating despite the ridiculous populist - cum - fascist viewpoint . It helps that Walter Huston is playing the President , as he certainly gives whatever juice he has into such a thankless role ( from hack politician to injured car passenger to international savior ? ) . The rest of the cast seems adequate , though C . Henry Gordon does what he can to make his gangster boss seem villainous enough ( including a drive by shooting near the White House ) . I give the film a seven out of 10 , as an interesting curiosity , and a quick look into the mind of one of our most fascinating millionaires .
Errol Flynn , Serious Actor	Because there is ( for the most part ) a sense of fun and adventure in the best of Errol Flynn's movies movie lovers tend not to see that he could perform well in dramatic fashion . I can site two examples : 1 ) In DAWN PATROL he starts cracking up under the stress and strain of his command position ; 2 ) In THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON , Flynn senses that he is going to probably die on his last military mission ( as does his wife Olivia de Havilland ) . But they kid and joke together about how they'll retire and grow fat together once the campaign is over . So he could act very well indeed . But the hijinks that were part of his films usually covered his abilities to act . Then there was Jack Warner . He rarely agreed to let Flynn do " straight " dramatic or comic roles . In Flynn's early career he did do films like GREEN LIGHT , FOUR'S A CROWD , and THE SISTERS with mediocre results ( the comedy FOUR'S A CROWD is the best of this bunch ) , but Warner knew how the public liked certain actors as dramatic players and certain ones in particular grooves . He rarely gave Flynn a non-adventure part after 1940 . The murder mystery FOOTSTEPS IN THE DARK , the all star romp THANK YOUR LUCKY STARS , and the interesting French war drama UNCERTAIN GLORY were exceptions I suspect this treatment began to bug Flynn after the rape case in 1944 , when Warner's was determined ( for damage control ) to try to retain Flynn's hero image at all costs , and to make his sexuality a type of joke . Then , his contract with Warners ended and he went to M . G . M . He was able to do THAT FORSYTE WOMAN with Greer Garson , Walter Pigeon , and Robert Young . Here , he hoped , he would demonstrate his abilities as a straight actor as never before . THAT FORSYTE WOMAN is based on THE FORSYTE SAGA's first novel , THE MAN OF PROPERTY ( with a bit of the second novel IN CHANCERY thrown in ) . Written by John Galsworthy in the teens and twenties , the nine novels and numerous short stories and " interludes " about members of his rich , upper middle class family remain a favorite series of tales about the period of England from 1880 to 1929 ( Galsworthy died in 1933 ) . They won him the Nobel Prize in Literature . Unfortunately , the stories ' appeal has led to them being used for television twice , the last time only four years ago . The best version is either that recent one , or the 1960s version starring Kenneth More , Eric Porter , Nyree Dawn Porter , Martin Jarvis , Susan Hampshire , Nicholas Pennell , and ( introducing ) Michael York . I say unfortunately because the television versions ( being multiple episodes ) allowed the screenwriters more opportunity to dramatize more of the stories . Whole plot lines , jettisoned or condensed in a single film ( even of a single novel ) were expanded more comprehensibly . Also , as the 1960s version was going through the first six novels in 26 hour episodes , characters were given a chance to develop . In particular Soames Forsyte , the character played by Flynn in the movie . In the 1960s version Soames was played by Eric Porter . Now it is an odd balance here . Porter had no great film career - he did not become the film icon that Flynn did . But on television he certainly was quite effective in several programs ( he was a memorable Nevil Chamberlain in WINSTON CHURCHILL : THE WILDERNESS YEARS ) . His version of Soames was a wonderful full blooded characterization . Instead of just being a stuffed - shirt solicitor and art collector , Porter showed the demons that drive Soames to the mad act that blights his home life ( Soames sexually attacks an unwilling Irene - his wife - when she refused to fulfill her wifely duties ) . Later his stuffiness actually stands out in rather good contrast to the anti-Victorian backlash that follows the First World War . He becomes a grand old curmudgeon . Flynn could not do this . Indeed the entire rape issue in the novel was totally played down in the film ( MGM brass could not bring up the idea of rape with Flynn , even though he had won the 1944 case brought against him on that charge ) . Instead they emphasized the other unattractive side of Soames . Committed to property , in his art collecting , his accumulation of wealth , and his home ( and his future house being built by Philip Bossiney ( Robert Young ) ) , the movie Soames considers Irene ( Greer Garson ) his possession . In the novel this theme is brought out by Galsworthy ( typical of the mindset of Victorian England - even in it's laws ) . Irene tries to escape with Bossiney ( who is engaged to Soames cousin June ( Janet Leigh ) ) , but the latter dies under violent circumstances . However , Irene does leave Soames , and ends up marrying Soames other cousin Jolyon ( Pidgeon ) . With the total affect of the novel cut due to the mores of 1949 and the history of it's male leading man , the story was weakened . To his credit Flynn did give a good performance . He is a totally unlikeable Victorian pompous ass who happens to have no sense of humor ( which is Soames ' character , before his marriage problems ) who likes to collect things . Problem is , even with his money it is hard to understand why anyone would be willing to marry such a man . Irene ( in the novel ) is the daughter of a professor who has died , and is living with her step-mother ( whom she can't stand ) . If this was developed ( as it was in the 1960s series ) the problem of her marrying Soames would be understood . Here it wasn't . As the story was done so superbly by Porter and his co-stars in the 1960s , Flynn's good performance in such a mediocre version is distinctly minor . However , out of respect for Errol's attempt to show what he could do ( and his personal results ) I'll give the film a " 7 " as a better than average try .
A Joke Based On Wish Fulfillment	This movie is about my age . . . we both came out in 1954 . It was the height of the cold war , and the possibility of mutual annihilation by the West and East was there . It would not be laid to rest until it nearly culminated eight years later with the mushroom clouds of the Cuban Missile Crisis . And shortly after that came the ultimate " black comedy " about the period , " Dr . Strangelove " . But this film came earlier , in a slightly more hopeful period . Stalin had died a year before , so the Soviet Union looked a little less threatening . Not much , but a little . The invasion of Hungary and the crushing of its revolution in 1956 ended that image . The hope in this film is based on one concept - suppose the Russians suddenly believed that their missiles were worthless due to some new weapon . In this film it is a device that looks like a tricycle with three brass balls connected by a broken umbrella frame . Actually it is precisely that - a piece of junk thrown together by two sailors as part of a lark , and attached to their warship . Naturally it excites the interest of the Russians . It also intrigues Akim Tamiroff , the President of the country that the British warship is visiting . He manages to purloin it ( the sailors can't do much about it - after all it is not actually real naval equipment ) . Tamiroff is afraid that a Russian backed neighboring country may take over his because of their missiles . His country has none . He does have Martin Miller , a kindly , eccentric physicist who examines the device and pronounces it useless . But he and Tamiroff note the Russian interest in it - and decide to take advantage of it . And by a skillful bit of a scam , they convince the Russians and the neighboring country that atomic missiles are useless against the new device . It is a charming little comedy , with bits of in-jokes ( Tamiroff and Miller begin a conversation with the former saying , " Since you don't understand my language , we'll communicate in pidgin English . " ) . It should be revived , to remind us of what we feared the most , and what we wished to end as though it were all a bad dream .
The Tragedy of Old Age - and a wink at the once great Willie Howard	In CITIZEN KANE , Kane's most faithful associate and friend , Mr . Bernstein ( now Chairman of the Board of Kane's empire ) tells the reporter that aging is the only disease that nobody looks forward to the cure of ( i . e . death ) . I'M NOT RAPPAPORT is a look at just how ultimately dreary and awful old age becomes for most of us . Yet it is a comedy - because in humor we manage to find reason to survive and even flourish a little . I was lucky to see the play on stage with Judd Hirsch and the late Clevon Little . It was a good production , and had less slow spots than the film ( which occasionally slows down to try to find something visual to satisfy the viewing audience - sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't ) . Hirsch and Little had good rapport in the roles of Nat and Midge , the elderly Jewish radical and the elderly African-American super . Both are now considered out-of-date and expendable . In short they are old , and at best are part of the background , and at worst bandied about by careless or vicious younger people . Midge is suffering from reoccurring cataracts and glaucoma . He is the still smart engineer of his apartment's boiler room ( and he demonstrates a remarkable ability to pinpoint a car engine's problems too ) . But he is 81 or so and the building is turning coop . They don't need an antiquated super for their new image ( they are even getting a new boiler so they don't need his expertise ! ) . Nat is in a similar position , but he is imaginative and clings to a fanatical devotion to the socialist-and communist labor viewpoint that permeated the Jewish districts of the lower East Side and Brooklyn from 1900 to 1947 . He is able to demonstrate an inventiveness to promote the defense of people's rights . But frequently ( too frequently ) he does not realize that his actions might injure the people that he thinks he is helping . As he was dying Frederick Douglas yelled to remember to always " agitate ! " . He was right . But Douglas realized you had to agitate for change that was possible . Nat can't realize this , as he falls under the romance of his various guises and lies . The play and film covered actually three months , but the first act and second were in the course of a single pair of days . Midge ( here Ossie Davis ) faces dismissal from the spokesperson of the tenant's group taking over the building ( Danford - Boyd Gaines ) . But Danford is really a softy , and even is willing to try to get a severance package for Midge that is larger than the one he offers . Just as they are about to agree Nat ( Walter Matthau ) shows up and pretends he is a labor union lawyer nicknamed " the cobra " who will destroy Danford unless he retains Midge in the job . For awhile this works . . . until a member of the tenant's group eventually finds out Nat lied . Then Midge gets even less than he was supposed to . Nat ( who actually was once a waiter - nothing else ) similarly manages to harm Laurie ( Martha Plimpton ) , a recovering addict and artist , who owes $2 , 000 . 00 to Cowboy ( Craig T . Nelson ) for drugs . He pretends to be a " Godfather " with Midge as his bodyguard . Cowboy is not fooled , but is seriously annoyed . So it goes with all Nat's plans and attempts to spread the zeal of activism . For nobody really cares outside of their immediate self-interest . As his drained but loving daughter ( Amy Irving ) tells Nat , the old fights are just that . . . old fights . Nobody cares about them anymore . And yet the fervor in Nat's voice , recalling an historic rallying point in New York Labor history in 1909 , or the sudden care and bravery of Midge when Nat is in danger show these men are worthy of respect . Only one person really comes close to respecting them . . . Danford . He is younger by decades , but he is aware ( in his late 30s ) that he lacks the physical strength he only had five years earlier . When Matthau basically says that Davis's only sin is his old age , Matthau reminds Danford that one day he too will be a member of the old age club . Danford is very aware of that . Matthau brings to Nat his mad vitality ( as Hirsch brought a type of intellectual memory to the same role ) . Davis is not as energetic as Little was on stage , but he does bring a degree of comfort to the role - an African-American of 80 years who knows what is expected by society of his type , but has found ways to circumvent it as much as possible . Irving makes Nat's daughter his tragic , loving victim - caring for him , but finding him rejecting her overtures to care for him . People aware of Nelson as " Coach " will be amazed by his vicious streak - but he is still able to be a good deadpan / straight-man to Matthau at the end . And Gaines certainly makes Danford more thoughtful than one could imagine . Oh . . . Willie Howard . " I'm not Rappaport " is an old routine of that Broadway clown , where he drives a stranger crazy insisting he is Rappaport , although he does not resemble the gentleman in any way . Howard never was a Hollywood star , so it is nice that the play resurrected his memory a little here .
Ah , those wonderful German / Swiss Banks	This film was made in 1970-71 , just as Americans were becoming aware that the great period of economic advantage over our adversaries from World War II was coming to an end . Banks in Germany and Switzerland were attracting attention because they were convenient for money laundering purposes ( although that term was not fully in use yet ) . They offered security and confidentiality , which American Banks could not compete with . Gert Frobe is the head of the bank in the story ( somewhat ironic , as his best role was as Auric Goldfinger , who also threatened the American economy in a different way ) . Frobe is playing his hard working banker as a good natured , somewhat naive type . His right hand man is a security expert played by Warren Beatty . Beatty has learned that there are several people who are using the bank : a bunch of crooked G . I . s led by Scott Brady ; a mob lawyer ( Robert Webber ) and his assistant who are transporting tens of thousands of dollars to the bank ; a hired assassin and drug courier . All three groups have one common denominator : Goldie Hawn has been having sex with Brady , Webber , and the assassin . The three groups have used the banks super-protected safety deposit boxes to store their cash . Beatty has set up the cameras , so he is aware of the timing of the cameras as they move . If he can get locked into the vault under reasonably acceptable circumstances , he can also control his movements so as not to be photographed by the camera . He is also in a position to have duplicates for the three security boxes he would have to open . Once this is done , he could clear out the money in bags put into Golde Hawn's box , and she can come in the next day and pick them up . It sounds complicated . It is complicated , but Beatty and Hawn pull it off based on the knowledge of how much each group will deposit on a given weekend , and on the known nervousness of Frobe for the security of his beloved bank . The first half hour shows how the scheme got laid out , the next twenty minutes show how Beatty and Hawn ( especially Beatty in the locked vault ) pull it off . But the film does not end then . The three sets of individuals discover the robbery after the fact , and then Brady and the assassin discover the common denominator : Hawn . And the last forty minutes is a protracted chase through Germany , that has one great set piece of Beatty's fight for his life on a frozen lake . It is not a great film , but it is entertaining and ( at times ) comic , thanks mostly to Hawn and Frobe ( with some help from Brady occasionally ) . So I give it a " 7 " out of " 10 " .
The Full Force of Stalinism Hits Russia	I actually did see this particular episode of the series . For a change the format did not seem out of place , probably because the interview of modern political leaders would fit into the 1930s . Except for one point : Joseph Stalin would have never agreed to that kind of journalism unless it was done by one of his henchmen in the press like Walter Duranty . Stalin's rise to control of the Soviet Union is less well known in this country than Hitler's in Germany or even Mussolini's in Italy . Stalin had been a minor Bolshevik leader , but gradually got into the inner circle of Lenin in the early 1920s . Lenin never trusted Stalin , for the Georgian was not much of a political theorist as Lenin and his ally Trotsky were . But Stalin was gifted in moving people he could use into important positions of power . This slowly pushed him into being head of the Communist Party , just as Lenin died . Lenin's health had declined between 1919 and 1924 due to a serious wounding in an assassination attempt . He always planned to dump Stalin , but he never got the chance . Stalin made alliances with Zinoviev and Bulkarin and several others . Like his Austrian-German counterpart these alliances were all of convenience and temporary until he could throw them aside . His intention was to build a fence around the Party leadership and the government and force out Trotsky , whose achievements had been mostly under the early years of the regime ( he had rebuilt the Russian Army with Alexei Brusilov ) , and was able to use it to put down the White Russian Armies in the Civil Wars of 1919 - 21 . But in the maneuvering following Lenin's death Stalin was a better tactician . For one thing , Stalin made it appear that Lenin was breaking with Trotsky over policy differences ( the two men actually respected each other's ideas ) . This included excluding Trotsky from the pall bearers at Lenin's burial . Trotsky also made the foolish mistake of refusing to attend the funeral to show his anger . The others ( at Stalin's prodding ) thought it showed Trotsky was not a team player . By 1928 Trotsky had been stripped of all his appointments . He saw the handwriting on the wall , and left Russia . He proceeded to France , where he would live into the middle 1930s , when French politics forced him out . He ended up in Mexico , until his assassination in 1940 . But his last decade made him Stalin's worst enemy ( hence the need to kill him ) , as he took his literary talents to analyze Stalin's blunders and crimes . Stalin tried to turn the Soviet Union into a revolution that was concentrating on only Russia . Lenin and Trotsky wanted to export the revolution around the globe ( and Soviet foreign policy up to 1928 did just that under Gregory Zinoviev ) . Stalin ended that , leaving Zinoviev's Comintern rather useless . As I said , he dropped his one time allies when no longer useful as quickly as Hitler did . The various economic schemes ( the five year plans ) were not as successful for the immediate time - though it turned out in World War II some of them proved very helpful in putting industry out of the way of the German Army . There was talk of replacing Stalin with the head of the Soviet Party in Leningrad ( the former and future St . Petersburg ) Kirov . Kirov was assassinated ( we now know that Stalin ordered it ) in 1934 . In 1936 he announced a massive anti-Soviet conspiracy that he claimed was linked to the murder of Kirov . This was the start of the purge trials . Mostly they were the military leaders like Marshal Tuckhachevski , but gradually hundreds and then thousands were dragged in like Zinoviev and Bulkharin and Karl Radek . The show shows the thoroughness of what one writer called " The Great Terror " . We see Bukharin pleading with his family not to try to do anything to stop his inevitable execution . We see Yagoda , the then head of the KGB , realizing that Yedzhov ( his successor ) was the willing tool of the trials with their " court arranged " confessions gained by tortures . The situation used in 1984 in describing the nightmare world of Winston Smith was created by Stalin in 1936 , as much if not more than by Hitler in the same period . Finally Trotsky and his son rip apart the so-called conspiracy of the victims of the purges , Trotsky and Hitler . " I'm a Jew . " , says Trotsky , " Why would Hitler make a plan with me against anyone ? " The number of victims of the purge trials ( that lasted until 1941 ) was close to 10 , 000 . Others who were not shot after they confessed were sent to the gulags as slave laborers . The purges did destroy the effective leadership of the military which was one of the reasons the Wehrmacht was able to do so well for the opening year of the war . It has only been in the last fifteen years that the victims have slowly been rehabilitated by the Russian government .
The First " Masterpiece Theatre " " Who Dunnit ? "	I have had mixed feelings about this series since I first saw it in the early 1970s . I read THE MOONSTONES in the late 1960s , and enjoyed Wilkie Collin's blending of a detective story with his social comments about Victorian hypocrisy and hypocrites . It was the first Collins ' novel I read ( THE WOMAN IN WHITE followed within two years ) . Then I heard that it was going to be on " Masterpiece Theatre " . It excited me to see that two of the stars of THE FORSYTE SAGA were in it ( Martin Jarvis and John Welsh ) , and I looked forward to it . Alistaire Cooke's introduction was also increasing my expectations . He pointed out it was the first " Who Dunnit " on " Masterpiece Theatre " . The series did tell the story of the novel , but I found it disappointing . Not that the acting and production was poor , but they did not follow the organization of the novel as Collins thought it out . Collins had different characters in the novel tell the story in overlapping manner ( like Welles and Mankiewicz did in the screenplay for CITIZEN KANE ) so that we got different perspectives on the actions and on the characters . This was jettisoned : so we missed the character of Miss Clack , and her self-serving religiosity , and barely got Gabriel Betteridge's love of using Defoe's ROBINSON CRUSOE as a source of philosophy . If you have read THE MOONSTONES you can tell this is a serious loss . The plot of the novel is simple . Rachel Verrinder ( Vivien Heilbron ) is celebrating her coming of age birthday , and her mother Lady Verrinder ( Kathleen Byron ) is having a party for her , to which is invited some of the friends and young beaus interested in her . In particular Franklin Blake ( Robin Ellis ) and Godfrey Ablewhite ( Martin Jarvis ) . The household plans are aided by Lady Verrinder's butler Gabriel Betteridge ( Basil Dignam ) . But as the festivities are about to begin , a testamentary gift is sent to the house that Lady Verrinder is not too happy about . Her ladyship's uncle had been kept at arm's length since her childhood by the family - he gained a fortune by unscrupulous methods ( including violence and murder ) in a " battle " in India in 1799 at Seringapatam . The uncle felt the universal dislike , and became reclusive . Now he sends ( in his will ) a very valuable jewel : The Moonstone , possibly the rarest diamond in the world . It is his gift to his unseen grand niece , and , yet , Lady Verrinder has forebodings that it is pure evil . Soon it seems to be attracting unease among everyone . Three mysterious Indians show up in the English countryside for no reason , and keep approaching the house . Rachel is favoring Franklin as a possible fiancé over Godfrey , but they have a quarrel . Then the diamond vanishes . The local police come in and are totally inept , especially as they tend to dismiss the investigation they should be conducting when Lady Verrinder orders it . A servant girl with a past named Roseanna Spearman ( Anna Cropper ) attracts some attention , but nothing is accomplished . Public opinion insists on action , and Scotland Yard sends it's best detective , Sergeant Cuff ( John Welsh ) . Immediately the investigation starts getting really serious . Cuff does not care who is shielding who , or whether the parties involved are nobility and gentry or not . He goes out of his way to solve the case . Soon he is aware that Lady Verrinder's interference is due to the behavior of Rachel , and that Rachel's seems pegged on her feelings about Franklin . Still he is also aware of the odd behavior of Spearman , who he tries to question ( and who keeps putting him off ) . Ablewhite also leaves rather early , as did several other guests . The fact that a nightgown is missing that is a vital clue is bothering him . He appears to be approaching a solution , when Spearman commits suicide . The local police Superintendent Foley causes a backlash , forcing Cuff to be recalled . And the case is left unresolved , until two years pass . And I will leave it at that . When Collins wrote the novel in 1868 he was using elements from several recent events . One was the Road Murder Mystery of 1860 . If you have seen the complete version of DEAD OF NIGHT , you see part of that story when Sally Ann Howes meets the little boy ghost . This is the murder of Francis Saville Kent , possibly by his half-sister Constance Kent . A leading clue in that case was a missing nightgown belonging to Constance . The detective on the case was Inspector Jonathan Whicher , got recalled when local opinion swerved against him after he began suspecting Constance . He was recalled , and like Cuff was forced to resign ( and like Cuff was subsequently vindicated to see his suspicions proved apparently true ) . Professor Richard Altick also found that a later incident in the story was based on an 1864 crime , " the Northumberland Street outrage " , involving waylaying a person into a house . The performances were good though , despite the change of the novel's story-making structure . Welch's Cuff was perhaps too restrained ( the novel pushes his habit of growing roses and humming " The Last Rose of Summer " ) . Robin Ellis was on the edge of television stardom ( POLDARK was in the future ) but he gave a good performance as Franklin , who finds the discovery of the truth more upsetting than he bargained for . Cropper's Spearman was very sympathetic , as the cursed jewel's unexpected victim . The show was , if not all it should have been , a good dramatization .
The Limits of A Good Cop ?	This is not the best Columbo episode , nor even my favorite , but it has one moment in it that I will always treasure . George Wendt has a chance here - finally - to move away from his lovable barfly " Norm " in CHEERS . Here he plays a hard working grasshopper type . He runs a horse farm , and has been grooming and training a potentially great horse . But he's stuck with a ne'er-do-well brother ( Jeff Yagher ) who is potentially going to wrecked all of Wendt's hopes by his gambling debts . Wendt kills this idiot , but now has to figure out how to avoid going to jail because of it . His brother's debts are owed to Jay Acovone ( playing a bookie for the Mob ) . Wendt lures Acovone to his home to collect the debt , and shoots the bookie " in self defense " . The idea is that Yagher was killed by the bookie as a message to Wendt to pay up or else . Enter Colombo . . . and Peter Falk is soon beginning to spot all the apparent unnoticed minor details that Wendt overlooked ( but which the surface incidents seem to cover pretty well ) . But Falk realizes he has competition . It seems mobsters have private lives too . Acovone was more than a Mob bookie : he was the close godson of local Mob capo Rod Steiger , and Steiger ( who like most capos has a pretty shrewd head on his shoulders ) realizes that Acovone had no hand in this crazy " message " murder if he was expecting to be paid . What happens then is similar to an episode from the first decade of " Colombo " where Hector Elizondo was an Arab diplomat who killed Sal Mineo to hide and advance a conspiracy against his monarch , and Falk and the monarch end up putting Elizondo on the spot in a squeeze play . Here Steiger works with Falk in putting Wendt in a similar squeeze-play . Falk and Steiger have nice moments together , including a moment of lunch when Falk suddenly realizes they are eating a specialty that he can't eat , but Steiger happens to like . But the best moment comes when Wendt sees his real moment of truth . Confronting Steiger and his army of goons at a small coffee shop , only Falk happens to be there . When Falk ( playing his game on Wendt ) sees that Steiger means to kill Wendt and anyone else who is " troublesome " , he says finally , " My salary is not worth this ! " , and walks out . We know he's doing it to effectively scare Wendt , but boy is it funny to see his limit finally !
A Commentary on Hogan's Heroes	This is a mildly amusing comedy that was made for television in 1969 and starred Eva Gabor , Ken Berry , and Werner Klemperer . In a sense , it suggests what might have happened under certain circumstances to Col . Robert Hogan at the hands of Col . Wilhelm Klink if Hogan's activities came to Klink's attention in 1946 , but Hogan was in some kind of difficulties that Klink could use against him . Klemperer plays Mayor Erich Mueller , a dedicated Nazi official , who only had one failure in his wartime career that rankled . He was certain that an allied airman was in the area near his city , and that he should have been captured . But he did not find the airman . And with reason . This airman was Lieutenant Robert Carrington ( Ken Berry ) who stumbled into the estate of Baroness Marlene ( Eva Gabor ) . Lonely ever since her husband died ( although Mueller has occasionally shown some distinct interest towards her ) , the Baroness hides Carrington , and he becomes her toy boy . Basically he is kept " imprisoned " by her from late 1943 to 1946 . You see , she makes sure he does not hear any English spoken radio telling about the Nazis surrendering , and when he asks what is being said in German she explains the Nazis have invaded England ( and been beaten back two or three times ) . The Baroness decides to hire some needy former Wermacht soldiers to come at night , and double check the house ( always missing Carrington ) , every two or three months . As Pooh Bah would have said , merely corroborative detail to enhance a bald and uninteresting narrative . Unfortunately , one night they run into Mueller . Now he is a minor fugitive - being a former Nazi official he is subject to possible arrest . They tell him about the idiot Carrington and the Baroness ' scheme . Mueller is not pleased : after all he was right but the Baroness fooled him . But then , he decides to have some fun of his own . He watches while the Baroness goes to town . Then he goes to the house and confronts Carrington - not to kill him , but to get rid of him . Mueller pretends he is a member of the anti-Nazi underground , and gives Carrington instructions of how to get to various rendezvous with underground agents . He also gives Carrington a Nazi uniform for a disguise ( although Carrington can't speak much German , remember ? ) . So he sends the befuddled American off on a motorcycle in a uniform that causes everyone to stare in disbelief . This only convinces Carrington that he is in danger - so he goes to the addresses given him by Mueller ( to the apartment of former Nazi Hans Conried , who pretends he is a suspicious underground leader interrogating Carrington ) . And so it goes until the conclusion , when finally Carrington " is rescued " from the circle of ex-Nazis who are bedeviling him . As for the Baroness , she is resigned when the American leaves for the states at the end . She has a new , more willing boy toy in hiding : Mueller . Silly as it was , it was well acted and had a mad logic of it's own . It was a an amusing movie , and gave Ken Berry a rare chance at a lead role in a film . It also gave Klemperer a kind of finale for the career of Col . Wilhelm Klink .
A Slight Let - Down after " Forsyte "	I remember seeing this series on public television in 1968 , while I was still attending high school in New York City . After the phenomenal international success of the first " Forsyte Saga " ( with Eric Porter , Nyree Dawn Porter , Kenneth More , Susan Hampshire , Martin Jarvis , Nicholas Pennell , and Michael York ) , the producers of " Masterpiece Theater " looked about for another quality novel to turn into a series . Eventually they would find many , but they stumbled here . Why they chose this novel of Aldous Huxley's instead of the one he is remembered for , his anti-Utopean novel " Brave New World " is a mystery to me . If any producer seeks out a work of a known novelist for filming or staging it should be a popular choice . This is why there are so many versions of Dickens ' " A Christmas Carol " , but no film versions of " The Chimes " , " The Battle of Life " , or " Dombey and Son " . The public knows what is memorable and lovable . Occasionally an experiment can be conducted with a less than well known title . In all the Jules Verne novels turned to movies stands " The Sothern Star " and " Facing The Flag " , neither of which most people recall in their original printed form . But the former is considered an entertaining , if minor film , and the latter is best known ( in it's Czech film version ) for the interesting production technique used . " Brave New World " was a scary view of a future of vacuous minded ninnies who live for pleasure , and don't think ( thinking is done for them by the rulers ) . It is almost as good a negative view of the future as Orwell's " 1984 " . But Aldous Huxley wrote at least twenty novels , and " Brave New World " is the one we all remember . " Chrome Yellow " , " Ape and Essence " , " After Many a Summer Dies the Swan " , and " Eyeless in Gaza " are not recognizable titles anymore . For many years Bantam paperbacks did reprint them , but most of these are now out of print - the public lost interest in them , but not in " Brave New World " . " Point Counterpoint " was apparently chosen from this list of losers because it was set in the 1920s , the era of the " gay young things " that Evelyn Waugh ( a far better and more deserving novelist than Huxley ) spoofed unerringly in novel after novel . As a novel of the 1920s and 1930s , with characters based on famous or infamous people of that period , it seemed a natural to follow " Forsyte " . You see , when the " Forsyte " saga appeared on television , it actually dramatized all of the main stories of John Galsworthy's family of wealth in the first two series of trilogies ( " The Forsyte Saga " and " A Modern Comedy " ) . There was actually a third trilogy that Galsworthy wrote that followed " A Modern Comedy " , which James Michener ( in an article in T . V . Guide when the " Saga " was on television ) said were terrible . For instance , in the second trilogy , Fleur Forsyte finds a new admirer in her husband Michael's friend Wilfred Desert . Wilfred vanished from the series - seemingly without reason . In the final three novels he reappears . The third trilogy is entitled " End Of The Chapter " . There were also a separate volume of tales of the " Forsyte " family called " On Forsyte ' Change " . So having brought that international audience into the wonderful long weekend of the 1920s , public television , " Masterpiece Theater " , and British television followed with another series set in the 1920s , but chose Huxley rather than Waugh . Big mistake . For all Waugh's crankiness about Jews and Americans , and whatever else he disliked , he was a great novelist . Huxley is a mediocre one . " Point Counterpoint " is the story of a writer named Philip Quarles , who decides to write a novel based on all the people he knows . He figures that their struggles and problems actually are the reverse image of each other's for comparison sake ( hence the title , " Point Counterpoint " ) . The figures are based on well known people of the period . For example , Max Adrian played John Bidlake , a well known artist and social creature ( and gourmet ) , who is - apparently - based in part on Augustus John . His problem is his health is in decline , and his gourmet days are over - he has to eat simpler foods now to survive . This reduces his social charm considerably . But he is surviving at the end of the story . Meanwhile , Quarles and his wife are having marital problems , and these disappear only when their only child - a boy - developes a serious illness . Suddenly the hitherto ignored child gets all the attention that Bidlake has sacrificed . Edward Judd - last seen as the backer of Mr . Cavour's experiments in anti - gravity " cavourite " in " First Men In The Moon " - is Sir Everard Webley , a right wing political figure leading a paramilitary group who hates Jews . Obviously he is based on Sir Oswald Mosley . Webley is killed by another character secretly , and this becomes part of the plot . While not a bad story thread , Huxley did not develop it as well as it could have been ( Webley's goons become their own detectives and track down the killer ) . Frankly P . G . Wodehouse had more fun spoofing his version of Mosley in several novels , as a fascist in the daytime , but secretly the wealthy manufacturer of ladies underwear . The result is a very uneven series - it was well acted , and produced , of course . . . but it was lacking any real interest for the audience of the late 1960s . Unlike the characters in " The Forsyte Saga " , whom we got to really know in half a year , after six episodes of this series nobody cared about these people . I give it a " 7 " for it's production values - but it was so dull I tremble thinking that that " 7 " may be too generous .
Good Series based on Maugham's novel about hypocrisy and literary fame	CAKES AND ALE is a title based on a line from Shakespeare's TWELFTH NIGHT . At one point , Sir Toby Belch is tired at the Puritan hypocrite Malvolio , who is quite the spoilsport regarding Sir Toby and his antics with the maid Maria and his friend Sir Andrew Aguecheek . " Just because thou art virtuous shall there be no cakes and ale ! " , he throws out at Malvolio . The quote is the basis for the thrust of this novel . We glorify people in the world as great figures , and there are those around them that build them into demigod like figures . But they were humans actually , and they had failures and foibles . To fully appreciate their success and greatness we should know what they were really like - but there are those hangers on who ( like Malvolio ) will deny the human element in order to shine up the fame in the hope of catching some of it themselves . Somerset Maugham , with his delicious sense of irony , looks at the effects in the literary world of the death of that grand old man of letters Edward Driffield . Maugham's narrator is William Ashenden ( his alter ego - he already appeared in ASHENDEN , Maugham's fictional account of his secret service work in World War I , which became Hitchcock's THE SECRET AGENT ) . Ashenden is a novelist , and as a boy knew the younger Driffield . He also knew Driffield's first wife , Rosie , who was a live wire . But few people know of Rosie Dawn Driffield . You see , she was . . . well relatively common . A fun loving woman , and a barmaid , she lacks a certain surface quiet and elegance one associates with grand old men of literature . Such is the opinions of the second Mrs . Driffield ( formerly Driffield's nurse - who felt it an honor to take care of Mr . Driffield in his dotage ) , and the noted novelist Alroy Kear . Kear has turned himself into the Malvolio of the story - protecting ( with the second Mrs . Driffield ) the glory and reputation of Driffield , while hoping that the public will see Kear as the successor as grand old man of English letters to the deceased . Maugham's novel was redone in Britain in this series from 1974 , with Michael Hordern as the older Ashenden , and Judy Cornwell ( who later played Daisy on KEEPING UP APPEARANCES ) as Rosie . The introductions by Alistair Cooke ( when the show was shown on " Masterpiece Theatre " explained that the spoof on high literature and reputation was based on Maugham's views of two major British writers of the twentieth century . One was Thomas Hardy , the great , late Victorian novelist and poet who was recognized as the " grand old man of English letters " at the time of his death in 1928 . Hardy had been married in his youth to a pretty local woman , who eventually left him . He remarried in later years , but the second Mrs . Hardy was not quite the harpy that the second Mrs . Driffield was . The second Mrs . Hardy died in the late 1930s . And Alroy Kear was the novelist Hugh Walpole , best remembered today for ROGUE HERRIES and MR . PERRIN AND MR . TRAIL ( the latter made into a movie in the 1940s ) . Maugham felt Walpole a lightweight , pretentious man , and was merciless in his depiction of him as the ambitious , empty Kear . In fact , the spoof probably had an unfair effect on Walpole's literary reputation to this day . The series shows how Kear is trying to get the rights to write the definitive biography of Driffield , and the second lady is giving him her full cooperation . But Ashenden is aware that they are making the man a bloodless monument , and he knew Driffield as a decent , hard drinking fellow . And he ( as young Willie Ashenden - Paul Ashdon ) knew Rosie , the fun loving barmaid who married Driffield , had a small affair with young Willie , and suffered a tragedy with her husband - the loss of their only child . Typical of Driffield , he used the death as material for a novel . Eventually she abandoned Driffield with another lover , and Ashenden eventually finds her living happily in America . But will he or won't he reveal the truth of Driffield's first marriage to the world , and destroy Kear's bogus biography ? That is not resolved until the last episode . It was a well acted and directed version of the novel , but the commentary by Cooke helped explain the background of the story . Hordern was obviously enjoying his role , as when he suggests to a queasy Kear , at one point , that the smell of sweat on a working man may actually be a sexual turn on for a woman . That is the sort of detail Kear would never use in his novels or the biography of Driffield .
Reasonably entertaining comedy handling a Mexican / American Sore Point	VIVA MAX takes its basic story from a single idea . Supposedly at reasonably placid relations with our southern neighbor Mexico ( the film was made in 1969 , so the problems of illegal immigrants from Mexico is not considered here ) , what would happen if a column of Mexican troops entered San Antonio , Texas , and retook the Alamo ? The idea is that the shock waves in this country ( and probably Mexico ) would be a " 10 " on the diplomatic seismograph . The symbol of the fight at the Alamo is so important in this country ( particularly in the western section , and especially in the ex-Republic of Texas ) that such a move would not be tolerated here . Yet at the same time , the move might be very popular in Mexico . That country was robbed ( we don't refer to it that way - we say they lost land in two wars ) by Americans , and they have never been happy about it ever since . Only native Hawaiians who want independence for their old kingdom could possibly understand the feelings of the Mexican thinking about the half of their country that was lost . Adding to the galling loss of Texas and the Southwest , the symbol of Texas Independence is a battle-site which ( technically ) was a Mexican victory . For , as we know , all the Americans were killed at the Alamo , and ( no matter how many Mexicans got killed ) Santa Anna put the Mexican flag up at the end . ( I suppose I could also add descendants of American Loyalists ( mostly Canadians now ) who resent their post 1783 exile from their native land , as well as Southerners who still think the Confederacy deserved to survive . Oddly enough it would be harder to find resentment from those countries like Germany and Italy that we fought in World War II ( and , in Germany's case World War I ) as these - but then we have an odd type of mutual resentment balance with Japan dealing with Pearl Harbor v . Hiroshima / Nagasaki . ) VIVA MAX develops because General Maximilian De Santos is trying to prove himself to his girlfriend . She feels he is such a loser that he cannot lead his men anywhere . So he decides ( on his own ) to take his men into San Antonio and grab back the symbol of Texas and American land greed , and reclaim it for what it is - the symbol of Mexican military success . He does so not really knowing what his next step is - after all , he is just trying to impress his girlfriend . His second in command , Sergeant Valdez ( John Astin ) slowly realizes what a can of worms were opened up ( Valdez and the other men thought the General got his orders for some diplomatic visit ) . The Americans are not happy at all . Led by Texas National Guard General Billy Joe Halston ( Jonathan Winters ) and San Antonio Police Chief Sylvester ( Harry Morgan ) they are facing a crisis that they honestly can't fathom . They try to negotiate De Santos into leaving , but he realizes the publicity at home is on his side . He's avenged the Mexicans killed at San Jacinto and Cerra Gordo and Buena Vista and Vera Cruz by the gringo invaders . He knows that his girlfriend will have to take him more seriously in the future . Finally the Americans have no choice : they send in American troops to retake the Alamo . But the National Guardsmen turn out not to have the necessary spirit to do this ( who can blame them - most are like Winters , part-time weekend warriors and full-time businessmen ) . So when a confrontation occurs with both sides ready to shoot , Valdez cleverly uses a sudden surprise to give the " victory " to the Mexicans . ( The film was dated in the period of Vietnam , but was written as a novel earlier . Nowadays , with the use of national guardsman in Iraq and Afghanistan , this view is no longer realistic ) . Washington steps in , and sends in a regular Army regiment under General Lacomber ( Keenan Wynn ) . He is less polite than the earlier negotiators , and really ready to re-blood the ground of the Alamo with fresh Mexican casualties ( he also is rather bigoted - towards the end of the film he gets a merited rebuke from Winters ' " Halton " about his use of derogatory language to people that Winters knows are hard working and decent ) . The film ends with a tactical withdrawal , but the honors of war are with Max and his men . One wishes that old animosities were settled so easily - I suspect they cannot always be so . Ustinov's Max is well done , his flawless accent maintained in the film ( in his memoirs " Dear Me " he mentions how a retired American General saw him at a San Antonio hotel and really believed he was a Mexican officer ! ) . Astin , for a change , got a lead role and did very well with it . Winters , Morgan , Wynn , and Kenneth Mars ( as a doctor in the National Guard ) also were quite good . It is a pleasant film , and serves to sting us Yanquis about what our national image is south of the border .
A Brave Attempt To Explain The Unforgivable	Lillian Hellman was a committed political animal . Many in her day and since have attacked her for being too committed , and for being too left of center - and she was . However the majority of her most vituperous critics were also committed political animals , but too far to the right . Whether or not this includes Mary McCarthy and her famous comment that nothing Hellman said was true ( including prepositions ) I cannot say . But Hellman and her lover Dashiell Hamnett were blacklisted by people following the likes of the Joseph McCarthys and Roy Cohens and Edgar Hoovers of our society . While I don't agree with a full-speed ahead left of center philosophy , I think this world has seen enough of a full-speed ahead right of center philosophy . In comparison to Hellman and Hamnett , how much damage did McCarthy , Cohen , and Hoover accomplish ( i . e . , how many lives did they destroy ) . Hellman had looked at American isolationism in WATCH ON THE RHINE ( 1943 ) in the Washington , D . C . household of Lucille Watson ( widow of a Supreme Court Justice ) . The then European war is brought straight into her safe household due to her two son-in-laws , Paul Lukas ( anti-Nazi ) and George Coulouris ( collaborationist ) . Watson , in the end , awakes to the threat from the right in Europe that can reach us here . But the cost is that Lukas has to return to the charnal house in Europe to carry on the struggle ( until we get involved ourselves ) . Here , in THE SEARCHING WIND , Hellman looks at the various events from the end of World War I to Munich . Her " hero " is Robert Young , in possibly his most uncertain , fitful performance ( not to knock his performance - he is trying to be a diplomat who is uncertain about what to do , so he is performing the part properly ) . Young , married to Ann Richards , is intelligent and questioning , but easily swayed to being placid . After all , what does he care about the situations in countries like Italy , Spain , or Czechoslovakia . None of this should appear to effect the U . S . We are across the Atlantic after all . His wife , who likes to swan with the elite of these countries ( frequently right wing types ) helps keep her wavering husband from stirring up bad feelings . Only that reporter ( Sylvia Sidney ) would try to stir up Young's more troubled feelings - but he is mentally and spiritually too weak to really confront the danger . Interestingly enough Young's diplomatic career resembles a more notorious ( now notorious ) figure from our diplomatic corps of the period . This was Breckenridge Long , a descendant of a distinguished Kentucky political family , and a total anti-Semite . Long began as a diplomat in Italy , and was a total supporter of Mussolini's fascists . Subsequently he apparently fully supported Hitler's rise to power in Germany and Central Europe . He made certain that there was little help from the State Department for Jews to get into this country ( outside from unfair quotas ) in the 1930s . Young is not as vicious as Long was ( he is simply ineffective and timid ) , but one wonders if Hellman based his character in part on Long . My only point against the film is the business regarding Young and Richard's son , and the secret he tells them to devastate them at the end . His physical problems might still have occurred even if Young had acted in a more determined manner in warning the U . S . government about the rising threat of the right in Europe - after all , final government policy was still determined in Congress , and it was heavily isolationist until Pearl Harbor ( then it became politically suicidal to be isolationist ) . This would suggest that we would still have gone to war , even if Young had spoken out . So Young's son might still have the physical problem no matter what . But Hellman was still commenting on the willing blindness of our diplomats , so this is a minor quibble at best - the film is still on target .
Cary and Ginger confront wicked Walter	This was not the best propaganda film from Hollywood during World War II . I would start that list with MRS . MINAFER or SINCE YOU WENT AWAY . Even LIFEBOAT would be ahead of it , despite having the services of Walter Slezak here as well . As is noted in many of the reviews of this thread , ONCE UPON A HONEYMOON is a trifle too schizoid , being a comedy regarding the triangle between Cary Grant and Slezak over Slezak's wife Ginger Rogers , and the issues of Slezak as a " Von Papen " or " Ribbentrop " style diplomat for the Third Reich . Still , it is not as horrendously bad as it's detractors make it sound , and it actually touches ( at one of it's best points ) a theme that the Allies joked about but really were in no position to discuss until long after the Nuremburg Trials . Slezak is ( as was pointed out in another review ) a fellow Austrian to Der Fuhrer , and so one can see him undermining the Schussnigg Regime in Vienna in 1938 ( pals of that gauleiter who makes things rough for Captain Von Trapp and his family in THE SOUND OF MUSIC - you can tell the type ) . Whenever you watch Walter Slezak in his Nazi roles , just like his fellow mittle-European Conrad Veidt , you genuinely see their performing on film the really horrendous creatures that Hitler unleashed on Europe and the globe . Slezak was lucky . He was the son of Leo Slezak , a famous opera / operetta performer , and the Slezak family was able to get out of Europe for the U . S . in the 1930s ( just like Veidt and Peter Lorre were able to do ) . But he captures the career diplomat , serving under Von Ribbentrop's watchful eye - and making contacts throughout the globe to spread Nazi power . The film has a very heavy framework because of the Nazi threat - which makes the handling of the comic triangle all the more odd to viewers . But that framework has many nice touches in it , mostly due to Leo McCarey's direction . For example , we see Slezak's Baron Von Luber traveling to France - and ( after making sure he is not being observed ) going towards a house with a sign out front saying " Laval " . He goes to Norway and he has a conference with Vidkun Quisling . Towards the end , when he is planning to head for America , one wonders if he was going to visit Henry Ford or Charles Lindbergh ( or should I say " Robert Forrest " ) . There is also a nice introduction at the start showing the face of a huge clock with a swastika in place of the hour and minute arms , and it's called " the clock of Adolf Hitler " , with the fall of various countries shown as the swastika turns clockwise . The interesting thing is that Slezak's character is so committed to the cause of his friends that he does not really care all that much for the embarrassment Roger's affair with Grant causes . In fact he gets Grant to do propaganda for the Nazi cause . This leads to the best scene of the film , wherein Grant is delivering a speech that Slezak wrote over the radio , but that Grant rewrites on the air . In 1942 Americans and their allies really had no idea of the intense inner schisms and power rivalries Hitler pushed among his top echelon of advisers . In a room where Slezak is surrounded by Goering , Goebbels , and Himmler , they hear a radio valentine directed at making Slezak's Baron seem more fitting a successor of Hitler than the other three . We never see the actors playing those three monsters , but we see their backs as they turn at a thoroughly embarrassed and frightened Slezak shrinking before their angry eyes . The film also is the first time that McCarey and Grant would find an ocean liner as a backdrop ( the second would be AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER ) , but as we discover at the end of this film the ship is as much a weapon and a prop as it is a backdrop .
Eugene O'Neill Breaking Another Taboo .	In the 1920s American's greatest dramatist arrived on Broadway in the person of Eugene O'Neill . The son of a well remembered Shakespearean and Romantic actor ( the nightmare relationship of Eugene , his father James , his mother , and his older brother is the subject of his last play A LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT ) , O'Neill was not afraid to tackle subjects that were not usually discussed in American drama : incest in DESIRE UNDER THE ELMS for instance . He experimented with different styles of acting , copying the Greek trilogy of Aschylus in MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRA , and using masked actors in THE GREAT GOD BROWN . But he also created the first modern drama of importance with a central figure who was an African American . This was THE EMPEROR JONES ( 1925 ) . Brutus Jones is a tremendous step forward in American dramaturgy because he is the central figure . Than said O'Neill's play still maintains stereotyping . Brutus is a porter on a train , who frequently plays craps , and who has an argument with his friend Jeff and kills him in a fight with razors . He flees to a foreign island , and he soon discovers that he has leadership qualities there that enable him to set up a monarchy there with himself as Emperor . He even sets up a court with uniformed courtiers . But the moment he gives orders to destroy a village for not showing proper deference to him , his reign begins to fall apart . And soon from being Emperor he becomes a hunted animal . The stereotyping continues , with Brutus slowly losing his bearings and balance due to the incessant drums beating in the forest surrounding him . He hallucinates and sees the ghost of Jeff . He has always spread the word of his invincibility by saying only silver bullets could kill him . So his pursuers melt silver down to make the bullets they use to hunt him down and kill him . As was pointed out on another discussion of the film on this thread , O'Neill based the fall of Jones on that of Haitian Emperor Henri I ( Henri Christophe ) , except that he committed suicide with a silver bullet when he was about to be captured and executed . The play was successful , and would be one of the first triumphs in Paul Robeson's career . He did not originate the role ( as he did not originate the role of Joe in the stage production of SHOWBOAT ) . But he became identified with the role - to the point that he made this independent , somewhat defective production of the film in 1933 . Except for Dudley Digges , as the one white man in Jones ' kingdom ( and Jones ' occasional intimate ) , the cast is pretty forgettable . But it is watching Robeson in his one major lead role that holds our attention . He is a commanding figure in the film and fits the role of a man who loses his throne and power and sanity and life in one evil night . Still , one really wishes that the film's production values could have been better - some of the special effects ( the appearance of the ghost of Jeff for example ) are quite weak . With it's defects it is a measure of watching Robeson at his best that I'd rate it a " 7 " out of " 10 " .
Buddy Hackett in a dramatic western role	I saw this back in the 1960s when I had an on-again / off-again interest in the Barbara Stanwyck western series . What attracted me was watching one of my favorite funny-men , Buddy Hackett , doing a straight performance as one " Charles Sawyer " . From what I recall the blurb for the plot given above is not quite true . Heath ( Lee Majors ) was the illegitimate son of the Barkley family . Unlike Jarrod ( Richard Long ) and Nick ( Peter Breck ) and Audra ( Linda Evans ) Heath's mother is not Victoria ( Barbara Stanwyck ) . However , in the course of the show Victoria and the others accept Heath as one of them . Interestingly enough there was a fourth brother who was also the fourth legitimate child named Eugene . Like the older brother on HAPPY DAYS , he wandered out of the series and nobody ever said anything about him but that he was at an Eastern college or he was living out East ! Heath is naturally curious about his past , and one day one Charles Sawyer turns up - the man Heath recalls as his foster father ( not as the blurb suggested , a total stranger ) . Sawyer needs some help and is asking Heath if he could be of assistance . Sawyer then leaves . Heath follows a few days later , and discovers that Sawyer has been involved in a financial matter with some crooks , and owes them a sum he no longer has . The episode follows as Heath tries to get to the source of the problem , and also tries to protect Sawyer . SPOILER HERE ( SORRY ) : In the conclusion , while trying to run to a safe place , Hackett ( as Sawyer ) is shot down by the villains off his horse . Heath ( after taking care of the villains with Nick ) goes back to the dying Sawyer and tries comforting his last moments . The episode's point was that Sawyer had not been a bad foster father - Heath actually was grateful enough for his care . Unfortunately Sawyer's associations destroyed him . Hackett actually did a good job in the episode as a man who tried to do right but got all caught up in forces he couldn't control . It ( like the performance in BUD AND LOU ) was one of the few appearances Hackett did in straight drama , and he was quite good in it .
Hostages for Bolivar	I saw this thirty four years ago on television , and it has never been shown since . It was a play by Emanuel Robles that was translated and rewritten by Lillian Hellman , and the cast , led by Keir Dullea as Montserrat and Rip Torn as Izquierdo ( the Spanish officer and torturer ) . It is Venezuela ( then part of the Spanish South American Empire ) in the 1820s . Simon Bolivar was leading the revolution , and winning . Izquierdo is trying to find him , and knows that Montserrat is a close associate of Bolivar , and can tell him where he is . So he arrests Montserrat , and grabs five innocent civilians ( including Geraldine Page , Hurd Hatfield , Alexander Scourby , and Jack Albertson ) , from a city square . Then he tells Montserrat that he will kill these hostages one at a time , unless he gets the information from Montserrat . If Montserrat cooperates he'll release them and let Montserrat live . It becomes a battle of character between Montserrat and Izquierdo , who is battling memories of his own humiliation at the hands of Simon Bolivar's men in a recent campaign . The hostages try to force Montserrat to recognize the duty he supposedly owes to them , and he keeps arguing against this pressure . In the end we watch both men basically lose , as Montserrat maintains his honor , and Izquierdo realizes he has gained little - and is giving his services to forces he himself has little respect for . I wish they would revive it . Like many of the televised dramas of early television history ( 1950 - 1975 ) it is possibly no longer in existence , which is a shame . But if it is maybe it can be shown again . It was a good play .
Hope's First Glimmer of Trouble .	As an entertaining comedy for Bob Hope , MY FAVORITE SPY is one of the best films in his career . It is typical for his normal plot line - a glib , slightly sleazy coward is forced into some job in which he conflicts with dangerous types . He manages to bungle his way to victory . It was the plot line for MY FAVORITE BLONDE , MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE , THE PRINCESS AND THE PIRATE , MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE . THE LEMON DROP KID , PALEFACE , SON OF PALEFACE , SORROWFUL JONES , even FANCY PANTS . In each film he'd be assisted by the heroine ( Jane Russell , Dorothy Lamour , Lucille Ball , or whoever ) , and would confront serious villains like Bruce Cabot , Lloyd Nolan , Charles Dingle , Walter Slezak , Joseph Schildcraut , Otto Preminger , and Peter Lorre . In each of these films the villain is interested in money , stolen secrets , the chance at marrying the heroine , or power . The comedy would center on Hope's behavior and antics , sometimes pulling in the heroine and the villains as accidental recipients of Hope's blunders ( like his attempt to give Lucille Ball a special hairdo in FANCY PANTS ) . If he confronts the villain the villain might be temporarily discomforted ( like Schildkraut is momentarily in the duel sequence in BEAUCAIRE ) . But the villain is normally captured by outside forces running to Hope's rescue - he is incapable of beating the villains by himself ( in FANCY PANTS he just barely beats Bruce Cabot with an assist by Teddy Roosevelt - John Alexander ) . It is all familiar , but Hope is still in top form . It was in MY FAVORITE SPY ( 1951 ) that Hope finally got a glimmer of trouble in his paradise . The trouble was from his co-star : Hedy Lamarr . Hedy Lamarr's movie career , unfortunately , is considered something of a joke today . From the start of it , her classic pornographic masterpiece ECSTASY , her critics considered her solely as a beautiful woman with little talent - a wooden actress . This is very unfair , because when given good direction and a top script ( H . M . PULHAM , ESQ . , THE STRANGE WOMAN , SAMSON AND DELILAH ) she proved a first rate actress . Maybe she was not " Oscar " caliber , but she was close to it on these occasions . Moreover , Lamarr had brains . She actually is one of the few actresses who holds a patent . She was determined to show her best acting if she could . When Hope made a comedy he chose actresses who were perfectly willing to be second bananas to him . Even long time " Road Film " partner Dorothy Lamour reacted to his comedy in their movies ( in her case she usually could also depend on co-star Bing Crosby in those films ; but she made MY FAVORITE BRUNETTE with Hope alone ) . It was rare for any of these actresses to act zany in his films . Hope liked it that way . He appreciated being at the center of attention in his films . But with MY FAVORITE SPY he discovered that the formula would not totally work . Lamarr rarely had a chance to play pure comedy ( HEAVENLY BODY with William Powell was more typical of the quiet comedies that she got cast in ) . She was determined to really be Hope's equal in this film - and Hope had problems with that . In the plot of MY FAVORITE SPY , Lamarr was an adventuress named Lily Dalbray who had formerly been romanced by spy and thug Eric Augustine ( Hope - playing a rather unscrupulous villain for a change ) . Augustine is injured while going to retrieve valuable microfilm , and the government find that he resembles a burlesque comic named Peanuts White ( Hope again ) . They force White to go in place of Augustine . Lily has been hired by Eric's old rival and enemy Karl Brubaker ( Francis Sullivan ) to romance and stop or thwart Augustine . The film follows the mix-up , with Hope assisted by a government agent Tasso ( Arnold Moss ) . As I mentioned before the film is very entertaining , but Hope had problems he never experienced before . Lamarr insisted on equal comic time to Hope , especially in the conclusion - a slapstick chase involving a fire and a fire engine . Her performance in the film actually shows that she was enjoying slapstick . But most of her performance actually ended on the cutting room floor . Hope had control of the production , and saw to it . Lamarr protested but Hope had legal right to it . Lamarr never forgave Hope , and never appeared opposite him again in film ( unlike other leading ladies ) or on his television specials . The film showed Francis Sullivan to good form as the forbidding Brubaker - who actually so hates Augustine that he tries to shoot him at the conclusion of the film . Although made by Paramount , one wonders if Sullivan was the original choice for the role . One can imagine Sidney Greenstreet playing Brubaker as well . Possibly Greenstreet was thought of for the film , but either was in poor health or had other commitments . Arnold Moss also does well as Tasso , having to deal with that hopeless simpleton Peanuts White . As I said Hope's film is entertaining , but he was put on notice that his formula could not last if he had problems with his cast . The next time it happened he was unable to control the filmed appearance of his co-star . It was Katherine Hepburn in THE IRON PETTICOAT .
Guess who the figurative " hero " of this western is ?	It is 1864 and the Civil War entered it's crisis period . The North and South were locked into a war to the finish . In the summer of 1864 Grant changed his strategy , releasing Phil Sheridan into the Shenandoah Valley . Suddenly the South was having problems getting food for Lee's army . Furthermore Lee lacked new arms to replace those lost or used up after three years of war . Nevada had only entered the Union in 1864 . It's second largest city ( Virginia City ) had a sizable number of southern born citizens . They contacted the Confederate government with a scheme to steal a fortune , transport it to Mexico , take it to Europe to buy modern arms to be taken to save Lee's army . It was a brilliant scheme so it was approved . However , a Northern spy learned of the scheme , and an agent went to Virginia City . He was able to prevent the scheme from succeeding . In the film Flynn is a prisoner in Libby Prison in Richmond , which is run by Randolph Scott . Before he escapes he learns of the Virginia City scheme . So he is sent with his two pals ( Hale and Williams ) , to prevent the scheme from happening . On the way west they meet John Murrell , a " half-breed " badman ( he tries to arrange the robbery of their stagecoach , only to find himself outwitted by Flynn ) . Murrell is played by Humphrey Bogart . Scott's contact person with the Virginian Southerners ( led by Moroni Olsen and John Litel ) is Miriam Hopkins , a dance hall singer . She is Scott's girlfriend . But as soon as Flynn shows up and discovers Hopkins , he starts getting into her way as much as possible . Soon , although her patriotic heart is with gallant Scott , she finds she likes the rakish Flynn too . In the meantime , as he realizes what the scheme's time-schedule is he tries to prod more action from the local Northern military commander . But this fellow just laughs it off . The Southerners manage to break out making the Union commander realize he was too complacent . Soon northern troops led by him and Flynn are in pursuit . Flynn , Hale , and Williams ( after an argument with the commander ) go south . Soon they find proof that Scott and his party have gone that way , but that they are being followed by Bogart and his gang . In the end there is a fight , and Flynn and Scott join forces . Bogart is killed , but Scott is fatally shot . He manages to make a personal peace with Flynn at the end . Now in charge of the silver Flynn decides the silver could be useful to help rebuild the South after the war . So he hides the silver , and then heads back with the survivors . When he faces the Union commander Flynn won't reveal where the silver is . He is arrested for treason , subsequently found guilty and sentenced to death . Hopkins heads to Washington , and sees Abe Lincoln ( Victor Killian ) at the last moment ( a calendar says it is April 14 , 1865 ) . Flynn is pardoned , and presumably will get the silver to the South - and will be joined to Hopkins . Twisted loyalties here ? In the Hollywood of the " Golden Age " the market in the southern states was not going to be threatened by the realities of the war - nothing about slavery in this film . So good guys Flynn and Scott , although foes in warfare are decent types who would have been good friends without the war . Now the two problems . The performance of Bogart , despite his determination to be animated , is wooden . He was out of place in westerns set in the old west . He could fit into the modern west of his period , and gave first rate performances in THE PETRIFIED FOREST , HIGH SIERRA , and ( best of all ) is THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRES . Here Bogart is doing his best but his heart can't be in it . The villainy is too exotic for him . It's also , apparently , a lie . John Murrell was a figure of some note in the Mississippi Valley of the 1830s , known as the great land pirate . He had ( supposedly ) a large gang of desperadoes , involved in slave stealing , slave trading , robbery and murder , and supposedly had plans to lead a large slave revolt in 1835 to seize three or four states . He was betrayed , and sent to prison for a number of years . He was not involved with a gang in Nevada and the southwest United States in 1864 ! Now the second problem : who is the figurative " hero " of the film ? Well Scott and Flynn are the two heroes to the viewers ( Scott the gallant foe martyr ; Flynn the decent sort who wants to help those poor souls rebuild their world after the war ends ) . But in terms of the law and reality , it is the commander of the northern troops in Nevada , despite his being too sanguine and complacent at first , who is the real hero . So our military commander is the figurative " hero " of this western , because he did the right thing legally ! Who is he ? Well , in a film headed with Errol Flynn , Randolph Scott , and Humphrey Bogart , the actual hero is none other than DOUGLAS DUMBRILLE .
A Cunning Adversary	There should be a sub-genre in thrilling writing about the stories where somebody stumbles , accidentally , into witnessing a major crime but the perpetrator keeps countering each move with one of his or her own . The reviews on this thread keep referring to Hitchcock's REAR WINDOW , which certainly is the best known version of this plot , except for one element that is not in that film until very late . A better film to compare WITNESS TO MURDER to is actually THE WINDOW with Bobby Driscoll , Arthur Kennedy , and Paul Stewart . Difference between WITNESS and REAR WINDOW , of course , is that in the latter film Raymond Burr is unaware of why he is the center of so much attention by the police until he sees Grace Kelly's gesture regarding his wife's ring and the only person who can see it is Jimmy Stewart across the courtyard of the apartment buildings . Then he realizes who has been tipping the cops off about him . But that is about ten minutes before the end of the film . The situation in WITNESS TO MURDER is almost identical to THE WINDOW . Barbara Stanwyck happens to see a woman being strangled in an apartment near her's by George Sanders . But Sanders ( like Paul Stewart in THE WINDOW , notices her and prepares accordingly . He ( like Stewart ) has nothing to hide when the police ( Gary Merrill and Jesse White ) show up . He is soon analyzing Stanwyck for them as a neurotic spinster who hallucinates . And he is quite convincing . The difference between Sanders and Paul Stewart in their comparative film parts is that Stewart killed his victim in an argument over business ( Sanders was in a sexual rage ) . Moreover , whatever one thinks of Stewart's glib and careful killer , he is not getting deeper and deeper into crime out of any political or intellectual views . Put another way : if Bobby Driscoll had not witnessed what happened , but was sound asleep ( and Stewart was sure of it ) , Stewart would have hidden the dead body somewhere , and he and Ruth Roman would have packed up and moved to another city . Roman's loyalty to him would have reassured that there wouldn't have been any problems on that end . But with Sanders he approaches the situation from a " spiritual " side that Stewart would have found incomprehensible . We learn ( and it is a point that Merrill finds odd and troubling ) that this suave , courteous , and intellectual man is a defender of Nietzche's " superman " theories ( as twisted by the Nazis ) and apologist for the policies of the Nazis in several books . His treatment of his initial victim , and his subtle and continuous persecution of Stanwyck are of a piece ( he does not believe such inferior types should threaten him ) . Towards the end he even intends to make her death appear to be a suicide . Stewart felt Driscoll was a viable threat to his freedom and security , but he never has a speech suggesting the boy was a biological inferior . WITNESS TO MURDER is a good thriller , but it is not one of the all time great ones . Still it is a worthy picture , the only one where Stanwyck and Sanders appeared in together . So I give it a " 7 " on the scale , recommending it as an interesting version of the hunted turned hunter genre of thriller .
Interesting variant on D . O . A .	While not one of the best episodes of GET SMART ( I miss Smart's chief enemy , Siegfried - Bernie Kopell - too much when he's not about with his assistant Starker ) , this episode always remained memorable to me because of the central plot - a take off on Edmond O'Brien's film D . O . A . If you recall that film , O'Brien is fatally poisoned , and spends the last day of his life finding out who did this to him , why , and killing that person in retaliation . Here the victim is Maxwell Smart , given a slow acting poison by KAOS , and tracking down ( in typical Don Adams'methods ) his killer . It turns out that ( instead of dear Siegfried ) the KAOS agent is a health club manager named Hercules , played by John Fiedler . Fiedler does have the only bottle of the antidote , and Smart is determined to get it . But he is determined to even the score with Hercules as well . He manages to pour some of the same poison into Hercules ' heath juice before he drinks it . When Hercules learns that he too has drunk the poison ( and more of it than Smart did ) he and Smart both reach for the bottle of the antidote to drink the contents first . As you can guess , Max wins the odd final arm wrestling battle . I take it that the writers named Fiedler's character " Mr . Hercules " not only because they planned to have a small man like Fiedler play the part , but as a joke at the then noted body builder and health club entrepreneur Charles Atlas . If so , I wonder how many people today would catch the connection there .
On the dangers of Clock Towers	Peter Cowie's THE CINEMA OF ORSON WELLES does not say much in favor of this film . He felt it was a minor work , and in a sense it is . Welles , having failed in Hollywood terms to produce a blockbuster box office success with KANE , AMBERSONS , and IT'S ALL TRUE , had demonstrated more success as a film actor ( JANE EYRE in the 1940s ) than as a director . He wanted to show he was able to create a successful film at the box office , and so he agreed to direct this small thriller . But it lacks the depth of the major films of his career , and so Cowie is correct to label it minor . That does not mean it isn't interesting . Welles was the one of the first directors to tackle the issue of missing Nazi war criminals . The same year as THE STRANGER Hitchcock was filming NOTORIOUS and Charles Vidor did GILDA . All three tackled the plight of fleeing Nazis . NOTORIOUS is about Nazi and Nazi sympathizers led by Claude Rains ( as Alex Sebastian ) in Rio De Janairo , who are plotting some deviltry involving uranium ( Hitch's " MacGuffin " ) . GILDA's complicated plot deals with George Macready ( as Balin Munsen ) double crossing German industrialists who trusted him with contracts and papers giving the owner title to their tungsten interests in Argentina . THE STRANGER deals with the search by Wilson , a government agent , for one Franz Kindler , a leading Nazi , who has fled first to Latin America , and then to the United States . It turns out that the devious and clever Kindler has wormed his way into a marriage to the daughter of U . S . Supreme Court Justice Longstreet . In each case , as you see , the fact that the Reich has fallen does not mean the danger is over - the Nazis are planning a come-back . It has been noted that Welles based Kindler on the character of Martin Bormann , the missing deputy to Hitler and leading adviser in his inner circle . Bormann had back stabbed his way to power at the expense of his predecessor Rudolf Hess . Hess had been showing signs of cracking up by 1941 ( that Bormann fully took advantage of ) and then flew to England in a mad attempt to settle the war there before the invasion of Russia . However , Bormann ( unlike Kindler ) was not the creator of the " final solution " in the movie - that was Bormann's rival Reinhard Heydrich . Heydrich had been assassinated in 1942 , so he was dead and buried years before the war's end and the Nuremburg Trials ( where Bormann was found guilty and condemned to death in absentia ) . I might add another missing Nazi leader is in everyone's mind - Welles has Konrad Meinike ( Kindler's assistant ) tell people he is on a mission from " the all highest " . The deranged Meinike means God , but everyone ( including Kindler ) thinks he means the seemingly indestructible and missing Adolf Hitler . Details from Soviet archives proving Hitler's suicide were not published until the 1980s . The film follows the efforts of Wilson in tracking down the missing Kindler . He allows Meinike to get out of prison ( he was facing a death sentence ) to follow him . Meinike does lead Wilson through Latin America to a town in Connecticut where Kindler is hiding as Charles Rankin , a history teacher in a prep school ( where the sons of the nation's elite are groomed for their paths to leadership ) . Although it is barely commented on in the movie , Kindler / Rankin is in a lovely position to influence the future leaders of the country - to indoctrinate them into neo-Nazis theories . He is laying a groundwork to protect himself , but to continue the Nazi theories . In one scene he mentions the need to destroy the Germans because of their habitual warlike natures . But he retains a dislike of Jews ( in the scene mentioned above , he insists Karl Marx is a Jew not a German ) . The film has been cut by nearly half an hour . This was the start of the film which dealt with Meinike's " escape " and his journey ( followed by Wilson ) to and through Latin America . We see the conclusion , when he confronts a photographer who knows where Kindler is hiding . But the missing footage would have been very good to watch - it was a double build up to revealing that the evil Kindler was still alive , but also to lead to the irony of the insane Meinike's seeking out his missing boss to convert him to Christianity , only to be murdered by him . The sequence of the killing of Meinike is a great set piece , and one wishes the missing footage were still available because it would be a fine , ironic conclusion . One can here , as in the slashed up AMBERSONS , see what Welles ' concept was meant to be , and what the audience was left with . The individual portions of the film are quite good , in particular the bits with Billy House as Mr . Potter , and the paper chase sequence . The finale is good too . Kindler is a fanatic about clocks , repairing them whenever he needs recreation . The town's Gothic church has a broken medieval clock with figures . Kindler manages to repair it so the figures move . In the end of the film he is hiding in the tower , and comments on watching the townspeople searching for him - they look like ants to him , as he feels like God ( his conversation here sounds very like that of Welles ' signature bad guy role , Harry Lime in THE THIRD MAN made four years later - Lime also looks at the " ants " from the ferris wheel in Vienna ) . When confronted by Mary Longstreet Rankin ( Charles bewildered and angry wife played by Loretta Young ) and Wilson , Rankin gets killed by the clock figures . It was to be expected , and it is one bang - up conclusion to the film .
A Social Drama Curiosity of the 1930s	This was the second of the series of re-released , long missing films shown on Wednesday , April 2 , 2007 on Turner Classic films . RAFTER ROMANCE had a good deal of pleasant humor still going for it , and A MAN'S JOURNEY has some wonderful performances and a good story . But DOUBLE HARNESS , although it has two good performances ( especially Ann Harding's ) from it's leads has a script that most people would not accept . Family and filial devotion are still big matters to people today , but this film stretches these points way out of proportion . Harding is the older of the two daughters of Henry Stephenson . The younger one is Lucille Brown . As the film begins we see Harding with Stephenson and Brown buying Brown's wedding trousseau . Stephenson is a decent sort ( when was he not in most of his films ? ) but he has never been really astute about money matters , and so he is only able to afford $5 , 000 . 00 ( 1933 dollars , of course ) for the weddings of both daughters together . But dear little Brown is spending more than her $2 , 500 . 00 share . Harding realizes this , and is a good sport - she let's this shopping spree eat up more than of the total . After all , little sister is getting married . Harding is asked by Stephenson and by Brown about her own marriage plans . She has been dating William Powell , a well-known playboy type , but one who actually has a business - a potentially important shipping line that Powell has allowed to be run by others , and is now somewhat shabby . It turns out that Harding actually has her own agenda . She sees that marriage by itself ( supposedly based on love ) is insufficient , unless the wife can be of use to bring out the best in the husband not only at home but in his career ( this film is very much a 1930s film - the idea of the woman building her career is not part of the picture ) . Powell is enjoying dating Harding , and it goes beyond a casual , more typical affair of a few days or weeks . But she sets him up ( with the aid of her sister and Stephenson ) . Powell has brought her to his apartment on several occasions ( and we imagine it is for more than the cocktails served to them by his butler , Reginald Owen ) , but one night Stephenson shows up as the angry , red-faced father ( signalled to come by Brown after Harding calls Brown up ) . Stephenson acts as though he is furious , and wants to know the intentions of both Powell and Harding : how do they feel about each other , and will they marry or not ? Harding admits she loves Powell , and would marry him , but it is up to him to decide . Flummoxed by the suddenness of the situation , Powell says he wants to marry too . So now the marriage can go through . Now the title of the film is understandable , as the marriage is the " double harness " of the couple . But the problems are these . No matter how fond he is of Harding , and willing to go through the forms , Powell intends it to be a short duration marriage . Harding is discovering that she is slowly falling in love with Powell , and is also aware that he expects her to divorce him within a six months of their return from their honeymoon ( on one of his cruise lines ships ) . She gets to work to remake him racing against time - if she can domesticate him ( and make him see he likes it ) she can save the marriage . She also starts pushing him to get re-involved with the shipping line , and he starts taking charge of it ( and it starts improving ) . Only two things may derail Harding's plans . One is the reappearance of one of the wealthy women ( Lillian Bond ) who thrived with Powell ( or seemed to do so ) when he was a playboy . She starts being seen around town with Powell , although he is simply being polite in taking her to lunch at such . The other thing is Lucille Brown . Her marriage to George Meeker is in jeopardy ( again we see no scenes about this ) because she can't curb her spendthrift ways . Apparently they had a heavy duty argument at one point , when he agreed to pay off a big clothing bill , a few months after the marriage - he telling her that she better change as he was not rich enough to stand this kind of extravagance . Brown manages to sponge off Harding ( using up all of Harding's private money ) but still coming back for more . It seems there is a $1 , 000 . 00 debt that is owed , and Brown can't face Meeker about it . Harding pawns a ring for $500 . 00 ( Brown is upset that the pawnbroker did not pay her the full value of the ring - as though a pawnbroker would ! ) . But Brown is spoiled and rotten enough to consider either borrowing the money from Powell ( without telling Harding ) or going to a male admirer ( Hugh Huntley ) and " making an arrangement " with him for the money . Harding's and Stephenson's affection for Brown as a member of their family is understandable , but both know she's a selfish , spoiled brat . She does considerable damage in the film - and it is a weakness ( I'd call it a serious weakness ) that she never really suffers the consequences about it while others do suffer . Somehow that would not pass these days . Otherwise the performances of the two leads ( especially the under-appreciated Harding ) makes the film quite watchable . Also good is Owen , as the perfect butler / valet , who has a funny sequence at one of the most disastrous dinner parties in movie history .
Eddie and his " Pretensions "	I agree with another writer on this thread that this should have been a better film - but it suffered from a poor script . Until he became a major star ( possibly Hollywood's biggest star ) in the 1940s , Humphrey Bogart was doomed to rarely be more than a movie menace . Prior to HIGH SIERRA and THE MALTESE FALCON a role like his horse trainer in DARK VICTORY or his frightened stooge of a Klan group in BLACK LEGION were rarities . Most of his roles were villains . Against Cagney in THE ROARING TWENTIES and THE OKLAHOMA KID . Against Flynn and Randolph Scott in VIRGINIA CITY . And definitely against Eddie Robinson in KID GALAHAD , THE AMAZING DR . CLITTERHOUSE , and this film . As we will see , it is a little odd that he got cast as a thuggish villain so often ( even with his harsh if handsome presence ) , particularly in a film like BROTHER ORCHID . For Bogie happened not to be born in a city ghetto like Cagney , or raised in one like Robinson . He was born in an upper class background , the son of a society doctor . In fact , in his early stage training , he appeared in society comedies . Reputedly he was the first young actor to pop up in such a play through the garden doors into the crowded parlor , racket in hand , saying " Tennis , anyone ? " Actually ( and ironically , as he hated it ) the film that closest mirrored his early years was SABRINA , which Bogie did not make until the 1950s . On the other hand , his more successful fellow Warner Brothers actor , Eddie Robinson , relished a chance to alter his public image . Having achieved movie stardom as Rico in LITTLE CEASAR , Robinson constantly tried to get out of movie gangster-dome . Sometimes he succeeded ( like his biography films such as A DISPATCH FROM REUTERS and DR . EHRLICH'S MAGIC BULLET ) but more frequently the gangster film was altered - particularly the " comic ones " . CLITTERHOUSE , for example , has a whimsical premise of a society doctor gathering material for his opus on the criminal mind by becoming one . Better examples are THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING , whereas a befuddled little clerk is constantly dragged into crime by his resemblance to a crime kingpin , or A SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER ( wherein beer baron Remy Marko has a whole slew of problems to straighten out in one afternoon ) . BROTHER ORCHID takes off on a different slant regarding Robinson . A Roumanian ( and Jewish ) immigrant , Emmanuel Rosenberg happened to be pretty well read and educated , and continued showing interests in books and art all through his life . He was far from the " Ricos " he played on screen . Put another way : when he played " Wolf Larson " in THE SEA WOLF , the character personifies " Social Darwinism " . Robinson could have critiqued " Social Darwinism " . Naturally this culture business may have amused the Warners , and they had already lampooned it in an earlier Robinson film LITTLE GIANT , wherein ( again looking for class ) Robinson discovers that social position does not make a person nice or decent . There it was the family of Berton Churchill , all seeing him as a sucker to unload worthless stock on . In BROTHER ORCHID it is a gangster who finds that it is a whole change in his life's attitudes that is needed to gain real class . Robinson does a " Johnny Torrio " Act . He leaves his enterprises in the hands of his able lieutenant Bogart , while he takes a long trip to try to acquire class . Instead he slowly gets ripped off by every con-man and salesman who sees him coming . Finally he returns from Europe , and decides to resume his old job . But Bogie is well planted in the seat of power ( as Al Capone was when Torrio retired ) , and Robinson finds his girlfriend ( Anne Southern ) has married rancher Ralph Bellamy ( sort of a flip side to Bellamy's Oklahoma lover in THE AWFUL TRUTH ) . Bogie , seeing Robinson is trying to force his way back , has the latter taken for a ride and shot . But he is dumped on the grounds of a monastery run by Donald Crisp . Robinson is nursed back to health , and slowly begins to appreciate the finer things of a quiet , spiritual life . The problem of the script is that Robinson's second half should have emphasized his discovering spirituality . Actually the script began to do that at the best moment in the film , when Robinson is almost thrown out of the order due to violating a rule , and protests that it was just a momentary mistake on his part . Crisp decides to give him another chance . His growing abilities to work with flowers in the monastic garden ( the title is his name due to his abilities with orchids ) could have been used to expand on . Instead the film has to resume the gang warfare - the monastery's income is threatened by Bogie's mob , and Robinson ( with Southern and Bellamy's help ) beat Bogie's men . That's fine , but it threw aside the triumph of a real type of class that Robinson was finding . Possibly had the writers seen fit to have Bogart avoiding capture by the police because of Robinson and the monastery giving him a temporary sanctuary the story line could have been straightened out , with Bogart wondering in the end if he had really gotten the better of the deal . But unfortunately that was not done here . It is a moderately entertaining film , but it might have been a more meaningful one .
Two For The Road . . . and Cut .	It is hard to believe it was only eight years ago that this , the last of the Lemmon and Matthau ( or Matthau and Lemmon ) films was made , and within four years both stars would be gone . One only wishes that their last film together had been more of a success . They had done first rate sequels before with GRUMPIER OLD MEN , but that film had been done within two years of GRUMPY OLD MEN , and a natural momentum carried the stars ( and supporting casts ) to the finish line . That is not the case with THE ODD COUPLE II . It came out thirty years after the original THE ODD COUPLE , and while they are reunited with the play's creator ( Neil Simon ) on the screenplay , the momentum - the push - is lacking . Not that this is a boring film . Far from it . We always wondered how Oscar Madison and Felix Unger would have behaved as elderly men . Of course , Felix looked like he and Gloria were going to settle their differences and return together in the first play / movie . Indeed , in the television series Tony Randall did get back to his wife . But here it is obvious it did not work at all . Both men have remained divorced , and both men remain essential the same : Felix the compulsively organized neatnik and Oscar the incorrigible slob . They also have given each other a wide birth if possible . But they find themselves drawn back into mutual orbit . Oscar's son is getting married - and to Felix's daughter . So the pair are headed for the wedding , and that means jointly showing up . What happens is a series of joint misadventures on the way to the wedding , especially involving two rather fun young women that they meet ( Christine Baranski and Jean Smart ) with their jealous boyfriends . This leads to several , increasingly odd , run-ins with the sheriff of a small town they can't seem to successfully leave . Indeed , in one case they get a lift out of town in a beautiful white classic Rolls Royce , which moves more slowly than a pair of people on bicycles . The situations are all quite amusing . But the unity of the film is not there - it is like a series of skits involving Felix and Oscar , that are vaguely united because the two characters are familiar to us , and they are supposed to get to the wedding . Still the two stars give it their all , and with Baranski , Smart , and the late Bernard Hughes it works well enough as an entertainment . But for me , the wackiness and variety of OUT TO SEA make that film a better final film for the pair .
Miracles and Success	This is not a great film by any stretch . But it has it has it's interesting points . A minor comedy by Cary Grant , it came out just before his greatest performance as Ernie Mott in " None But The Lonely Heart " . Ernie was the last of a series of heels or near heels that Grant played in serious films from " Suspicion " to " Mr . Lucky " to " Lonely Heart " , all of which the studio system and the cult of movie star image crippled from being as good as they might have been . Grant just could not play a villain . Even when he was the unscrupulous Walter Burns in " His Gal Friday " , the editor's role was subtly changed by showing that when he wasn't seeking newspaper scoops at everyone else's expense , Walter actually wanted to rid his city ( Chicago ) of a corrupt Mayor and his gang of relatives . Keep in mind that " His Gal Friday " was a comedy , not a tragic story like " None But The Lonely Heart " or a murder mystery like " Suspicion " . ONCE UPON A TIME had been a radio play by Norman Corwin , and had been very successful at the time . The radio play was a fantasy about a little boy who has a pet caterpillar that will dance to the boy playing " Yes Sir , That's My Baby " . He meets a theatrical producer who sees " the big picture " about showing the caterpillar to the public . The story line follows how this glitz campaign wrecks the producer's friendship with the boy , until the caterpillar vanishes and they find their relationship again in their concern about the missing pet . It sounds hokey , and is a little , but the story works . Fred Allen had played the ambitious producer in the radio show , and his perfect comic delivery hit the targets of the story . But for the film Allen ( despite his wonderful success in " It's In The Bag " ) was not glamorous enough to carry the movie . Instead it was given to Grant . And here , now in a comedy , the same problem of the image and the desire to stretch as a film performer was fought again . Jerry Flynn is an unscrupulous producer who dreams of having his own theater for his own productions . He has gotten over his head in debt , and he may lose the theater he has a stake in as a result . But he is generally untrusted - and with reason . He will sell anyone for an advantage in the entertainment field . His most persistent critic is the news columnist Brandt ( William Demerest ) who has seen his shenanigans for years and knows he's an unscrupulous creep . And behaves that way for most of the film - once he discovers the caterpillar's talent to dance . He gives it the full treatment , much to the dismay of the boy's sister Jeannie ( Janet Blair ) and the growing disillusion of the boy " Pinkie " ( Ted Donaldson ) . Brandt keeps sniping , suspecting everything that Flynn is up to - and finally ( when Flynn seems to have beaten him ) Brandt shows his moral superiority . Demerest says , " I'm only sorry that such a wonderful thing has to be controlled by you ! " It actually does summarize the unscrupulousness of the character . If the original play had not been comic , and had not allowed for Flynn's moral regeneration I doubt if Grant's agent would have agreed to allow him to do it . Up to the middle of the film one dislikes Flynn's activities , especially as they hurt Pinkie and his sister ( who , in the course of the film , falls for Flynn ) . It being a comedy there are moments when Flynn errs . The scene where he tells his aide " the Moke " ( James Gleason ) to let the telephone ring , expecting it is a call from Walt Disney about using the caterpillar is amusing - when it turns out he's wrong . But the audience wants to be wrong . His eventual realization that there is more to life than success in business or art helps make the character palatable , but it does not ring as true as if Flynn had remained the user / huckster he was to the end . The performances are fine ( especially Demerest ) . But it is minor Grant , and it is ironic that it came just before he came closest to his acting peak .
Gershwin , Paris , Astaire , Audrey Hepburn , Richard Avedon , and John-Paul Sartre	This 1957 musical is a little odd . It has a title based on an original 1920s Gershwin musical ( that included the title song ) which starred Fred and Adele Astaire . It was a musical and scenic valentine to France ( but only one tune in it deals with France - " Bonjour Paris ! " . It is a spoof on the modern fashion magazines , fashions in general , and advertising - but the spoof while sharp at times is never pushed . The opening sequence , " Think Pink , " describes how Kay Thompson plans a campaign to make the American woman go for " pink " clothes , accessories , toothpaste , etc . , only to admit to her assistant she personally loathes the color . It takes full advantage of the attractive face and features of Hepburn , who is convinced to be a model and help push a new line of fashions in Paris . And it makes two characters into imitations of Richard Avedon the photographer ( Astaire as Dick Avory ) and Jean-Paul Sartre ( Michel Auclair as Prof . Emile Flostre ) . Avedon was a rarity - a fashion photographer who became a great artistic portrait photographer . Astaire never is shown taking pictures of great or famous people in the film but several times he demonstrates a refinement that separates him from the rest of Kay Thompson's entourage ( most of whom don't care what havoc they cause , as long as they get their jobs done ) . He also has enough sense to question Hepburn's accepting of " empathicalism " , and it's viability . Witness his moment in the bistro pouring wine to the two old codgers who are quite pleasant to him while he insults them in English . Hepburn , of course , is so insistent on the validity of her philosophical beliefs that she rejects Astaire's warnings , and jeopardizes the fashion show . The final blow ( seemingly ) to the Astaire - Hepburn relationship is when he confronts Flostre at the author's home . He knocks out the Professor , and his brutality demolishes the relationship with Hepburn . But within minutes Hepburn sees another side to Flostre which is unexpected , and suddenly realizes that Astaire may be right after all . The character of Flostre is obviously based on that of Jean-Paul Sartre , the founder of " existentialism " . Based on in some details , but not in theory . " Empathicalism " has to do with trying to empathize with others so as to have a proper response to their needs and aspirations . " Existentialism " has to do with : " An introspective humanism or theory of man which expresses the individual's intense awareness of his contingency and freedom ; a theory which states that the existence of the individual precedes his essence . " This is from Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary . Sartre has a more complex view of man and society , and one can plow through BEING AND NOTHINGNESS to try to understand it . In fact some critics have wondered if the Nobel Prize Winner eventually got very wrong headed about his theory . But he certainly seems a meatier philosopher than his celluloid copy . But Flostre does have the trappings of Sartre on him . He is revered by his followers world wide ( such as Hepburn ) . He is a man with sexual appetite ( as Sartre was with his long time companion and fellow writer Simone Beauvoir ) . And there is some traces of an anti-capitalist , even anti-American attitude in him . It is not definitely pushed , but when Astaire and Thompson break into his house during a party , they pretend they are American share cropper singers whom Flostre had brought to France to perform for his guests . Now , we never hear what this actual pair actually would sing , but judging from their background they would have to throw in some protest songs . Sartre was very critical of the U . S . A . and capitalism ( today his fans have to explain Sartre's willingness to accept Russian imperialist moves under Communism in the 1940s , 1950s , and 1960s - they find it very hard to do so ) . On the whole the parts of the film work well , so I give it seven stars . Kay Thompson is best recalled for being the creator of the little girl at the Plaza " Eloise " , but she shows here a highly entertaining performance as Maggie Prescott , the editor who pushes and loathes pink . The film would have been better if somehow Avedon's portrait photography had been brought into the story , possibly in a final scene with Flostre as his subject . However , even without such a sequence the film is rewarding to watch , especially in the musical numbers . Astaire does equally well with Thompson and with Hepburn as his partners here .
An interesting misfire on the Lawrence - Lee play	This 1988 version of INHERIT THE WIND tried a slightly different approach to the story than the film or the 1965 versions . Apparently there was a deeper delving into the historical material ( and - unlike the period of the film and the first dramatic version on television - the resurgence of anti - evolutionary voters in the country ) to make the story fairer . Jason Robards played Drummond / Darrow very well - in the tradition of Muni , Tracy , and Melvyn Douglas . But it was the performance of Kirk Douglas as Brady / Bryan that was unique . As I have mentioned elsewhere in these reviews , Bryan did have valid reasons to dislike Darwinism aside from religious feelings . The issue of Social Darwinism , created by an English elitist snob named Herbert Spencer , had been grabbed by various people in power positions in big business and politics that suggested that the best people were the top of the evolutionary tree - and that big business had the right to destroy small competitors due to " survival of the fittest " . Bryan hated this idea , as opposite to Jeffersonian Democracy . He actually intended , after his own humiliation on the witness stand by Darrow to put Darrow on the stand to explain his acceptance of Social Darwinism . Judge Raulston , the trial judge , refused to allow this . If that had been brought out in this production , it would have set it apart and given a more balanced view of the two parties who clashed in Dayton . Instead , Douglas played Brady like a revivalist ( similar to Begley , without Begley's physical resemblance to Bryan ) . But he also kept trying to keep up the friendly feelings that Darrow and Bryan had when both were fighting on the same side on political issues from 1893 to 1908 . While all the productions include those moments of nostalgia between them , this attempted to suggest that Douglas / Brady hoped to " save " the soul of Robards / Drummond . It was a curious idea , but it just did not seem realistic ( given their diametrically opposite views on evolution and the Tennessee law ) . I give this a 7 for the production but the approach was a misfire .
The Bet That Created a Future Industry	Although I did not watch DEATH VALLEY DAYS too frequently there were two episodes I recall because of the historical figures involved in them . One was the episode with Alan Young about John Stetson and his hats . The other is this episode which settled one of the great mysteries of the animal kingdom and created the name and reputation of one of America's best remembered photographers - and began a thread that helped lead to the development of an industry now centered in California . Hedley Mattingly ( later remembered as District Officer Hedley on DAKTARI ) plays the photographer . He is at a local race course one day with his wife , a family acquaintance , and several important figures including California's governor ( it is 1873 ) Leland Stanford ( Harry Holcombe ) . Holcombe is watching his horse race a friends , and they start discussing the beauty of the animals , and the grace with which the horses go around the track . Stanford wondered if the horses ever had all four hoofs off the ground at the same time . His friend says he did not think it was possible : horses require two of their legs to be on the ground at one point of time while the others rise . It is necessary for their balance . But Stanford felt it was possible . He had run , and occasionally both of his legs were off the ground . Why not a horse . But how to find out ? It was decided after the wager on this problem ( $25 , 000 . 00 - a big sum of money now but more so then ) to have the photographer try to photograph a horse in gallop . He was appalled at this assignment , but agreed to do it . After all , Stanford was the Governor of California . The story follows the photographer's experiments with cameras , and the false ends many ideas lead to . But there is a second story told ( though from what I recall bowdlerized ) . The photographer's wife Flora ( Diane Brewster ) , was having an affair with a family acquaintance David Neal ( Lew Brown ) . This comes to the photographer's attention , and complicates his search for an answer to the question . In the end the photographer set up cameras worked by trip wires all over the race course . Stanford's horse ran down the course , and all the pictures were developed . And sure enough they showed the horse does have all four hoofs off the ground when the horse is galloping . Stanford won the bet . To prove that the pictures were not doctored , the photographer created a machine that flicked their images on a screen in order to show the horse in gallop down the track . The device , a zoopraxiscope ( I believe that is how it is spelled ) was the world's first motion picture camera . Stanford congratulates the photographer , who was Eadward Muybridge , and said he showed that pictures could be made to move . The romance also was ended , but in the episode I don't think they went into how it was ended . Muybridge is unique - he is remembered for his remarkable slow motion studies of men and animals , and he is recalled as one of the fathers of motion pictures ( Edison , while working on his camera in the 1890s , met with Muybridge to check out his " rival " only to find that Muybridge had no further desire to develop motion pictures ) . But Muybridge is also one of the few actual killers honored by the U . S . Government by a postage stamp . You see , he killed his wife's lover ( as Congressman Daniel E . Sickels did in 1859 ) . And like Sickels he was acquitted by the notorious " unwritten law " about killing adulterers threatening one's marriage . That part I don't recall was in the episode - Muybridge's violent act occurred shortly after the bet was settled . Aside from that odd postscript the episode kept to the story quite well . And it was memorable enough to remain on this viewer's mind some forty years after seeing it .
A Hero For 1920s Britain	When the first " Bulldog Drummond " stories came out in the 1920s , Great Britain was trying to come to grips with an anomaly : it had been one of the main allied victors in the Great War but the country did not feel like it won anything . It felt it had sacrificed too much . Britain in 1914 had ruled the waves . It had a small ( but apparently competent ) standing army . It had a history of democracy that was stable and unmatched by any of the major continental powers of Europe . It had a very highly industrial economy and was commercially quite important on the globe . Finally , it's empire stretched around the world that the boast that " the sun never set on the British Empire " was true - it was also the world's largest empire . In truth Britain's empire was actually wearing away . Though the British technically won the Boer War Boer Leaders ended up running South Africa . Ireland was getting hotter . The Germans helped stimulate the Easter Rebellion with arms . The British Navy did control the seas but the u-boats almost beat Britain during the war . The naval battles were marred by a total German triumph under Von Spee in the Pacific ( Coronel ) and the lopsided British ship and men losses at their " victory " at Jutland . Finally , Germany and the U . S . had outstripped British commerce and industrial output by 1914 . With the huge losses of a generation of men , and no tangible gains , Britain was in for a serious period of reactionary feelings and even race baiting . Anti-Semitism ( always under the surface ) reemerged in the 1920s , mostly due to the rise of Bolshevism in Russia after the 1917 revolutions . The political landscape did not reduce this hysteria . Lloyd George was booted out of the Prime Minister's seat forever in 1922 . His successor , Andrew Bonar Law , died after nine months in office . Stanley Baldwin was not fully ready to be Prime Minister in 1923 , and would blow his administration by a public hissy fit . His rival , James Ramsay MacDonald , would be the first Labor Prime Minister . But he'd been an outspoken pacifist in the war , and he was suspect of Bolshevistic sympathies ( he actually had none ) . In the 1924 General Election a forged letter ( supposedly from Gregory Zinovieff , the head of the Russian Comintern ) urged MacDonald's election as an agent of the Russians . Baldwin regained office with a large majority . It is this background that explains the popularity of " Bulldog Drummond " . With governmental drift and doldrums , a declining economy , a feeling of loss of face on the international scene , and a feeling of loss due to immense death toll , the search for easy answers , easy suspects , easy enemies was ready for Sapper's poison . So the public cheered Col . Hugh " Bulldog " Drummond as he created a fascistic group of ex soldiers ( like the German Freikorps ) to " control " the internal enemy ( i . e . , Bolsheviks , Jews , Irish ) . I might add this was not totally made up . Lloyd George gave the go ahead while Prime Minister to create a paramilitary group in Ireland , the " Black and Tans " , to combat the Irish revolutionaries . This group was finally decimated by Michael Collins ' men on " Bloody Sunday " in 1921 . That Samuel Goldwyn , a Jewish American film producer , produced BULLDOG DRUMMOND , is highly ironic . But it illustrates the care Goldwyn brought to his projects . He had been producing the silent film hits that Ronald Colman appeared in in the late 1920s . Goldwyn wanted Colman to make the transition to sound carefully , and not fall on his face like Colman's rival John Gilbert . Instead of " Darling , I love you ! " in HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT , Goldwyn found an exciting adventure part for Colman , which allowed him to display his wonderful , gentleman's speaking voice . As an introduction for a talking Colman , BULLDOG DRUMMOND could not be beaten . The role had everything to show Colman's versatility . There was his humor , shown at the beginning when he is dismayed at the ridiculously boring men's club he belongs to ( full of old fogies ) . There was his romantic side , with the youthful Joan Bennett . There is his confrontations with the sinister Lawrence Grant ( Dr . Lakington ) and Grant's two assistants Montague Love and Lilyan Tashman ( Carl Peterson and Irma ) , and his handling of his impossibly stupid friend Algy ( Claude Allister ) . As a " coming out " role for talkies , BULLDOG DRUMMOND did the trick , winning Colman the audience he feared talking films would cost him . In terms of plot it creaks , with incredible coincidences and twists that allow plot points to fall apart for the creation of new plot points . Still the cast is game , and the script surprises us . Lakington , briefly having Drummond tied up , is speaking to him pretty closely . Colman turns his face from Grant , who accuses him of being more cowardly than he'd admit . Colman rejects this excuse . Then why turn your face away , demands Grant . " Haven't your best friends told you ? " , says Colman , leaving Grant turning crimson at the thought of halitosis . A later bit of business , allowing Love and Tashman to escape is also unexpected . Yes , it is an antique , but it is a charming one . And as it has none of Sapper's racist crap in it , it is highly recommended .
Clark Gable's Twilight Quartet of Films	Between 1958 and 1961 Clark Gable appeared in four final movies that were somewhat unusual . Three of them were sex comedies , and the co-stars in them were far younger than he was . The fourth was a straight drama , which also had a female co-star who was far younger than him . These were BUT NOT FOR ME , TEACHER'S PET , IT STARTED IN NAPLES , and THE MISFITS . His co-stars were Carol Baker ( and Lili Palmer ) , Doris Day , Sophia Loren , and Marilyn Monroe . The age difference was quite unusual ( up to this time Gable's leading ladies were about ten to fifteen years within his age - in fact , Lili Palmer's appearance in BUT NOT FOR ME was to give his character a perfect mate to end up with . Most film lovers tend to only recall the last of this quartet because of it being Gable and Monroe's last movie ( although Monroe did begin SOMETHING'S GOT TO GIVE soon after , but didn't complete it ) . THE MISFITS also has the added downer of being the only film either of them did with Montgomery Clift . But most of all , Gable's death so soon after the shooting of THE MISFITS ended is linked to his difficult scene where he helped to control a wild horse ( the effect on the actor , immediately after the scene was shot , is evidence of his over-exertions ) . With so much of a downer atmosphere generated by this film his three previous comedies sort of pale in comparison . This is unfair because they were good comedies . I have discussed BUT NOT FOR ME elsewhere . TEACHER'S PET is possibly the most satiric of the three films ( although certain points about the entertainment industry and play production get spoofed in BUT NOT FOR ME , and Italian-American culture shock gets a zing in IT STARTED IN NAPLES ) . TEACHER'S PET is set in New York City , where Gable ( James Gannon ) is the city editor of a major newspaper . Some of the comments on this thread suggest Gannon is a hack . He's not , but just a very smart newsman who has spent a lifetime learning how a newspaper functions . At the start of the film , he is involved with Vivian Nathan ( Mrs . Kovacs , the newspaper building's cleaning lady ) and Nick Adams ( her son , Barney ) , in trying to settle the issue of whether or not Barney should be given a chance to be a reporter on the paper . Mrs . Nathan does not want him to leave school , but Barney is anxious to begin . It is from this that Gannon discovers that modern news reporters don't learn the business from the bottom up , but go to journalism classes . He is recommended to go to see the classes of Doris Day ( Erica Stone ) , because she has been making some critical comments about how Gannon runs his paper . Pretending to be a person who just wants to better himself , Gannon signs in on Stone's classes , and rapidly rises to the top of her students . She thinks she has found a truly brilliant amateur . He is enjoying her being totally fooled , as he originally intends to reveal his real identity to her class at the right time . But he gradually falls in love with Stone ( and she finds herself , typically , fighting this ) . His only rival is a psychiatrist friend of Stone , Gig Young ( Dr . Hugo Pine ) , whom he finds almost indestructible to larger and larger amounts of alcohol when the three are out at a night spot . The situation can't last too long , for Erica discovers his identity . At the same time , Gannon discovers Erica's secret : Her love of journalism is due to her family , as her father was a famous newspaper editor named Joel Barlow Stone . Gannon finds Erica considers him stupid , and it is only when he talks to Pine about it that he realizes that his accumulated knowledge of the newspaper world is as impressive as the knowledge that Erica brings to her students from her books . But he still is in the doghouse with Erica - possibly more so when he studies old copies of her father's Midwestern newspaper , and questions how good a newspaper editor he really was ! How they resolve the film I leave to the viewers ( whom I urge watch it ) . I just to want to discuss one point : who is the original for Joel Barlow Stone ? Firstly , the name " Joel Barlow " is one of those forgotten figures of early American Literatrue . Joel Barlow was one of the " Hartford Wits " of the period from 1780 - 1800 . They wrote satiric verses and pieces , most of which nobody ever reads anymore . This happens to be part of the irony about her father that Erica is taught ( surprisingly ) by Gannon . This editor father is obviously based on William Allan White , the famous Midwestern editor of the EMPORIA GAZETTE ( from Kansas ) , who flourished as a major figure in literary and political America from 1890 to 1947 ( when he died ) . White ( like Joel Barlow Stone ) is best remembered for his editorials , several of which won national awards . He was also an author of several memoirs and historical works ( such as his popular biography of President Calvin Coolidge , A PURITAN IN BABYLON ) . But the resemblance is only skin deep . White was an astute newspaperman , and his newspaper was deeply involved with current events and political trends in the U . S . Gannon discovers that as an editor White's fictional opposite number Joel Barlow Stone left a lot to be desired .
Van Johnson's love rival	This is not a great film , but it is better than many critics said it was when the 1999 remake came out . THE END OF THE AFFAIR was one of the key novels of Graham Greene in the 1950s that delved into his intense Catholicism . With a background of World War II , neighbors Maurice Bendrix and Sarah Miles ( Van Johnson and Deborah Kerr ) have a deep , passionate romance . But they are separated for a year or so , and when they try to resume the relationship ( or when Johnson tries to resume the relationship - Kerr seems relatively hesitant ) . It turns out that , due to personal experiences , Kerr has had a religious revelation . She is listening to a Catholic priest . She is also trying to help a man with a deformity ( a birthmark ) on his face who hates God . She is also concerned about the spiritual health of Johnson and of her actual husband Henry ( Peter Cushing , in a very moving - and non-horrific role ) . The film shows how Kerr affects all the lives around her , even beyond her death after a short illness ( as the novel does ) . Yes , it is too talky - novels about ideas ( and here it is the age old question of what is real love , the spiritual or the profane ) usually are . Greene , good Catholic exponent that he was , would have said that Kerr's devotion to her God was an outpouring of divine true love to her fellow creatures . Her death is not a tragedy . But Greene the novelist and part-time realist cannot leave it there . Johnson's character is bitter at the end of this remarkable novel , and at the end of the film . And his bitterness is directed at the source of that love that triumphed over his profane one .
The Best of Maxwell Anderson	I like this film . It is an interesting retelling of a point of view regarding one of America's most controversial trials - the 1921 - 1927 legal ordeal of Nicolo Sacco and Bartholomeo Vanzetti for the murder of two men in a payroll robbery in Massachusetts . Both were Italian anarchist immigrants in the U . S . Both were convicted by juries which were local Yankee in make-up , not having any non-Yankees on them . Certainly no Italian Americans . The judge , Webster Thayer , was an openly bigoted man . But thousands of people around the country and the world attacked the verdict , and demanded a retrial . Among those who attacked the trial was George Bernard Shaw , Edna St . Vincent Millay , Sinclair Lewis , Fiorello La Guardia , and ( in a move that opened his later great judicial career ) Felix Frankfurter . After going through appeals , and the revelations of a fellow prisoner that the payroll robbery was committed by a local criminal gang , the matter was left to a small commission headed by President Lowell of Harvard College . It turned out to be a whitewash . In the end , the two men were electrocuted . Thayer's and Lowell's reputations never recovered from this . Scholars on the case are still divided on the guilt or innocence of the two defendants - some have suggested they were both railroaded , or that Sacco was more likely to be guilty , but Vanzetti was probably innocent . Today , nearly eighty years after their deaths they still remain a flash point regarding American bigotry . In 1977 , on the 50th Anniversary of their deaths , Governor Michael Dukakis formally pardoned both men . Maxwell Anderson wrote about the subject twice : the play WINTERSET and the play HIGH TOR . Anderson's reputation as a dramatist has been inflated over the years by critics like Brooks Atkinson . He could occasionally write a well done play , but he was not on the level of his contemporary Eugene O'Neill . O'Neill's tragedies ( especially his final ones ) was based on personal demons from his family and his life . O'Neill was also willing to experiment on stage with masks ( THE GREAT GOD BROWN ) or with internal counter-dialogs ( STRANGE INTERLUDE ) or even with trilogies based on Greek originals ( MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRA ) . Anderson only experimented one way - he tried blank verse plays ( ELIZABETH THE QUEEN , MARY OF Scotland ) , and did not do it too well . But here he obviously was passionately determined to defend the memory of the two Italian - American anarchists . His plot is based on developing the thread of the confession ( mentioned above ) that the murders were planned by a local criminal gang . The gang's leader is Eduardo Cianelli , a brutal criminal who framed the two men by stealing their car as the getaway car . But the strength of the confession is furthered by claiming the judge was bribed ( Thayer was biased but not bribed ) . Edward Ellis ( best recalled as the missing inventor in THE THIN MAN ) is the corrupt jurist , who is now a wandering derelict . Vanzetti's famous final letter from the death cell ( an elegant final comment that is the basis of contention between Henry Fonda and Eugene Palette in THE MALE ANIMAL ) is the basis for the elegant denunciation of the judge in the court by John Carridine ( note that his character's first name is also Bartholomeo ) . Ironically , today , it is believed that elegant final message of Vanzetti may have been written in part by a reporter who supported the defendants . The son and daughter of the dead men ( Burgess Meredith and Margo ) are seeking to prove their innocence . But they run against the determination of Cianelli , and his goons . The film is fascinating enough , and concludes satisfactorily ( much more than the actual case did ) . The plot's conclusion also leads to a more prosaic point - if you plan to use a signal to destroy someone , don't forget that signal and use it yourself . See the film to understand that last point .
An nice family travelogue picture	This film has a soft spot in me - the film was one of the first movies I ever attended in a movie house . Probably my parents took me to see it because Jon Provost was in it , and I was a fan of the series LASSIE . However it was on a double bill , and I believe it was with PETER PAN ( the first Disney cartoon I saw in a movie house ) . I know I enjoyed it . A boy of three or four can barely remember details , but this film was very colorfully shot . It was one of a series of films of all types ( SAYONARA , THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI , A MAJORITY OF ONE ) where Hollywood was trying to make amends to the Japanese for the caricatures of their military and leaders that were shown in the 1940s . The plot was that Provost gets separated from his parents in an accident off Japan , and ends up with a Japanese family . Soon he is paling around with that family's son , and they are unaware of the efforts by the U . S . and Provost's family to find him . Instead , when the police seem to be trying to catch him , Provost and his friend jump to the conclusion that they've done something criminal , and they run away . The film follows their constantly just escaping the police , until the conclusion ( reminiscent of the conclusion in THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING ) where everyone has to rescue the boys from a roof . It was a very exciting conclusion ( and the music in those last moments helped really build up the suspense ) . It was a good film , and a welcome introduction for the younger version of me to the pleasures of watching movies .
Interesting , but weak remake	Roger Corman is ( in his way ) a genius regarding making effective films on a relatively small budget . In the late 1950s and through the 1960s he basically followed Edward Wood's " pioneering " in the use of name stars in his films . Unlike Wood , however , Corman knows how to direct and produce . You look at his movies , and instead of finding screamingly funny ( unintended ) blunders you keep watching the actors and listening to the lines . He latched onto Edgar Allan Poe far more than had happened in Hollywood in the past , and while he stretched Poe's stories ( and in the case of THE RAVEN his poetry ) out of recognizable limit to what the originals are , enough of the original framework remains to leave the movie respectable and sometimes far more than that ( such as my favorite Corman - Poe flick , " The Masque Of The Red Death " ) . Corman turned from Poe to William Shakespeare in this 1962 film , " Tower of London " , which ( while based on the Sir Thomas More - William Shakespeare version of the character , career , and reign of King Richard III of England ) is a remake of the 1939 Basil Rathbone film " Tower of London " . That film was quite effective , given the talents of Rowland Lee ( it's director ) , Rathbone , Boris Karloff ( as the cruel executioner Mord ) , and the cast including Ian Hunter , John Rodion , and Vincent Price ( as the " Duke of Clarence " ) . It's defects are of the same historical variety found in most historical films ( i . e . accuracy ) , and in the continuing issue of whether Richard ( who , after all , was finally defeated and killed by Henry VII at Bosworth Field ) has been traduced . Also it ( and this remake ) have both been pushed into the background of the cinema loving public by Sir Laurence Olivier's performance as the evil usurper in his version of Shakespeare's " Richard III " . The 1939 version really benefited by a larger budget ( although a " B " feature ) and a studio's sets and stages . Corman manages to get real mileage out of his ability to improvise intelligently ( as opposed to Wood ) . A classic example of getting more with less . He used footage from the earlier film for the battle sequence , but he added atmospheric touches showing fog and a swamp that were quite good . One thing he uses from Shakespeare is that he used the ghosts of the various victims of Richard to haunt him . This includes not only Clarence , but King Edward , the two Princes in the Tower , and Buckingham ( who was a Duke - that title has been one of the most fatal in British history ! ) . Actually Shakespeare had them all pop up before Richard's battle at Bosworth , as the King tries to sleep - they all recount what he did to them , and tell him to despair and die . In Corman's hands , after each evil crime , Richard is confronted by the ghosts who demand his explanation , and he gives mealy ( " realpolitik " ) excuses ( " You were not strong enough to be a good King ! " ) . It's an interesting approach , but it really does not sound viable . ( Think of this - First you have this Duke of Buckingham , a cousin of the House of York , who tries to be a leading supporter of Richard , but finds himself pushed aside - Richard probably didn't trust him . Buckingham led a revolt in 1485 against Richard , lost the revolt , and Richard ordered him executed . Then you had the title revived and given to a cousin and male heir to Henry VIII , who would get involved in several questionable actions in 1521 - including possible witchcraft to encompass Henry's demise . He went to the executioner's block as a result . Nobody wanted the title for a century . Then it was revived first as Earl then as Duke for Georger Villiers , favorite of both James I and Charles I , and he becomes the de facto Prime Minister of England . But his poorly planned policies raise the public against him , and he is assassinated in 1628 - the subject of Dumas ' " The Three Musketeers " . The title was revived in the 19th Century as the Duke of Buckingham and Chandos . Nothing happened finally . ) Price does what he can as Richard , but he lacks the vicious inner strengths ( oddly enough ) of both Rathbone and Olivier . They know what they want and know how to get it ( and think they know how to keep it ) . Price has a type of uncertainty that suggests his actions were successful in spite of himself , not because of his sagacity . His surprise when he suddenly learns he is facing Henry at Bosworth ( a name he supposedly never heard of - yet he hears a warning concerning Bosworth earlier from a ghost that should have set him looking for any place that had that name to avoid it ! ) is really surprising . He only has one powerful moment - when he decides to execute Buckingham . The viciousness of the torture used brings out Price's special horror gifts to the fore . But that is an isolated sequence . The film is strong enough on it's own to merit watching , but I would wait for the original " Tower of London " or the Olivier ( or later McKellan ) " Richard III " .
Almost a glimpse into our future	I was only eleven when my family went to see this film and another foreign one ( I think it was JULIETTA OF THE SPIRITS , but I'm not sure ) . The film is simple - in a futuristic world there is an international competition that one can join , where if you succeed in killing ten competitors ( all trained assassins ) you can get permanent immunity and you can live at ease with 10 million dollars . The murders you commit are shown on a program on international television . The winners become instant celebrities . The anti-hero and anti-heroine in the story are Marcello Mastrianni and Ursala Andress . They find that they are the next target in each other's way - Marcello is only one away from victory , and Ursala is on her way up . Unfortunately they fall in love . So what will they do - how will they get their points to win the game and how will they settle with each other . It is a pretty movie - among other things I recall Marcello's hair was blond in this film . Very unusual and striking ( he usually is wearing dark sun glasses and the affect makes him rather threatening looking ) . Despite the grimness of the situation , it is a black comedy - on par with John Huston's PRIZZI HONOR two decades later . But Huston's film ends with the lovers ( both Mafia hit " men " ) having to confront each other in a real battle to the death . It is not a televised contest that ends with a killing . There are some great moments of mayhem - we see Marcello at the start working as a valet for a man who is an equestrian . He helps the man get dressed for a ride . The man has just put on some well polished boots ( Marcello had been polishing them when we see him ) . The man is suspicious , but when Marcello leaves the room the man preens himself before a mirror - he clicks his heels , and is blown to smithereens . THE TENTH VICTIM was set up as a science fiction tale of the future . It is one of the few that managed to predict a trend of the future - one that has not reached it's conclusion yet . The concept of the televised contest has reached the screen with such " reality shows " as THE APPRENTICE and SURVIVOR . Nobody has died in any of these shows as part of their attractions , but THE SURVIVOR has contestants voted off the island every week . One hopes they won't try to get that last drop of realism in the future - too much blood involved , and not ( perhaps ) done with the style that Marcello and Ursala brought to the screen forty years ago .
If You're Anxious For To Shine , In a High Aesthetic Line . . .	I discussed one of this series a few days back : RUDDIGORE with Vincent Price and Keith Mitchell . This series which came out in 1982 did all of the " Savoy " or " Gilbert & Sullivan " Operas that were 1 ) totally extant , 2 ) successful from the first day , and 3 ) were mostly produced by Richard D'Oyly Carte . This meant that they included TRIAL BY JURY and THE SORCEROR ( both not produced at the Savoy but produced with D'Oyly Carte's assistance ) , but did not include THESPIS ( produced by one John Hollingsworth in 1871 , and now lacking most of the music ) , UTOPIA LIMITED ( produced in 1893 , but not considered very successful ) , and THE GRAND DUKE ( produced in 1896 , but usually dismissed as the weakest of the Gilbert & Sullivan works ) . At the time of their production a book ( with illustration from the twelve productions ) was published . The casts were usually full of professional singers who had been in G & S operettas for years , but rarely in film or on television . Occasionally somebody like Clive Revill or Price would have a role in the shows . That was not the case here , where only Donald Adams ( a prominent " Savoyard " ) appeared in the supporting part of Colonel Calverly . Unfortunately the leads were not as well known outside of circles who appreciate opera - operetta - and concert singers . The production was a fair one , given that there were cuts ( all of the productions were reduced to about 90 minutes , so much of the dialog and part of the music was always cut ) . It was in the right costumes , and the singing was fine . From what I recall of the delivery of the dialog it was fair . But nothing spectacular . That's too bad . Gilbert's PATIENCE was a send-up of the current " aestheticism " craze , that was spreading in England and the United States . It's initial champion had been the writer / critic Walter Pater , but it's greatest spokesperson was Oscar Wilde , just beginning his remarkable ( but ultimately tragic ) career in writing . Gilbert spoofed Wilde as the poet , " Reginald Bunthorne " ( ironically , Reginald is constantly pursued by a bevy of woman - the woman's chorus - who are as pretentiously aesthetic and lovers of " art for art sake " as Reginald is ) . Bunthorne keeps spurning these women , and their leader , Lady Jane , and wants to be loved by the woman in his heart , the simple dairymaid Patience . Sometimes it becomes hard to get the dense dairymaid to understand him . Bunthorne tries to get her to understand how he yearns for her , and asks if she understands the word " yearn " . Confused , but straightforward , Patience thinks for a moment and says , " I yearn my living ? " . Gilbert had his feelings that the " art for art " business was a hoax . He sees Reginald as a fake , and has him recite a wonderful spoof of the Wildean type of poetry ( or what Gilbert thought it was in 1880 ) in a poem , " Oh Hollow , Hollow , Hollow . " Soon though Reginald admits ( in the song whose opening is in the " Summary " line ) that he is a poseur . But soon he has a rival , one Archibald Grosevenor , another poet ( who was to represent Algernon Swinburne ) , for the love of Patience and for the adoration of the other females ( except the faithful Lady Jane ) . I am not sure about whether this is connected or not by imitation , but in the popular " Archie " comic books , Archie Andrews rival for Veronica Lodge is " Reggie " . To add to the problems is the male chorus led by Colonel Calverly and the Duke of Dunstable , who are dragoons . Manly and heroic , none of them can understand why the woman are not impressed by their martial appearance , " When " they " first put their uniforms on " . Eventually , as a matter of desperation , they go native so to speak - they try pretending they are aesthetic too ! PATIENCE is regarded as the most literate of the Savoy operas in terms of spoofing literature . It usually is considered one of the top tier Savoy Operettas , although not revived as much as say THE MIKADO or THE GONDOLIERS . As an introduction to the operetta this production will do well .
An interesting scheme - from another film ?	In 1938 Rene Clair directed a movie called BREAK THE NEWS where Maurice Chevalier and Jack Buchanan are in the shadow of an egotistical female star , and stage Buchanan's disappearance , and possible murder by Chevalier to build up publicity for both men - only to have the scheme blow up in their faces when Buchanan gets arrested on a capital charge himself , and is prevented from showing up in court to rescue Chevalier . Both men are almost executed - but saved at the last moment by the egotistical star who learns the truth . So she gathers all the good publicity in the end . There is also a short story by Mark Twain entitled " IS HE DEAD ? " about a plot to make a reputation for a prominent 19th Century artist , Gustave Courbet , by him pretending to be dead , and his paintings being sold for larger and larger amounts of cash so that the still living Courbet and his friends make a huge profit . Those are possible keys to the plot genesis of THE ART OF LOVE , a 1965 film that starred James Garner , Dick Van Dyke , Elke Sommer , Angie Dickenson , and Ethel Merman . There are some interesting supporting roles for Carl Reiner and Roger C . Carmel , as a French defense counsel and a questionable art dealer too . Garner gets the idea that Van Dyke's paintings are quite good , but would sell for more money if he was to be thought to be dead . Garner announces that Van Dyke has disappeared , and is believed to have committed suicide . But the janitor ( Jay Novello ) has seen Garner disposing of a dummy . Novello sees the legs being put into the furnace , and thinks it could have been a body . Van Dyke's existence is known to only two people : Elke Sommer ( his girlfriend ) and Ethel Merman , his landlady . He has to keep a low profile , dressing in disguise all the time . And he notices that Garner is living in luxury from the sale of the paintings by Roger Carmel ( an art dealer who may have collaborated with the Nazis ) . Angered at the lack of interest by Garner , and the latter's opportunistic romancing of his former girlfriend Angie Dickinson , Van Dyke suddenly realizes that Garner has left himself open for suspicion of the " murder " of Van Dyke . So Van Dyke carefully sets up " evidence " of his murder by Garner , complete with bloodstained clothing and broken teeth ( and Novello's witnessing of the incident with the furnace ) . Motive is there - Garner is benefiting from his dead friend's paintings , and he has taken the dead man's girlfriend . So Garner is arrested ( as is Carmel , who is soon willing to assist the prosecution ) . And Van Dyke , in disguise , watches the criminal trial with glee . Reiner , Garner's lawyer , is more concerned with not being associated too much with Garner than with defending him . The end is a race to the guillotine , complete with a clone of Madame Defarge , and Marcel Hillaire as the public executioner who abhors the death penalty . It is a moderately entertaining comedy , with some funny moments . You will never hear the words " Don't touch ! " again without thinking of Reiner's attorney . Not a great film , but good enough for a rainy afternoon .
The One Great Moment of International Cooperation That Was Lost	In 55 DAYS AT PEKING , Samuel Bronston tried to retell the story of how in 1900the Chinese decided to risk everything to get rid of foreign devils . Another comment on this board presented the story pretty fairly . For nearly one hundred years the Portuguese and then the British had made in roads into China , taking over territory on the coasts , and making increasingly arrogant demands on the weakened Manchu dynasty for trade and territorial concessions . After 1870 the French , Germans , Russians , and Japanese got into the act . The U . S . too had a large trade with China , but it never got involved with territorial demands ( we were developing the American West in the period ) . However , many American based missionaries did set up their missions in China - and could be somewhat demanding on the local populations . But what is not usually gone into is the other side of the coin . China was not well governed for the bulk of the population . In fact , in the 1850s and 1860s there was a long and bloody Civil War ( The Taiping Rebellion ) that was to make an international figure out of the British General who finally put it down ( Charles George " Chinese " Gordon ) . The reason for the rebellion was partly religious , but it was also partly economic - the peasantry was tired supporting the Manchu Court in Beijing ( the Peking of the movie title ) . A succession of weak emperors were plaguing the country , who were manipulated by Tzu - Hsi ( one of the most unscrupulous monarchs in history ) . Tzu - Hsi would basically control the Chinese Government from 1860 to 1908 , when she died . Her idea of government responsibility is illustrated by a famous act of selfishness she performed . When China's navy was trounced in the Sino - Japanese War of 1894 ( Japan had a modern navy ) , it was decided to use tax money to build up the Chinese navy to compete with Japan again . The Dowager Empress agreed - she took the money earmarked for battleships , and built a super battleship . Only it was made of marble , in the shape of a battleship , and was put on land as a summer palace . It is still standing as a tourist attraction . Humiliations were not only done by Europeans , Americans , and Japanese . If you recall the geography lesson scene in THE KING AND I , the children are unconvinced about the small size of Siam as opposed to China . The Crown Prince points out that China can't be that big - it's monarchy is considered weak , while Siam's is strong . Well , in this period , Siam ( Thailand ) also had managed to get some territory back from China - and to become rather important in the area of southeast Asia . This would not have been the case in the 17th or 18th Centuries . In 1900 the Chinese finally exploded . The people had been forming para-military groups in the late 1890s ( in the wake of the defeat by Japan ) which were ultra-Nationalist , fervently anti-foreign , and fervently in favor of Chinese religious beliefs over Christian . The Dowager Empress realized that it would be advantageous to her to let these energies be expanded towards the foreigners : it would keep these people looking too closely at her misrule . Without officially countenancing these groups ( called " Boxers " because their translated names - like " Harmonious Fists " - were mistaken by westerners to refer to boxing terms ) , the Empress allowed them to erupt . Her motivation was mostly self-protection , but there was another key to it that the westerners were aware of . China , with close to 500 million inhabitants , was the most populated state in the world . They might be able to field army after army long after the other states were drained of manpower . There is some evidence the Empress believed this wishful thinking , not realizing that at some point the population of China would also be seriously hurting by such casualties . It was the intention of the Boxers to kill or drive out the foreign devils . This is what the story is about , and how the various foreign embassies in Beijing joined forces to fight for their lives . The acting in the film is pretty good , in particular the troubled David Niven as the British Ambassador , who even at the end wonders if his own ambitions dictated his policies . He was in a backwater embassy , and did he subconsciously help raise the crisis to a boil to make a name for himself . Flora Robson's empress is delightfully evil , until she realizes that she has brought forth the very powers that will destroy her . Charlton Heston is good as the American military leader , who keeps finding ways to stave off the tens of thousands of armed Chinese from invading the legislative compound . Ava Gardner is not great in the romantic portions with Heston , but she does shine in her scenes with her brother-in-law Kurt Kazner ( the Russian Ambassador ) , who blames her for his brother's death , and in her scenes with Paul Lukas ( as the German doctor ) tending the wounded and dying , until Lukas is forced to watch her die as well ( a good performance by him too ) . What was ironically missed in 1900 was that the Chinese managed to do what a century of " peace " in Europe failed to : the major powers did cooperate to rescue their legations , and put down the Boxers . It was the only instance of this during the age of imperialism - but there was no Bismarck or Disraeli or Castlereagh or Metternich about to build on it ! Had there been such , possibly some of the causes that led to World War I fourteen years later would have been avoided . Instead , the great powers resumed bickering again .
" This is my song . . . I can sing it tall and I can sing it long "	I remember seeing this the first time when I was attending public school in Queens in the early 1960s . It was shown as a treat to the students at an extended G . O . assembly . I had not seen it when it came out in 1958 ( I was only four ) but I recall seeing Disney's PETER PAN about that time , so I cannot understand missing this film . It was a fun film . The trick animation ( which won an Oscar ) was particularly good in the sequence when the toys came to life . It was probably influential with similar scenes in BABES IN TOYLAND in 1960 . However , BABES IN TOYLAND had the benefit of the Disney studio , not to mention a wonderful Victor Herbert score . The score of tom thumb was not very memorable , except for the song that I quoted above , which had some of the silliest lyrics I can recall . The film was actually more interesting than I would have known as a child . Besides George Pal's style in the film and the trick animation , it was one of the last musical films that had a major role for Jessie Matthews as tom's mother . In the U . S . Ms Matthews is not too well recalled , but she was the leading female musical comedy star in England in the 1930s . Her husband here is Sir Bernard Miles , who is better remembered as the villain in Hitchcock's remake of THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH . The star was Russ Tamblyn , finally in a starring role - a step beyond his performances in THE LAST HUNT and SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS , and heading for his best performance in WEST SIDE STORY . The second lead , Alan Young , had already made ANDROCLES AND THE LION and AARON SLICK FROM PUNKIN CREEK , and ( as he was here working with George Pal ) would have his dramatically best role ( or roles ) in Pal's future masterwork THE TIME MACHINE . Young would also soon gain television immortality as " Wilbur Post " the friend of the talking horse MR . ED . This film was one of the pairings of Terry-Thomas and Peter Sellers in a comedy . As Tony and Ivan they are the greedy thieves who use tom to rob the town treasury , only to turn on each other in a fight that enables tom to trip them up . Terry-Thomas has a sharpened nose in his makeup , which is accentuated by his sharp crowned hat . Sellers in particular had interesting make-up in this film , fattened up to look particularly threatening in a greasy sort of way , and wearing a small derby hat . He has the best line in the film . When tom ( still unaware of what crooks he is with ) is inside the town treasury Tony / Terry-Thomas tells him to pass over a bag of gold . Which one , asks tom . " THE BIGGEST ONE ! " , shouts Ivan / Peter .
A Story Based On Truth	This episode of HOMICIDE : LIFE ON THE STREET was odd because it had been based on a true story that went the rounds between 1994 and 1998 . Steve Allan and Jayne Meadows are a married couple who always seem to be arguing and then go through a ritual when the argument gets very hot : Allan goes to a closet and pulls out his shotgun , and aims it at Meadows , firing it ( there is no charge in it ) . Meadows falls , pretending she is killed , and Allan rushes over to her to apologize to her before she " dies " . So all is forgiven about their crazy weekly quarrel . But one day when they go through the entire formula , Meadows stumbles just as Allan fires the supposedly empty gun . Only this time the gun fires a charge , but since Meadows has hit the ground before it was fired , Allan's shot goes through the window . But just at that moment a man is falling from the roof , and he gets the shot through him - killing him ! . The police come and arrest a shaken Allan . He can't understand how the gun was loaded - he never loads it ! The police are appalled by the weird circumstances here . Is it an attempted murder of Meadows ? Is it a murder with depraved indifference or a manslaughter of the man who was shot and killed ? And who is he - there was no identification on the body . The A . D . A . is talking shop with her friends and those police not in on the case . And it gradually unravels . First , the man who was shot was definitely an attempted suicide - he was seen carefully going to the roof , and purposely jumping off . So does that lessen the fault of Allan . Possibly , but Allan still was going through the intentional motions of threatening to fire and kill a target ( Meadows ) even though he hit a second target . Yes , they are aware that Allan was claiming that he did not load the gun , but he could be lying . Then it turns out that earlier in the day Allan and Meadow's son was visiting them , and that he was arguing about them lending him some money he needed for his business . They refused because he had lost all the money they lent him earlier . He was aware of their weekly argument game , and he was alone in the room with the weapon for a few minutes . He knew how to load the gun . Possibly he loaded it . His fingerprint is on the gun . They should speak to him . That's just it - he's vanished . Has he fled ? Gradually , however , it all falls into place . After checking the possible places that the son could have fled to , someone notices the fingerprint does look familiar . It looks like the fingerprint of the suicide . They check , and now they know the son jumped off the roof . So now , instead of an attempted murder of Meadows , Allan can be tried for the murder of the son . . . or can he ? The son loaded the rifle . The son's finances were messed up . He threatened to have his parents committed if they did not help him , or , to commit suicide . The A . D . A . explains that the son loaded the rifle , intending his father would kill the mother , and go to prison , Then he went to the roof to jump off and kill himself . He just did not realize the rifle he loaded would be fired and kill him instead . So Allan is not arrested - it is , after all , suicide . The story actually happened , not in Baltimore ( where HOMICIDE took place in ) but in another part of the country in March 1994 . The plotter was one Ronald Opus , and the story was told by Dr . Don Harper Mills at the 1994 annual awards dinner for Forensic Science , AAFS
The Court Martial of an Aviation Visionary	In 1925 the U . S . Naval Air Force's major new piece of military hardware was a zeppelin that had been built in Germany at the end of the First World War , which was given to the U . S as a reparation , and renamed the U . S . S . Shenandoah . The craft had a crack team running it , and it had an excellent head , Commander Zachary Landowne . It was in fair demand around the country , for most people believed that the future of long distance air travel would be in airships , not airplanes . So the Navy brass frequently sent the Shenandoah on public relations flights , rather than using it for military purposes or long distance flights . It was sent to Ohio where local politicians wanted to use the zeppelin to impress voters . Unfortunately , there was a storm front with heavy thundershowers in the path of the zeppelin , and the zeppelin had recently had some damage to a fin on it's tale . There had been no time to repair the damage . So when the zeppelin crossed into the storm front , the zeppelin was ripped apart by the winds and crashed killing Landsdowne and fourteen men . Landsdowne's close friend , Brigadier General Billy Mitchell was exceptionally critical of the disaster . He blamed the politicians and military brass who ordered the flight . As Mitchell had been long a thorn in the side of these two groups , as he tried to push his views on air power and the need for a unified , strong air force , he was charged with insubordination and ordered to be court martial-ed . Gary Cooper plays Mitchell well , as an honest , honorable man , who realizes that the future will be only safe for those who have a strong air arm . He is fighting old fashion ideas , mouthed by old fashioned army leaders like Fred Clark . He does have allies like his lawyer , a Congressman played by Ralph Bellamy , and like one of the judges ( General Douglas MacArthur - who was the only one to vote for acquittal ) . But the issue goes down to the Mitchell's insubordination . And this leads to the dramatic high point , when Cooper is cross-examined by the malicious and clever Rod Steiger . Steiger is able to get Cooper to not only reveal his lack of respect for the brass but to reveal his mistrust of the Japanese . That he is correct in the long run does not save him - he is found guilty and suspended without pay from the army for five years . Mitchell died in 1936 , not in time to see his vindication five years later . But he is remembered now as the real founder of the modern American Air Force . The film is a pretty good retelling of his story , and reminds us how frequently a prophet is despised and rejected in his or her time .
A hint ( momentarily ) of Ollie in Grady	There is a mistake in the casting notice for this short , part of " The Boy Friends " Series , on this thread . Charlie Hall is not a painter , but is a successful glider flyer . He does get dosed , in the course of the last half of the film , with paint several times , but he is not a painter himself . The boys and their two dim-witted female friends are out on a weekend jaunt when they come across a large field used by glider enthusiasts . Mary and Gertrude want an opportunity to photograph Grady in a glider , and he is willing - but the glider they try to use is Hall's . He knows them ( and distinctly is sure he doesn't wish to know them ) through his assistant , Mickey . But using their sweetest wiles , they get Hall's agreement to allow them to photograph Grady in the glider . Unfortunately , earlier , Hall had given a rough order to Mickey to hook up a glider to the bumper of Dave's car for a flight . Mickey gets confused and hooks up the glider that Grady is still sitting in while being photographed . As a result Grady is soon aloft , and does not know how to fly the damned thing . One of the best moments ( brief as it is ) is when Dave , yelling from the back seat of his car , tries to demonstrate to Grady how to use the front control stick to lower the glider . All it does is cause Grady to loop-the-loop several times . Then there is a running joke about trying to get Grady to jump into a blanket or onto various pillows and pads on the ground , so he won't break his neck . Each time Grady , notes what Dave and Mickey ( and some others ) are trying to do , and notes how each time these guys ( all on the ground or on roofs ) fall and seem to injure themselves . Sutton at each of these apparent mishaps , looks up at the camera with the same stoic helplessness and wisdom shown by Oliver Hardy at some of Stan Laurel's helpful activities . But then both Sutton and Hardy were part of the wonderful world of Hal Roach , and both were being photographed and directed by George Stevens . So this behavior is perfectly understandable . . . under the circumstances . As for Mr . Hall , he does get to have some fun moments too , including driving ( if you can call it that ) a motorcycle across the field with a paint can on his head . This too makes one recall his history crossing into the world of Stan and Ollie . Note too here and in the previously discussed short , CALL A COP , that the music that is used in the background is very familiar . You have heard it all in the Stan and Ollie shorts before this . Very amusing , but the lack of adequate character build-up again makes it something worth watching once , but hardly worth studying and returning to .
Less than meets the eye	I'm giving this short subject a few points more than it deserves , because there are some faces in it that one rarely if ever saw or heard in early talkies . Among them are Broadway stars Otis Skinner ( see OUR HEARTS WERE YOUNG AND GAY and KISMET ) , and Marilyn Miller , as well as young Richard Rodgers , Lorenz Hart , Sigmund Romberg , Oscar Hammerstein II , Al Dubin , and such faces as Walter Huston , Frank McHugh , Joan Blondell , Edward G . Robinson , Walter Pidgeon , Loretta Young , Sidney Blackmer , and Ona Munson . I can even add the Fred Kohler Sr . and Beryl Mercer . It's pleasant seeing faces of some importance or still vibrant memory there . But having said that I look at the bulk of the celebrities . The chief spokesperson is a young girl , Betty Jane Graham , as " Little Miss Vitaphone " . Vitaphone , of course , was the process that the Warners used to bring talkies to Hollywood . Ms Graham is polite and well spoken . She is a pretty child . That said , there has absolutely no spark of talent or panache in her . If you check the thread on her , she had a career into the 1940s , but increasingly it fell into not even supporting parts but extras . Finally she must have gotten the message and left films entirely . I have heard of Evelyn Knapp ( barely ) and Louis Fazenda , but who on earth are Leon Janney ( any relation to television star Alison Janney ? ) , Claudia Dell , or James Rennie ? The stars of tomorrow . Their credits barely suggest anything . In the other comments on this thread , there are complaints that the brothers Warner failed to use such figures as George Arliss , Richard Barthelmess , or ( my God , how could they ? ! ) John Barrymore . Yes , indeed , they did . They also did not bring in their champion man of song Mr . Al Jolson . A song is sung at the end by some well intentioned crooner with a forgettable name , who looks like he's got a great future in half-empty concert halls . He is warbling a slightly passable ditty with words by Mr . Dubin . As I listened to him sing this , and saw Ms Miller was in that room , I wanted to cry . The tune is not a standard , but with a bit of friendly or sexy push it might have been . Or if Mr . Jolson had been around it might have been . I take it this was done as publicity ( to show off some of the big and so-called promising names ) for the studio . As such they may have grabbed whoever was available ( due to shooting schedules ) on that day or two it was shot . So , as a museum piece it is curious enough to merit a " 7 " out of generosity to Otis and Marilyn in particular . But otherwise I felt like a lot of good film stock was wasted in this work .
The Judgment of Paris	This is an interesting black comedy , from Joseph Mankiewicz , about the gullibility of man , and how greed can corrupt anyone . Henry Fonda is a lawman , in typical Fonda-style ( before WARLOCK and the spaghetti westerns changed his image ) . He is a firm support for law and order . However , he has been shot and left lame by Warren Oates , a drunken outlaw . He may have to retire as a result sooner than he expected . At the start of the film we watch how Kirk Douglas ( Paris Pitman ) has robbed the home of Arthur O'Connor with his gang . They are killed off in one way or another . Pitman escapes with the money , and hides it in a hole full of rattlesnakes . But later he is captured . Pitman is sent to territorial prison , where he meets Oates , Burgess Meredith ( as the legendary Missouri Kid ) , Hume Cronym and John Randolph ( a pair of swindlers who are also a gay couple ) , and others . The warden is Martin Gabel , who soon makes it clear that if Douglas wants to be out sooner he needs the warden as a partner . But in a riot Gabel is killed , and Fonda is appointed the new warden . Fonda tries to reform the prison , improving facilities and setting up an honor system . Douglas , the total cynic , sneers at all this , and makes his own plans . He is not going to rot for two decades or so in prison while a fortune awaits for him . So he starts plotting to get out , and Fonda keeps watching to counter his plotting . I won't add anything else , but in the end one wonders if Paris Pitman's view of mankind is the truth of us all or not . The film has wonderful sharp comedy , including the comic put-downs of Cronyn when undercutting the pompous Randolph , and when one sees scenes like Burgess Meredith taking his first bath . I strongly recommend this film to fans of unusual westerns .
Jerry as a " second banana " again - briefly	Farce is tricky - you need a good cast who are directed to be fast at split second timing , so that the appearance of people just missing each other add to the hilarity . It also depends on translation or state of the script . BOEING ( 707 ) BOEING ( 707 ) is a French farce that became a hit there and then in Great Britain in the 1960s . It was brought to Broadway , but flopped . Still a movie version was made which is unique because it was the only pairing of Tony Curtis and Jerry Lewis , with Lewis playing a more subdued character than in other films . The film's plot is about how Curtis ( a foreign correspondent in Paris ) has an apartment which he sets up as a private harem with three girlfriends - all flight attendants ( back then stewardesses ) : one English ( Suzanne Leigh ) , one French ( Dany Saval ) , and one German ( Christiane Schmidtmer ) each from their own nation's airlines ( Schmidtmer is frequently referred to as " Lufthansa " ) . The only person who is aware that Curtis has this harem is his maid Berthe ( Thelma Ritter ) . The ladies don't because Curtis has timed their arrivals and departures to the minute so that as two are gone the third is arriving . Two disasters destroy the perfect love system Curtis has made - first the announcement of a more powerful airliner all the airlines will be switching to soon . That speeds up the arrivals and departures of the three women . Secondly , Curtis finds that he is being imposed on by a fellow journalist ( Lewis ) who needs a room for a few days before he can rent an apartment . Curtis and Lewis have a half-friendly and half-unfriendly relationship due to being rival correspondents and rivals with women . But Lewis discovers about the various ladies ( all of whom claim they are Curtis's fiancé ) and basically blackmails Curtis into putting him up . The problems of the earlier arrivals of the three ladies perplex Curtis and Lewis , as their rivalry for the ladies mount . At the same time the one person stuck in the apartment all the time ( Thelma Ritter ) is getting more and more upset about the set-up which is tiring and thankless . . . and not as well paid as Ritter would like . Curtis was always an adept farceur , but Lewis comes across as an accomplished one too - no geek like " Nutty Professor " or accident prone " Errand Boy " or " Disorderly Orderly " here . Instead we have a smooth operator - a cousin to " Buddy " , the alter ego of the " Nutty Professor " . The three ladies are good , particularly the German Ms Schmidtmer who is lovely but formidable ( and a lady who dislikes French soufflés , and prefers knock-wurst and sauerkraut - much to the disgust of Ritter , who hates the smell ) . All the ladies love national styles of food . Ms Saval enjoys soufflés ( and detests knock-wurst and sauerkraut ) . As for Ms Leigh , she loves deviled kidneys in their own juice ( the juice , she mentions , is good for the complexion ) . Ritter dislikes the kidneys too , but always make extra ones for Leigh - she knows Leigh wants seconds . BOEING BOEING was a mediocre film at the box office . But it is amusing enough to most viewers . Right now the original play is on Broadway with Bradley Whitford in the Curtis role and Christine Baransky as Berthe . It seems to be a better production than the original one . Baransky has a hard job in her role , but she is one of our finest female comics . The reason is that the best of the performers in the film was Ritter , who gets more and more confused and irritated by the goings on she is witnessing . In the ends she wonders if she really would ever stand for it under any circumstances . For watching Ritter alone the film is worth while . Knowing Ms Baransky from past performances she is certainly worthy to take on the same role .
Pete Smith makes a turkey out of a Foodlebean	Pete Smith's shorts are usually amusing - occasionally they are really funny ( particularly the ones starring Dave O'Brien - best remembered for being turned into a homicidal maniac in REEFER MADNESS ) . Smith's delivery is a little bit a trial after awhile - he had this nasal voice which made him sound like a wise-guy ( a vocal habit that is shared by one newsman in the New York Metropolitan area at least ) . However , the situations are usually clever and fairly simple . Here it is how to properly cut a turkey at Thanksgiving or any other occasion . First we see an expert who does a lovely job at carving a turkey , turning it on it's side and then carefully , studiously , carving it in a scientific manner ( for example , removing bones that are impediments to carving , and also shaving succulent slices off legs and wings ) . After five minutes of watching this , we watch a newlywed couple cooking and cutting a giant turkey for the wife's brother , sister-in-law , and nephew ( " Little Otto " - played by " Butch " from the " Our Gang " comedies ) . It is obvious that the three in-laws have little use for the newlywed husband ( " Mr . Foodlebean " ) , and are hostile just looking at him . All three watch as he wrecks the turkey , and the stuffing , and knocks bottles over - well you get the picture . He lives down to their expectations . If not as funny as the ones with O'Brien , this one certainly has some nice moments of growing frustrations ( and one moment dealing with the stuffing and " Butch's " face that is priceless - for a change his nasty looking expressions are merited ! ) Certainly an amusing , trifling comedy .
" You Will Shun Him . "	Captain Charles Cunningham Boycott is one of those figures in history who by their careers or actions actually contributed to our language - usually without thinking about it . Lord Cardigan , who led the charge of the Light Brigade in the Crimean War , wore a tight sweater which still bears his name . Lord Brougham , the great lawyer and Lord Chancelor , had a special carriage designed for him , which is named for him . William Burke ( with his partner William Hare ) suffocated a dozen people to sell their bodies to Dr . Robert Knox , the anatomist . The method of suffocation is still called " burking " . Reverend Spooner's weird confusion of letters and syllables is still called a " spoonerism " . The edited censorship of literary masterpieces is called bowdlerizing after Bowdler the originator of the censorship . Captain Boycott is remembered for not what he did or wore or said . He is recalled for what was done to him because of his behavior to others . In 1878 the lower classes in Ireland began a series of acts of violence against landlords , especially Protestant landlords . The reasons were connected with unfairly high rents and misuse of economic power to force people to do what their landlords wanted them to do . The worst incidents resulted in the murders of landlords ( Lord Leitrim in 1878 , Lord Mountmorres in 1880 ) and Mr . Walter Bourke ( an agent for a landlord ) in 1882 . Boycott was a rather heavy handed landowner , who threw out tenants who did not do what he wanted ( including voting for Tory candidates ) . He became targeted for punishment , but what happened turned out to be more effective and less bloody than what happened to Leitrim , Mountmorres , and Bourke . On the advice of cooler heads than armed terrorists , such as political leader Charles Stewart Parnell , it was advised to socially and emotionally ostracize Boycott . Instead of threatening his possession of his estate ( which would allow him to call in British troops ) the locals would not sell him needed food or supplies , nor do work on his estate , nor even talk to him and his staff . This ostracism ( now called " boycotting " ) proved very effective - it led to Boycott , after nearly half a year's struggle , to give up his estate and leave Ireland forever . The movie basically tells the story , with Cecil Parker actually playing the central role of Captain Boycott . Parker plays one of his rare negative characters , but he has moments of typical befuddled Parker humor ( when talking to a friend about the unwanted London reporters in his home following the ostracism campaign , he notes the reporter for the TIMES appears to be drunk under his dinner table - we see the man's legs ) . Since he is the villain actually ( with Mervyn Johns as his sneaky estate agent ably assisting him ) , we look elsewhere for our hero . Here it is Stewart Granger , as an independent minded tenant of Boycott's , whose prize race horse excites the Captain's greed . But Granger is also a voice of reason . Although he doesn't care for Parnell ( he mentions rumors about Parnell's sex life ) , he hears the great man give a speech advocating peaceful protest rather than violence . This is how the campaign against Boycott begins . Alistair Sim plays the local Catholic pastor , who also counsels peaceful protest . Noel Purcell plays an interesting semi-villain - the local schoolteacher who is an accomplished agitator ( for violence ) . And playing Parnell for one scene only is Robert Donat , who gives the great man's speech his normal eloquence , and actually looks like Parnell ( unlike Clark Gable in the 1939 biographical fiasco from Hollywood ) . A little stiff at times , it is ( on the whole ) a wonderful example of a good historical movie . As such I recommend catching it when you can .
Clifton Webb's Last ( and Luckiest ) Bad Guy	An average adventure film , it is easy to say what is good about BOY ON A DOLPHIN : the scenery of Greece is wonderful , the music and dance numbers interesting ( the first Greek dances I suspect in a major production film prior to NEVER ON Sunday ) , and the pleasures of looking at the young , vibrant Sophia Loren . They are sufficient to make the film a " 5 " out of " 10 " . Dragging it down a bit is casting Alan Ladd as the hero archaeologist - he speaks his lines okay , but he was beginning to look a little puffy in the face ( it is not the Ladd of THIS GUN FOR HIRE or TWO YEARS BEFORE THE MAST or THE BLUE DAHLIA ) . But pushing it up to a " 7 " is Clifton Webb . More about that later . Sophia is a sponge diver , and has accidentally located the wreckage of a 2 , 000 year old wreck which entered myth because it had a the statue of a boy ( made out of solid gold ) on top of a bronze dolphin . Ladd is approached by Sophia about showing him the treasure for possible financial reward . But Ladd's resources are small ( he works for various antiquities organizations and national governments , and worked after World War II returning antiquities looted by the Nazis ) . He arranges to have lunch with her , but she arrives first . She is told they cannot serve her alone , so she plops herself down next to the next available person . It's Webb , who turns out to find her more interesting than initially when she mentions knowing Ladd and awaiting him . Webb cleverly spirits her out of the restaurant onto his yacht . There ( keeping her a well treated prisoner ) he does a little research on his own , and catches up with Ladd in a Monastic Library . He returns to the yacht . He explains the situation - he will pay much more money for the statue of the boy on the dolphin than Ladd will . Loren agrees to help him . So the situation is set up , with Loren working to delay and defeat Ladd's urge to find the statue , and once he goes she'll lead Webb to it . But due to unforeseen side issues ( Ladd becomes friendly with Loren's kid brother Piero Giagnoni ) he learns that she visits the yacht , and soon is aware he cannot depend on her anymore . But Loren is also finding she is falling for Ladd , and this is beginning to worry not only Webb but Loren's old boyfriend Jorge Mistral . Switching to relying on Mistral , Webb prepares to snatch the prize while Ladd is preoccupied . And there I will leave the plot . After LAURA and THE DARK CORNER , with the possible exception of his ridiculous social snob Eliot Templeton in THE RAZOR'S EDGE , Clifton Webb played good guys . Usually they were acerbic , like his Lynn Belvedere , but usually had his heart in the right place . His Richard Sturgis in TITANIC is confronting his wife Barbara Stanwyck , but is in for a severe emotional drubbing from her regarding his son's parentage before he pulls himself together and shows he is heroic at the conclusion . Most of his films were comedies , though TITANIC and CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN end with his death . However , it is not until he made BOY ON A DOLPHIN that Webb returned to his special brand of sybaritic style villainy . His Mr . Victor Parmelee ( as noted on this thread , Webb's real last name was Parmelee ) is a wealthy aesthete who collects art objects , and doesn't care how he gets them . He would have been the sort who would have dealt with Mr . Cathcart in THE DARK CORNER , and read Waldo Lydecker's columns in the newspapers . Webb has the aesthete down pat , and in the end you admire his thorough planning and stick-to-it-ness in seeking to circumvent Ladd . But he has one thing going in this film not found in the earlier two melodramas . Nobody is killed in BOY ON A DOLPHIN , although one suspects that the jealous Mistral would love to do in Ladd . So at the end Mr . Parmalee shrugs his shoulders and orders his yacht to Monte Carlo . . . ho hum . . . an occasional failure is to be expected . But he was not arrested ( they found nothing to arrest him for ) , and a trip to Monte Carlo is certainly a better fate at the end of a film than being blasted by police bullets in your female friend's apartment or being shot in the back by your infuriated wife in the basement of your antique shop .
The Root of All Evil	The " Lost Dutchman " Gold Mine has entered American folklore as one of those unattainable , and menacing , treasures . Supposedly Jacob Walz found it in the Superstition Mountains of Arizona , and died without ever revealing fully it's location . At least a dozen people have died violently searching for it . Therefore this film easily adds to the story of greed and blood that covers the wealth of that forgotten mine . I liked the negative performances of the leads ( Ford , Lupino , and Young ) , none of whom are likable or redeemable . It was very unusual to see them in such characterizations ( although Lupino had played some villainous types , like " Betsy Broke " in " The Light That Failed " ) . Young was still a few years from his first decent role , the weak drunkard in " Come Fill The Cup " . Ford usually played good guys , although he did play the politically ambitious Civil War madman in " The Man From Colorado " in this period . But here they all cut their teeth quite well in the film as low lives . The interesting thing is that they are not the only villains - greed also percolates in the modern part of the movie , where the hero ( William Prince ) discovers the most unlikely , deadly villain facing him at the end . Altogether a worthwhile film .
Made For Each Other	It is not the greatest comedy in the world , nor the greatest film of either it's two stars ( nor it's two lead supporting players ) , nor the best film it's two stars made together , nor the best film script of George Axelrod . But PHFFFT is a good comedy about marriage and divorce , and in it's point of view resembles a film made a decade earlier in England called VACATION FROM MARRIAGE , about how their experiences in World War II separately rejuvenate the love and affection in Robert Donat and Deborah Kerr's doldrum like marriage . Fortunately Jack Lemmon and Judy Holiday don't need anything so desperate . Lemmon is a former naval officer who is a tax lawyer and has met Holiday , an employee of a major network , in the waning days of World War II . They start dating , and end up marrying just at the point that his career in the Navy ends ( and he hooks up in a good law firm ) and her career zooms as the author of a major radio soap opera ( which in 1954 was still quite a big thing ) . But as they are both prospering in their careers , they tend to drift a bit apart . We see Lemmon ( after dinner with Holiday ) getting sexual excitement reading a " Mickey Spillaine " type novel ( how Ensign Pulver would have understood that ) , and a slow simmering Judy watching him for some kind of action towards her . Finally she asks him for a divorce . Surprisingly he agrees , as he feels there is nothing left in their marriage at this point . She gets a divorce very quickly ( by the way - small note - her taxi driver taking her away from the courthouse is Jimmy Dodd of the Mickey Mouse Club fame : this is the first time I have seen him in anything except the Mickey Mouse Club ) . But soon Judy ( under the wing of her mother , Luella Gear ) finds she is not finding any fulfillment in her new freedom . Her first date is with an actor from her soap opera , who instead of romancing her starts discussing writing a rival character ( actually the central character ! ) out of some of the scripts . Her attempts at foreign language studies ( she is planning a trip to France ) does not work . And her mother's redecoration ( a round bed ) is not really great . But Jack is not doing well either . Setting up with his old navy buddy , Jack Carson ( mentally I compared their relatively easy relationship to Jack's classic problems with Walter Matthau in later films ) , and finding that Carson's solutions are not all great . He wants Jack to jump back into the dating game - and volunteers Kim Novak for that . Novak is playing her part like a clone ( except in terms of hair style ) to Marilyn Monroe . She has the wide eyed naiveté mixed with a large dollop of common sense about what she is around for . But it is a clone performance , and one welcome later performances of Novak in both comedy ( BELL , BOOK , AND CANDLE ) and drama ( VERTIGO ) to see what she would turn out to be capable of doing . Jack does lighten up - he first buys a sporty little Austin to drive around in , and he does take dance lessons ( as does Judy ) . The latter leads to the real highlight of the film : when both arrive at a night spot with dates , end up on the dance floor doing the rumba and the mambo , and managing to transform their dancing into a momentary charge of sexual attraction between them . From that point one realizes it is only a matter of time before they return together . Carson has one major scene as well . He decides ( erroneously , as it turns out ) that since Jack and Judy are divorced , he can date Judy . As this is an Axelrod script , there is a bit of THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH here , as Carson tells Judy of his noticing " types " who are dating . It reminds one of Tom Ewell talking or thinking of sexual problems or matters in the other film . It is a neat little time capsule in many ways . Made today , the sexual aspect would be more outspoken , but it was made in the quieter ( perhaps too quieter ) Eisenhower Era . Even the title is a bit of a time capsule artifact : " Phffft " ( pronounced with a bit of air in the voice as " fitt " ) was a term used by Walter Winchell in his gossip column to say that a loving celebrity couple was splitting . It's brief , final sound ( like a rip or a whistle of air ) suggested that these romances were brief things . But who remembers Winchell these days - his columns are useful in doing research for books on old celebrities . Still the movie itself was a nice romantic comedy , and worth watching .
Odd type of comic modern western - love story	This odd film was shown at the dinner hour tonight . Odd because it works but it is quite disparate in it's plot lines . Carleton Carpenter ( who normally appeared in MGM musicals ) is Harlan , a would - be rodeo cowboy , attending a rodeo in Las Vegas . He has been brought up in Kansas , and one of the girls he grew up with is Dixie ( Jan Sterling ) . She is working in a gambling parlor run by Al ( Keenan Wynn ) but pretends that she is a potential dancer . When Harlan shows up for his rodeo he and Dixie reunite . Harlan leaves his gear at the gambling parlor ( Al gives Harlan permission to do so ) . But what Harlan does not know is that Dixie has gotten involved with a fellow who is planning to rob the one armed bandits in the parlor . When this happens , Dixie is immediately suspected . . . and by extension Harlan . Instead of doing the sensible thing of confronting Al and the police and proving his innocence , Harlan decides to assist a panicking Dixie in fleeing Las Vegas and heading for the Utah border . Sounds serious , doesn't it ? But much of the film's charm works on the interaction of Harlan and Dixie on the road , and how they have conflicting viewpoints but find they have strong feelings for each other . At one point Dixie drives off in her jalopy leaving Harlan behind in a ghost town . She did not like his idea of returning to confront the police . But she returns to pick him up and get him to Utah . She finds him on the side of the road nursing his aching toes . Hardly romantic , but cute as she convinces him to trust her again . It has nice desert scenery of some of the most isolated landscapes in America . And one of the worst to be stuck in . On the road to Utah the jalopy ( with leaking radiator and threadbare spare tire put on the car ) has to cross a rickety , condemned wooden bridge over a chasm . Later it has to be driven ( with no break linings or working gears on the road ) driving down a curving narrow mountain . In the end he offers himself to her for a life of ranching . But is ranching what Dixie would be happy with , including feeding chickens and possibly slaughtering an occasional hog ( and living in near isolation for most of the year ) ? We are aware that they really like each other , but can Dixie make the leap that Harlan wants her to make ? Wynn plays his role with more heart than one usually sees in his characters . So does someone else in the film , who really only has a small role here - Douglas Dumbrille as a rodeo official ( with nothing up his sleeve like a secret agenda ) . On the whole the film is a sweet one , and if not an earth shaking piece of cinema worth a 90 minute viewing .
Another Vague Memory of Long Ago Television Viewing	I have to admit that writing this review of THE MAYFLY AND THE FROG is a bit odd for several reasons . First , I note that it is the first review of this production ( and I hope is stimulates some better ones if it is read by people who recall the production ) . Second , my memories of the play are very slight . And I regret that because Felicity Kendal and Sir John Guilgud were the two stars , and Dennis Potter wrote the play . For those reasons it deserves a fuller review than I can offer . Guilgud ( like Olivier and Richardson ) was perfectly at home working in the medium of television . As a result all three left performances in television plays and series that are still quite glorious to watch . For example , watch Olivier's performance in the series LOST EMPIRES by J . B . Priestly , where he plays a comic vaudevillian who has become old hat and is driven to suicide - it was one of Olivier's last television performances , and is only a cameo appearance in the series ( it was only in one of the episodes ) but it was memorable . Similarly Guilgud would do plays like this one , or like Old John of Gaunt in the complete BBC Shakespeare series ' RICHARD II , and would deliver great performances . The plot for this play is about a very wealthy millionaire named Gabriel Quantara , who's existence is invaded by the charming but seemingly naive girl ( played by Kendall ) . From initially resentment at the accidental intrusion , Guilgud ( the " Frog " of the story ) soften considerably towards Kendall ( " the " Mayfly " ) . The scene in his millionaire's home , where she wonders at the objects that are in it was particularly memorable to me - she examines a large aquarium full of fish , and finds one biting her finger . He explains it is full of piranha fish . Guilgud finds himself caring for the girl , and eventually worrying when she faints in the apartment - not quite knowing how to handle this situation . And here , I must admit , the vagueness of memory pursues me - I don't recall how the play ended , except they don't marry . The girl leaves . Hopefully someone ( as I said before ) will have a clearer idea of the story . I do recall it was a charmingly acted play .
What to Look For	The post - Marx Brothers films of Groucho are somewhat astounding because of their mediocrity or worse . Groucho appeared in the late 1940s in four films : COPACABANA , DOUBLE DYNAMITE , A GIRL IN EVERY PORT , MR . MUSIC . He would subsequently appear alone in WILL SUCCESS SPOIL ROCK HUNTER , and finally made SKIDOO . None of these have the values of the best Marx Brother films , and yet they had pretty good casts in most of them : Carmen Miranda , Frank Sinatra and Jane Russell , William Bendix , Bing Crosby , Tony Randall and Jayne Mansfield , Jackie Gleason and Carol Channing . Some of the directors were interesting : Frank Tashlin in ROCK HUNTER and Otto Preminger in SKIDOO ( even Richard Haydn in MR . MUSIC ) . But the films rarely have much going for them . Not that the two Marx Brother films of this period ( LOVE HAPPY and THE STORY OF MANKIND ) were anything to write home about . I tend to think that Groucho , wealthy and middle aged , was no longer really interested in proving anything in movies . His energies concentrated wonderfully on the radio and then television quiz show YOU BET YOUR LIFE . And he was right - his stardom remained high as a result . For that matter neither Harpo or Chico really needed to prove anything about their talents either . LOVE HAPPY was shot because ( like A NIGHT IN CASABLANCA ) Chico had some money troubles tied to his gambling . But Harpo and Groucho forced Chico to curtail some of his spending habits . From the point of making movies to impress none of them needed it . So I suspect Groucho was less than really choosy in picking his films . He definitely lucked out in DOUBLE DYNAMITE by having a film with Frank Sinatra and Jane Russell . Both had followings ( Sinatra's first following peaking in 1948 ; Russell being notorious for THE OUTLAW ) . But the story is a rather weak one . Sinatra is a clerk in a business owned by Howard Freeman . He manages to save Nestor Paiva's life , and the grateful bookie puts money down for Sinatra on a sure-thing horse that wins big . Now Sinatra has money to burn , but just then there is an audit of the books , and Freeman discovers a huge discrepancy . So Sinatra becomes his chief suspect for embezzlement . Sinatra's problems are that he can't prove Paiva has repaid like this , and even if he could Freeman tends not to believe him . His only allies are his girlfriend and fellow worker Russell , and his closest friend Groucho ( as Emil J . Ketch , a philosophical waiter with some biting wit ) . In the plot of the film , Groucho tries to help Sinatra by trying to get information from Freeman that may lead to the actual embezzler . This leads to the best portions of the film . I have commented on Howard Freeman elsewhere on this board . A gifted character actor , he is unjustly forgotten today . He was capable of dramatic performances ( he was a memorable Himmler in HITLER'S MADMAN , and he was the crooked landlord of the fleabag hotel that Alan Ladd used in THE BLUE DAHLIA ) , and he was equally good in comedy ( he is the wealthy sausage manufacturer who is convinced by an intruding Stewart Grainger not to marry the devious Eleanor Parker in SCARAMOUCHE ) . He was also one of the few character actors who ever had a chance to reverse a dramatic performance into a comic gem , when he took his self-centered , fatuous Himmler and used it as a nice guy mistaken for a Himmler in a CAR 54 WHERE ARE YOU ? episode . With his abilities he was a first rate foil for Groucho . Freeman's Mr . Pulsifer is not fully prepared to prosecute Sinatra , but he certainly makes Sinatra aware of his peril . So Emil decides that he has to get to know Pulsifer and pry out of him various information about other potential suspects ( such as Pulsifer's son ) . How to do this ? Well Pulsifer has not met Emil as a waiter , so Emil dresses up as a wealthy potential business investor . Sinatra is footing the bill for Emil's luxury rooms at a hotel , and his wining and dining Freeman . Of course , the fatuous Freeman does fall for it . Here's the type of man he wants to associate with : a real man of the world . While Groucho spins the most outlandish lies , Freeman readily , greedily swallows them . The scenes between them are quite good . Groucho does recite " Gather ye rosebuds " at one point , and he has a nice duet with Sinatra . So there are positive points in the film . Ms Russell does the best she can but her lines are not memorable ( the title's double entendre is the limit of wit regarding her role ) . It is a pleasant film , at times almost rising with Groucho and Freeman , but it is not up to the best work Groucho ever did .
Two Red Heads Get Together	In the late 1940s Red Skelton's movie career was going strong - he was the star of several good comedies ( that remain funny ) , mostly aided by the advice and part direction of Buster Keaton . Among these films was THE FULLER BRUSH MAN , a comedy thriller that is still hysterical at times . It was so successful that it led to several films that tried to copy it . One was THE FULLER BRUSH GIRL , which starred Lucille Ball and Eddie Albert . Lucy's film was also quite entertaining . But while Skelton's film career was flourishing , Ball's was slowing down . They had made one film together ( DUBARRY WAS A LADY , with Gene Kelly and Zero Mostel ) , but that was in the early 1940s . The two would not get together again until 1959 , when both had made their marks on television with I LOVE LUCY and THE RED SKELTON SHOW . Skelton would guest star on this episode of THE LUCI-DESI COMEDY HOUR . The plot was how Skelton is in a show with Ricky , and Lucy ends up ( for a change ) in the show , doing a duet with Skelton as a pair of hobos on a freight car . The rest of the episode dealt with how the two get lost in the back country during a blizzard . The interesting thing about LUCY GOES TO ALASKA is how the bulk of the episode , however amusing it was at the time , is so forgettable now , but the musical duet of Red and Lucy was first rate . In their sole previous co-starring film Red played a busboy at a nightclub who loves the show's star ( Lucy ) but is not really her interest ( it was Gene Kelly ) . As a result , in the dream segment that made up most of the film , Lucy played Madame DuBarry , against Red's King Louis XV , but they did not seem to mingle well together despite the energy of the film and the music of Cole Porter . Here , in their song and dance they hit the right notes , raising this forgettable episode to a " 7 " out of " 10 " . Their routine in the episode begins with Red looking out the door or the freight car to see if he's been seen by guards or the train crew . He turns aside behind a stack of crates . Then Lucy shows up , somehow also having boarded the same freight car , and looking to see if she was noticed . Neither for awhile see each other as they circle the stack of crates . Both end up walking backwards , as they are aware that they still feel they are not alone . They end up in backing into each other's rear end , and then turn and find each other . I went into some detail here because the segment so far is done silently - reminding one of Lucy's ability at mime ( in her episode on I LOVE LUCY with Harpo Marx , and in such episode where she gets into a fight while crushing grapes with another woman ) . It also reminds us of Skelton's ability at mime , which led to his " the silent spot " on his variety show . Eventually the two sing a song about how happy and free life is as a hobo . They have no worries like property owners . As the song concludes they sing : Red : " People without money don't pay bills . " Lucy : " Boy am I glad that I took my pauper pills ! " ( Looking at each other ) Red : " Poor us ! " Lucy : " Poor us ! ! " ( Facing the audience together ) Both : " Poor everybody else ! ! ! " It was a singularly successful and sweet scene and duet . It made the episode , and remains the only reason to recall this episode .
Sgt . Bilko visits the Cunninghams	In the last years of HAPPY DAYS there was a tendency to try to expand the show's stories by looking closer at the subsidiary characters . For instance there was an episode when Potsie Webber ( Anson Williams ) is having problems with his biology course , and has to pass the final examination ( which he does by learning to memorize by singing the anatomical structures parts as a song ) . There were episodes dealing with Fonzie and his latest girlfriend of course , and of the members of the Cunningham family ( except for the long missing older brother ) . But the episodes dealing with Joanie Cunningham ( Erin Moran ) usually dealt with her romance with Fonzie's nephew Chachi ( Scot Baio ) . But in the middle years of the show a name cropped up as Joanie's madcap girlfriend Jennie Piccalo ( Catherine Silver ) . For a years or so she was mentioned , but never appeared . Then Ms Silver popped up to be a regular for the last couple of seasons . In this episode Jennie is arrested for trying to steal a statue in the park to get acceptance into a snobby sorority . Joanie gets involved in it too , so that both girls are captured by Police officer Kirk ( Ed Peck ) . The Cunninghams ( Marion Ross and Tom Bosley ) are pretty upset about the stupid sorority prank , and they tell it to Joanie very clearly . But what happens is that Jennie is afraid to go home and face her father Roscoe . It was the only time Roscoe Piccalo popped up in an episode of HAPPY DAYS . Roscoe turns out to be Catherine Silver's real life father , Phil Silvers . From the moment he steps into the familiar middle America house of the Cunninghams you can see that despite his friendly demeanor something's off . He and Mr . Cunningham have rarely held a conversation , so Tom Bosley is a little uncertain about what to say to his guest . But Silvers puts him at his ease . He has heard of the prank , and he is aware that this can't be winked at as normal hijinks . There is a moving moment when Roscoe and Jennie have a private discussion , and ( as the Silvers were a real father and daughter ) the actual affection showed up . Roscoe is a little upset about the incident , but he tells Jennie he loves her . They will discuss the matter at home . The Cunninghams thank Roscoe for being so forbearing with Jennie , and he leaves in apparent good will with Joanie's family . The door closes and the Cunninghams go into the kitchen . Slowly the door reopens and we see Roscoe looking more critically around the living room set . Holding out his hands , Silvers says , " What happened to good taste ? ! " Totally unexpected reason for hims seeming to be at a measure of ill-ease , and funny as a result .
Before Betty Boop And Popeye	Max Fleischer's cartoons in the 1920s centered around the antics of a clown named Koko . The clown was seen to emerge from the ink in a freshly dipped pen being applied by Fleischer to the pad on his easel . Hence the name of the series : " OUT OF THE INKWELL " . Then , with a total ease of control , Fleischer would put Koko through his paces in an escalating series of problems based on some normal situation that grew out-of-hand . In THE CURE ( 1924 ) , Koko is drawn walking his pet rabbit . Suddenly we see he has a bulge in his mouth , which we realizes is some type of tooth ache . He asks ( using a title card ) why Fleischer drew him with a tooth ache , and we see Fleischer also has one . The rabbit soon is examining Koko's mouth and manages to push the bulb about into his head and neck before removing it - it turns out to be a large apple . They now concentrate on Fleischer , and tie a rope to the latter's bad tooth . They give Fleischer some laughing gas , and return to their pad to pull the tooth out . What follows is Koko and the rabbit finding they have a dentist office complete with waiting room , patients , and dentist chair . The cartoon follows Dr . Koko taking care of patients ( one of whom , a lion , keeps knocking off Koko's temporary " Doctor's eyeglasses " ) . A series of site gags involving the use of a miniature Brooklyn Bridge and other similar objects as visual puns ( for a " bridge " in that particular gag ) occur . Fleischer also turns on the laughing gas to affect the drawn cartoon figures . And in the end his own tooth is removed as well . Finally , at the end of the cartoon Koko and the rabbit and other figures return back to the inkwell . There are better cartoons , even better in this series , but this one is not a bad one to start off with . Fleischer never got into the habit of building up a story ( like Disney eventually did ) that led naturally into realistic situations or into situations based on a source ( like Disney would find in say Collodi's PINOCCHIO ) , until his later full length cartoons like GULLIVER'S TRAVELS . Most of his cartoons would concentrate on a simple situation that sight gags can be built into . It was not a bad formula , and would be honed by Koko , and later used more successfully with Betty Boop and then Popeye . Only after GULLIVER did Fleischer's studios look at short cartoons with an integrated story line dominating - the SUPERMAN series .
The only film I know of based on a classic sociology study	" Magic Town " is a film about something that we nowadays take as normal but which was a novelty in 1947 . It was about the new " science " of public opinion polling . This was only understood poorly and not only by the public but by those who actually mattered : the politicians who would grow to need them . In 1936 the Literary Digest , a popular magazine of the day , had conducted a poll of it's membership on who would win the Presidency . It concluded that Governor Alfred Landon of Kansas , a capable man , would beat incumbent President Franklin Roosevelt . Unfortunately the readership of the Digest were upper class , and basically Republican ( as Landon was ) . In November 1936 FDR won one of the biggest landslides in political history , with three quarters of the popular vote and all the electoral votes except for those of Maine and Vermont . Literary Digest went out of business shortly afterwords . In the decade since Roper and Gallup had been improving polling techniques , but the full system was still uncertain . In the 1948 election there would be another polling snafu , with most of the polls awarding the election to Governor Thomas Dewey of New York , as opposed to incumbent President Harry Truman . Harry won a remarkable come-from-behind over Tom , and enjoyed showing off a headline from the Republican " Chicago Tribune " saying that Tom won . In the midst of all this there was a classic sociology study entitled " Middletown " . Set in the typical mid-American town ( it was in the Midwest ) the authors ( a husband and wife team ) showed how it's citizens opinions mirrored what mid-America believed . Ten years later the same authors published a follow up study of the town , and it turned there was little change in the opinion differentials between the town and the country . It is with the " Middletown " study that the background of this film was based . Jimmy Stewart and his assistants ( including Ned Sparks and Donald Meek - in his last role ) are pollsters , and Stewart has a theory he has been working on that would save pollsters millions . He believes there is a perfect community in the middle of America that can be used for polling it's citizens . He has been studying the problem for several years , and he has found a town where the percentages of the opinions of the citizens perfectly mirror those of the American people as a whole . Stewart goes to the town and sets up there with the intention of using the citizens as his poling guinea pigs , but ( as the movie progresses ) he gets involved with Jane Wyman and the others in the town . When Wyman discovers Stewart's plans she reveals them , and the town goes crazy . Their sudden unofficial power goes to their heads , and instead of giving the sensible polling answers to questions they give outlandish ones . This causes the crash of their reputation , and the crisis of the film . It is a first rate film and has some nice touches ( including Gabriel Heater intoning on the radio ) . As an early story regarding the polling industry it is unique , and the film is well acted and directed ( by William Wellman ) . Perhaps not a Capra movie , but it is a nice one all the same .
The Only Time Vincent Price was Directed by Alfred Hitchcock	This is one of the twenty or so episodes of Alfred Hitchcock Presents that Hitch himself directed . It is not as well regarded as some of the others ( and one can see why after watching it for awhile ) , but it is historically interesting . Hitchcock directed many fine actors in his career , and such excellent heavies as George Sanders , Joseph Cotten , Robert Walker , Anthony Perkins , Raymond Burr , and Claude Rains . But this half hour television shot was the one time he handled Vincent Price . Price is Courtney , a " Sherlock Holmes " style Edwardian detective who is used by the New York City police in tricky cases . Price , with his classical handsome bearing , his polished ( if nasal ) voice , and his self-assurance , is perfect in this role . One can see him effortlessly solving cases ( just as in other films he'd be committing crimes ) . Given the set up the viewer is lulled into believing that in this case Price is a good guy . But he is Vincent Price , and Hitchcock has fun with him . Courtney has recently helped convict one Harrington ( Mark Dana ) of the murder of a millionaire named West ( Gavin Gordon ) at a hunting lodge West used on Long Island . West and Harrington were rivals on Wall Street , so the motive seemed to be greed . Threads and tire tracks and footprints were used by Price to build a first rate circumstantial case against Harrington , culminating ( once the police got a search warrant ) finding the small caliber pistol used by the killer in Harrington's wall safe . Denying his guilt to the end , Harrington has just been sent to the electric chair . Courtney , on the day after the electrocution , is visited by John Gregory ( James Gregory ) who was a lawyer for Harrington and for Mrs . West ( Marianne Stewart ) who was having marriage troubles . Gregory seems to be visiting Courtney just to hear how the great detective reached his conclusions . But after the self-satisfied Courtney finishes , Gregory starts surprising him . He has never been in a position to see the gun , but describes some flaws in it perfectly . Soon he is explaining some points regarding the relationship of the Wests and Harrington , pointing out that the husband and wife were splitting up in a messy way , and that Harrington was the cause . But having said that Gregory points out that Courtney did not do some of his homework properly : he thought Mrs . West was in Europe ( where she was found after the investigation began ) . Actually she had just come from Montreal , and was at the scene of the murder - in fact , she killed her husband . Harrington played the sap and protected her . . . too far . She did not reciprocate when Harrington was in peril . The result is that Courtney , in his " brilliant " work , sent an innocent man to his doom . The detective indignantly refuses to admit this , but Gregory is just as indignant , pointing out all the overlooked evidence of Mrs . West's sojourn to Montreal and return to New York . Gregory is a lawyer , and he is determined this is the last time that Courtney can do this ever - and he tells him he expects the detective to retire . But Courtney has other ideas . It is well acted and directed , certainly , with the two main protagonists evenly matched . James Gregory is best recalled as Senator John Iselin , the " McCarthy " type senator in the original THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE . If not that then as Inspector Luger on BARNEY MILLER . But here he is an indignant seeker for justice , hoping to stop this dangerous egotist from doing more damage . And Price has an opportunity of showing the ego and misplaced pride that leads to great evil in his actions . Then , if I like the episode , why do I limit this to only a " 7 " out of " 10 " ? It's because of one defect in the way the episode was written ( the screenplay is by Sterling Silliphant oddly enough , so it should be better ) . It's too talky ! The typical detective story is so involved with analyzing clues and activities and exposition that the reader ( after awhile ) gets an ability to rapidly read the " solution " . But to hear it in dialog , first from one actor than from another actor , it begins to be more boring than one can imagine . Some scenes are shown in flashback , but for some reason the voices of the other principle players are never heard . It is somewhat reminiscent of dream sequences in some Hitchcock films ( like SPELLBOUND ) where the dialog of the people in the dream is reported and not heard spoken . But those are short segments . This is several critical moments in the episode where normal dialog is ignored in explaining what actually happened . I keep thinking , given the set-up of the story , that Hitchcock's weird sense of humor was involved here . He probably like the perfect thinking machine type proved to have feet of clay . And fortunately his performers did do well with the material as it were . But still one wishes it was less talky .
Where the mystery is not who killed who but what is going on .	Tony Franciosa had been one of the stars of THE NAME OF THE GAME as the investigative reporter , but in 1970 he was fired from the series . His role went to a series of actors as other reporters for the magazine owned by Gene Barry and edited by Robert Stack . Here it was Clu Gallagher . He is assigned to an article involving the current murder trial of an artist named Early McCorley ( Roddy McDowall ) who murdered Dakota , a famous artist who McCorley had a grudge ( possibly due to mental illness ) against . Defending McCorley is a nationally famous attorney named Benjamin Franklin Bristow ( Jose Ferrer ) . Flamboyant and masterly in court , it would seem that McCorley has a first rate defense in the making here . But Gallagher soon has reason to question this immediate reaction . He is noticing that for a brilliant attorney , Bristow is making too many risky and odd maneuvers in his courtroom work . Instead of insisting on the obvious ( an insanity plea ) , Bristow is making it a case about the artist and society and statements . McCorley is not impressed when the reporter approaches him about his doubts - to the defendant the attorney cannot do wrong . Yet there just is something missing . A visit to Bristow's expensive mansion begins to suggest what it is . This episode of NAME OF THE GAME was actually rather off-beat . Roddy McDowall had played so many madmen and villains the viewer was lulled into a sense of accepting what was going on as normal for Roddy's character . And Ferrer gave one of his typically smooth and seemingly normal characterizations as well ( by the way , his name - for what it's worth - is the same as a once well known Secretary of the Treasury reformer who sought the Republican Presidential nomination in 1876 ) . Ferrer can be very tricky , and his clear , intelligent voice can hide this for a long time . Everything he says seems so straightforward . It is just the atmosphere around him that finally tips off what is going on to Gallagher as the episode concludes . All I will add is that the episode explodes in the conclusion , and one ends sympathizing with a person you never imagined you would .
From the Wrong Side of Town to Wealth	Jennifer Jones had different types of roles in the films her husband David O . Selznick made . She's a dutiful daughter in SINCE YOU WENT AWAY . She is a simple , holy young woman - destined for religious greatness , in SONG OF BERNADETTE . She is one of a pair of twisted , oversexed , mutually doomed lovers in DUEL IN THE SUN . She is a doomed nurse who dies in World War I in A FAREWELL TO ARMS . Even in a film she was loaned for - BEAT THE DEVIL - she is a chronic liar and fantasist . Her title role as " Ruby Gentry " resembles her " Pearl Chavez " in that she is from a despised background ( Ruby is from the " hillbilly " woods country , and Pearl is half Indian ) , but Ruby eventually does make it materially . . . but at a cost . Let's face it - RUBY GENTRY is an example of a soap opera turned into a motion picture . In fact , after watching it one wonders why Selznick chose to make this film . DUEL IN THE SUN was a western , SONG OF BERNADETTE a historical film , PORTRAIT OF JENNIE a popular novel of the day . GENTRY was a novel too , but it's plot was not as mystical and weird as PORTRAIT OF JENNIE ( wherein Joseph Cotton fell in love with the portrait of a young woman , whom he gradually learned died years earlier - and whom he experiences the love and loss of by meeting her ghost ) . GENTRY is set in the south , and is told by an outsider ( a northern doctor who just moved to the Carolina coastal town - he's also having problems getting accepted ) . ( The doctor's first name is rather Jewish sounding , which may be another reason he is having problems of acceptance in the town . ) The story follows how Jones fascinates most of the men she meets : she has an affair with Charleton Heston , she has been under the protection of Karl Malden and his wife , and the doctor realizes what a remarkably talented woman she is too . But she is not socially fit to marry Heston ( whose business ideas require a wealthy wife at least ) . When Malden's wife dies she accepts his subsequent marriage proposal . But while the social swells don't knock Malden ( accepted as one of them and a decent guy ) they won't accept her . The marriage suffers and subsequently Malden dies in an accident . Now wealthy Jones still finds that her wealth does not buy acceptance . And her point of view begins to sour towards the " upper crust " who prove more frail facing her than they imagine . The film works . Not only do the three leads do well ( watch Malden's jealousy scene at the country club , or the scene of Heston and Jones driving a convertible at night alongside the ocean on the beach - one wonders if the scene influenced the scene of Jack Nicholson and Shirley MacLaine in TERMS OF ENDEARMENT ) . Also noticeable are the actors playing the doctor ( Barney Phillips ) and Jones ' brother ( James Anderson ) , a religious maniac who may have certain incestuous ideas about her himself . If it is a soap opera it is a superior one , with firm acting , good directing by King Vidor ( who had done the directing in DUEL IN THE SUNS ) , and even a memorable musical theme ( " Ruby " ) . Jones is excellent , even if the role would have been more typical for Susan Hayward in that period .
Briefly recalled - But not too many details .	I am giving this particular episode of I SPY a " 7 " but it is for two reasons which may seem a trifle frivolous , but which I feel rather serious enough about to mention . Jim Backus and Gene Hackman both had roles in this particular episode . It was not a comic episode either . Hackman played the villain , a man with a grudge against Bill Cosby and Robert Culp and another , and he was killed off in the course of the episode ( but I recall it was not quite at the end ) . I believe ( someone may correct me on this ) he has left a bomb which may still kill several people after his death . But in his case , it was one of his last television acting performances in a supporting part . He made BONNIE AND CLYDE that year , and withing ten years would have won the Oscar for his performance in THE FRENCH CONNECTION as " Popeye " Doyle . As for Backus , he was the agent that Hackman's fury was really directed at . The bomb danger was directed toward Backus ' family in the episode . It was not the type of role we tend to identify with him ( especially as he had just finished his period playing Mr . McGoo and Thurston Howard III on GILLIGAN'S ISLAND ) but more in line with his serious work as a dramatic actor in films like REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE and THE MAN WITH A THOUSAND FACES . As such he handled the role well . It sometimes makes me pause about performers like Backus , who really were capable of more than what they are recalled for . It makes me treasure the moments when they did get a chance to show their other abilities . This was one of them .
Interesting episode on a long-ago Western	The series BRANDED was the last television series that Chuck Connors starred in . Like his better remembered THE RIFLEMAN he was portraying a figure from the West . Unlike his earlier hero , Lucas McCord in BRANDED was facing a universal wave of dislike . Basically McCord is a clone of Major Marcus Reno of the Battle of the Little Big Horn . Reno ( to this day ) is roundly condemned by many people as having been aware that Custer was trapped and not trying ( or " trying harder " ) to get through the Indian forces that pinned him down ( and his co-commander , Captain Frederick Benteen - who is not as widely condemned ) and try to reach " Yellow Hair " and save him and the remnants of the 7th Cavalry . That the evidence shows Reno and Benteen were pinned down is usually overlooked . Instead the Major is a convenient whipping boy . His experiences that horrible day , and the subsequent blame he inherited , turned him into an alcoholic . It's a little different for McCord . As the theme song of the show constantly reminded us , " All but one man died . . . there at Bitter Creek . . . and they say he ran away : Branded ! " McCord looks to an angry public as a soldier who skedaddled . In actuality all he did was agree to take a final message from his commander , and nobody survived to back up his story . As simple as that . The series lasted two years , which given the life expectancy of series on television ( especially westerns ) is damned good . It was gleefully spoofed in MAD MAGAZINE , wherein " Lucas McCordless " keeps getting knocked down and spat on every three or four panels by someone ( including a newsboy ) who lost a relative at this massacre . The thing in the series was that McCord is aware that there may be proof that he was not a coward but doing his duty . . . but for reasons he can't find out nobody is willing to release it . So each episode he is trying to prove his innocence , and also runs across other people in the West . . . some of them famous . One episode had Pat O'Brien playing P . T . Barnum , trying to interest McCord in working in his circus . Another had Burgess Meredith as Horace Greeley . A third one had McCord doing a survey for Secretary of State Seward to prove Alaska was worth purchasing for $7 . 2 million dollars . The current episode I recall because of my interest in the Lincoln Assassination . Martin Landau was the guest star in the episode - he played the great 19th Century thespian , Edwin Booth . The plot of the story was how Edwin is acting in a town that McCord is currently visiting , and is quite jittery when he meets people . This is understandable , for ever since that scamp brother of his pulled off that dumb prank at Ford's Theater most Americans ( while not blaming Edwin or the others of his family for Wilkes ' peccadilloes ) still look at him somewhat fish-eyed . As McCord is in a similar less-than-popular situation , he does gravitate into Edwin's social swirl . And then McCord discovers that Edwin is interested in another party in the town - one John F . Parker ( Chris Alcaide ) . Who he ? A rival theatrical talent ? A writer of 19th Century mystery stories about a man named " Spencer " ? No . . . not really . Mr . Parker was a policeman once . In fact , he worked on the police force of a large , important Eastern city . He remains famous to students of criminal history , but not for what he did - but for what he did not do ! On April 14 , 1865 , Parker ( whose record as a policeman was quite bad ) was assigned to guard President and Mrs . Lincoln and their party at Ford's Theater . A man with a history of drinking and brawling ( he'd eventually be kicked off the force for this ) Parker spent part of the evening of April 14th at Tartival's saloon next to the theater , figuring that the President was safe enough . After the shooting he vanished , until the next morning when he showed up at headquarters with a derelict he arrested on a vagrancy charge ! Incredibly he was on the Washington Police force for another year . SPOILER COMING UP : McCord is tipped off by Edwin's servant Hannibal ( the always splendid Rex Ingram ) that Edwin is planning to kill Parker . McCord confronts Edwin , who has the quivering ( drunk ? ) Parker in front of his pistol if he wants to go down in history as the second Booth brother to be a murderer . He eventually talks Edwin out of it . The motive for Edwin's action : if Parker had done his job ( if he hadn't decided to abandon Honest Abe for a libation or two or three ) " Johnnie " ( why not Wilkes - which is what his family called him ) would not have shot Lincoln that night . It was a well performed episode , but the story is of whole-cloth . Edwin Booth spent every day of his life after April 14 , 1865 regretting his brother's criminal act , and proving to a very supportive nation he was not like Wilkes . He probably heard of Parker's dereliction of duty , and despised him for it , but he would hardly have gone out of his way to kill the idiot . His only action tied to the assassination in later years was to visit Atlanta to see a popular minister there who resembled Wilkes . He was impressed and spent a few hours talking to the Rev . Armstrong , but it was not Wilkes in hiding there . As for Parker - after he was fired from the Washington Police Force , he drifted off into obscurity . Probably he drank himself to death . . . like Marcus Reno did for another tragedy .
A Troubled Alliance in Wartime	I mentioned when reviewing THE LIFE AND DEATH OF COLONEL BLIMP that David Low played no favorites with his cartoons . In the 1930s he attacked all the great dictators ( Hitler , Mussolini , Franco , and Stalin ) . He also found his reactionary Colonel useful to attack any other types of reactionaries . In 1941 , after Churchill declared he would send aid to Communist Russian against their common enemy Germany , Russian hard liners screamed about trusting Imperial Britain . Low made a cartoon on this , with a Russian hardliner who was the Colonel , but now called " Blimpski " . Still the Anglo-Communist alliance was a difficult one to totally accept , even when one realized it's total necessity against Nazi barbarism . THE DEMI-PARADISE illustrates this problem . Laurence Olivier is a committed Communist Russian engineer , trying to perfect a torpedo for his nation's war effort . Stalin's government arranges to send Olivier to England to work with English naval experts to make his new form of gyroscope work . The problem is that Olivier is totally suspicious of his hosts . He is a man in his early 30s , and he has been brought up to suspect that Britain ( like Germany and Italy ) is against the Soviet Union . After all , it was against the Soviet Union for decades . So the film follows as Olivier gets use to the vagaries of the British character he meets with in different English men and women . Gradually he learns to trust them but it takes quite a while . The film has it's problems . Olivier prided himself on his abilities with accents , but in truth ( seeing his movie and television performances today ) when he plays English or American people he sounds realistic . When he tries foreign accents one cringes . He copies Albert Basserman ( including shrugs ) when he does Germans ( or German Jews ) . His Russian engineer , at first , sounds realistic - but he also sounds slow witted . To be fair with Olivier his engineer is speaking a second language ( but no Russian is heard in the film ) . He speaks definitively and slowly - and it gets to be a drag . A real Russian would have a faster clip to his words ( unless , as I said , he was slow witted ) . The best parts are the various British character actors , teaching the Russian visitor about the traditions and their importance to Britains . Olivier does point out some of them are silly ( which occasionally the others agree ) . For example , there is a yearly " historic " pageant in the town , and Margaret Rutherford runs it . One of the highlights is a reenactment of the moment in late June 1815 when a coach arrived in the town announcing the battle of Waterloo . A bemused Felix Aylmer ( the head of the local ship yard , and a host for Olivier ) looks at this moment which he has seen for umpteen times before , and says out loud , " I wonder who won ! " The film , as a morale booster , was good . As a reminder of a critical wartime problem ( that fortunately was overcome long enough to defeat the Nazis ) it is rather special .
Paging Ivy Lee ?	There seem to be certain rules about " madcap comedy " in the 1930s . It had to center around the idle rich and newspapers frequently played an important part in the story lines . . . oh yes , and Walter Connolly had to be the rich millionaire father who is bedeviled by the antics of the people around him , be they his daughters ( Claudette Colbert in IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT , Myrna Loy in Broadway BILL and LIBELED LADY , or Olivia de Haviland in the current film , FOUR'S A CROWD . Somehow when Frank Capra used him Connolly was treated with more respect than in the other films . In IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT he was the wise man who saw through the fortune hunting airplane pilot and pushed his daughter into the hands of Clark Gable . But in LIBELED LADY he is a man who is easily impressed by a conniver's claims at being a trout fisherman . In FOUR'S A CROWD he's the nation's richest man , who has a secret passion that is sillier in it's way than trout fishing ( which , after all , is exercise ) . Connolly is John Dillingwell , who is a very private millionaire who does not care about public relations . His daughter is Olivia de Haviland , who is currently being romanced by newspaper owner Patrick Knowles . Knowles ' ace reporter is Rosalind Russell , whose boyfriend is Errol Flynn . Flynn runs a public relations firm , and would love a chance to have Connolly as a client . The film follows how Flynn tries to land this account , and uses Knowles ' newspaper to ensnare Connolly . In the background of this comedy was an actual transformation . In the 1900s the most hated figure in American business was our richest man , John D . Rockefeller . The business savvy tied to tricks and chicanery used by Rockefeller to build up Standard Oil to controlling 90 % of the oil refining in the U . S . was done at the expense of countless rivals driven to bankruptcy . Ida Tarbell's HISTORY OF THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY was one of the great ( if not fully trustworthy ) muckraking books of the Progressive Era . John D . Rockefeller was fully hated . Then , about 1910 , Rockefeller hired publicist Ivy Lee to figure out how to get rid of this bad image . Lee was a genius about advertising . He convinced Rockefeller to get involved with turning a huge portion of his fortune into charity . This eventually led to Rockefeller University , the Rockefeller Foundation , medical charities , work at restoring the colonial town of Williamsburg ( and the Cloisters in upper Manhattan ) . It also led to Lee's interesting suggestion to turn the elderly Rockefeller into a " lovable old codger " by giving dimes away as gifts or tips to strangers . And it worked . By the time Rockefeller died in 1937 ( at the age of 97 ) he had become a well-liked figure to the American public . Flynn uses bad publicity stories to make Connolly so disliked that street children thrown stones at him . He also uses Knowles ' newspaper to print anti-Connolly articles ( which threatens Knowels ' romance with de Haviland . Then at one point he calls Connolly to offer his services . Connolly responds , " I'd be glad to accept your offer . . . WHEN BANANAS GROW AT THE NORTH POLE ! ! " Since global warming is not happening in 1938 , this portends no business contract . Instead , Flynn uses Knowles to get Flynn an introduction to Da Haviland . And in visiting her , Flynn finds the key to Connolly's heart : he and his servant Melville Cooper have one of the most elaborate toy train sets in America . Flynn challenges Connolly to a contest between his train and Connolly's favorite one . And surreptitiously sabotages Connolly's train's traction ability . As the relationship between Loy , Powell , Tracy , and Harlow in LIBELED LADY got " twisty " ( to say the least ) , in this film a similar growth of jealousy and confusion renders relations between Flynn , Russell , de Haviland , and Knowles equally confusing at the end - especially when all four end up at Justice of the Peace Hugh Herbert's to get married . The result is four voices in disharmony speaking at once , joined by Herbert ( for once not saying " WOO - WOO " as he claps his hands ) trying to read through the marriage service once . It is not a great comedy , but it is amusing , and most people will like it .
Evil in a Transylvanian Village without Vlad the Impaler	KILL BABY KILL ( the English name for OPERAZIONE PAURA ) has gotten a pretty nice reputation over the years as more thoughtful and better produced than most horror films . There is a bit of exaggeration here regarding that - but the film is good enough to merit praise for it's finer qualities . The story follows the arrival of a doctor ( Giacomo Rossi - Stuart ) to a small village in Transylvania . He has been asked by a police inspector ( Piero Lulli ) to perform an autopsy on the body of a young woman who was found impaled on a fence . Although it looks like an accident , a letter written by the young woman to the inspector suggests she feared she was in great danger , and that the death might be a homicide . But both inspector and doctor face a wall of silence from the local villagers , as well as evidence of hostility . The local burgomaster ( Luciano Catenacci ) explains to the inspector that the locals are not used to modern science or organized government , and live in a state of fear due to local conditions . The doctor reduces this to poverty and superstition , but the burgomaster knows his fellow townspeople , and he assures the inspector that they are not being foolish . As the story continues the doctor does perform the autopsy despite the opposition of the townspeople . He is assisted by a young woman who has returned to the town ( Erika Blanc ) . But the townspeople resent this ( especially as the doctor interfered with a bit of " white magic " that was done for the sake of the deceased woman ) . The doctor is attacked , but rescued by Ruth , the local witch ( Fabienne Dali ) . Still she strongly urges he leave the town as he may be in great danger . It turns out that there has been a string of bloody deaths of townspeople over the last 20 years , which seem to be connected to the death of Melissa , the daughter of Baroness Graps ( Giana Vivaldi ) , a crippled local aristocrat . The Baroness ' daughter died under violent circumstances when she was only seven , and everyone of the victims of the string of deaths was somehow connected to the girl's death . Others seem to be destined to die violently too - and the locals find it hard to prevent their fates ( although Ruth tries to help ) . It subsequently turns out that before the deaths of the victims they see the ghost of Melissa , giggling malevolently . At least three other people die in the course of the film , including the police inspector and the burgomaster . As pointed out on the other accounts of the story , the decor and sets are remarkably affective in the film . One sequence when the doctor is chasing a person from one door to another through what turns out to be the same room ends with the doctor trapped in cobwebs like a fly being played with by a spider . A spiral staircase is used effectively twice in the film - and it's shadows make one realize how it looks like spikes are emerging from the staircase shadows . And the buildings in the town are the weirdest I've seen since either THE BLACK CAT ( 1934 version ) or the original CABINET OF DR . CALIGARI . The conclusion of the evil , dealing with a medium as the evil's channel , ends with two bitter women destroying each other - but the town finally is free of it's justifiable fears .
Possibly the Best film set in old New Orleans	This is not a great film but it is entertaining and frothy . Rene Clair , like Jean Renoir , fled France for the United States and made movies in Hollywood . But Renoir concentrated on serious films , like " This Land is Mine " and " The Southerner " . Clair made comedies , of which this and " I Married a Witch " were the best ones . In " Flame of New Orleans " Clare tackled a sex romp in the Big Easy of the 1840s . He succeeds in capturing the charm of the great town , and ( with maybe one or two exceptions ) produced the best film about New Orleans and it's Gallic flavor . Marlene Dietrich is an international adventuress ( we subsequently realize she has been as far from New Orleans as St . Petersburg , Russia ) . She is as sexually alluring as ever , and has got the pleasant attention of Roland Young a rich banker . While Young woos her she also attracts the attention of ship captain Bruce Cabot , who is more to her taste in form , but not in terms of money . She plays her game with Cabot and gets him into debt . Meanwhile she pursues a willing Young , only to first find a number of men who knew her in the past , and then find that Cabot is getting into her hair . So she tries to create a twin cousin situation . But this complicates the situation even more . The character actors like Mischa Auer ( frantically trying to retrieve his top hat before he gets challenged to a duel ) , or Melville Cooper ( cornered by his loveless marriage wife , and ending up being unexpectedly blunt ) , or even Shemp Howard ( who has the freshest wine cellar in New Orleans ) have excellent moments to shine in this film's comedy . It is a marvelously funny confection which I recommend
Superior nice girl - buddy film	The summer of 2008 is going to be recalled for the nomination of the first African American candidate for the Presidency with a serious chance of winning that office on a major party ticket ( and , as we know , he did win ) . It is also going to be recalled for one of the most questionable choices in American political history : the decision by Republican front-runner John McCain to choose Alaskan Governor Sarah Palin as his Vice Presidential running mate . I am a Democrat , but I tend to be moderate to Conservative in my views . Governor Palin ( I thought ) turned out to be a brave , determined lady in her campaigning . But ( and this is not her fault ) she was not ready for the limelight of a national campaign . She may ( in time ) develop into a better candidate for such office by 2012 or 2016 , but she needs polishing and preparation . Instead , she came across as brave and determined , but also woefully unprepared for more than occasionally sharp sound-bites against the Democrats . Still let us give her credit . She was the second woman to be nominated for the Vice Presidency on a major Party ticket ( the first being , of course , Geraldine Ferraro ) , but I suspect in historical memory Palin is going to be better recalled than her predecessor . Not to knock Ferraro ( who had her own chain of misfortune in the years after 1984 ) , but Palin became a public subject of discussion and fun for her interest in hunting , her residence in the largest state , her being a " soccer mom " , her daughter's pregnancy , and her occasional errors regarding responses to the press . One thing that made Palin so interesting was due to a gifted actress and comedy writer Tina Fay . Appearing on Saturday Night Live , Fay ( who resembles Palin ) pretended to be the Governor week after week , making funny comic blunders that mirrored public conceptions and misconceptions of Palin ( such as " And I see Russia from my house ! " ) . Fay , up to last summer , was a rising figure but not on the real celebrity radar yet . Palin ( prior to McCain's blunder in choosing her to attract dissatisfied female voters angry at Hillary losing the Democratic nomination ) was a successful local governor of a huge state with a small population . There unintentional mutual attraction pushed them into headier careers . Palin will be a contender again . . . trust me . Fay will have more roles and writing chances than she had before . . . trust me . Mutuality of goals and careers - it is a good point to really begin a discussion of BABY MAMA , a sweet film that Fay made last year with Amy Poehler . Fay is a successful career woman in a corporation that is headed by " Green Earth " guru Steve Martin . Martin is a clever businessman , but he is loopy about keeping in touch with his karma , and the earth's spirits , and nature . Fay , one of his chief Vice Presidents , is behind his plans for building the largest store of earth based products in the world in Philadelphia . She is highly competent , and this includes being able to handle her boss's strange notions . When he finds a tiny sea shell he shows it to Fay and his architect and says he wants the department store to be based on that shell . He's talking about the shell's spiritual perfection and design , which Fay understands . But the architect asks if he wants the store designed to look like the shell . The soft spoken Martin glares at the architect , and still speaking quietly tells him that at this moment he'd like to kill him . Fay's life is not complete . She wants children , but physically cannot have them due to the shape of her uterus . She cannot adopt either as a single , active woman . But she finds a institute run by Sigourney Weaver that promises the use of a surrogate mother to give birth to the babe . It costs $100 , 000 . 00 , but it may work . Fay meets Poehler who is sent to her by Weaver . Poehler is " white urban trash " with a boyfriend ( Dax Sheppard ) who has " great ideas " that never work ( in fact he never works either ) . But Fay is taken by Poehler , and chooses her for the surrogate . The film follows the road the two women take together in trying to keep an eye on their joint mission of having the baby , but also trying to understand ( and even like ) each other . Poelher is into junk food , heavy metal , and fun . Fay is into healthy food , quieter music , and care for that embryo inside Poehler . They grate on each other's nerves , and explosions constantly happen ( usually observed by Fay's building's doorman , Romany Malko ) . But Fay slowly gets to see there is a very intelligent woman inside Poelher , and Poehler starts noticing that Fay has achieved what she dreams of for herself . Inevitably the two woman begin liking each other . Poehler's romance hits some rocks ( Sheppard fools around ) , while Fay finally meets a reasonably decent guy ( Greg Kinnear ) . There is also pressures on Fay from her mother ( that great mother from Hell , Holland Taylor ) and in her own sister's ( Maura Tierney's ) success in rearing four or five kids of her own . How the two women finally arrive at a satisfactory conclusion I won't describe , but suffice to say the movie does end with nobody ( except maybe Sheppard ) really unsettled by events . On the whole it is a good female buddy film comedy .
Our Second Visit to Wabasha , Minnesota	Sequels are rarely half as good as the original film . Matthau and Lennon would prove this at the tale end of their film partnership with THE ODD COUPLE PART II . But it has happened . ANOTHER THIN MAN is as good a film as THE THIN MAN . Vincent Minelli's follow up to FATHER OF THE BRIDE may lack the satire of weddings the original had , but FATHER'S LITTLE DIVIDEND is well made and entertaining in it's own right . And then there is this film . Of the first movie , GRUMPY OLD MEN , I have made a comment elsewhere . GRUMPIER OLD MEN is a neat follow-up , as we find how Max Goldman ( Matthau ) finds his new mate , Maria Ragetti ( Sophia Loren ) . It also settles the future of Max's son Mayor Jacob Goldman ( Kevin Pollak ) and John Gustafson's ( Lemmon's ) daughter Melanie ( Darryl Hannah ) , and gives a bitter-sweet farewell to John's father ( Burgess Meredith ) . I think the reason the sequel works is that there is a sense of time and continuity here that is not usually found . In GRUMPY OLD MEN , the reactions of Lemmon and Matthau to the death of their close friend Chuck ( Ossie Davis ) , who had only recently been their rival for Ariel ( Ann-Margaret ) showed them to be human beings - not just two good comic actors trading insults for yucks . Here , it is watching the final scenes of Grandpa Gustafson ( ironically Burgess Meredith's final role - and a fittingly good one for that fine actor ) . In the first film Meredith was always acting like a wild authority figure : over ninety years old , but threatening to tan the hides of the middle aged Matthau and Lennon like they were still kids when he stops them fighting . Here we see him in several guises . He is a loving grandpa - he is seen telling Allie ( Katie Sagona ) the story of Goldilock and the Three Bears ( with his own modern interpolations ) , and then singing " Dream a Little Dream of Me " to put her to sleep . He is vulgar , but in a loving , sensible way . When Allie swallows a quarter , he suggests that it is normal - all kids swallow or try to swallow coins - and one only should worry if the kid excretes two dimes and nickel . He loves sexual encounters ( in the first film he suggests that if Lemmon and Matthau can't get Arial he can ! ) . Here he meets somebody to romance ( Anne Gilbert ) , and they have a nice time together . But it is a brief one . Having reached 95 , God finally comes for Grandpa , and his death manages to bring the other characters from cross purpose quarrels to sanity . It also brings the sweet image of Gilbert depositing a rose over the spot that Grandpa's ashes are scattered . The continuity theme is also in the portion about " Catfish Hunter " the local lake legendary catfish . Grandpa tells John , at one point , that the catfish was old when he was a boy ( which begs the question , why did they name the catfish after a major Yankee baseball player of the 1970 teams ? - long after Grandpa's youth ) . The locals all hope to catch the fish and mount it on their walls . We see it at one point jumping late at night , alone , into the air and back into the late in the glorious moonlight - the monarch of the lake . But at the end , when the catfish is caught by Matthau and Lemmon together , Lemmon ( probably influenced by Ann-Margaret , who did the same thing in the first film ) gets Matthau to agree to return the catfish to the lake , where it can join Grandpa's ashes . So the legend is returned to it's base . Even in the final moments of the film , with another marriage and a joke reminiscent of the first film's conclusion , suggests continuity . So there is a type of structural vigor in the two films , that strengthens their stories and increases the viewers pleasure watching them . Yes indeed , this is one sequel that works very well .
A Travelog - joke cartoon about California - and a singalong rap-up !	It was a simpler time in the late 1940s . When you saw a full day at the movies , it included the cartoon as well as feature , second feature , and short subjects . One of the items was the cartoon , and frequently they included audience participation . Paramount did this with it's " Follow the Bouncing Ball " series . After seeing the regular joke-filled cartoon on whatever subject it was , a song's lyrics would be shown and the audience encouraged to sing it . If you were not brought up in that era , you can get a bit of an idea about this because in the movie HUD a similar cartoon ( about Texas ) is shown in a movie house , and the viewers start singing a " Texas " based tune to a " bouncing ball " ) . It's a small valentine to California , mentioning it's settling , the gold rush , the jump in population , the pioneers coming by covered wagon ( being beaten by a turtle ) , boats around Cape Horn , and the railroad . It shows the the highest and lowest points in the state , and the redwoods , and the orange grove industry . It is all mildly amusing . It shows Hollywood , and two of Paramount's best known stars ( circa 1948 ) : Dorothy Lamour and Alan Ladd . Finally they give the lyrics of " CALIFORNIA HERE I COME " but it includes the portion of the song that few people remember , when the singer mentions how lonely he feels when he is not in his native California . I have heard Al Jolson's recording of the tune ( he popularized the song , by the way ) , and he sings this section . Few others have . A final joke regarding the California Chamber of Commerce ends the cartoon .
The Ultimate Gourmet Story	Robert Morley was ( in his best years ) a very talented actor in both drama and comedy - his comic performances being best remembered ( " Topkapi " , " Murder At The Galop " , " The Battle Of The Sexes ) but his dramatic work should not to be sneezed at ( " An Outcast Of The Islands " , " Oscar Wilde " , " Nine Hours To Rama " ) . Towards the end of his career too much of his work was in garbage ( he explained he did it " for the money dear boy ! " ) and even being a commercial spokesman for BOAC ( " We'll take good care of you ! " ) . However , this was not a sin for him only . Lord Olivier was going to end up doing commercials ( like Henry Fonda ) for a camera concern . And Olivier made films like " The Betsy " more frequently in his last decade than he made films like " A Little Romance " . Morley's garbage was too much , but he also did films like " Who's Killing The Great Chefs Of Europe ? " , where the critics thought highly of his performances . He only did one episode of " Alfred Hitchcock Presents " , and it was a classic . Possibly the ultimate story of being a gourmet ( the French film " Le Grand Bouffe " is the alternative ) , it takes being a lover of dining for the sake of dining to it's ultimate point . If you love fine food , than you should be willing to acknowledge the idea that people are part of the food chain too , so that there are recipes that involve us quite literally . This is the heart of the story . With his imposing , fat figure , and his snooty style of acting Morley has the part of the gourmet snob down pat . He belongs only to the finest club of gourmets , and has eaten everything on the menu - but it is the " specialty of the house " that he really looks forward to most of the time . And in the end he is one of the glories of the club - stuck on their wall of honor , and saluted by his peers by their dining in the club on the dish he most loved in the world . The conclusion can only be called . . . shall we say " delicious ! "
Funny and a lesson about the value of paper money	This film and " The Busy Body " are the two forgotten comic gems of the 1960s in that genre of films where all the prominent comedians appeared together . We recall " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " , " The Russians Are Coming , The Russians Are Coming ? " , " Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines " , " Monte Carlo , or Bust ? " , and " The Wrong Box " . But these two films not recalled , probably because the settings are not as colorful as the other films . Several of them are period pictures , one is set on Nantucket Island , and one is a type of cross-country chase based on greed . Greed plays a part in " Who's Minding the Mint ? " and " The Busy Body " , but the settings ( while unusual in both films - here with a government building at night , and a sewer transversed by row boats , the other one dealing with a barbecue on a skyscraper's terrace and a corpse set up on a bench with a woman trying to vamp it ) are not quite as colorful . I like both movies , and this one is funny for reasons starting with it's cast and going through the routines and shticks they throw up . Victor Buono normally played villains or neurotics in films ( even in comedies like " Four For Texas " , but also " Whatever Happened to Baby Jane ? , where he wasn't the actual villain ) . Here he is a sea captain , who has dreamed of building a great sailing boat . Unfortunately he captains the little boats on a kiddie ride in the park . Milton Berle is a successful pawn shop owner , who lets his greed get the better of him - and neatly expands the complications of plotting in the film . Bob Denver , nominally an ice cream truck driver , turns into a sex idol . Jack Gilford is a great safe cracker , but he has gone deaf in prison ( don't ask ) , and now needs a good hearing aide to hear the tumblers fall into place . So it goes on and on . Even Joey Bishop finally had a decent comic turn here as a man with a serious gambling problem . The Rat Pack films never served him as well . Jim Hutton and Dorothy Provine make a nice , appealing couple , with Walter Brennan as a type of fairy " godfather " to them . But there is a cute lesson about the true value of paper money . Supposedly the level of paper currency is watched to prevent inflation like that type which Weimer Germany had in 1922-23 . But the plot involves reprinting much paper money to cover an error , and then some . As this would be included in the official records of the printing plant , it would be subsumed into the normal level of money printed each year . Nobody would ever notice the additional greenbacks that have been printed illegally . So if the record conforms perfectly , there is no actual counterfeiting . So much for the value of paper money . . . at least in this movie's point of view .
What happened to the Prince ?	I happened to see this episode of the " HISTORICAL MYSTERIES " series narrated by Carey Wilson , because it was tacked into one of the middle 1950s " MGM ON PARADE " ( 1955 ) series , between a scene from " ANCHORS AWEIGH ( in black and white - but it was of Gene Kelly dancing with Jerry the Mouse ) , and Dore Schary and Richard Brook telling George Murphy about producing a buffalo stampede in the Badlands of South Dakota , for the film THE LAST HUNT . The " HISTORICAL MYSTERIES " series is of interest in dealing with stories of curiosity or interest that might not be brought to the screen as a full scale movie . One of these , THE MAN IN THE BARN , about whether John Wilkes Booth was killed in Garrett's Barn in April 1865 or escaped while another man died , I just described . It may be touched on in the upcoming Harrison Ford film MANHUNT about Booth's escape for two weeks following the assassination . The subject of this particular short was somewhat discussed when I reviewed the Louis Jourdan film DANGEROUS EXILE . This is about the ill-fated King Louis XVII of France : the lost " Dauphin " who probably died in 1795 . Recently the remains of the boy who died in the Temple were subject to DNA testing , and appears to be the remains of a Bourbon prince ( but is it Louis XVII or an elder brother of his who died in 1789 ? ) . This short looks at one of the possible claimants for the title of " lost Dauphin " . Just like the list of suspects for " Jack the Ripper " runs the gamut of the obscure to the notorious to the famous , the list of potential dauphins is extensive . The chief candidate ( not the one here ) was Karl Naundorff , an inventor from Holland who certainly looked like Louis XVI , and came close to getting his claim recognized . But it wasn't recognized . There was also the so - called " Duc de Richemont " who had a following in France . The most famous was one John James Audubon , the great naturalist and artist . He was born in Haiti , and came to the U . S in the 1790s as a boy . As he grew up he hinted at a grand ancestry far beyond his Haitian parents . Probably he saw this as a type of easy publicity with perspective art buyers . And then there is Rev . Eleazar Wheeler . This gentleman was of Native American ancestry , and became a preacher in the Midwest . According to the short , he is visited in the 1830s by Prince De Joinville , the son of the then reigning King Louis Philippe of France . De Joinville tells Wheeler that he is the actual Dauphin , and asks him to sign a document abdicating his rights to the throne . Wheeler refuses , and explains he has no intention of pressing any claim , but won't sign that document as he has no right to interfere with his son's rights - but he will train his son to only seek to be a good American citizen . Yet Wheeler writes a book a decade later that gives his so - called credentials as the dauphin . The surviving sister of the Dauphin , the Duchesse of Angouleme , asks De Joinville on her deathbed if Wheeler is telling the truth , and the Prince says it was the writings of a deranged man . And after hearing this , the Duchesse dies . So we are asked if De Joinville told the dying Duchesse the truth , or if she was lied to for dynastic reasons . And that is how the episode ends . Most historians would agree that Wheeler was an eccentric old man who thought he was the Dauphin , but was wrong . But what makes the story really hard to believe is De Joinville rushing to the deathbed of the Duchesse to tell her the truth about Wheeler . You see , De Joinville's father had become King of the French in 1830 when the Bourbon Restoration Monarchy of King Charles IX of France was toppled . The Duchesse was the daughter-in-law of King Charles , and his niece as well . She did not like the Orleans Monarchy . Why , on her deathbed ( in 1844 ) would she have believed the heir to that throne that a pretender was a fraud and not her long lost brother ? I find that hard to really believe at all . The acting is passable in this short , but the key of the series was the odd story being told . The short ends with Wilson suggesting that some of the neighbors we have may be Wheeler's descendants , and may be the legitimate heirs of the throne of France .
Good , enjoyable film , but too much plotting	People thinking of the historical record of the United States ( prior to the controversy of the current Iraqi War ) frequently overlook one peculiar diplomatic lapse . From 1812 to 1815 we were allied with Napoleon Bonaparte , at least unofficially . President Madison's decision to declare war on Great Britain in 1812 put us into this unique situation where instead of fighting for democratic government we were willing to be allied to a megalomaniac Emperor . The War of 1812 is usually bypassed quickly in our schools ( we lost it - the official line is it was a draw but our capital was burned in that war , and that never happened again ) . Napoleon was a cynical ally at best , but he never quite forgot that we were tied to him . After Waterloo he appears to have considered fleeing by French naval vessel to the U . S . , using his brother Jerome's passport as his . He was captured before he could do this - possibly one of the most unexpected blessings in American history , for Bonaparte would not have stopped being Bonaparte if he had landed here . However other French veterans did come here after the war - the restored Bourbon monarchy was not welcoming to soldiers who fought for Napoleon in the " 100 days " of 1815 . So many did come to our shores , and this film discusses how a party of them tried to settle in Alabama in 1819 , but were nearly swindled out of their land . The film is well made , especially in the casting of Babe Hardy as John Wayne's sidekick Willy . Wayne's sidekicks usually played it for laughs in his westerns , most memorably Gabby Hayes . Even Kirk Douglas ( in THE WAR WAGON ) is funny in his constant efforts to out-Wayne , Wayne by his gymnastic abilities . But Hardy has a marvelous rapport with Wayne . Witness the scene where they do the surveying ( which neither of them knows much about ) . Hired ( as a trick , as it turns out , by Grant Withers and Marie Windsor ) , they fumble around with the surveyor's telescope and the measuring stick , and ( in following Wayne's orders ) Hardy ends up defiantly holding up a measuring rod in the middle of a pond . Also the fiddle concert that both crash is a monument to surprise , as Hardy actually demonstrates he can play the fiddle and can do it comically . Wayne is less able to do that . On the other hand , Hardy can show a serious edge that is not frequently seen in his comedies with Stan Laurel . Listen to his calm discussion regarding his " putting away " hat with Wayne , or his care as a scout watching Wayne's capture , following him from a distance in the dark , and then heading for assistance . The film is good to a point , but it's main problem is it is about 90 minutes long , but has enough plot for two hours . The film's initial villain is the smooth , apparently upper-crust John Howard , planning to swindle the French soldiers out of their money and land . Then it turns out that Grant Withers ( Howard's business manager ) is actually a more manipulative criminal than Howard , and is able to topple Howard unexpectedly . But Withers ' girlfriend ( Marie Windsor ) plans to rob him of the money and run off with her actual boyfriend . All the villains are killed at the end by their criss-crossing situations ( only one , Howard , dies redeeming himself ) , but the plotting and counter-plotting is so intensely complicated that the viewer has to accept it's intense pressure due to the time limitations of the movie . Accept that , and the film is still entertaining . It gets a 7 on my voting .
Whatever Happened To Marie St . Clare ?	In the 1920s Charlie Chaplin tried to break away from his double dependence on the " little tramp " and comedy . His first attempt ( still a comedy ) was " The Kid " , where he made Jackie Coogan an equal in the film ( althought Chaplin did get higher billing ) . Then he thought ( quite seriously ) of starring in a film biography of Napoleon I . There is a photo of him in costume as the Emperor , and Alistair Cooke ( in his book " Six Men " ) mentions Chaplin demonstrating a piece of dialog that Napoleon would say regarding " perfidious Albion " . Later Chaplin would concentrate on his co-star ( and lover ) Edna Purviance , doing this film and later having a second film called " The Sea Gull " that was shot by Joseph Von Sternberg but never released . The poor box office of this film , " A Woman Of Paris " really ended the attempts . Chaplin was a good businessman , and the bottom line was box office . So his next film returned to the tramp - " The Gold Rush " . " A Woman Of Paris " is a well made movie , and never fails to hold one's interest , particularly watching the budding elegant career of Adolphe Menjou . His Pierre Revel is a perfect boulevardier type - he dresses well , knows how to order great food ( truffles ) , and is cynical separating a financial / socially promising marriage from continuing seeing his mistress Purviance . Edna is from the French countryside , and wants luxury and financial security . She also wanted to marry Jean Millet ( Carl Miller ) but the death of his father on the night they were to elope causes him to miss the planned elopement - and she leaves for Paris . We follow her there and her reunion with Miller - which leads to tragedy . Belatedly realizing what she has lost , Edna goes back to the countryside to assist Miller's mother ( Lydia Knott ) in charity work . The conclusion where she is happily riding home on a horse and wagon , while a fast touring car ( with Menjou in it ) drives by without seeing her is wonderful - Menjou was just asked by a friend whatever happened to Purviance , and he shrugs his shoulders . Purviance is competent but not much more . Her success in Chaplin's comedies was as a reactor to Charlie , not as the creator of humor . She's not Mabel Normand , who was a clever comedienne . Miller is good , but stiff ( possibly due to the character's limitations - Chaplin rarely tried to make a Pierrot character who was not the self-sufficient tramp ) . The best thing about Miller's character is his talent for painting . One final note - Henry Bergmann who was one of Chaplin's regular actors ( sometimes playing fat women , but he played other roles as well ) is the head waiter at a posh restaurant Menjou takes Purviance . His indignation at a junior waiter " trying to muscle in " on this rich , big tipping special customer are quite funny . Not the greatest Chaplin film work , but worth watching .
Two pros in clover	This film came and went too quickly in 1985 , but I was fortunate enough to see it in a movie theater at the time , and later to get the video of it . Jack Lemmon is an American business executive on a business trip to Naples ( where he was stationed in World War II ) . He is a crabby , middle aged man , who has financial success but has lost a sense of enjoyment in life . Reenter his old friend Marcello Mastroianni , whose sister was once dating Lemmon . Lemmon is at first suspicious and standoffish ( he barely recalls Mastroianni ) but his curiosity makes him take up Mastroianni again . The latter is a clerk in a bank , but he is a part-time actor and dramatist , and the center of a large family group . He also has had an odd habit of dying and being resurrected again , since childhood . Lemmon gradually finds his humanity being restored , and finding he wants to be re-involved with his old friend's family . The conclusion veers to tragedy , but the conclusion is very sweet . I recommend this film strongly , to people who wish to believe .
A Piece of Dahlist Macabre	To most movie fans , Roald Dahl is best recalled for the children's classic CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY , which was made into two films . But in the 1950s on ALFRED HITCHCOCK and on other television shows Dahl's cynical and ironical style of humor came up again and again on the air to widespread popular acclaim . While CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY was something about what makes a young child a good child , with the rivals of Charlie self-destructing due to their bad behavior or characters , the other stories tended to be more grown-up and ( in their twisted way ) fun . Steve McQueen ( in an early part ) is a gambler in a Latin American country , who is very willing to bet on anything . He is also very proud of his handsome new , infallible cigarette lighter ( this was made in the period when getting a new Ronson or Zippo lighter was a nice gift with little consideration about cancer causing cigarettes - an ironic point considering the premature death of McQueen at the height of his career ) . He is constantly boasting about his never fail lighter , when a mysterious man approaches him for a proposed wager . The man ( Peter Lorre - the only time he and McQueen both appeared together in any film or show ) says he is a wealthy man who likes to make an occasional bet - not for money . He will give McQueen his limousine ( which McQueen was admiring earlier ) if McQueen's lighter will properly light ten times in a row without pause . But if it does fail to light up properly , Lorre wins . He will cut off one of McQueen's fingers . The suspense of the episode is that McQueen thinks that Lorre's bet is really a flight of unreality , but he is sure his great little lighter will work ten times straight in a row . Lorre is very matter-of-fact about the wager , even if the goal is a trifle ghoulish on his part . It is only when McQueen finally gets down to actually performing the action of the lighting of the lighter that he sees how serious Lorre really is . Lorre has McQueen's other arm tied down , and readied for it's thumb to be cut off with a cleaver . But McQueen starts flicking the lighter on . One . . . two . . . three . . . four . . . five . . . six . . . seven . . . . SPOILER COMING UP . As McQueen is about to light the lighter an eighth time , a woman comes in and confronts Lorre . She starts berating him about the bet - reminding him that everything he owns is hers , not his . Actually this kills the bet from continuing , as if McQueen wins it Lorre has no title to the car to give it to McQueen . Lorre , like a sullen little boy gives his keys to his wife ( the woman who came in - Katherine Squire ) , and we see only two of her fingers remain on one hand as she picks up the keys . As for McQueen , as he sees that the bet has blown up , he is lighting a cigarette with his infallible lighter , and much to his amazement it fails to light !
Finally I see Patsy's first Starring role	Because he is associated with Laurel & Hardy , Harold Lloyd , and Charlie Chase , and later the Little Rascals , Hal Roach's work with Patsy Kelly ( with or without Thelma Todd or Lyda Roberti or Zazu Pitts ) is somehow ignored . Roach was pretty good at sizing up his comic talent and balancing it - and his Kelly / Todd films were supposed to be the match of his Laurel & Hardy pairings ( in fact in one film they actually turn out to be the girls ' boyfriends , but only as a final joke ) . Strangely it never seemed to occur to him to put Stan and Babe with Patsy and Thelma in a single short or feature from beginning to end . The girls were individually in features with the boys but only as support ( Thelma in FRA DIAVALO ; Patsy in PICK A STAR ) . It was like Roach saw a similarity in teams , but never thought of constructing a quartet film ( which might have worked - Thelma with Babe and Patsy with Stan ) . ( In the late 1930s , when Roach was having contract problems with Stan Laurel , he announced a series with Babe , Patsy , and Spanky McFarlane called " The Hardys " which sounds promising . Only a still of Babe Hardy holding Spanky - each trying to stare down the other - with Patsy watching them survives ) . Kelly had always been great assisting on the humor of the films she was in . Some have been critical of her " shouting " all her lines , but her personality is supposed to be hyper , and I really can't understand the nature of the criticism . She still emphasize the jokes in her lines . In KELLY THE SECOND she is working as the breakfast-lunch-dinner counter girl in a drugstore owned by Charlie Chase . One day she is trying to get to her job in time , and her car is backed into by a truck driven by " Big Boy " Williams . Here ( instead of his usual side-kick role for Errol Flynn ) Big Boy is a good natured lug ever ready for a fight . In particular he fights well when he hears the old tune " The Irish Washer Woman " . They are arguing about the car-truck problem when assorted passers-by get involved . Inevitably a donnybrook occurs . Before the police ( who fully know Big Boy by reputation ) arrive , he drives off with Patsy's car in his truck , and drops her off at her job . But the police come , and arrest him , Patsy , and Chase ( the latter two lied about him being on their premises . In court Big Boy is sentenced for creating a disturbance , but the judge is lenient to both Patsy and Chase . Unfortunately for Chase , he tries to get Big Boy out of jail - he succeeds only by putting up a $1 , 000 . 00 bond using his store for collateral . The judge he'll lose the bond if Big Boy fights again . But Patsy gets the idea that Big Boy can fight legally in the ring , and she and Chase act as his trainer and manager . In the initial fight , Chase has the misfortune of sitting near Ed Brophy , a local crime kingpin , and his mistress ( Pert Kelton ) and his henchmen , led by Harold Huber . Brophy and Huber were in several films together ( THE THIN MAN is the best recalled ) but they have a comic pitch and catch between them that should also have been built on ( it was once - in NAUGHTY MARRIETTA - but only as support for Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald ) . Brophy is clever , but easily flustered and Huber normally calms him down . Here , due to Chase building up Big Boy's abilities , Brophy puts down over # 1 , 000 . 00 on him as a bet . But Big Boy loses the match , and Brophy wants blood . However , he sees proof that Big Boy can punch his opponents effectively . Confronting Chase ( trying to calm his nerves with some patent medicine in the drug store ) , he offers a choice : make Brophy his partner ( he means in Big Boy , not in the drug store ! ) , or be taken care of by Huber . Chase sees no alternative . That is the basis of the film . The actors go to town , with Brophy's hood showing tremendous stupidity mixed with cleverness ( look at the sequence about Brophy giving a smart Kelton a " ermine mink " ) . Huber notes his boss is not always bright , and somewhat dryly ( and effectively ) he manages to tweak Brophy about how gullible he can become . Kelton is attracted to Big Boy , but really goes after him when Brophy seems to treat her less respectfully than she feels is her due . Chase is constantly trying to balance between his bouts of indignation and anger and his confusion and nervousness ( I like him facing total destruction in a boxer's preparation room while wearing a paper hat and making paper dolls ) . Big Boy's fat headedness is matched by his friendly banter ( sometimes close to coming to blows ) with Patsy , who returns it as they slowly realize they really like each other a lot . Patsy does well in several scenes , one dealing with a crowded little car where the breaks are in a pair of difficult places for her to reach , and another where she finds she can't make friends with any animals on a farm Brophy has them training on . It's an amusing film , and one wishes Roach might have tried a sequel or two .
A Nice Little Comedy for Laughton , Durbin , and Cummings	Charles Laughton had a personality that was totally dominating , as one can see in his greatest performances as Henry VIII , Captain Bligh , Quasimodo , Sir Wilfred Robards , Henry Horatio Hobson . But he knew ( for the most part ) when to control his more hammy moments . It is unfair to compare him with his sometime co-star Robert Newton , as Newton had an alcohol problem not shared by Laughton . But Newton's overblown , drunken performances ( like his BLACKBEARD ) are never matched by Laughton , the consummate professional . Laughton could do a role badly due to poor script or direction . Commander Sturm , the jealous submarine commander married to Talullah Bankhead , is one of his worse parts . But they are usually early roles . Once he was established he rarely made such missteps . IT STARTED WITH EVE is not one of Laughton's greatest film parts , but it is a feel good comedy . He plays Jonathan Reynolds Sr . , a multi-millionaire who is on his death bed . He only wants to see his son ( Bob Cummings ) and his son's fiancé once before he dies . But the fiancé is not in New York City yet ( she will be the next day ) . So Cummings takes a hat check girl ( Deanna Durbin ) with him to introduce to his father as " Gloria " his fiancé . Unfortunately , Durbin's personality is very pleasing to the old man - and his spirits rising , his health improves . This brings all sorts of complications up , not even just for Cummings and Durbin . For example , a side issue in the first half hour of the film - two harpies from the national museum are there to make a death mask of Mr . Reynolds . They are sitting quietly waiting for the good news ( that Reynolds is dead and they can make their death mask ) . Every time it looks promising , they perk up - only to be forced to wait longer . Then , when Durbin plays the piano and sings for Laughton , he gets out of bed to hear it . The two men realize that this is hopeless , and pack up and leave . Cummings ' character is faulted for not confronting his father with the truth , and turning wimpish . It is not quite fair . The doctor ( Walter Catlett ) feels that Laughton's health has to rebuild itself for awhile before the truth can be revealed , and he convinces Cummings not to tell Laughton that Durbin is not his future daughter-in-law . All three leads actually blend quite nicely , Laughton's tendency to dominate reduced because he is recovering from his illness ( although his booming dominance reappears once , when he gets impatient with Cummngs not supposedly forgetting a quarrel with Durbin , and starts shouting , " Say you forgive her , say you forgive her " in his best Bligh tones ) . Durbin , who was a good actress when the right part came her way , easily ingratiates herself with Laughton by being his lookout when he smokes his forbidden cigars . Cummings trying to figure out how to break up with the false " Gloria " , and to reintroduce the real " Gloria " actually is not so wimpish at just pathetically unable to carry out any of his schemes successfully . Add to the three Walter Catlett , here playing a decent doctor who has gotten onto Laughton's nerves ( because of his forcing Laughton to lose weight and to stop smoking ) gives a fine performance as he is slowly driven to distraction by his patient's antics . Not a great film , but a good example of a studio inspired comedy that is well worth watching .
Spain's Agony , and Britain's Indifference to Danger	It could have been a better film . It does drag at points , and the central story shifts from Boyer completing his mission to Boyer avenging Wanda Hendrix's death , but Graham Greene is an author who is really hard to spoil . His stories are all morality tales , due to his own considerations of Catholicism , guilt and innocence ( very relative terms in his world view ) , and the human condition . Boyer is Luis Denard , a well-known concert pianist , who has sided with the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War . He has been sent to England to try to carry through an arms purchase deal that is desperately needed . Unfortunately for Denard he is literally on his own - everyone of his contacts turns out to be a willing turncoat for the Falagists of Spain . In particular Katina Paxinou ( Mrs . Melendez ) a grim boarding house keeper , and Peter Lorre ( Mr . Contreras ) a teacher of an " esperanto " type international language . Wanda Hendrix is the drudge of a girl ( Else ) who works for Mrs . Melendez . The local diplomat , Licata ( Victor Francken ) is already a willing associate of the Falangists . The Brits ( Holmes Herbert , Miles Mander , and best - if not worst - of the lot , George Coulouris ) don't give much hope to Boyer's cause ( which he soon grasps may be Britain's before long ) . Herbert and Mander just retreat behind the official policy of neutrality ordered by the Ramsay MacDonald's and Stanley Baldwin's governments during the Civil War . Coulouris here is a typical Col . Blimp type - always impeccable in his native English diction , he is sharp in showing his dislike for foreigners in general . The one ray of hope is Lauren Bacall ( Rose Cullen ) , here trying to play her role as well as she can - but she can't really . She's an aristocrat - the daughter of a Press lord . It was Bacall's second film , and ( sad to say ) almost sank her long career . She does act well , but the spark she showed in her first film was due to the dual effect of starring with Humphrey Bogart and being directed by Howard Hawks . Boyer is a fine actor , but he's not Bogie , and Herman Shumlin is not Hawks . Her next film returned her to Bogie and Hawks again , and her star resumed it's ascendancy . It's a bleak film ( as was the novel ) . Boyer's mission never succeeds , as he has too many hidden foes all over the place . But the villains are likewise also losers - frequently with their lives . With Dan Seymour as a suspicious foreign tenant of Katina Paxinou ( and the man who destroys her ) . It is well worth watching to catch the Warner's lot of character actors doing their best given the weakness in direction .
The Completed Magnificent Ambersons	This version appeared on television three years ago , and was supposedly based on Welles ' completed script . It got roasted by the television critics ( probably unfairly ) because it wasn't directed by Welles - lacking his great narration and touches . But it is not a bad film , and it does have a coherence that the other film lacks because of the truncated cutting . The only thing I disagree with is the emphasis on Welles ' script . Welles planned to close the film on a down note with Lucy rejecting a crippled George , and Fanny living in a boarding house as the cook . This is not like the television version where an unrepentant , still arrogant George has to be accepted by Eugene as his son-in-law . But it was well acted and directed , and if not as great as Welles ' work , it was entertaining and thoughtful . It also explained some of the problems linked to the plot that the truncated version did not go into . For one , why the collapse of the Major's fortune ? The Major ( John Cromwell ) has to sell off his property to support Isabel and George ( Madeleine Stowe and Jonathan Rhys - Meyers ) on their prolonged trip to Europe . Don't forget , Georgie never had plans for a career , and he is depended on money from grandpa . As Cromwell says , " Does he think I'm made of money ? " It also has the real moment of comeuppance that is not found in the Welles ' version ( in so outwardly a manifestation ) . George can accept the loss of outward possession , because he knows who he is and what his family was like . But he sees a book on sale in a local bookshop about the first families of Indianapolis . He sees it's expensive , but he buys a copy . He is shocked to find no mention of the Ambersons in the entire book . He is a little less arrogant after that . No , it is not the controversial classic of 1942 , but it is - on it's own terms - a worthy film version too .
The Steam driven " Wheel Chair "	I enjoyed watching THE WILD WILD WEST because of the crazy 19th Century versions of 20th Century devices that were constantly being thought up . 19th Century technology was nothing to sneeze at , with steam driven railroads , ocean liners , telegraphs , telephones , electric lights , and phonographs . Yet THE WILD WILD WEST takes place during the two administrations ( March 4 , 1869 - March 4 , 1877 ) of President Ulysses S . Grant . The gramophone of Thomas Edison Edison first appeared in 1877 , after Grant left office , but it is frequently used in the show . Steam powered missiles , and huge weapons that were impossible to imagine in 1871 or 1875 pop up . It was curious to see these - but they were never on the drawing boards of that day . Also , the villains tended to be vindictive or power hungry madmen , using their abilities to get back at enemies or to get into positions of authority . Ed Begley Sr . as a corrupt Federal Judge hoping to massacre the Supreme Court so he can get a seat ( after he was rejected ) . Or John Dehner as a man who was left for dead in a Mexican War incident by soldiers including then Captain U . S . Grant , and who has been repaired with steel and wire so that he can't be shot - now he wants to kill Grant . Or , best of the lot , diminutive in size if not talent Michael Dunn as Dr . Miguelito Lovelace , who keeps trying to take over first California , then the U . S ( and later the world ) and rebuild it according to his ideas of a future ( which would include smaller sized people ) . This episode illustrated the strengths and weaknesses of the series . Somebody is killing off various friends of West ( Robert Conrad ) and his partner Artemas Gordon ( Ross Martin ) . These include West's old military commander ( Col . Arnette - John Warburton ) , who is killed while West is momentarily paralyzed by a drink that has been targeted , and a comedian friend of West and Gordon killed by a bomb on stage while they are watching . It turns out , after they are summoned , that the perpetrator is one Braine , a super genius and megalomaniac ( played by Edward Andrews ) who rides around in a wheel chair driven by a steam engine . He has plans for taking over the globe ( naturally ) , involving replacing Grant , and several other world leaders with doubles who will do his bidding - here to cause universal warfare . Whoever did the research got somethings close to right - but not quite . One of the leaders is Archduke Maximillian of Austria . In 1869 - 1877 , Maximillian would not have been much use anywhere - he was dead by a Mexican firing squad in 1867 after Juarez finally defeated the Austrian archduke / would-be Mexican Emperor at Querataro . Braine would have had some problems convincing anyone to support a dead Archduke . The episode of course would follow how James West and Artemus Gordon would defeat Braine and his plan ( eventurally hurtling the madman towards the doubles , so that the steam driven wheel chair becomes a weapon of mass destruction ( another anachronism , but this one from me ) ) . I liked the technological goofs , and Ross Martin's impersonations ( mostly for laughs ) . But for logical plots , you did not watch this type of escapism .
Bogart Burning and Biding his time , while Robinson is a Gentleman	As was pointed out in another review , THE AMAZING DR . CLITTERHOUSE was a play , originally , starring Sir Cedric Hardwicke as the polished society doctor who is writing a book on the criminal mind , and needs to become a criminal to get his research . I would have liked to have seen the film with Hardwicke , who probably was a better fit in the part . Screen audiences knew Eddie Robinson could be a brutal , thuggish gangster , like Enrico Bandello in LITTLE CAESAR . He could be funny , like Arthur Jones and Killer Mannion in THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING or as Remy Marko in A SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER . But they had little idea of the polished intellectual that Robinson , the art collector , was in real life . He would not really reveal this part of his personality until the 1950s , when he occasionally appeared on game shows and talk shows discussing art . But Hardwicke looked the part of the learned doctor , and had enough restrained threat to look like he could plan and carry out real crimes as well . But Warner Brothers starred him in THE AMAZING DR . CLITTERHOUSE , presumably to give him a chance to play another comic role , and also to let him stretch his acting abilities . He does well with the role , but he seems less natural in the part ( as Hardwicke would have been ) than slightly mannered . I think , having seen Sir Cedric on stage , Robinson was trying to overcompensate - and it does not quite work . As the doctor Robinson was convincing as a lucky dilettante , but not as a serious researcher . It is really the performances of the supporting cast , particularly Humphrey Bogart as " Rocks Valentine " , Claire Trevor , and Maxie Rosenbloom . They give real color to the story , particularly Bogie as a vicious type who hates seeing how effortlessly the brilliant Clitterhouse takes leadership of his gang away from him . Bogie's Rocks keeps looking for his opportunities , and even tries to freeze the doctor to death ( leading to a powerful moment on the film when a furious Rosenbloom almost pounds him in retaliation ) . And his attempts to get the goods on Clitterhouse , inevitably , lead to an unexpected tragedy . Robinson was less than happy with the film - he was right to be . Bogart considered this one of a series ( with BULLETS AND BALLOTS , KID GALLAHAD , and BROTHER ORCHID where he and Robinson were rival criminals , and in two of which they killed each other at the conclusion ) . He had made THE PETRIFIED FOREST two years before , and DEAD END the year before , and should have been on the way to stardom , but found himself second banana to Robinson or to Cagney , and he was getting fed up . He felt that CLITTERHOUSE was an absolute waste of time , and referred to it by another name , THE AMAZING DR . CLITORIS . It would still be three more years before Bogie would make HIGH SIERRA and THE MALTESE FALCON , and find the stardom that had eluded him in the 1930s .
The Suffrage Movement : 1875 - Boston	Because of the prominence of the abolition movement in the 1830s - 1860s , other American social movements of the day are not thought of very much . If you are interested , read Tyler's book FREEDOM'S FERMENT , which discusses the international peace movement , woman's rights , and other movements of equal interest in that period - only these did not lead to Civil War . The woman's suffrage movement had begun in 1848 in upstate New York , but it really does not get the momentum that made it memorable until the 1870s . Then Susan B . Anthony goes on trial ( also in New York State ) for daring to try to vote in a national election . Also Victoria Woodhull throws her hat into the ring ( unofficially ) for the Presidency in 1872 . Later Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton organize the woman's movement , so that after they both die in the early 1900s it grows until it achieves suffrage by Federal Constitutional Amendment in 1919 . THE SHOCKING MISS PILGRIM is not the only film to tackle early woman's suffrage . There is a bit about the movement in the character of Miss Massingale in THE HALLELUJAH TRAIL , who keeps confronting ( and romancing ) Burt Lancaster's army Colonel . But THE SHOCKING MISS PILGRIM is actually the only film from that looks at the movement at a critical moment in it's history . A little background is needed here . In the early days of the women's suffrage movement , there was considerable debate regarding allying the movement with other social movements of the day . However , Anthony and Stanton were convinced by Frederick Douglass to work for abolition , because if slavery was abolished ( Douglas argued ) woman's servitude would have to follow soon after . But in the post-Civil War years , the relationship between Douglass and the suffrage leadership soured . Douglass , once the 13th , 14th , and 15th Amendments got passed , was more concerned about African American ( read African-American males ) consolidating and expanding their gains . He started to curb joint efforts with Stanton and Anthony on woman's rights , claiming that it just was not the time ( although his previous argument had been to strike when the fire was hot ! ) . Anthony and Stanton eventually over-reacted . They never forgave the betrayal by Douglass , and soon they managed to make the woman's suffrage movement lily white ( and rather racist towards the former male slaves who now - theoretically - could vote ) . A small African-American woman's suffrage movement pushed forward too , but it was fighting antagonism by male African-Americans , and racism by white women who should have been their sisters in arms . The lesson though was now burned into the heads of the woman's movement - don't ally yourself with other causes . And , interestingly enough , this is the center for part of the plot of THE SHOCKING MISS PILGRIM . Betty Grable tries to keep her friends from allying themselves with another social movement which grew with woman's suffrage - Prohibition . She is unable to do so . In the decades from 1870 - 1920 many woman suffrage figures , like Carrie Nation , were also outspoken supporters of prohibition . These women ( like Nation ) had homes that had been wrecked by alcoholic husbands , so their stand and unity with Prohibitionists made sense . But the bulk of the woman's movement avoided this , because they did not want their political agenda tainted by a rival one . The same situation happened in the English suffrage movement too , when Mrs . Pankhurst's daughters split on allying with the British Labor Party , and the anti-war movement . Sylvia Pankhurst remained united with Labor leader and pacifist Keir Hardie , but her sister Cristobel was clever enough to offer to support the war effort in return for Asquith and Lloyd George's support for woman's voting rights . THE SHOCKING MISS PILGRIM has several things working for it . The two leads had a good story . Dick Haymes was actually better in this film as the hero who learns to respect working women , than he was as the son in STATE FAIR . Grable actually had a role in a musical that did not begin and end with her gorgeous legs , and moderately pleasing singing voice - it is her meatiest musical role . The Gershwin score is minor Gershwin , but still enjoyable . Like minor Marx Brothers or minor Van Gogh etchings , they are still better than most people's best . The supporting character actors cast , led by Gene Lockhart , Allan Joslyn , and Elizabeth Patterson manage to give a gentleness to the story , befitting the setting in Boston in the " Gilded Age " . It is a nice musical - not great , but enjoyable .
One version on video that I saw live on stage .	MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING is considered by Shakespearean Scholars to be one of three plays call the " Joyous Comedies " . The other two are AS YOU LIKE IT and TWELFTH NIGHT , and the subject of them is either joy of living or love . They are considered a high point in Shakespeare's development as an artist on par with his dramatic height in his tragedies of the same period ( HAMLET , MACBETH , OTHELLO , KING LEAR ) . And yet , while college courses spend time teaching TWELFTH NIGHT and MUCH ADO and AS YOU LIKE IT to the public , most people who like theater think that Shakespeare's best comedy was the earlier A MIDSUMMER'S NIGHT'S DREAM . TWELFTH NIGHT is revived more frequently than the other two joyous comedies , but A COMEDY OF ERRORS or THE TAMING OF THE SHREW ( politically incorrect as the latter is now ) are more popular . The problem with MUCH ADO is that it's great wit is hidden by the style of Shakespeare's writing . He was always mixing styles of humor , from low types like Bottom to the height of witty conceits . The early Shakespeare , like his contemporaries , was impressed by John Lily's EUPHUES , an early comedy of puns and word plays . Shakespeare , of course , could knock this off quickly - but the problem of dealing with this is that ( except for those lines based on sexual punning ) most of his references are so obscure that one needs some type of guide to explain them . This is particularly the case when dealing with Beatrice and Benedict and their wit duels . Most audiences these days can't follow them too well . So the presentation of the amusement has to beef up that portion . This particular production was produced by Joseph Papp in 1973 , and I was lucky enough to see it when my college offered it as a free trip to the city . As I had a Shakespeare course at the time , it fit in well . The cast was made up of New York theater and television figures . Today , the actor playing Benedict ( Sam Waterston ) is the best known ( as is F . Murray Abraham , here in a minor part ) , because Waterston is A . D . A . McCoy on LAW AND ORDER , and Abraham is an Oscar winner and a star of Broadway productions ( ironically in another Shakespeare " comedy " right now : THE MERCHANT OF VENICE ) . But in 1973 the soap opera performers Douglass Watson and Kathleen Widdowes ( as Don Pedro and Beatrice ) were better known to local audiences , and Bernard Hughes ( as Constable Dogberry ) was developing a prominence in television and the movies ( his best known film role was as the deadly avenging patient in Patty Chayevski's THE HOSPITAL ( 1971 ) ) . The production made sure that the story ( originally in an Italian principality in the Rennaisance ) was reset in the U . S . during the aftermath of the Spanish American War . The production had it's rewards . Little bits of business stick to the mind - like Widdowes and her girlfriends stealing puffs from a regular tobacco cigarette in 1900 ( something unheard of among good young ladies - but Beatrice , after all , is somewhat daring . Waterston , going canoing and paddling backward ( the canoe was on a turntable on stage ) , getting out , and then hiding behind the upright canoe , as though it is leaning against a tree ( and it is not fooling the other actors on stage ) . But best in the production was Hughes as the impossibly dense policeman , who has a " Keystone Kop " force to assist him in seeking out the criminals . Up to his last line , when he announces he has captured the ringleader and has put his hands in a pair of MONACLES ( not manacles ) Hughes acted like he was Ford Sterling returned to life . Note should also be taken of the late Jerry Mayer as the bad natured Don Juan , who when thwarted in one evil plot at the start gave one of the funniest hissy fits on record . Most of these items were in the film version as they were on the stage . The production was a good one , though nothing remarkable . I would recommend seeing the video of the production , to enable one to see a good cast at work in an interesting concept for the production . But if one wants to understand the verbal jousting of the two lovers , read the play and follow the glossary of terms that are included .
The First Successful Comedy Teaming For Movies Since Martin and Lewis : A Possible Suggestion on Origins	When THE FORTUNE COOKIE came out in 1965 it proved a remarkably successful comedy . Of course it was directed by Billy Wilder , still at or near the height of his film career with a string of great successes from THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR , THE LOST WEEKEND , and SUNSET BOULDVARD through SOME LIKE IT HOT and THE APARTMENT . Of course there had been less successful films for Wilder , most notably THE EMPEROR WALTZ and THE BIG CARNIVAL , but most of his films were widely respected by critics and the public . And when he made it in 1965 it was to star Jack Lemmon , who had demonstrated his comic qualities in three other Wilder films : SOME LIKE IT HOT , THE APARTMENT , and IRMA LA DOUCE . So the public was quite interested in this film , which was to tear into the American habit of suing for injuries , and into shyster lawyers . In fact , the screenplay was originally supposed to be MEET WHIPLASH WILLY , the final name of the film when shown in England . What surprised many people was the casting of Walter Matthau as " Whiplash Willie " Gingrich , the shyster brother-in-law to Lemmon's Harry Hinkle . Matthau was a widely respected actor , with great stage experience , but his performances in movies had been mostly as villains . From the whip happy tavern keeper in THE KENTUCKIAN , to the Machiavellian government adviser in FAIL SAFE Matthau usually played unlikeable sorts . There were some exceptions . In A FACE IN THE CROWD he is one of the television people who assist Lonesome Rhodes ( Andy Griffith ) on his way up , but who are appalled at the monster they create . When , at the end of the film , Griffith is starting to think of how to overcome the huge gaffe he created over the airwaves that have sent his career into the dumpster , it is Matthau ( a terrific figure of decency here ) who tells Griffith that he won't be coming back , but will be lucky to be remembered in a few years as a has-been . But A FACE IN THE CROWD was a rarity for Matthau . If he played comedy it was as a villain , most chillingly in CHARADES as Mr . Bartholemew . In his scenes as an embassy official he had some good comic bits , like when he offers a cigarette to Audrey Hepburn , and she takes two puffs and puts it out - Matthau is put out by this waste of one of his pricey cigarettes ! It is Matthau's appearance in THE FORTUNE COOKIE that changed his public persona and his career . He went to town as Whiplash Willy , threatening to sue the United Fruit Company for failing to put a printed warning on their bananas after Howard McNear fell and broke his pelvis tripping on one . His careful manipulation of brother-in-law Lemmon / Hinkle , his calculating in how to force a major law firm to surrender unconditionally in his demands , his snide comments about great lawyers of the past ( Lincoln , Darrow ) , all build up a to a great introductory performance . It really showed the Matthau that the public would grow to know - a cynical type who could make others ( especially the more decent Lemmon ) do what he wanted them to . He would also be quick to get into deeply pseudo-intellectual speeches , voicing his opinions and points of views . It was the Matthau who would entertain movie audiences for the next three decades . As a sign of his success in finding his persona , Matthau won the Best Supporting Oscar for THE FORTUNE COOKIE . Lemmon recommended Matthau to Wilder , who was pushing either Frank Sinatra or Jackie Gleason . It is quite hard to imagine either the Chairman of the Board or the Great One as effective as Matthau . But I have long wondered if Wilder and Lemmon had had someone else in mind , someone who was no longer available . The Hinkle - Gingrich relationship was a close one due to their family relationship , and Wilder certainly had discussed the issue of the casting with Lemmon . Up to 1961 , Lemmon had appeared , most often , with one actor in the movies - in comedies . He appeared in BELL , BOOK , and CANDLE , IT STARTED WITH JANE , and OPERATION MAD BALL with his close friend Ernie Kovacs . Lemmon had been so close to Kovacs that he appeared ( in the disguise of a monkey suit ) as one of the Nairobi Trio . There are some lines in THE FORTUNE COOKIE that sound ready made for Kovacs - for example , when he writes a figure down as a settlement figure , and when the other lawyers make their counter-offers Matthau repeats it each time , looks at the paper , and says , very quietly , " That isn't it ! " One can easily see Kovacs saying the same thing the same way . If , as I suspect , THE FORTUNE COOKIE was an idea of Wilder's and Diamond's for a few years , it is just possible that Lemmon suggested Kovacs for the role of Gingrich . But after Kovacs died in a car accident in 1962 , Lemmon had to find another actor of similar type . And then he noticed Matthau , who in 1965 was well received for his performance in THE ODD COUPLE on Broadway . Kovacs ' bad luck may very well have been Matthau's good luck . Today we think of the Lemmon-Matthau partnership as really based on their films with Wilder . They did four films with Wilder , but after THE FORTUNE COOKIE it was their joint appearance in the film version of THE ODD COUPLE directed by Gene Saks that made the partnership viable . Otherwise it might have seemed a flash in the pan . THE ODD COUPLE was to prove that the chemistry between the actors did not solely defend on the artistry of Wilder .
The Queen Who Was Too Contrary - And What Happened at Kirk'a'Field ?	Brooks Atkinson was a first rate drama critic for the New York Times . He had blind spots . He over enthused on the career of Maxwell Anderson . Anderson wrote some good plays such as " Winterset " , but Anderson was enthusiastic of Anderson's pompous attempts to do dramas in blank verse : " Mary Of Scotland " , " Elizabeth The Queen " , and " Anne Of The Thousand Days " . The problem with these plays is , even if they get the history right they are too stiff . Compare the conclusion of " Elizabeth The Queen " to " A Man For All Seasons " . Yes , the loneliness of the elderly Elizabeth is shown as Essex goes to his doom - but in reality Elizabeth knew there were other young men to replace her dangerous , ambitious lover . In " All Seasons " the tragedy of a rotten system crushing the life of a decent , thoughtful man like Thomas More is far more powerful as it's stark tragedy is silently brought to us . That said , the first of the three Tudor tragedies to be filmed was " Mary Of Scotland " . It is above average because it is starring Katherine Hepburn ( a distant relative of Mary's third husband the Earl of Bothwell ) and Frederic March , and directed wholly or partially by John Ford . It suffers from being black and white , except for one moment of sheer unexpected terror : when Mary sees the Scots nobles who oppose her they are photographed in such light and darkness to look like ogres in a nightmare . The film follows the reign of Mary from 1560 to her execution in 1587 . Most Americans do not understand the great difficulties that Mary ( and Elizabeth ) both faced in their parallel reigns . While England and Scotland allowed for female monarchs , women were not considered good material for rulers . They were considered governed by their emotions more than by their brains . Those women who ruled well were usually married to capable partners ( Isabella of Castille and Ferdinand of Aragon of Spain ) . More frequently they were dismissed as misfits , like Isabella and Ferdinand's daughter Juana the Mad ) . Mary had other problems . From 1400 to 1560 the nobles of Scotland got a great boon . Scotland had a series of minors who grew up to be king , married , and then died before they could cement their monarchic views on the government . The nobles cemented their local powers at the expense of a weak central authority . Mary had been Queen of France , married to Francis II who ruled for a two year period ( 1559 - 1560 ) . As Mary was the niece of the Duc De Guise , the king's power-hungry mother Catherine De Medici hated her . When Francis died suddenly , Catherine encouraged Mary to return to rule her own country . Surprised Mary did so , not realizing that she was unprepared to start ruling . She was a Catholic , and she really needed some time to understand the need to compromise and take advice from Protestants . She never did understand this . Her foes hated her and were fully supported by Elizabeth , who never could see that an attempt to join forces with her cousin might pay back great dividends . But then Mary was ambitious - she wanted to be Queen of England as well as Scotland . Her Catholic supporters felt she was legitimate Queen of England ( as Henry VIII had briefly disowned Elizabeth as a bastard when he executed her mother Anne ) . So the peaceful resolution of their differences was almost impossible . Elizabeth had only to watch from the sidelines , with only an occasional move on her own part , to see Mary wreck her own position . She encouraged a marriage between another cousin / potential heir Lord Henry Darnley to Mary ( Mary almost chose Elizabeth's lover Robert Dudley ! ) . The marriage was a disaster , as Darnley was an ambitious fool and vicious scoundrel . But it cemented a Scottish succession to the British throne from two Tudor heirs instead of one . Hepburn portrays Mary as a brave woman desperately seeking a way out of the difficult situation she has inherited , especially tied to Darnley by marriage and facing the ghouls who are John Knox ( Moroni Olsen ) and the Scottish nobles - led by her jealous half brother the Earl of Moray ( Ian Keith ) . Her only allies are the independent Earl of Bothwell ( March ) and her secretary Rizzio ( John Carridine ) . The murder of the latter ( implicating Darnley ) is the first step to her loss of the throne , and to the death of her husband . We know today that Kirk'a'Field house was blown up by Bothwell , but to this day we don't know if Mary was implicated . It remains one of the big mysteries of the 16th Century . Historically Bothwell was no prince , but ambitious in his own right - he killed Darnley in order to marry Mary , and guide her to rule both Scotland and England . But March plays him as a man deeply in love with his Queen , and this enhances the story's tragedy - especially as Bothwell died in exile insane . The reason for this was his ship was captured by a Danish warship . Bothwell was guilty of a rape in Denmark , and was imprisoned . His punishment ( which led to his madness ) was to stand chained to a stone pillar that was half his height . The last ten minutes glosses over the road that led Mary to the block in England - her support of a plot by one Anthony Babbington to kill Elizabeth and let Mary take the throne . Elizabeth's spy-master Sir Francis Walsingham sprung this trap - though Elizabeth did not reject the result . Elizabeth allowed a functionary to be blamed for falsely getting her to sign the death warrant - but all she did was briefly imprison the man . Unlike her movie representative ( Florence Eldritch ) she never met Mary . A good film - but it is too gentle on Mary's failings , and not deep enough to explain what is going on in the background .
The Head of the House of Pain	It's a good story , based on one of Wells ' best science fiction novels , but ISLAND OF LOST SOULS never has gotten the kudos that it's fellow science fiction and horror tales of the early 1930s got . For all it's flaws , Dracula ( Bela Lugosi's version ) remains a classic , and the Spanish / Mexican / American version has gotten an increased audience in the last thirty years . FRANKENSTEIN , restoring the cuts , is still powerful , and the sequels ( THE BRIDE and THE SON ) are also popular . THE INVISIBLE MAN , for all it's dated special effects , still packs a wallop , as does KING KONG . THE MUMMY , THE BLACK CAT - they have not lost their powers to hold interest . Neither has ISLAND OF LOST SOULS , but it seems to get more of a lambasting by critics than the others . Why ? My guess is that the very strength of the film is what turns off the critics : Charles Laughton's performance as Dr . Moreau . I happen to find it a fascinating performance of a talented scientist who is driven to madness by his success in a situation where he cannot really reveal it . For Moreau's ability by physical operations ( I almost said by grafting ) on animals has led to his being ostracized and forced into exile by his peers in Europe , and he is stuck on this island ruling a kingdom of his half-human / half animal followers . His only companion is Montgomery , who turns on him in the movie and Parker and Ms Thomas are just two people who bungle onto the island by accident ( as does the ill-fated sea captain ) . But in the novel , while there is no love interest like Ms Thomas , the state of the human companionship is not so good either . Parker's literary version - Charles Predinck - is a shipwreck survivor too , who is horrified by Moreau's experiments ( and almost made part of them ) . Montgomery is more willing to work with Moreau , but Montgomery is not a very admirable type - he's an alcoholic ( which is how he ended up with Moreau ) , and his lack of common sense leads to his demise . The novel was trying to make a statement about ego-maniacal dictators and their falls from power , which is clearly delineated in the film version . But the end of Moreau is not at the end of the novel . He is killed off by rebellious " subjects " earlier , and Montgomery , thinking they won't harm him , proceeds to drink too much and sets himself up for his own gruesome end . Predinck just manages to kill the most dangerous of the animals , and escapes at the end ( as Parker and Ms Thomas do in the film with Montgomery ) . Laughton was one of Hollywood's greatest actors . I can't think of that many character actors who had such a wide variety of successful performances . But Moreau , although in his setting he seems natural , is an over-the-top Laughton performance . I believe that is why the critics are so harsh on him . The threatening shouts about " the law " and " the house of pain " are repeated and repeated like the mantras they are . But the critics who hear this think of the Laughton who , a year earlier , had overacted as a mad and jealous submarine commander in THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP with Gary Cooper , Tallulah Bankhead , and a youngish Cary Grant . There are similarities , but that film had a pretty weak script ( unlike THE ISLAND OF LOST SOULS ) . These critics tend to think of those films made by Laughton before his Oscar winner in THE PRIVATE LIFE OF HENRY VIII as overripe , and tedious - not the expert work of his later career . They fail to notice that he was learning his craft in movies , in these years , and his ranting in parts like Moreau or the submarine commander were necessary to learning the restraint that paints Henry VIII and Captain Bligh and Quasimodo . I find one might not think of the film as highly as the other contemporary films I mentioned earlier , but it is a worthy film nevertheless , and important in Laughton's growth as an actor .
Hitch's salute to Crowsborough	In his career as a film director Alfred Hitchcock frequently turned to real life crime for his stories . The Crippen Case is suggested in REAR WINDOW , in the murder of Mrs . Thorwall by her husband , who claims his wife has gone on a trip . In the first version of THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH he brings up the 1910 Siege of Sidney Street . In doing Joseph Conrad's THE SECRET AGENT as SABOTAGE Hitch is looking at the attempt ( in 1894 ) of an anarchist to blow up the Greenwich Observatory . The same thing in this 1959 episode of Hitch's television series . It is a look at a crime ( or presumed crime ) of 1926 , which is still a matter of debate to this day . Lawrence Harvey was at the point in his career where his reputation was on the rise . In 1959 he made his best remembered film , ROOM AT THE TOP . He had made a version of ROMEO AND JULIET a few years earlier . The following year he would be sharing big billing with John Wayne and Richard Widmarck in THE ALAMO . But this was the only production directed by Alfred Hitchcock he ever appeared in . SPOILER WARNING : Harvey is a farmer named Arthur , who is romancing Hazel Court . But Court's interests in him are slowly turning him off . She suspects he has met another woman , and goes to confront him . There is an argument , in the course of which Court is killed . Harvey has done this in a relatively isolated space , and considers his options . At the end of the episode , he is being visited by the police ( Robert Douglas and Patrick Macnee ) and they can find nothing to really bring up suspicions against him . They leave , and we see Harvey feeding his chickens . We now realize what has happened to the remains of Court . It is a clever , ghoulish ending - typical of Hitchcock's warped sense of humor ( and a type of variant to his most famous television directing stint : LAMB TO THE SLAUGHTER ) . It was all suggested by the Norman Thorne - Elsie Cameron tragedy at Crowsborough , in Sussex England , in 1926 . Thorne , a chicken farmer , had a relationship with Cameron , but it was souring . She said she was going to see him to settle this , claiming that she was pregnant . She left for their meeting at his home , but nothing further was heard of her . Thorne actually sent her telegrams demanding to know why she had not come . The police visited Thorne , but he was plausible about not having any idea of what happened to Elsie . Then a local photographer took his picture on the farm , and he posed over a spot near the chicken coop . Thorne might have gotten away with it , but for the return to Crowsborough of a neighbor . She had not been reading the newspapers much , but now she caught with the story . She went to the police and said she saw Elsie headed for Thorne's farm on the day she was last seen alive . Thorne was revisited by the police , who made a more thorough search . Someone recalled the posing for the picture , and found the spot . In digging they found the cut up remains of Elsie's body . Thorne explained there had been an argument , and he left the shack he lived in while Elsie threatened suicide . When he returned he found her hanging . Thorne panicked and cut up the body to hide it . He stuck to this suicide story through the entire trial . The prosecution put the matter into the capable hands of Bernard Spilsbury . The forensic expert studied the remains and came to the conclusion that the body showed signs of shock , normally found in people who are hanged by other people - and not prepared for such a conclusion . But the defense put together ten experts , one of whom ( Dr . Robert Bronte of Ireland ) produced slides . These suggested certain markings on the neck that were more in line to a suicide theory . Spilsbury ( who had a low view on Bronte's abilities ) said that the slides were improperly made , and they showed a staining agent at work , not so-called markings . Thorne's previous lies and his posing over the remains and Spilsbury's reputation convicted the chicken farmer . He was hanged later in 1926 . But the matter of his real guilt or innocence remains . Hitchcock allows Arthur to momentarily hide the traces of his victim's death - far more effectively than Thorne ever did . The episode is a nice example of Hitchcock's efficiency in handling dramatic material well , even in a short running time .
The Follow-up of " The Blue Cross "	When you see the Alec Guiness film THE DETECTIVE , the basis for that film is THE BLUE CROSS , the first story G . K . Chesterson wrote about his detective " Father Brown " . That story was about the attempt by a master thief named Flambeau to steal a very rare and valuable religious item . It is being handled and protected by Father Brown , and he succeeds in preventing the theft . The film actually does not follow the story to its actual conclusion : Father Brown confounds Flambeau and the head of the French Police , M . Aristide Valentin . Both men realize the Father's superior wisdom and bow to him at the conclusion of the story . When the B . B . C . did the 1974 series of the " Father Brown " stories they did not do THE BLUE CROSS . Ironically , the follow-up story THE SECRET GARDEN was the last episode of the short series , and one of the most ironic of the tales . For it is one of the few sequel tales in the series ( most of the other ones concentrate on Brown and the reformed Flambeau ) to pick up on the fate of a character . Chesterton as a future spokesman of Roman Catholicism could not but notice the active warfare ( a realistic term ) in France between the right wing political parties ( most of whom supported the Catholic Church ) and the left wing and center parties that supported religious freedom and freedom of thought by pushing for a non-sectarian school system ( as opposed to one controlled by the Church ) . One can imagine from his writings he supported the antics of the right wing parties and their spokesman like Charles Maurras and Leon Daudet and ( earlier ) Eduard Drumont . So when the story unfolds in THE SECRET GARDEN , one can understand why Chesterton leads it to its bizarre conclusion . M . Aristide Valentin , the Interior Minister ( he's in charge of the police forces of France ) is an atheist , and is constantly under attack by the right wing press ( in the episode he is played by Ferdy Mayne , and he is first seen looking at a newspaper that shows him to have his head chopped off by a guillotine ) . He does have a heart , and has tried to get the President of France to grant clemency to a young man who murdered his wife after a drunken argument . But his enemies make sure that the President won't grant it . So he is forced to attend the execution , and come late to see his guests for the evening . These include Father Brown ( Kenneth More ) who is accompanying an American millionaire named Brayne ( Peter Dynely ) , Lord and Lady Galloway ( Cyril Luckham and Joan Benham ) and their daughter Lady Margaret ( Eileen Waugh ) , Valentine's mistress the Duchess of Mont St . Michel ( Rosemary Dunham ) , Dr . Bernard Simon ( Rowland Davies ) , and M . Valentine's assistant and secretary Beaumont ( Stefan Gryff ) . There is also Commandant Neil O'Brian of the Foreign Legion ( Charles Dance ) . The latter's appearance annoys Lord and Lady Galloway , for their daughter and O'Brian were lovers , and his political views did not gel with his Lordship's ( who broke up the romance , and then saw O'Brian flee Ireland to avoid arrest ) . Brown is involved with religious discussion from several angles during the dinner party - those of the atheists ( Valentin , Beaumont , Dr . Simon , presumably the Duchess ) - and those of the high Anglicans Galloways . His only ally appears to be O'Brian , although Brayne is there with Brown as his friend . But the Father maintains his cool , clear head against all arguments . Valentin comes late but finally arrives , and subsequently a package is delivered for him . In the meantime Brown takes an interest in the mansions unique garden - a lush bit of greenery in the back surrounded by high walls ( one of which faces the Seine ) . It troubles Brown , who tells the Doctor that he finds the wall somewhat unnerving as it closes off the people inside the house from the outside world . After dinner the pressures of social and political life effect most of the guests . Valentin is concentrating on the right wing attacks on him . The Galloways are snubbing O'Brian , but also trying to keep their daughter from talking to him . Then Mr . Brayne ( who had been admiring the arms on the wall ) disappears . Shortly afterward a body of a beheaded man is found in the garden , but the head is of a total stranger . It is this mystery that Father Brown confronts and solves - producing one of the weirdest choices for a criminal one can imagine . All the episodes of this all-too-short series were well produced , and they do capture the spirit of the period ( roughly 1904 to 1926 or so ) quite nicely . More with his gentle delivery made an ideal Father Brown , and one really wishes he could have done the entire series of stories rather than the one set that were turned out . Mayne captures the ennui of a politician at the end of his tether , wondering if his involvement in trying to help anyone actually caused greater evil . And Luckham ( best recalled as Sir Christopher Mont in the original THE FORSYTE SAGA ) has a good scene towards the end trying to understand O'Brian ( Dance ) and his beliefs and behavior . In the end his failure to come to grips with this causes him to lose more than he bargained for .
Steinbeck's Latinos	There is no denying that the man who gave us THE GRAPES OF WRATH , OF MICE AND MEN , and EAST OF EDEN is a major literary figure - one of the handful of American literary figures to win the Nobel Prize for Literature . But John Steinbeck was also a man of his time and some of his time is hard to swallow . This is particularly when dealing with his novels and stories dealing with Latin-Americans in California . A man raised in the early 20th Century , his views of Latinos is rather heavily into stereotypes . That he could develop character despite the stereotypes was a sign of his abilities as a fine writer . . . but those stereotypes remain as a stigma today . In TORTILLA FLAT Steinbeck looks at life among a set of Latinos in Salinas , California . The central figure is Pilon ( Spencer Tracy ) who is a happy - go - lucky type , without any interest in life but what pleasure ( food , partying , girls , booze ) he can get out of it . But he does not like to work . Nor do his pals Pablo ( Akim Tamiroff ) , Tito ( Sheldon Leonard ) , Jose ( John Qualen ) , and Daniel ( John Garfield ) . But then Daniel learns his uncle died and left him two houses . He suddenly changes a little ( he is a property owner ) but that is soon dented when Pilon reminds him they are pals and he owes them a share of his good fortune . Somewhat unsettled by this , he does agree to letting the four freeloaders use the other house . The wisdom of this action is shown when they gradually let the nice little house go to ruin , ending with them accidentally burning it down ( Pilon just smiles and shrugs his shoulders at this ) . Meanwhile Daniel meets Dolores Ramirez ( Hedy Lamarr ) , a young woman who works in the local fish cannery . Daniel starts changing his whole views on life by his desire to woo Dolores - she feels her husband has to be a hard working man to win her respect . But Pilon and the others resent this hold Dolores has on Daniel . Pilon in particular tries to break up the love affair , but only manages to make his friendship with Daniel get strained . Daniel now has a job too at the cannery , but the others are still gainfully unemployed . Pilon decides that he and the others can rob " the Pirate " ( Frank Morgan ) a lonely eccentric . The best scenes in the film deal with Morgan , who turns out to be a touching old man who loves his pets and is saving his money for a religious offering for them . I won't go into the rest of the plot ( which shows that Pilon can be a real friend too when he wants to be ) . Again it is well acted , although Tracy is reusing his " Spanish " accent that he used as Manuel in CAPTAIN'S COURAGEOUS , and would use again in THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA . Lamarr and Garfield actually display some chemistry together to heat up their scenes . Garfield too is slightly reusing a previous accent - his " Porfirio Diaz " voice in JUAREZ toned down a little . Actually if it wasn't for the performances ( particularly Morgan's ) the film would only have the character development shown by Tracy and Garfield . But the weakness of the stereotypes makes this film a difficult one to swallow . So I can only give it a " 7 " out of " 10 " .
Another Disney Celebrity Caricature Cartoon	The cartoon is fairly amusing , but nothing notable by itself . In the 1930s there was a serious polo playing group out of the Hollywood movie set . It included Walt Disney ( it also included Spencer Tracy , of all people , and Will Rogers ) . Odd that such a kind of upper class sport became so popular in the movie colony . In any case , Disney made this 1936 cartoon showing a polo match between a Disney team of Mickey Mouse , Donald Duck , the Big Bad Wolf , and Goofy , against a " star team " of Laurel & Hardy , Harpo Marx , and Charlie Chaplin . The Western star , Jack Holt , is the referee . Disney enjoyed doing cartoons with caricatures of various stars of the day . Here he includes other figures in the viewing stand . Among them are Clark Gable ( who is sitting with the amorous Claribel Cow , a long forgotten Disney cartoon figure who was usually teamed with Horace Horsecollar ) . Gable keeps getting bothered by Claribel , and eventually blushes red when she kisses him . The Three Little Pigs are in the stand next to Shirley Temple . Their appearance leads to a pleasant kind of sequel to the earlier Disney cartoon classic . Eddie Cantor , Harold Lloyd , Edna Mae Oliver ( who is annoyed by Oswald the Rabbit ) , W . C . Fields , Greta Garbo , Mrs . Roosevelt , and Charles Laughton ( dressed up as Henry VIII ) are also in the bleachers . The humor of the bulk of the cartoon is not the greatest the Disney studio ever concocted , but it is better than average . The different polo players are riding animals that resemble them ( Harpo is on an ostrich ; Ollie is on a tremendously fat horse , whose face has a Hardy scowl on it , and a smudge of a mustache , Chaplin's horse is like Charlie in appearance ( even bow legged ) , and Stan's has a head of tousled hair and a silly grin . Even Holt's horse looks like Holt . We see incidents like Harpo and his ostrich ( when they seen the other players charging them ) putting their heads in the earth ; or Hardy having trouble remounting his horse with " assistance " from Stan ; or Charlie deftly turning his horse a quarter to the left by use of his cane on the goal posts . Donald Duck ( who gets into a kind of fight with Harpo - which he loses ) swallows the polo ball and keeps trying to avoid the other players . As for the Big Bad Wolf , he is heckled by his old enemies , the pigs ( now aided by Shirley ) . But now they are not in the third pigs ' brick house , but in a wooden stand . The Big Bad Wolf stops his playing , turns and blows the portion of the stand apart , causing the pigs and Shirley to hide from him . It's somewhat nice to know that here Disney actually gave an ironic follow-up to a previous cartoon for a change . A pleasant and enjoyable cartoon , it is not one of Disney's greatest works but it is worth looking at .
Much Ado About An Invitation To A Meeting	In the middle of the Spanish American War , an American newspaper editor and writer ( and self-proclaimed Bohemian ) named Elbert Hubbard wrote a brief essay that would sweep the country in ways only reminiscent to Tom Paine's " Common Sense " ( or his " The Crisis " ) , Harriet Beecher Stowe's " Uncle Tom's Cabin " , and Edward Everett Hale's " The Man Without A Country " . Yet today , while Paine , Stowe , and Hale are still read for their major works , few regard Hubbard . Maybe this is due to the lack of staying power in our memories of the Spanish American War . After all , it is our shortest major conflict ( about half a year of declared warfare between the U . S . and Spain , and three months of actual fighting ) . But we do recall the " Maine " explosion , the battle of Manila Bay and George Dewey , and Teddy Roosevelt , the Rough Riders , and the " charge up San Juan Hill " . Why not Hubbard's essay ? I think it is because Hubbard pushed the wrong message in the essay . When Edward Everett Hale wrote " The Man Without A Country " , he was looking at the problem of patriotism and nationality . Lt . Philip Nolan foolishly throws it aside , and spends the rest of his life regretting it . Whatever we may think of patriotism , Hale makes a well written defense of it . Hubbard starts out doing the same thing in describing how Lt . Rowan is given a message to deliver to General Calixto Garcia , head of the Cuban Revolutionary Army . The essay starts describing the many dangers in the jungles of Cuba Rowan faces to deliver the message ( an invitation to Garcia to attend an important meeting with American military leaders in front of the city Santiago , which is under siege ) . There are beasts and natural dangers ( like quicksand ) that Rowan has to overcome , as well as by-passing Spanish military patrols . He does so , and gets the message to Garcia . But here Hubbard made the error , which in the Progressive Era was not seen as an error , but which Hale would never have understood . Hubbard sees Rowan's success as an example of " get-up-and-go " American pragmatism . He sees that the Lt . Rowans of the world are the doers and shakers . He compares them favorable with those " slackers " at home who don't do that extra something for their bosses that impresses bosses and leads to raises ! The end result is that Hubbard's " A Message To Garcia " becomes an advertisement for America's Chambers of Commerce . There is nothing wrong with this , but it trivializes an important military mission . Fortunately the 1936 movie ignored the idiocy of Hubbard's message . It concentrated on Lt . Rowan ( John Boles ) mission to get that message to Garcia ( Enrique Acosta ) . He is aided by Raphaelita Maderos ( Barbara Stanwick ) and Sgt . Dory ( Wallace Beery , as an American deserter , who regains his sense of duty ) . Opposed is the Spanish agent Dr . Ivan Krug ( Alan Hale Sr . ) who nearly derails the mission . It is a serviceable little movie , and one of the few sound films that actually deal with T . R . ' s " Splendid Little War " . And Garcia did get the message in real life and in the film . One negative comment that I am aware of . Harry Golden , in his book " Only In America " , talks about the film , and points out the importance of the meeting is never stressed properly . After Garcia gets the message , we see him go to the meeting by boat , and shake hands with his hosts . As Golden says , it looks like Garcia was simply invited to lunch ! This idea may have influenced a later Warner Brother cartoon with a similar plot involving Speedy Gonzalez and Sylvester the Cat as enemy combatants . Gonzalez is asked to deliver a message to a revolutionary leader from his general . Sylvester keeps trying to catch him , and gets injured , but Speedy gets pretty tired . Finally , having tied up Sylvester , Speedy delivers the message ( which he has to read ) . It's an invitation to a birthday party . Pretty sore about this ( and Sylvester is not too thrilled either ) the same idea enters both their heads . Speedy releases Sylvester , who starts chasing the revolutionary leader and the general who was throwing the party .
Romance in the age of President Eisenhower	Let us say this - the film is an eye-filler . Cinemascope was just starting and the use of the city of Rome as a backdrop was an excellent one . One only wishes a more charming and better film ( such as ROMAN HOLIDAY ) had been the first to use it , but that film was shot in black and white , and not in a big screen format like cinema-scope . Yet that film holds up better . There is an unwritten rule regarding screenplays - keep them relatively simple or the story is stretched beyond acceptable belief . As this is a romantic film we are willing to let it stretch a little , but certain points about it that were acceptable in 1954 are now seen as hard to believe . The plot deals with three women who are Americans and find themselves working in Rome . Two are connected to the American Embassy there , represented by Howard St . John . St . John was a capable , if unexciting , actor . He was the original General Bullmoose in the musical " L'il Abner " ( and like Peter Palmer repeated his performance in the film version ) . He was usually playing professional men ( lawyers , bankers , diplomats ) many of whom if not crooked were willing to accept a degree of accommodation with unlikeable types for some advantage ( in the film of Woody Allen's play DON'T DRINK THE WATER , St . John is willing to allow an innocent American family get smeared by a Communist Regime as spies so he could make headlines about negotiating their release for an upcoming political campaign ) . He is also recalled as Broderick Crawford's legal adviser in BORN YESTERDAY . St . John fit in well ( including his homburg hats ) with the style of the Eisenhower years . Here St . John is observing the behavior of two of the woman , Maggie MacNamara and Jean Peters , making sure they toe the line regarding no fraternizing with Italians . But the three woman ( the third is Dorothy Maguire ) are walking by the Trevi Fountain in Rome , and when discussing the legend that you can get your wish there they throw their coins into the fountain ( hence the title of the film ) wishing for staying on in Rome or for romance . MacNamara meets a local Prince played by Louis Jordan , and Peters meets a young man working at the Embassy ( Rosanno Brazzi ) and two romances start up . St . John is not thrilled at this , and ends ( or tries to end ) the one between Peters and Brazzi by firing Brazzi . He can't do much with MacNamara and Jordan , as the latter is not attached to the Embassy , and is pretty important in Italy itself . Maguire has been already living in Rome for 15 years . Originally working at the embassy , she has become the secretary of a famous novelist played by Clifton Webb . Although she occasionally goes out with St . John , she is frequently in the company of Webb as well . We subsequently learn that she has been carrying the torch for Webb all these years , but he is unaware of it . Now it as been pointed out by other writers on this website that Webb , talented performer that he was in film , was the closest thing that the movies could produce as a closet " Gay " man in the movies of the 1940s and 1950s . Intellectual , sharp tongued , frequently cruel ( in his serious roles like Waldo Lydecker or Eliot Templeton ) he was amusing ( Mr . Belvedere or MR . SCOUTMASTER or DREAMBOAT ) and always attention getting . But the thought that he could have any woman quietly carrying a torch for him for 15 years is a stretch - I say this even after seeing him as Frank Gilbreth in CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN , as the ultimate father and husband - aided by Myrna Loy in that role . Yet we find him in such a position here , and playing it as though it all makes sense . He even has a chance to show that he can be noble to Maguire when he learns of an unfortunate turn of events . The other two romances rise and collapse due to economic pressures ( Peters and Brazzi ) and character failure ( MacNamara and Jordan ) . How does the film end . I will only add that the script writers decided to turn Webb into a noble lover and a deus ex machina at the conclusion . I take it that this was fine in 1954 , the year this film was made and the year of my birth . Ike was President only one year , and we had a confidence in our nation having a fairly flawless future if we only listened to the wisdom of the wise and old . And Webb just fit the bill for that in this romantic film . The performances are pretty good , including MacNamara - who a year before had gotten critically good notices ( and even an Oscar nomination ) in the now dated and abysmal THE MOON IS BLUE . Here her stridency in that role is tone down , and she actually is acceptable in her pursuit of Jordan . Jordan is good as a man who believes in trust as the cornerstone of love . Peters is a practical girl who nearly loses Brazzi due to his relative poverty . And Maguire makes the most of her improbable role , especially in a late drunk scene sequence . For the performances and the cinematography it is a " 7 " . But the story would need real repair work if the film was redone today .
Robert Culp and the Perils of Prosperity	It's not a great comedy , but THE GREAT SCOUT AND CATHOUSE THURSDAY is a spoof western that plays around with such themes as settling long standing scores and recapturing a lost love from youth . In the proper hands mighty great tragedies of loss of innocence or happiness have been built on such themes like THE SEARCHERS . Here it is sent up - with a heavenly nuttiness . Lee Marvin , Strother Martin , and Oliver Reed ( as a truly vengeful Native American - more below ) all worked a gold site with Robert Culp when they were all younger and ( these three ) more innocent . Culp ran off with the money , and used it to become a powerful gold mine owner . Marvin accidentally tracks him down , and gathers the other two to confront him and demand their share . And he laughs in their face , and uses his goon squad to chase them away . But they come up with a plan to kidnap Culp's wife ( Elizabeth Ashley ) to force him to give them their money . Marvin , now an old saddle bum , recalls how Ashley and he were once quite hot for each other . He figures that there should be little real problem . A touch of O'Henry comes here - " The Ransom of Red Chief " . It seems that marriage and prosperity brought out the worst in both Culp and Ashley . Both are used to their comforts , and neither are particularly nice people , nor do they care for each other ( Culp has been promoting a prize fighter for the heavyweight championship - the gentleman has been sleeping with Ashley ! ) . So after having the " pleasure " of kidnapping Ashley , Marvin discovers Culp couldn't care less . The film has some wonderful touches in it . Reed's " Joe Knox " is the most interesting vengeful Indian in American movies . Forget slow torments over roasting fires , or flaying alive , or " running the gauntlet " or scalping . Seems Joe has venereal disease , and plans to spread it all over the west . Martin , when he learns this , is frightened ( " Damn it Joe , we drank out of the same cup ! " , he squeals ) . Reed foresees that his one-man assault on the U . S will reach the White House ( he sees Teddy Roosevelt screaming about it ) . Lee Marvin does convince him to see a doctor , but Reed is aware ( apparently ) of the current treatment with mercury and a needle . Marvin tries to reassure him ( " It's all done with a little pill now ! " ) . Reed believes him , until he sees the doctor , and runs out . Culp and his relationship with Marvin is also interesting . When they were younger and working together , Culp was a member of the Democratic Party like Marvin ( and Martin , presumably ) . But now he's a man of property and position . He is not only a good taxpayer and a Republican ( as Brian Keith would have said in THE HALLALUJAH TRAIL ) but he is pushing the election of Republican Candidate William Howard Taft over William Jennings Bryan . Marvin can't believe this apostasy , and Culp is obviously annoyed by Marvin's confronting him on such an important matter . When they finally confront each other in a fight , Culp says he is not only going to beat up Marvin for trying to get his money back , but he's going to force him to vote for the better man for President . Whenever he punches Marvin , Culp says , " You will vote for Taft ! " . Seldom has political principle gone to such a length . It was a good comedy , and is worth watching . It also ( in it's conclusion ) gave Marvin an opportunity to sing in a movie again , as he had done in PAINT YOUR WAGON . But this time the song is livelier , and there are others singing it with him .
The Hero of the Amsterdam Olympics . . . .	This film came out in 1983 and got pounded by the critics , but was actually quite amusing . It was spoofing " Sapper " ' s BULLDOG DRUMMOND stories , about the super-hero of Britain post World War I . Facing his version of " Carl Peterson " or " Dr . Lakington " in Otto Von Bruno ( an unreconstructed German warrior from the Great War ) , Captain Hugh Bullshot Crummond is trying to thwart the latter's plots to resurrect a super - Germany . The jokes were basically making fun of all the plot problems and story failings in the Drummond novels . For example , Von Bruno manages to get a drug into Crummond while he is at lunch . It causes his features to bloat out , and his voice to turn Churchillian , but in the worst possible sense : he sounds like an ultra-reactionary Tory attacking minority groups and foreigners ( which is what " Sapper " did believe in ) . The film did not take itself seriously . Highpoints was the drugging of a room full of scientists ( including Einstein ) with marijuana . Also was a moment when Von Bruno sets up a trap based on the crashing of a bathroom door , which the hero is seen about to crash when he takes a large breath of air outside the door . A bit later we see him untouched ( as is a hostage who was inside the room ) . A complicated , and totally improbable explanation about the physics that kept the death trap from working ( apparently a vacuum was created when he took his breath of air ) . After the film's unseen narrator explains this , all the characters stop their activities and look helplessly at the audience trying to grasp what they've just been told . A clever film spoof , it is worth watching when it is available .
Charming Tragi - Comedy , but a minor one	This is one of those movies where the set pace of events are known to the audience , so that when it reaches it's conclusion we are aware that what we ( the audience ) might wish can happen for the two leads is not going to be possible . It is 1911 , and we are in London for the coronation week of King George V and his wife Queen Mary . If you have read THE GUNS OF AUGUST by Barbara Tuchman , this event was the last great occasion for the appearance of all the crowned heads of Europe prior to the destruction ( in seven years ) of three leading houses ( Hohenzollern , Romanov , and Hapsburg ) due to World War II . Despite the survival of several other monarchies in Scandanavia , the Benelux countries , and ( in revival ) in Spain , the three lost ones of 1918 are now joined by the lost ones of the Balkans . And it is the Balkans that is the spot that Laurence Olivier's Carpathia is located in . In reality Carpathia is part of Hungary and Roumania . Part of it ( Transylvania ) is well known through the story of Dracula . But for the sake of this story , it is an independent kingdom like Roumania , Bulgaria , and Serbia at that time . Prince Charles , the Regent of Carpathia , is running the country until his son King Nicholas comes of age in 18 months . So sometime in 1913 Nicholas will start ruling in his own name , and he is pro-German . Charles is pro-English . This would be unimportant but Carpathia has the fourth best army in Europe , so if it shifts it's position it may cause an unbalanced international situation that may lead to a general war . Charles ( Laurence Olivier ) and Nicholas ( Jeremy Spenser ) and Nicholas ' grandmother the Queen Dowager ( Sybil Thorndike ) are attending it . Charles is being monitored by Foreign Office official Northbrook ( Richard Wattis ) , who wants to make sure the Regent is happy on his visit . Charles attends a show , and decides that one of the minor actresses , Elsie Mariner ( Marilyn Monroe ) should be invited to the Carpathian Embassy for a late supper . Despite misgivings Northbrook arranges for Elsie to show up . But Elsie ( although welcomed by the amorous Charles ) finds she has to watch as he spends time talking about a political problem at home - the capture of one of Nicholas ' clique of pro-German friends who has been caught with some compromising documents that would hurt the King . Charles plans to squeeze the arrested man for all the information he can get about Nicholas ' schemes , but admits to his telephone informant that he is more likely to have problems about the situation from President Taft and his meddlesome Americans than from anyone else . Elsie , who overhears this , is angered ( she is an American ) . The result is a moment that most fans of Monroe don't recall . They remember that she sang Happy Birthday to President Kennedy once , but here she toasted President William Howard Taft with champagne . Charles finds Elsie not like other women he has had one night stands with . First , he never gets to first base with her ( she gets drunk and falls asleep , despite his varied attempts to get her into the right mood and position ) . Second , she does not leave as he hopes , but keeps getting stuck deeper and deeper into the embassy and the Royal Family's world ( even attending the coronation at Westminster Abbey ) . She is there for the embassy ball , and she even has a second night where she is in control of the trysting . Charles married his late wife and did his duty for her and her country , but he finds he loves Elsie . But he is leaving at the start of the third day for Carpathia with his mother and son , and has another 18 months of duty before he is free . And Elsie has 18 months left to her play contract . They do say " au revoir " at the end , but will they get back together . For they can't until 1913 , the start of the Second Balkan War , and one of the steps that brought World War I to fruition . The film was based on a play , THE SLEEPING PRINCE by Terence Rattigan , one of the best dramatists of England in the 20th Century ( THE WINSLOW BOY , THE BROWNING VERSION ) . A practitioner of what Shaw called " the well-made play " , Rattigan made sure his plays were entertaining and intelligent , and his characters were realistic . But in the original play Elsie was not American , but English , and was played by Vivien Leigh . Olivier had thought of filming the play with Leigh , but her illness interfered . Monroe was available , and was big box-office . Olivier was to direct her , his first film direction assignment since RICHARD III . She gave so much difficulty to him , he did not direct another film until 1970 when he did Checkov's THE THREE SISTERS . But the film has it's period charms and a literate script . It does capture the brittle social and diplomatic world of 1911 quite well . Olivier's Regent is not as great a part as Richard III or Hamlet or Othello , but he does have a grasp on the man's pride and sense of self-importance . Monroe does come across as intelligent regarding family matters ( i . e . the Regent and his son , the King ) , as well as an understanding woman . Wattis shoulders the dignity of the foreign office ruffled by the crazy duties he has to shoulder that week . Sybil Thorndike , with her fears of anarchists , and belief that Elsie is a close friend of Sarah Bernhart , is in a peculiar portion of the universe . She carries off an eccentric royal type that is light years away from her aged , vicious crone in BRITTANIA MEWS . It was not a major film - certainly not in the same category as the three Olivier Shakespeare films , but it is a good minor one .
Protection From One Step Beyond	In several of the episodes of ONE STEP BEYOND , circumstances , or forces that we know little about , come up to right wrongs or punish wrongdoers . I described one episode the other day where Donald Pleasance willfully allows an innocent man to die for the sake of his own legal career , and subsequently , when on the verge of capping his career , he finds everything that he hid coming to haunt him , until his mind gives way and he is perennially confessing in Hyde Park about his sin , and condemning himself . In this story , Jess Bradley is a Southern boy who is spying for the Confederacy and has only one companion - his pet hound dog . Unfortunately he is captured by the Union forces , under Colonel Martin ( Crahan Denton ) , who hates the Rebs . Actually Bradley is fair game in the war - both sides tended to hang each other's spies when caught . But Denton is simply vicious , mistreating him far beyond what he has done ( some troop movement observations ) . Even his junior officer , Captain Adams ( Jeremy Slate ) protests a bit , only to be told he'll face a court martial if he interferes . The Colonel's actions finally arouse one other figure - Bradley's dog , who starts threateningly growling at Denton . No problem there - Denton calmly shoots the animal , despite protests by Bradley . Having had his fun , Denton sentences Bradley to be shot the next morning . Bradley , still mourning his pal , comes out to face his final day . Slate is very upset , as he realizes that the punishment has far exceeded the so-called crime already . He hesitates to order the hanging so that Denton pushes him aside to complete it . Suddenly everyone hears the sound of an angry hound running . Denton - looking horrified - falls to the ground wrestling an unseen object , but every few minutes he is bleeding more and screaming in agony ( while he is begging for help - but how to help fight something you can't see or understand ) . Finally the noise abates , and a savagely ripped and mangled Denton lies dead to everyone's amazement . Slate orders Bradley taken down from his gallows , and returned to his cell , while he wonders how to explain the odd demise of the Colonel . It was tremendously satisfying , even if you can't believe it really happened . One thinks of Ambrose Bierce's Civil War stories like A HORSEMAN IN THE SKY and AN OCCURRENCE AT OWL'S CREEK BRIDGE , as well as his horror tales like THAT DAMNED THING , and THE MOONLIT ROAD . Whoever came up with this wonderful little drama did a pretty good job at a horror tale that worked .
Our Funny Valentine	Like most biographies of musicians or lyricists WORDS AND MUSIC is great as a showcase of the music , but a bent synopsis of the life story . It's of a piece with films as diverse as A SONG TO REMEMBER about Chopin , YANKEE DOODLE DANDY about Cohan , NIGHT AND DAY about Cole Porter , or STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER about Sousa . Except for elements about Chopin's patriotism to his native Poland and his affair with George Sand ( which was twisted unfairly against Sand ) A SONG TO REMEMBER was the most successful film of this bunch in chronicling a composer's career and showing some type of tension ridden story line . YANKEE DOODLE DANDY was ( due to the upbeat nature of Cohan's stage career ) the best of these films , but hid everything negative about the man . The Cole Porter film NIGHT AND DAY did capture the problems of Porter's physical catastrophe ( the riding accident that crippled him ) , but it left him a total heterosexual . It was not until the more recent movie with Kevin Kline that his homosexuality was brought out . It was a distinct negative for YANKEE DOODLE DANDY that Cohan was still alive , and vetoed any information about his first wife Ethel Leavy , and his campaign against Actor's Equity . Cole Porter was similarly alive when NIGHT AND DAY came out , but the studio would never ( in the late 1940s ) discuss homosexuality . Otherwise , we know Porter loved the film - he said he could not complain about a movie where he was portrayed by Cary Grant ! With WORDS AND MUSIC , concentrating as it did on Lorenz Hart ( safely dead in 1948 ) it made nonsense about that lyricists personal demons . As mentioned on another review , Hart was fully as gay as Porter or Tschaikovsky were . For most of his life he was unhappy about this and sought a woman he could love who would make him a heterosexual . As has been pointed out , Vivienne Segall was the Broadway star he approached on several occasions to marry , and he never could get her to say yes ( probably a wise move by Vivienne ) . Unfortunately , her last rejection was during the revival of A CONNECTICUT YANKEE in 1943 , and it played a role in undermining his spirits . The film shows June Alysson doing the " Thou Swell " number from YANKEE's original production in 1930 . For the revival , Hart wrote the lyrics for his last masterly piece - Morgan Le Fay's " To Keep My Love Alive " , which Ms Segall sang on opening night . Ironically , Hart died before the opening night of the revival . Broadway people in the know were aware that Vivienne may have turned down Larry , but that she came as close to loving him as was possible for a woman . When she finished her number , there was a standing ovation for her - and for the man who was not quite the man of her dreams . This film is full of good moments , from Alysson in the above number , and Perry Como doing " Mountain Greenery " and Rooney and Garland in their last duet on film . It does not touch upon the struggles of Hart and Rodgers in getting Hollywood to take their work seriously . Fortunately their skillful use of " song - dialog " appears in several of the Paramount films of the early 1930s , most notably in the great LOVE ME TONIGHT and HALLELUJAH , I'M A BUM . There use of ballet ( with George Ballanchine ) in ON YOUR TOES on Broadway is not noted , nor is their pushing one of the best first book musicals : PAL JOEY . One can go on like this about what is not properly shown . It was not until a few years later that a solid dual biography about collaborators in musical theater , THE GREAT GILBERT AND SULLIVAN , turned up with Robert Morley and Maurice Evans . But in that case , both central characters were safely dead , and their personal quarrels were so well known to make a real story line , punctuated by segments from their operettas . Even so , this was not enough to change Hollywood technique - the next big musical biography was THE STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER with Clifton Webb , a good film but barely with any details of the subject's life and non-musical achievements . As was mentioned on this thread in another review , Larry Hart's final , fatal binge ( reminiscent of the father's death in A TREE GROWS IN BROOKLYN , by the way ) was done after his attending the first night's performance of OKLAHOMA . Hart probably saw the handwriting on the wall : a new lyricist named Oscar was on the horizon to take his place - a good family man or impeccable theatrical background and success , and not a drinker ! But there is another element to it . The split between Hart and Rodgers had been growing for awhile , and Rodgers ( per forma ) had offered the job of lyricist in OKLAHOMA to Hart . Hart did not like the book , and begged out . He actually was approached by another composer to do the lyrics for an operetta . It was Emmerich Kalman , best known for the operetta COUNTESS MARITZA . Hart was still thinking about this offer ( he had done lyrics for the movie version of THE MERRY WIDOW for MGM in 1934 ) . Whether he and Kalman might have been as successful as Rodgers and Hammerstein were is a curious question to ponder .
And Farmers Said That at 10 : 00 P . M . the Moon turned Red	I mentioned this episode in passing in my general review of ONE STEP BEYOND . The death of Abraham Lincoln has bred an entire mythology of it's own , due to the reverence felt towards the 16th President , and even shared ( ironically ) by his killer John Wilkes Booth . A good place to start studying it is in JIM BISHOP'S THE DAY LINCOLN WAS SHOT , but also read Lloyd Lewis's MYTHS AFTER LINCOLN , Theodore Roscoe's WEB OF CONSPIRACY , and William Hanchett's THE LINCOLN MURDER CONSPIRACIES . Like the odd story about Morgan Robertson's novella FUTILITY : THE WRECK OF THE TITAN which mirrored the 1912 Titanic Disaster but was written in 1898 , there are verifiable stories regarding Lincoln's death that are matters of record . For example Lincoln's dreams . He had two in particular that several of his associates and friends knew of . During the course of the war , Lincoln had a dream in which he was on a ship that was crossing an ocean , and headed for some distant place . It usually reappeared ( that is , Lincoln dreamed it ) whenever a major battle or event of the war was about to occur . He dreamed it shortly after Lee's surrender , except he now saw the outline of a distant shore ( he hadn't before ) . Everyone suspected it had to do with Lee's Surrender , not with Lincoln's possible death . Better known was his dream of waking in the middle of the day , and walking from his bedroom , and going to the East Room where many people were walking and moaning and crying . Lincoln saw them surrounding an object , and asked what it was . Someone says , " It was the President . He was killed by an assassin . " Again many people are on record as having heard this . But there were other events - I alluded to one in the " Summary Line " . Farmers in the Midwest claimed that the Moon turned blood red at 10 : 00 P . M . - the hour and moment Booth fired his bullet into Lincoln's head . The episode was done very well . Newland handled it tactfully . I mentioned ( in the general review of the series ) that it begins with Newland looking at an antique pocket watch . He points out it is running . It has the initials of it's owners on it : " J . W . B . " Newland adds that the owner is a murderer . And we know who owns the watch . Lincoln always had a feeling of fatalism about his job , because he knew the passions that were directed towards him and his policies by half the country ( sometimes more than half ) . His step-mother Sarah had always felt dread at his political success , and openly said that he'd never return to Springfield alive . Yet , to be fair to Lincoln , he did have post-Presidential plans . He hoped to travel with Mary and his sons abroad after his Presidency , and possibly see California as well . A fantasy novel , THE MISSING YEARS , showed what might have happened if Lincoln had been able to struggle with Booth instead of just getting shot . But his general fatalism , and his willingness to accept the risks ( which included at least two other attempts on his life ) put a downer on his existence - one that may have been shared by his wife and son Robert . The episode is stiff at times , but it's inevitability enhances the tale . Again it is worth watching .
Great Victorian Novel becomes Interesting Looking But Weak Film	Because of the overwhelming success of his novels , people still read Charles Dickens . If you poled people who like to read classic novels , you would find most people read Dickens , Emily and Charlotte Bronte , and Anthony Trollope most among the " high Victorian " novelists ( those from 1830 - 1882 ) . This cuts out a large number of fine novelists , like George Eliot , George Meredith , Elizabeth Gaskell , and Benjamin Disraeli ( yes , the Prime Minister ) , or even William Wilkie Collins , the first great mystery / detective novelist . But the one that is particularly odd is William Makepeace Thackeray . In his day ( he was a prominent novelist from 1839 to 1863 when he died ) Thackeray was actually the leading rival of Dickens as the leading novelist . Dickens was capable of a wider variety of social class types in his fiction , and could show wilder humor and greater tragedy in his novels . But Thackeray was more gifted at subtle characterization and clever social satire of the upper class . He was a member of that class , and knew what he was talking about when he wrote about them . George Orwell noted that when Dickens did an aristocrat in like Sir Mulberry Hawk in " Nicholas Nickleby " , the resulting character was a type from Victorian melodrama , whereas Thackeray or Trollope made more realistic figures . He also was willing to experiment in odd ways . Occasionally Dickens did too - he did first person narrative novels like " David Copperfield " and once did one with a female narrator " Bleak House " . But in 1846 Thackeray wrote " Vanity Fair , A Novel Without A Hero " . The title was a pun . The two leading characters , Rebecca ( Becky ) Sharp and Amelia Sedley , are women ( so it suggests the novel has a " heroine " ) . But both women are quite faulty . Becky is a fortune hunter who won't let anyone or anything keep her from becoming rich . Amelia is a nice person . In fact , she is too nice . She has to go through an 800 page story before she stops being friendly to her school friend Becky , and only after Becky reveals what a bad person she has been to Amelia . None of the characters in " Vanity Fair " is flawless . The closest to a hero in the story , William Dobbin , adores Amelia - but won't push himself as a suitor ( he wants her to notice his adoration by herself ) . Becky vamps members of the Crawley family ( where she is the family governess ) , and marries the second son , Rawdon , in expectation of a generous aunt's largesse to support them . But that fails to work out . So she tags along with Rawdon , accompanying him on the Waterloo campaign , and makes a play for George Osbourne ( Amelia's selfish husband ) . Eventually she and Rawdon become social figures , " living well on nothing a year " ( by cheating merchants of payments for their food , clothes , etc ) . She also becomes the mistress of the powerful Marquis of Steyne ( pronounced " stain " ) . How the events of this novel without a hero end I leave to the reader to read the novel ( the best way ) or to see either this version by Rouben Mamoulian , the recent one with Reese Witherspoon , or a modern dress version from 1932 with Myrna Loy as Becky . Mamoulian's version reduces the story to 90 minutes of film , and so much is thrown out . In particular the antics of Amelia's cowardly , pompous brother Joseph Sedley ( Nigel Bruce in Mamoulian's film ) . Hopkins does very well as Becky - garnering her best film performance . She is supported by Alan Mowbray as Rawdon , who may be raffish in some ways but gains our respect as he sees the woman he loves for what she is . Francis Dee is adequate ( if not memorable ) as Amelia . Cedric Hardwicke is sinister and powerful as Steyne . Allison Skipworth gives one a taste of the self-centered , pampered aunt of Rawdon , " Miss Crawley " . So what went right and wrong . It is a great novel ( my opinion ) but I admit this film leaves me cold . So much was cut out the film is just a synopsis of the main plot . But then , Thackeray's greatest strength as a satirist was as a subtle writer . Somehow subtlety on his printed page is not well translated onto the silver screen . On the other hand , Mamoulian did make great strides ( in terms of elegant cinematography ) with the then new three tone color film system . The best moment is at the scene of the great last ball given to Wellington's staff and men at Brussels in June 1815 , which ends as a cannon blast in the distance is heard : the opening shot of Waterloo . The moment that the blast is heard a blast of air causes a red curtain to blow , looking like a wave of blood . Mamoulian was able to squeeze out of the process some idea of what to do with it . For that reason the film is worth seeing . But I urge the interested viewer to take the time to read Thackeray's novel .
Washington's Vision ?	The actor Robert Douglas was one of those sort of " elite " type villains - George MacDonald Fraser calls them the men of the " sibilant " ess " " because of the way they pronounce words with a soft but sharp " ess " - like Henry Daniell , George Zucco , George Coulouris , George Macready , and Lionel Atwill ( one could also add Boris Karloff and Charles Laughton too ) . They normally are villains in their movies but they usually fascinate the audience watching them . Douglas's best known villain is possibly Ellsworth Toohey in THE FOUNTAINHEAD , the elitist architectural critic who is trying to smash the originality of Howard Roarke ( Gary Cooper ) . However he was the improvident Italian Marchese who is forced to side with the German invaders in Medieval Italy in THE FLAME AND THE ARROW . He was also the Duke of Lorca fighting Errol Flynn's DON JUAN , and the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Sir Christopher Haddon , who was struggling against Richard Todd's Sir Walter Raleigh for Bette Davis ' THE VIRGIN QUEEN . Finally ( ironically given his role in this episode of ONE STEP BEYOND ) he was Benedict Arnold , betraying his country and dooming the heroic Major John Andre ( Michael Wilding ) in THE SCARLET COAT . Yet he could play good guys on occasion . Towards the end of his career Douglas was in an episode of COLUMBO where a murder occurs on a cruise liner . He is the ship's doctor , and helps Peter Falk solve the crime . In the present case , he played one of the heroes of American history - General ( later President ) George Washington . It is harder to think of better people to portray . The issue of George Washington's religion ( like that of Jefferson and Lincoln ) has bothered American historians . Basically Washington was a member of the Anglican Church ( which became the Episcopalian ) , but in practice was a Deist like Jefferson . But Washington ( unlike Jefferson ) felt organized religion was important for society - it stabilized nations to have religious populations , which encouraged morality . On the other hand , Washington was light years ahead of his fellow founding fathers in one portion of organized religious belief . He saw that no single religion had a key to morality , and ( unlike Jefferson , who still played with Christ as a central figure ) Washington was willing to show support for non-Christians ( not that Jefferson pushed for persecution : he just felt religious morality had to sprout from Christian thought ) . Washington was willing to write letters to give support to Jewish Congregations in the U . S . ( a famous example was a letter to the Congregation of the Touro Synagogue in Newport in 1791 ) . Jefferson and Madison never did that , nor did Franklin or Adams or Hamilton . Starting with Parson Mason Weems , the hagiography biographer of Washington in the 1800s , the legends that Washington was secretly pious arose many times . One scene of this was of Washington being observed by some of his soldiers at Valley Forge praying in the wintry snow for guidance . A stamp of Washington doing this appeared in the 1930s . Despite Weems's pious words , there is no real proof this scene ever occurred . Yet the story continues to circulate . In this episode of ONE STEP BEYOND , Washington is facing the destruction of his army because the British have captured Philadelphia and his men are starving and freezing . He is considering either resigning his command or suggesting that the Continental Congress consider making terms with the British . SPOILERS COMING UPHe is walking through the camp and forest in Valley Forge , when he sees the Otumcas ( Richard Hale ) . Otumcas is an old acquaintance of the General whom he respected . The only problem is that Otumcas died about ten years before . The spirit of the Indian reviews the facts of his situation , and while he says it is bad he suggests that the General should seek guidance . As Otumcas vanishes into the air , Washington considers the situation . He does pray ( as Weems would have it ) , but he feels little confidence in that . He talks to his friend the young Lafayette ( Donald Buka ) and decides to go to bed . But the next morning there is a change in him . He is far more optimistic , and tells Lafayette that he was wrong : that he has seen what the United States will one day be like - a huge country and important and strong - a hope for the world . He can't suggest giving up now . . . and he won't do so . He is recommitted to continuing and winning this war . Douglas was quite compelling in that scene , and ( like many of the episodes ) despite disbelief regarding the General having ever had such a vision we ( an interested audience ) suspend disbelief and accept what he is saying . John Newland's postscript about the validity of Washington's vision is a nice piety , but I have never seen a reputable historian push this story in a biography . But the performance of Douglas makes the episode worthwhile , particularly as he is playing a good person for a change .
Once in Love With Raymond	Ray Bolger's career in movies has a passing resemblance to another performer who did not quite fit in , but who achieved stardom through a back door of sorts : Robert Preston . If one looks at the credits of both men most of their films are quite forgettable , but their musical work lifts them . Yet Bolger , although recognized for his abilities as an eccentric dancer , only hit the target on film twice : as the Scarecrow in " The Wizard of Oz " and as Charley Wykeman in " Where's Charlie " . The first one was a lucky fluke , as he was hired in the Hollywood studio system at it's height . But after appearing in that classic , Bolger was wasted in movies ( one can make an exception with his appearance in " The Harvey Girls " but it is still pale in comparison ) . He had a habit of returning to Broadway , appearing in Roger & Hart's " By Jupiter " in the early 1940s . Then he returned to Broadway in the late 1940s . And he got his greatest Broadway success there as Charley Wykeman in " Where's Charlie " . A musical version of the farce , " Charlie's Aunt " , he played the hero who dresses up as his wealthy aunt from Brazil ( where the nuts come from ) . The highpoint of the musical was when he sang " Once In Love With Amy " , and got the audience to join in the singing . Bolger's performance and enthusiasm made Broadway history . With his established reputation in Hollywood musicals he was able to get the lead in the Hollywood version . So as a result of this we are able to still enjoy that rarity - an actual Broadway star's performance on celluloid in the role he made famous . It is identical to Preston's return to Hollywood as " Professor Harold Hill " in " The Music Man " . But the latter film really began a second half to Preston's career . He would spend most of his later years on Broadway , not in Hollywood , and only pick and choose those films that he wanted to do , culminating with " Victor / Victoria " . That did not happen with Bolger . His next musical , " April in Paris " was with Doris Day , but was not very good . He never starred in another Hollywood film . He played " Barnaby " in Walt Disney's " Babes in Toyland , but most critics did not care for that film either . Bolger's stardom was never in doubt , but his days of growth in his movie roles were over . Not quite like Preston , who seemed to have a better presence for some reason . Still , " Where's Charley ? " is in that select group with " The Man Who Came to Dinner " and " Call Me Madame ! " wherein we are able to see what the Broadway audiences saw . For that alone we should be grateful .
The Face on the Wall ?	This was another well acted episode of ONE STEP BEYOND , dealing with the slow undoing of a perfect crime committed by an aristocrat . In all my reading of criminal history I have not come across this particular story - so I tend to doubt it happened . But it was interesting in it's way , and Max Adrian gave a nice performance as the killer . Briefly , the Marquis De La Roget has recently lost his wife to a sudden , fatal , and unexpected illness . There is no real reason for anyone to care , but the local Inspector ( Guy De Vesal ) is a little curious about this death . Still if there is nothing to base it on . . . Well , the audience soon discovers that Adrian has been having an affair with his ambitious maid , Charlotte ( Doris Dowling ) . She was the force pushing him to poison his wife , and her intention ( of course ) was to replace the wife . And it might have worked , except that Max Adrian has what seems to be a kind of conscience . He realizes he murdered his first wife , and although if he keeps quiet he and Charlotte can carry on without any problems , he keeps thinking about his great sin . And he thinks about a peculiar stain on the wall . It only attracts his attention , but the stain ( he is certain ) looks odd . And each day it looks odder . Why , it looks like the dead woman . He's sure of it . Charlotte is not too thrilled about this . If the Marquis says the wrong thing his is not the only neck that can end up under a guillotine blade . Soon she realizes that the Marquis is less and less a lover and more and more a grave danger ( emphasis on grave ) . SPOILER COMING UP : So Charlotte convinces the Marquis that he commit suicide , but leave her out of it . He agrees , leaving a note that he alone was responsible . She finds him ready to take the poison , but he is staring at that stain on the wall again . Very intently . " Don't you see it ? " , he asks . . . " Her face , when she died ! " Charlotte , smugly smiling , turns to the wall and sees the face of the dead woman . She screams hideously several times . And subsequently we see the Inspector with the Marquis . He is not dead , he has not drunk the poison . The sudden death of Charlotte ( who has died of a heart attack from fright ) leads the Marquis to call for the police . The Inspector asks why he confessed . Because of her image on the wall . The Inspector looks - and asks what image . The Marquis looks and is horrified to see only a vague stain on the wall again . John Newland then comes out to explain that the Marquis died on the guillotine . Perhaps . Maybe , as Shakespeare wrote , conscience does make cowards of us all . For a relatively slight tale , Max Adrian made it a compelling story about an obsession . True story or not , did the Marquis actually see his murder victims's face ?
Shaw , the Medical Profession , and the Limits of Self-Satisfied Criticism	When one talks of Bernard Shaw's best plays , one thinks of those plays he wrote from MRS . WARREN'S PROFESSION ( 1895 ) to ST . JOAN ( 1923 ) , with a nod at THE APPLE CART ( 1930 ) and TOO TRUE TO BE GOOD ( 1932 ) . After 1923 there is a slackening in his creativity - the plays become impossible for one reason or another - in one case a horrifying political time capsule ( GENEVA , his valentine to Hitler , Mussolini , and Stalin ) . But some of the great plays of the early days creak a bit today . MAN AND SUPERMAN , his first five hour play ( with DON JUAN IN HELL as a play within the play ) is not revived too often . The Fabian sayings at the end were dismissed by George Orwell as " crackerjack sayings " in the 1940s . THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA is a similar defective masterpiece today . There is no doubt that the medical profession deserves critical review every decade or so , as Sinclair Lewis and A . J . Cronin demonstrated in the 1920s and 1930s . The fact that doctors can show more interest in making pots of money than in curing the ills of man is constantly in front of us . But Shaw's attack in THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA was something else : the plot involves the age old question of who should live and who should die . Dubedat ( Dirk Bogarde ) is a great painter , with a devoted wife - but he is a scoundrel . He is dying of tuberculosis , and Mrs . Dubedat ( Leslie Caron ) goes to see Sir Colonso Ridgeon ( John Robinson ) to see if he can use his tuberculosis " cure " on her husband . It has gotten good results , and Ridgeon seems willing to use it , but he slowly gets to dislike Dubedat , and begins wondering if his life is worth saving ( there are alternative patients to try to help ) . SPOILER COMING UP : Certainly Dubedat ( a bigamist and male chauvinist type ) is questionable , if very talented . But as Shaw pursues the matter something else enters the issue that is more personal : Ridgeon finds he is falling in love with Mrs . Dubedat . It is this personal element ( kept hidden until the end ) that raises the play . But now comes the part that ages it . If you read the long ( typically overly long ) introduction that accompanies THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA , Shaw was making a commentary on the recent failure of the British surgeon , Sir Almroth Wright , to find a method of eradicating tuberculosis in the London Metropolitan area ( THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA was published in 1907 ) . Wright was on the cutting edge of scientific study on tuberculosis , like his German contemporary Robert Koch , developer of tuberculin . Wright tried to convince the public authorities to allow him to inoculate hundreds of people with tuberculin injections and the like . He was certain this would get rid of this great " white death " plague . It didn't work - it produced some interesting statistical data ( earning Wright the satiric nickname , " Sir Almost Right " ! ) . But the disease remained as prevalent as ever . Actually it just helped to show the failure of tuberculin as a cure . Shaw the cynical satirist took up this to attack the intellectual pretensions of the medical profession on " curing " disease . If he meant that Wright had jumped to conclusions , Shaw was partly right , but the alternative of just standing around doing nothing when he had the chance seems ridiculous . Shaw goes beyond the tuberculosis issue - he attacks the profession for having " cut-happy " surgeons like Robert Morley or worse , high class quacks like Alistair Sim ( he insists blood poisoning is the cause of most of man's ills , due to everyone having a particular sack in their intestines - one that he is lucky enough not to have , so he's safe ! ) . Only the elderly , wise Felix Aylmer is an acceptable doctor to Shaw - he questions everything with a lifetime of healthy skepticism . It is entertaining , until you realize that Shaw would simply have doctors visit you , examine you , tell you what is wrong , and then leave without doing anything for you ( except if you are dying they'd make you comfortable ) . This is hardly what is expected of doctors in any society - people want to be better . Shaw would say that the life force would cure itself ( he would keep returning to the life force - making it omnipotent in BACK TO METHUSALEH in the 1920s ) . That a life force may need support he'd dismiss . One has to remember , Shaw may have read up on Wright's statistical findings , but he probably barely understood them - he was not a scientist , but a social critic and dramatist . A lifetime vegetarian , it is symbolic of the idiocy of his views on medicine that he spent part of his last years defending having to use a beef-liver extract for his health ( my God ! how could he dare use a doctor's prescription for medicine when he had that life force ! ) from criticism from other vegetarians about his hypocrisy . Apparently he never chose to notice his hypocrisy either .
The Difficulty of Adapting Georges Feydeau	Farces are made in the dramas of all countries , but they are usually the most difficult things to push from one state to another . Language is the chief problem , but also there is the issue of what one country considers a farce as opposed to another . Britain's best known farce ( that remains in repertoire ) is Brandom Thomas's CHARLIE'S AUNT . It's main peg is the two act female impersonation act of the hero , Lord Fancourt Baberley , as the aunt of his college chum , with all the attending complications concerning two elderly suitors , his own romantic pursuit , and the arrival of the actual lady he is pretending to be . While England has sex farces ( plenty of them ) , their best farce plays spoof the conventions . Michael Frayn's comedy NOISES OFF , about third rate actors putting on a fifth rate farce for far too long , is quite typical . But the French stuck to sexual subjects - particularly the idea of illicit sex and assignations . And the master of this was Georges Feydeau , probably their most revivable dramatist of the " Belle Epoque " ( 1890 - 1914 ) . When one thinks of a farce as one where people are running from one room to another , just missing each other by seconds , it is Feydeau that most people think about . It's like his signature . However , like reading any foreign writer , that writer is best read in his or her native tongue . Feydeau is a witty writer , but his farces become mechanical marvels only in English translation . You need a top cast and director to overcome the loss of language . In 1958-59 Alec Guinness appeared in a London stage production of HOTEL PARADISO , a Feydeau farce . It was quite a success on the West End ( an American production at that time also starred Bert Lahr ) . But the film version was not made until 1966 . It is a highly amusing film , but it lacks the verve needed to make it a totally successful farce on film . The cast is good . Guinness is Benedict Boniface , who is an architect married to his wife Angelique ( Peggy Mount ) . Ms Mount may be named Angelique , but she is no angel - she is bossy . Their neighbors are Henri and Marcelle Cot ( Robert Morley and Gina Lolabrigida ) . He too is an architect , but is frequently consulted on building problems . He has been asked to check a hotel that may have pipe problems , or noises that could be a ghost . Lolabrigida is angry that Morley is again putting his work ahead of their marriage , but he insists he has no choice due to his court appointed duty . But Guinness intends to take advantage of his wife's temporary absence to visit an ailing relative to traipse off with Lolabrigida . In the meantime there are additional problems regarding a visiting attorney ( Douglas Byng ) and his four daughter , and Morley's nephew ( Douglas Fowles - the assistant to Paul Eddington on YES MINISTER ) and Guinness's maid ( Anne Beach ) . All the characters end up at the rather tacky HOTEL PARADISO , which is run by Akim Tamiroff with the assistance ( ? ) of David Battley . Others in the hotel that night are a Turk , a prominent singer and her lover a British Duke , and a writer . . . actually two writers - the director of the film Peter Glanville plays Feydeau , a neighbor of the Boniface and Cot families , who is watching the antics , and deciding on what his next play is going to be like . The performances are good , but they tend to be sluggish at too many points . And the translation to English from the French seems to leave out too many verbal jokes . The film as a whole is well mounted , and amusing . But it is minor Guinness , despite his having been successful in the stage production seven years earlier .
Dated self sacrifice , but well acted	This film ( based on a Fanny Hurst best seller ) is way out of date in the modern age . No self-respecting woman would be so willing to sacrifice her career for the prospect of being a millionaire's kept woman . No man , seriously in love with any woman , would put them through such a demeaning situation ( they would consider divorce first of all , then remarriage ) . But there was supposed to be a sense of self-sacrifice by the heroine ( Margaret Sullivan ) that transcended the entire story . It is the acting that saves this film . Sullivan gives another of her touching performances , like THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER and SING NO SAD SONGS FOR ME . Charles Boyer is as charming as ever , here as a potentially important banker who is going to marry his boss's daughter . Instead , he meets Sullivan and is captivated by her spirit and seeming independence . She has a number of male admirers ( Frank McHugh and Frank Jenks among them ) . She's also something of a tease , leading on the others about dating them . Boyer and Sullivan gradually fall in love , but he is resigned ( for ambitions sake ) to marry the boss's daughter . But he sends word to Sullivan that if she will go to the steamboat landing where he is waiting , he would marry her despite his career . She gets the message , and tries to get to the landing . But she chooses to use Jenks as her " taxi driver " , and he ( recalling her promise to go with him for a jaunt into the woods ) , takes her miles in the opposite direction . When he hears her imploring him to turn around , and realizes that she has been teasing him all along , he tells her to get out of the buggy and walk back by herself . So she misses the steamboat , and Boyer ( thinking she stood him up ) leaves to marry the boss's daughter . Years later , after having developed a career as a designer , she meets the married Boyer again , and he convinces her to give up her career and become his mistress . Subsequently , despite warnings from her friend McHugh , and her other boyfriend Richard Carlston , she does not give up her relationship . It lasts until the end of their lives . All the performers are good . Among the minor performances note Tim Holt as Boyer's son who first reads Sullivan the riot act , but subsequently ends up sympathizing with her . Good cast and production , but the story is as dated as a dodo .
A National Scandal Connected With A National Treasure	The success of the series of novels by Peter Lovesey regarding the hard working 19th Century Scotland Yard Detective Sgt . Cribb ( Alan Dobie ) and his " Watson " Constable Thackeray ( William Simmons ) led to the series of television versions of the novels that appeared ( in the U . S . ) as part of the " Mystery " series . But soon the actual novels by Lovesey were used up , so he had to write stories meant for the screen . THE LAST TRUMPET was an unusual one , and worth commenting about . In 1882 ( as I mentioned when discussing the movie JUMBO ) Phineas Taylor Barnum heard news of interest to him . One of the great attractions of the London Zoo , at that time , was the large , and lovable elephant Jumbo , who was big enough to hold a number of children as passengers on his back - and did so several times a day at the zoo . But the zoo was interested in secretly selling this attraction . Jumbo ( unknown to the public ) had a disease ( I believe it is called " the mange " , but I'm not certain ) that occasionally turned the normally docile animal into a more violent one . It meant that the elephant was less and less likely to be able to be used to entertain children as it had been for several years . Barnum knew of this , and offered a fair price for the elephant . However , many in England were outraged by this cheek by the notorious Yankee showman . A number of years earlier he had offered to purchase the decrepit and deteriorating home of William Shakespeare in Stratford on Avon , and Charles Dickens , in anger , led a movement to purchase the house and start preserving it so that Barnum could not buy it . Now many in England ( who did not know of Jumbo's health problems ) were opposed to the idea of their children being denied the opportunity of enjoying their lovable friend . This is the background of the story or this episode . Joyce Grenville plays an elderly , wealthy woman who is leading a growing campaign to counter Barnum's offer for Jumbo with one of her own to keep the elephant in the London Zoo . Nobody can convince her to drop this fight ( she even writes songs and poems about " the lovable Jumbo " . Cribb and Thackeray are called in by their boss , Inspector Jowitt ( David Waller ) to keep an eye on this matter . Jowitt tells his Detectives what is the real state of Jumbo's health , and why the deal with Barnum happens to be a good one . But Grenville is stirring up the public anger that there may be civic unrest over this . Then , in the middle of the matter , Grenville is found dead in her home - supposedly of a heart attack . But it soon becomes evident she was poisoned . And Cribb and Thackeray have to figure out who did it : a representative of Barnum or of the zoo , or Jumbo's keeper ( who is looking forward to having a better paying job with Barnum ) , or Grenville's solicitor who may have his motives , or . . . possibly someone else . A bit fast in it's conclusion perhaps ( due to time considerations ) it was an interesting episode based on a forgotten event in 19th Century London social history .
A Trip to a Victorian Vacation Spot	MAD HATTER'S HOLIDAY is a novel set in Brighton , England in 1882 . Cribb and Thackeray are sent to investigate reports sent to Scotland Yard by one Albert Moscrop ( Derek Fowldes ) , a hatter who is on vacation and has seen some odd doings regarding a possible murder . A woman may have been killed - Moscrop observed it using an expensive pair of binoculars he owns ( Moscrop has several optical devices with first rate lenses , and is your basic peeping Tom ) . The problem is that he is seeing more than optical illusions or horseplay . A woman's body has turned up near where Moscrop saw an attack . Although Moscrop is a possible suspect ( and certainly peculiar ) there is nothing that links him with the victim . Cribb and Thackeray start digging into the background of the victim , who was an occasional servant . They trace her back to the vacationing household of a Dr . Prothero ( Conrad Phillips ) and his son Guy ( Adam Richardson ) , and his daughter Zena ( Fenella Fielding ) . The victim's body was cut up , so it suggests a knowledge of anatomy . But before fully accepting the Doctor as the leading suspect in place of Moscrop , Cribb has to notice that nothing in the Doctor's reputation or background suggests he is a killer . Based on one of Peter Lovesey's " Sgt . Cribb " novels , MAD HATTER'S HOLIDAY is an ironic mystery story - which ends in a draw of sorts for Cribb and his chief opponent . But it is a well written mystery for all that .
Based on Holland's " Fenian Ram "	This entry in the series of Sergeant Cribb stories into television episodes is based on the novel of the same name . Set in 1885 , it deals with two incidents that were interconnected , and centered on Irish independence . During the 1860s , James Stephen founded the Irish Brotherhood , better known today as " the Fenians " . They attempted , in the late 1860s , to revolt or cause trouble in the empire , in a series of confrontations with the British Government that really did not accomplish much more than needless bloodshed . Stephen organized Irishmen in the United States ( who had fought in the American Civil War on both sides ) to attempt to invade and conquer Canada ( they were defeated ) . Assassinations ( both successful and unsuccessful ) occurred in Canada and Australia in April 1868 . Many Irish revolutionaries were arrested , and two were set free from a Prison Van in Manchester in 1867 , and a police constable was killed . Three men were hanged for this , and became known ( in Ireland ) as " the Manchester Martyrs " . An escape of another Irish leader from Clerkenwell Prison in London led to a bomb explosion that killed almost 20 people . An alleged perpetrator was hanged as a result . For awhile the revolutionary activities was discouraged , but in 1882 they were renewed with a vengeance when the Phoenix Park Assassinations of the new British Secretary to Ireland ( Lord Frederick Cavendish ) and his assistant Thomas Burke occurred . The impetus for violent counter-action was from Irish - Americans who wanted to free their country by any means available . The Irish - Americans had the funding to do this . They started a dynamite campaign in London , blowing up various sites ( including a fatal attempt on London Bridge which ended with these man blowing themselves up ) . In this show , Cribb pretends to be Irish to find out what is the secret of the group of revolutionaries . He finds out that they have plans to sink England's newest battleship with a primitive but working submarine . The story was pretty good , and it had one supporting performer who subsequently became better known to New York audiences than Alan Dobie who played Cribb . I refer to Charles Keating , who had a long a successful career in soap operas ( and also has appeared on the Broadway stage ) . Here Keating is one of the leading dynamiters in the group . The story about the creation of a submarine boat to sink the British battleship is based on a true story . When the dynamite campaign began in London , the Irish-Americans heard of the theories and experiments of Mr . John P . Holland . The future inventor of the modern submarine was approached to build a working submarine to " sink the British Navy " . Holland did work on a project financed by the Irish-American Fenians called " the Fenian Ram " , but it was never completed . Quarrels between the careful Holland and the impatient Fenians prevented the completion of the project ( resulting in the further watertight security of the British navy up to World War I ) . But the project gave Holland confidence to keep working on his idea , until he sold his first submarine to the United States Navy in 1900 .
What marriage costs a young woman	SOMETHING OLD , SOMETHING NEW was another of the episodes of the " Sgt . Cribb " series that Peter Lovesey and his wife wrote specifically for the show , and not originally as a novel about the Victorian sleuth and Constable Thackeray . It had a very effective conclusion - one of the best ones in the series . Henry Russell ( Arthur Hewlett ) is a well-to-do elderly man who has met an extremely pretty young woman named Denise Winter ( Alison Gennie ) who has slowly worked her way into his heart . She has been assisted in this by her mother ( Charlotte Mitchell ) and her sister Daphne ( Sally Osborne ) . Russell is now intoxicated by the young lady - or as intoxicated as a seventy year old man can be by a pretty 19 year old . Naturally , the relationship , which seems headed for the alter , has not sat well with some people . The local Vicar ( William Abney ) is a trifle suspicious about how quickly the Winters made a fast campaign of Russell's affections . He takes the matter to Scotland Yard , and Cribb is put on the case . Cribb finds that Russell will not hear anything against rushing into matrimony with Denise . So the Sergeant and Thackeray investigate the background of the mother and her two daughters . And sure enough a pattern emerges . Both the mother and the older daughter have been married to older men in recent years , who died soon afterward . But both men ( being elderly ) were expected to die soon , and both died of heart attacks . SPOILER COMING UP . Cribb finds the clue to unlocking this particular case in the horticultural interest of Mrs . Winter . He discovers among plants in her garden is foxglove . This particular plant is like arsenic , except that it's effects look like a heart attack . As the two previous poison victims were both cremated , there is little chance that anything can be examined for traces of foxglove . So the only chance is to catch the Winters red handed . SECOND SPOILER . Shortly after Henry marries Denise , Cribb ( who has had the Winters under observation ) finds that Mrs . Winter has been collecting some foxglove from the garden . He decides to act . He comes into the house without warning just as Henry is about to be served dinner , and notices the soup that was about to be served to him . Cribb wonders if the ladies would like to sample the soup . They back off that offer quickly . He arranges to have Thackeray take the soup to a nearby kitchen to be transferred to a small container for storage at Scotland Yard . He then informs Mrs . Winter and her daughters that if Henry should die suddenly of a heart attack , or of an accident , he will have the soup sample examined for foxglove . He suggests that they accept that Henry is not going to die soon - in fact , Henry comes from a long living family ( his father died over 100 ) so that Denise better be prepared to expect to be a middle aged woman when she becomes a legal widow . This news does not sit very well with Denise , but there is nothing she or her mother and sister can do about it . I apologize for giving away the conclusion ( this one time ) . Normally I don't like to - but it was such a satisfactory one that I just felt like I had to tell it .
Kaye's Final Feature Film Starring Role	THE MAN FROM THE DINER'S CLUB is not Danny Kaye's best film by any stretch , but it has it's moments . Kaye is a member of the staff of the local office of the Diner's Club , and has several things against him . He is a stumble-bum type , frequently causing trouble for fellow employees . There is a running gag with Anne Marie Gilbert , who runs the computer system . It is one of the original computers - which had hundreds of cards in the system . Kaye keeps causing a switch to be pushed that causes all the cards to come out and fall through a window into the street like so much confetti . His boss Everett Sloane threatens to fire him if he goofs up again . So does his supervisor Howard Caine ( who is mad that Kaye got the job that should have gone to Caine's nephew ) . Kaye is also in the middle of wedding plans . He is marrying Martha Hyer , and is more nervous than usual as the date of the wedding ( a few days later ) approaches ) . But then a real disaster upsets everything . Kaye discovers he has approved the credit card application of a notorious mobster ( Telly Savalas ) , and that this is the type of goof-up that Sloane and Caine are looking for . The film follows Kaye's attempts to retrieve the credit card from Savallas . Little does he know that Savallas ( in an early role here - complete with wig ) is planning to get to Mexico using the Diner's Club Card of a member - but not the one Kaye would think . He also is planning to have his trail ended by using a substitute corpse . There are funny moments in the film - Kaye rushing through a wedding rehearsal much to the dismay of Hyer and the annoyance of minister Ronald Long . Also Kaye pretending to be a German masseuse and giving a ridiculous rubdown to his foe Caine ( you will see this and never be able to hear the word " tensing " said again with a straight face ) . Savallas is fine as a self-pitying gangster , wondering why we fought World War II if we allowed a home-grown gestapo ( i . e . : his take on the FBI ) take root . Savallas is also good dealing with his girlfriend Cara Williams , who he keeps referring to as a " birdbrain " . In the end she does show she has more in her than he thinks . George Kennedy , as Savallas ' right hand man , does the best he can with his role . And the final sight of Everett Sloane is also curious . Injured towards the end of the movie , we last see him on two crutches . Momentarily we think of Sloane's best recalled film role : Arthur Bannister in THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI .
Be Careful About What You Wish For ?	The story line in this episode of ONE STEP BEYOND is actually fairly straightforward . It deals with a curse on a Scotish noble family , the House of Culdane . In the 16th Century , the head of the house ( Torin Thatcher ) confronts his heir on an issue of personal courage , and says that the young man's failure to show it has made him unworthy of succeeding to the title he will eventually get . He never will deserve to get it . Shortly afterward the oldest son dies , and ( unfortunately ) the Lord of the Universe , of the Lord in control of weird curses , decides that in each generation the heir apparent will die , and his younger brother will succeed . In any case the heir apparent will not survive the father . And in one memorable sequence we hear the scream of personal anguish of Thatcher's voice as he says , " NOOOOO ! ! ! " in each generation , upon hearing the news of the death of his oldest heir ( and we see their portraits flash on the wall in period costumes up to the 20th Century ) . It is now modern times , and the heir is William ( Donald Harron ) . He is fully aware of the curse , and that he must die before his father . Yet the current Earl ( also Thatcher ) is lying on his death bed right now upstairs . The pressure of this peculiar death race is on William's mind . He can barely stand it at all : he has to hope his beloved father will die before him , a most unfilial desire . SPOILER COMING UP : The old man has apparently breathed his last , and a saddened but curious William goes to the death chamber to pay his respects . He is standing by the window , when the Earl ( presumably in a deep coma-like slumber ) arouses himself , sees William , and starts moving towards him - possibly to get him away from the open window behind him . Of course , William is scared out of his wits , backs up and falls through the window to his death ! At the end of the episode John Newland states that the current Earl Of Culdane has decided not to marry and have children , so that this curse can be laid to rest . How realistic is such a dynastic curse ? I can't answer for Scotland , but in French history it is quite powerful . From 1715 to 1879 every heir to the French throne who succeeded to the title KING or EMPEROR of France was singularly unlucky in the result or had no eldest son who succeeded to the title . Louis XIV survived his sons ( except Philip , who became King of Spain - Juan Carlos is his direct descendant - but had to sign away his rights to the French throne ) , and was succeeded by his great - grandson , Louis XV . Louis XV was succeeded by his grandson Louis XVI , who was beheaded ( as was his wife ) . Both Louis and Marie Antoinette were predeceased by his oldest son in 1789 . So Louis XVII ( the subject of the movie DANGEROUS EXILE ) was their second son . His fate is still debated . His uncle Louis XVIII never had any heirs . His brother Charles X , had two sons , the older of them ( the Duc De Berry ) was assassinated in 1820 . Berry's wife gave birth to a posthumous son , known historically as the Comte De Paris . He died in 1883 childless . From 1797 - 1815 France was ruled by Napoleon Bonaparte as Napoleon the First . Bonaparte's only legitimate son ( by Marie Louise ) was briefly ( in July 1815 ) Napoleon II , but Metternich ( who supported the restoration of Louis XVIII ) made Napoleon an Austrian Hapsburg Archduke , the Duke of Reichstat . He died in 1830 , having never really reigned at all . That same year the Duc of Oleans ( his family came from a younger son of Louis XIV ) became King Louis Phillipe . Although his family remains the claimants to the French throne today , Louis Phillipe's oldest son was killed in a carriage accident in 1842 . Louis Phillipe was overthrown in 1848 . Louis Napoleon Bonaparte was elected President of the Second Republic in 1848 , but in 1851 he seized the government as Emperor Napoleon III . He would rule ( fairly well ) until the Franco Prussian War showed vast incompetence in conducting a war . He was overthrown . His son and heir was the Prince Imperial . He was brought up in England , and joined the British Army to fight in the Zulu War of 1879 . He was abandoned by his orderly , Captain Carey , when in an isolated spot in the jungles of Zululand , and was killed before he could escape . As Napoleon III was the last French leader to try to establish a lasting royal family , his son was as unlucky an heir as Louis XVII or the Duc De Berri was . So such odd curses do exist - hopefully not forever .
The Spiritualism Racket in Victorian England	This episode of the SGT . CRIBB series was based on one of Peter Lovesey's actual novels about the Sgt . and Constable Thackeray . But in this episode , the role of their boss , Chief Inspector Jowitt , was not played by David Waller but by Thorley Waters . It was the only time Waters took Waller's role in the television series . The Victorians were pretty certain about their ability to understand and measure the universe . Certainly , in terms of material advances , the sciences of 19th Century Europe and America jumped light-years ahead of the previous century . Electricity and Steam offered two power sources for new machines , and transportation and communications advanced so that by 1866 telegraphs were crisscrossing the continents of Europe and America , and the Atlantic Cable was linking to two hemispheres , while steamships were replacing sail on the oceans , and railroads crisscrossed countries and borders . Faraday and Clerk Maxwell in electricity , Brunel in engineering , Lister in medicine , and Darwin in biological theory were all helping to spread this certainty about science . So if one could figure out what the descent of man was , why couldn't anyone determine about the existence of ghosts , poltergeists , and other mysterious psychic phenomenon by measuring them ? The British and Americans did study these psychic phenomenon as carefully as they could . But those scientists who were studying them were frequently too blind about the leeway they granted to various mediums then they should have been , or were personally involved with the psychics ( such as Sir William Crooks with Annie Cooks , a medium he studied , according to the historian Trevor Hall ) . The story here is that Cribb and Thackeray are forced ( due to a case ) to get involved with a séance being set up by a social group that Inspector Jowitt belongs to . This group is determined to test a psychic's ability to produced honest results with electric wiring that is set up in a room the psychic is sitting in . The wiring will ring if he moves from a chair in the period that the phenomenon is produced . If it doesn't move , the psychic is presumed to be legitimate . The viewers are aware of the psychic's tricks , so we know he his a fake , but the characters in the episode are not sure . Instead , however , there is an explosion , and the psychic is electrocuted . Cribb and Thackeray are now forced to interrogate these upper crust friends of Jowitt ( under his eyes , of course ) , and it leads to some difficult bits of investigating . In the end , however , Cribb does solve this case . It was an interesting look at a forgotten social development of the 19th Century .
When nobody is cooperating	Captain Allbright , a wealthy landowner , has died under mysterious circumstances . He appears to have fled his home in the middle of the night , blindly running through the local woods , and fell to his death in a large stone and gravel pit . There are no signs of violence on his body , aside from the injuries sustained from the fall , as well as scratches on his face and hands , and torn clothing . But he is a wealthy man , and Chief Inspector Jowett is asked to look into it . So he sends Cribb and Thackeray to the village Allbright lived in . What follows is not a totally unknown situation in Britain or any other country . Frequently locals prove very uncooperative with police ( especially when the police come from a distant place ) . In my review of the movie KIDNAPPED , I mentioned the Appin Murder in 1752 of the " Red Fox " Colin Campbell in Appin Forest . Although James Stewart ( of the Glen ) was tried , convicted , and hanged for the murder , it is now recognized that family feuds ( between the Stewart / Stuarts of Scotland and the Campbells ) stemming from the Jacobite Revolt of 1745-46 of " Bonnie Prince Charlie " was at the root of the judicial murder of James of the Glen . The judge and jury were all Campbells . But the Stewarts in the area around Appin , to this day , know the actual killers of the " Red Fox " , but refuse to tell it to anybody outside of their family . Similarly , the killers of William Clemens , Third Earl of Leitrim in 1876 were Irishmen who hated this particularly callous landlord . It was not until 1960 that a monument to the three killers was put up giving their names ! Cribb and Thackeray find the same lack of cooperation in looking into the death of Captain Allbright . The locals just insist he was very ill , and in his fever and delirium he fled the safety of his bed and home , and ran amok until he fell to his death . It is a plausible scenario , but Cribb slowly finds inconsistencies about the story from the locals , most of whom claim they were at choir practice that night . SPOILERS COMING UP The plot becomes a 19th Century version of Agatha Christie's MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS , without the train . The Captain was preventing his ward from marrying a well liked local boy , and this led to the locals deciding to teach the old man a lesson - there was an old custom to frighten recalcitrant or nasty locals by chasing them through the forest , and the choir members did just that . Unfortunately , Allbright did not just get scared into changing his mind - he fell to his death accidentally . Cribb takes the story back to Jowett , who is perplexed by this . It may mean hanging about ten people who were usually respectable , and for the murder of a person who behaved quite unreasonably . But Cribb does point out , the other version of the story ( that Allbright ran through the forest while delirious ) while odd is not impossible . Jowett sees the point - yes , it is not all that impossible . . . it probably did happen that way .
Another Funny ( if Dated ) Pollard Comedy on " YOU TUBE "	While not as funny as IT'S A GIFT , this Snub Pollard comedy has a build-up to a chase based on fears of ghosts . It just works - hurt only by some 1920 racist humor at the expense of African-Americans ( as servants ) . Snub is getting married and a rival decides to ruin the marriage on the wedding night in revenge . First he arranges to drive off with the bride in the wedding limousine ( Snub chases it , and when he catches it he has to ride holding onto the spare tire in the car's back ) . Next he arranges for a parrot that yells " Murder ! " and " Help ! " gets strategically placed under the happy couple's dining room table . Finally he tells Snub that there have been several tragedies in the house - at least one of a suicide and another of a bearded old geezer strangling and stabbing his wife . Snub is made nervous by this . But soon he starts seeing such an old geezer around the house . So do several of the servants , and finally Snub's bride ( Marie Mosquini - the future Mrs . Lee de Forrest ) . Soon figures under blankets show up as well - are they the ghost or various people ( including Snub ) hiding ? There are nice touches when a squadron of Policemen start racing around the house - one of them , a very fat one , keeps staying in the rear , sitting down in chairs and napping ( he always rejoins his buddies when they come back down stairs without missing a beat ) . But the bad bits are with the Black house servants - frequently panicking outlandishly ( even if Snub and Marie are too ) by the so-called ghost with the beard . The best one of them is Marie's maid , who is large like Louis Beavers or Hattie MacDaniel . She too hides , and chases Snub out of the bed she's hiding in when he jumps in . But that moment of independent action is rare compared to the rest of the house servant staff . The end result is very amusing , but the racism sticks in one's craw , so that the film can only get a " 7 " out of " 10 " from me . However , the conclusion ( dealing with a piece of the wedding cake ) is quite good - bringing back that fat cop and the youngest Black servant ( a little boy ) as well , and tastefully .
A Forgotten 19th Century English Dramatic Giant	In 1972 there was a British series that was shown ( and has not been shown since ) of plays and dramatizations every month . They were well produced , and acted . I now recall two of them : this play and a dramatization of Voltaire's CANDIDE ( which had Frank Finlay as the narrator - actually Voltaire himself - and managed to successfully maintain the dry cynical humor of the original novel ) . I think the reason that I recall TRELAWNY OF THE ' WELLS ( which is a reference to the Sadler Wells Theater ) is that the playwright chosen to represent 19th Century British theater was not Wilde , Shaw , or even William Gilbert , but Sir Arthur Wing Pinero . I'm sure most of you don't know who Pinero was , but in his day ( which lasted from 1885 to 1934 when he died ) he was one of the top five dramatists on the west end . His reputation today is rather odd . He is remembered for one play from 1893 which helped shock British audiences out of a prolonged period of sentimental sludge like EAST LYNNE . It was THE SECOND MRS . TANQUERAY . Paula Tanqueray is the second wife of a successful upper middle class professional man , and has gotten the enmity of his daughter by the first wife . When a secret about Paula's past comes out , the malicious step-daughter allows it to slip out , and it slowly destroys the woman . Now this sounds very melodramatic to us , and thirty years earlier it would have been built up differently ( Paula would have been a " wicked " conniving schemer , who met just deserts ) . Pinero was different . He took the position that Paula's youthful mistakes were her own business , not anyone else's ( including her husband , and certainly including the step-daughter ) . So he maintained the audience sympathy with Paula until her ( spoiler coming up ) suicide . The audiences of 1893 London never had heard of the possibility that a one-time fallen woman could be sympathetic . Soon Oscar Wilde would be following suit in LADY WINDIMERE'S FAN , and then Bernard Shaw would top both of his rivals with MRS . WARREN'S PROFESSION ( where he pointed out that successful prostitution could become big business indeed ) . TANQUERAY is still produced in the U . S . from time to time , but more often in Great Britain . The British are also more willing to bring back other Pinero plays ( he wrote about fifty of them ) despite some creakiness in them . One problem was pointed out by the drama critic Max Beerbohm . Beerbohm , a master of English style in his own writings , hated that Pinero was considered the most elegant of dramatists . He pointed out that Pinero's use of English was prolix and overblown . However , he did give Pinero his due about his one great strength - he is one of the few British dramatists who wrote a first rate concluding act every time he wrote a play . Even Shaw can flub it occasionally in trying to get his messages across ( such as the conclusion of MAJOR BARBARA - which is too long and long winded ) . Which brings us to this unusual production : TRELAWNY OF THE ' WELLS was Pinero's salute to a critical moment in the development of modern British theater . In 1868 - 1871 the melodramatic claptrap that engulfed the British stage was brought to a halt by a young man named Tom Robertson . We don't recall him today , but Robertson got tired of plots about stolen heirs , hidden wills , and snickering villains . He strove ( in his weak way ) to create realism on stage . In plays like CASTE he looked at British society , creating relatively real , if quiet stories . They were called " tea cup " drama because the characters are frequently talking over tea . After three or four successes , Robertson died prematurely in 1871 . A small career - barely recalled outside of theater historical circles - but it was important . His independent view influenced ( in a wildly different direction ) his friend William Gilbert to do his " topsy turvy " plays and his Savoy operetta librettos with Sullivan , and were a model to Pinero , Henry Arthur Jones , Wilde , and Shaw . Robertson is represented in the play by Tom Wrench ( John Alderton ) who is struggling recognition for his work in the stultifying theater of the 1860s . Alderton ( who was married to Pauline Collins , and appeared with her in UPSTAIRS DOWNSTAIRS about this time ) , is appreciated by his fellow actors , but is trying to get his new dramas produced . One of his leading supporters is the young actress Rose Trelawny ( Elaine Taylor ) who is romancing Arthur Gower ( Ian Ogilvy ) . But Gower's grandfather is a wealthy nobleman Lord Gower ( Roland Culver ) who is not very happy with his heir being attached to an actress ( the social rise of stage people at this time is also involved in the story ) . It is not until the conclusion of the play that Tom does get his play produced ( starring Rose ) , and that she wins over his Lordship , when it turns out that he actually did have one favorite actor - the great tragedian Edmund Kean . For bringing a work by a dramatist who is rarely revived to American television , and for a good general production , I give this a vote of .
The Kingfish , Warts and Glory	Huey Pierce Long never became President of the United States . He hoped to , and ( probably for the best ) a gunshot stopped him . I say probably because there is considerable debate over him to this day . If you love democracy , with a balance of power approach as in the Federal Constitution ( or the states for that matter ) Long is an evil aberration . He used the normal methods of rising up the political ladder as a state railway commissioner , a state senator , Governor , and U . S . Senator . On his way up he found ways of reducing the opposition to a set of shrill , impotent voices , and of manipulating the state legislature , the judiciary , and the local governments to do what he wanted . For all intents and purposes Louisiana was a dictatorship under Huey . And once he got into the U . S . Senate , he planned to spread his influence until he was in the White House , and could do the same thing there . Therefore , his death by gunshot in the state capital building at Baton Rouge , La . on September 18 , 1935 , was a lucky break . Whether he was shot by Dr . Carl Austin Weiss ( the son-in-law of an opponent who'd been racially smeared by Long ) or by a trigger happy guard who was joining in the shooting of Weiss does not matter - he would have been bad news for American Democracy . But here's the problem . Huey did not come from a state that had a history of two party democracy . Most of the states in the south were dominated for decades by the Democratic Party ( which was opposed to big business in theory , but also highly racist towards African-Americans and minorities ) . So when he studied how to get higher in office , he learned how his predecessors did it . He also noted the success of others in other states at turning them into fiefdoms - like Senator Hiram Johnson of California . Secondly , although his methods were crude and resembled fascist or communist models , Huey actually did do a lot of good for his state . One has to study the man's career in light of previous Democrats who were elected to public office . Huey came from the parishes - the back country , and knew the needs of the farmers ( both white , Cajun , and black ) , and how they were neglected in favor of the large cities , particularly New Orleans and Baton Rouge . He was smart , and managed to get a college education , and eventually became a lawyer ( a very good one - he actually argued before the U . S . Supreme Court ) . The Governors and the legislators and the judiciary were extremely conservative ( the popular term in use was " Bourbons " ) . Huey , as he built up his machine , delivered services , such as roads and highways and power , to the countryside . He also improved school conditions for the countryside . While still willing to use racial slurs ( as with Dr . Weiss's father-in-law ) Huey actually got more jobs going for the African-American community . He could also display anti-Semitism when he wished , but when someone pointed out that when he did that he resembled Hitler , Huey became furious : " Don't ever compare me to that son-of-a-bitch ! " , he yelled , " Every fool whose ever gone against those people has wrecked his state's economy ! ! " Not a comment of love , but obviously of sense . Huey was an opportunist . To raise revenues in Louisiana he invited Lucky Luciano to install one armed bandits throughout the state . But he also could sacrifice for reasonable grounds . He signed a law reducing the cotton production from Louisiana to build up prices for the cotton outside the state . So he is not an easy figure to totally condemn or admire . Ken Burns documentary on " the Kingfish " ( Huey used that name , based on a character on the radio show AMOS AND ANDY , for himself ) gives a fairly good balanced view . Burns shows what was frighteningly close to happening , but he does show that Huey was more than a power seeker or a buffoon ( as some enemies suggested ) . While not as detailed as the Burns documentaries on THE CIVIL WAR , JAZZ , or BASEBALL , it is a good place to start studying this remarkable political career .
Love in Labrador	The Turner Classic Movie Channel has spent the month of January doing the films of one of my favorite actors , Robert Montgomery . His films are mostly rarely watched these days , except for those that were atypical for most of his career - meaning that the roles that frequently reappear on television are THEY WERE EXPENDABLE , THE LADY IN THE LAKE , JUNE BRIDE , NIGHT MUST FALL , THE SAXON CHARM , RIDE THE PINK HORSE , RAGE IN HEAVEN , THE EARL OF CHICAGO ( in short the films he fought to get the roles in because they were not the usual comic fluff he usually appeared in ) . It's ironic that nowadays when one thinks of Montgomery's career it is the films that were mostly made after 1937 that are pushed - the ones that broke the original image that MGM and Louis B . Mayer pushed . The pity of this is that Montgomery was a gifted comedian , and saved many films from being routine . PETTICOAT FEVER is one such film . Made in 1936 with PICADILLY JIM and TROUBLE FOR TWO it was a banner year of good performances by Montgomery , and helped lead to his being able to convince the powers that be at MGM to allow him to play " Danny " in NIGHT MUST FALL the next year . PETTICOAT FEVER is set in Labrador , and Montgomery is a weather station operator there named Dascom Dinsmore . He has been living there for five years , and has not been in the company of a woman ( except for Inuit women ) for most of that time . He has a girlfriend of sorts named Clara ( Winifred Shotter ) who he sort of proposed to , but it's been two years since he has heard from her , so that he believes she has given up on him . Dinsmore's world is rocked when Sir James Felton and Irene Campton ( Reginald Owen and Myrna Loy ) show up . They were flying to Toronto for a business meeting that Felton was to address . Felton is engaged to Campton , but Dinsmore finds her enchanting . . . and gradually she finds him equally attractive . Certainly the pompous , self-important , and hopelessly inept Felton is no competition ( it is a measure of Owen's acting that he keeps the character entertaining even if one finds it hard to believe such a boob is a Canadian captain of industry ) . There is something surreal about this film - probably due to the original play . While the " Labrador " scenery is quite phony looking it does serve it's purpose for the comedy ( witness th polar bear sequence ) . But the height of the surrealism is the dinner Dinsmore serves his guests , a dinner of " pemmican steaks " , which Owen eats with real gusto . Owen ( a minor noble as a baronet ) is dressed in normal clothing - a winter suit for the climate ) . But Montgomery is dressed in his suit of evening dress ( as though attending a ball at the embassy ) . Loy , seeing him dress up , likewise puts on a gown . They are being served by Dinsmore's servant - assistant , the Inuit Kimo ( Otto Yamaoka ) , who is wearing a suit of evening dress too - it turns out that it is Owen's ! Owen , who earlier insisted that Dinsmore change into clothing more suitable to his station , is the only person who is improperly dressed for this dinner ! ! Montgomery was MGM's most elegant actor in a tuxedo or evening dress ( Franchot Tone was the his closest rival ) . It is a toss-up in movie if Montgomery or Fred Astaire was the more elegant figure in such suits . Hard to decide . The course of love does not move smoothly in comedy or drama . Clara shows up ( we are tipped off too early about this at the start of the film when we see her on an icebound ship ) . Will Dinsmore break with Clara ? Will Irene break with Felton ? The film is funny , and Loy and Montgomery make a nice couple . They had appeared together in one other film , and both were in separate scenes in a second , before this movie . But this would be their last film together . One last interesting point - at the start of the film when the credits are shown , you see illustrations of men and women in comic situations . They are based on the art work of John Held Jr . , the great cartoonist / illustrator of the 1920s and 1930s - who was the recorder of the flapper and " Jazz Age " . It's an unusual choice - as it has absolutely nothing to do with the film's plot or Labrador .
The Musical Whose Origins Boston Erroneously Hates	Before getting into the issues of musical score , cinematography , cast , direction , and storyline , one has to always bring in some baggage with " Tea For Two " ( known on stage as " No No Nanette ! " ) . Supposedly baseball team impresario and theatrical producer Harry Frazee , in an effort to raise the cash for a new musical with music by Vincent Youmans , sold his best player on the Boston Red Sox , George Herman " Babe " Ruth , to his friend Col . Ruppert of the New York Yankees , thus guaranteeing New York would dominate baseball for the next century while Boston came close but never got the gold ring ( despite Ted Williams and others ) . Since the start of the present century Boston has won the World Series twice , whereas the Yankees have not won any . One can safely say the so-called " curse of the Bambino " is dead . But I wish to add , you may hate Frazee as much as you want for trading Ruth and several other great players to New York . But the money went into other productions he was pushing , not " No No Nanette . " The musical came about four years after the stupid trade of Ruth . So this is not a case of Boston's loss was the gain of Vincent Youmans fans . The musical has been remade three times , with this version in 1950 , starring Doris Day , Gordon MacRae , Eve Arden , Gene Nelson , S . Z . Sakall , and Billy De Wolfe . The 1950 version , re-entitled " Tea For Two " , was directed by David Butler , and is considered the best of the three . It does contain the big two hits by Youmans from the show ( " Tea for Two " and " I Want to be Happy " ) , but it also has tunes by the Gershwins and others , including Harry Warren and Al Dubin ( this is a Warners Brothers film , and they got full use of tunes like " I Only Have Eyes For You ! " ) . The production is very nice in terms of color film stock , and scenery ( particularly a 1929 style mansion ) . But best is the acting - the cast is not only good , but as the material is good the cast does very well with it . Day is a stage struck heiress living with her Wall Street broker uncle Sakall . She was left a fortune by her father , but Sakall is her guardian and is in charge of the fortune . Unfortunately he invested the money ( despite the advise of his lawyer Bill Goodwin ) in stock instead of stable but small return government bonds . Comes the crash and Sakall has lost his money ( although he still has much of potentially valuable stock ) as well as all of Day's . The plot concerns how Day is being pursued by De Wolfe for financial assistance in floating his Broadway production of " No No Nanette " . De Wolfe , in his career , frequently played unlikeable types - either sneering know-it-alls ( wherein he was a younger " Clifton Webb " type , without Webb's actual wisdom ) , or semi-conman ( like the minstrel performer in " Dixie " with Bing Crosby ) . Nobody likes De Wolfe ( Day has already had some history with him and is waiting for him to repay a $10 , 000 . 00 loan ) . Even Sakall can't stand him . But he is the man heading the production . He is trying to get Day's backing , but trying to somehow convince his girlfriend / leading lady ( Patrice Wymore ) to give up the lead to Day . Wymore has history with the choreographer ( Gene Nelson ) but has thrown him over for De Wolfe ( however she is increasingly regretting this error ) . Gordon MacRae is the songwriter on the show , and dislikes the lies De Wolfe spreads about his family's health and need for medical care - lies that De Wolfe uses to try to pry cash out of Day ) . MacRae also is falling for Day ( and she certainly likes him ) . Through a complicated mistake Day agrees to a wager with Sakall : she will not answer any question with a " Yes " for 48 hours , and if she doesn't she will be given the $25 , 000 . 00 for the show . However , if she does say " Yes " she can't spend any money for one year . So the plot keeps following moments when Day has to disappoint people by denying any question ( even when she plans the reverse ) . On the other hand , Sakall , knowing there is no money , tries again and again to get her to say " yes " . At one point , when trying to make an appointment , Sakall's crazy wager works against him when the negative Day annoys a motorcycle cop who arrests them both . This plot may sound trite , but musical comedy plots were frequently like that in the 1920s . I may add that the crazy balancing act between Day and Wymore that De Wolff is forced to go through is funny , as is the typically cynical comments of Day's secretary and friend ( Eve Arden ) on the antics of the others , and belatedly her own attempts at romance . It actually works - a good musical which entertains , which is the purpose of most musicals . It's nice to recall that there was a time when our musical theater was welcomely naive and pleasant - not the musical of thought and discussion of the 1950s and 1960s - not the musical of the age of Sondheim , but only the musical of the age of Youmans , Gershwin , and Berlin .
Monroe's First Western	For some reason this film gets mediocre reviews whenever it is mentioned in some newspaper television sections like The New York Times . I really can't understand why . For while it is not an iconic western , like SHANE or RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY , it has some appealing elements . Marilyn Monroe gets to sing several tunes , including the theme song , accompanying her singing on a guitar . She had a serviceable voice for singing , but her song sung to Tommy Retig is unique - she rarely showed so much of a possible maternal side to her character . Monroe's " Kay Weston " is a dance hall girl who is married ( although it turns out it's a common-law marriage at best ) to Rory Calhoun ( " Harry Weston " ) , a small time gambler . They are in a mining town , where Robert Mitchum ( " Matt Calder " ) has arrived to pick up his only son Tommy Retig ( " Mark Calder " ) . Even here Monroe has shown a maternal interest in the boy , keeping an eye on him when his father has not shown up ( the man who was bringing the boy took off to start prospecting once they reached the town ) . Mitchum takes his son back to his homestead and starts trying to rebuild the relationship between them . Retig is very willing to get used to this . In the meantime , Calhoun has somehow managed to get the jackpot he always dreamed of - he has won a gold mine claim in a card game with a prospector ( Murvyn Vye as " Dave Colby " ) . For reasons we are left to guess at , he is determined to get his claim filed as soon as possible in the nearest large town , but he can't buy a horse . However he buys ( with Monroe's money ) a raft , and they proceed to go down the so-called River of No Return . They are almost drowned , but Mitchum rescues them with a lasso . However , although a reasonable type , he refuses to sell his horse ( needed for transportation or planting on the farm ) to Calhoun to use to get to the town . Calhoun takes the animal by force , nearly killing Mitchum in the process , and tells Monroe he'll be back to pick her up when the claim is filed . In the course of this incident , Calhoun mentions that he recognizes Mitchum as a man who was sent to prison for murdering another man by shooting him in the back . Retig's growing close relationship with Mitchum is strained by this knowledge , although Mitchum explains he shot the man that way because the man was about to kill a friend of Mitchum's . The local Indians are not fond of Mitchum's homesteading and seeing he's been disarmed they attack the farm . Mitchum , Retig , and Monroe are forced to go by the raft towards the town that Calhoun is headed for , but by the river ( which Mitchum is aware has many dangerous rapids in it ) . They film proceeds to show how the trip gradually affects the three working together . Will it make Mitchum get over his mistrust of Monroe , who was Calhoun's girlfriend ? Will it make Monroe show more of her interest in the welfare of Retig , and reconsider the value of her lover ? Will Retig slowly realize how much his father is better than the prison record suggests ? The film works - given the director ( Otto Preminger ) usually dealt with urban problems ( rape / murder trials in ANATOMY OF A MURDER ; crime among the social elite in LAURA ; high political wheeling and dealing in ADVISE AND CONSENT ; drug addiction in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM ) it is nice to see how well he handles a simple western story , and how he does make full use of the locale's attractions and dangers . There is only one example of his tendency of pushing the sexual envelope here : at one point Monroe has fallen into some mud , and when helped up by Mitchum the mud is visible on her pant's posterior , suggestive ( briefly ) of mud wrestling - but it is done very quickly . The four leads do very well , including Calhoun as a selfish man with a charming facade . Whether he really intended to go off with Monroe at the end is really never settled ( she finds him finally ) , nor whether he beat Vye out of the claim in an honest poker game ( Vye certainly does not think it was honest ) . Calhoun's television career was more successful than his movie career , but here he does maintain our interest to the end . This was probably his best performance in a movie . No , it is not a western like HIGH NOON for the ages , but it is a respectable piece of work .
An unexpected pleasure - my first " Dad's Army " episode on " You Tube "	I had heard of this series , but I had never seen any episodes . Apparently , although in a different spirit of production , DAD'S ARMY had a popularity in England similar to it's near contemporary M . A . S . H . in the U . S . But the situations in both series are not quite the same . Arthur Lowe's Mainwaring ( for Americans : it is pronounced " Mannering " ) is the head of the local civil defense group of elderly or middle aged or physically incapable misfits who are protecting the home front in the period of World War II . It is not a real picnic , as they are experiencing the Nazi Blitz ( and later the buzz bombs ) but the problems of these local heroes are shown with some care and gentleness . Lowe ( who I best knew from his elderly , left-of-center butler in THE RULING CLASS ) is a bank manager , and is somewhat pompous - but he is actually quite intelligent , frequently seeing the idiocy of assignments he and his forces have to perform . He is abetted by Wilson ( John Le Messurier ) who has a calming effect on everyone , but can be reduced to terror if his wife is mentioned . You Tube had this on in three sections . Mainwaring's men are ordered to assist in a morale boosting film that is being shot : they are to appear as Nazi soldiers . Although this is not what the men would have liked ( they would have liked to be British soldiers ) they get to the idea of being in a film with Cecile Courtleigh . But Mainwaring's feelings take a downturn when he finds he can't be fitted with a pair of boots ( his feet are too small - and they have to be Nazi style uniform boots ) . He still remains to watch the men in their work with the film people . A week later they are to be shooting on an open field set . The men are driven in a truck that is closed ( and the weather is very hot - this is in the days when air conditioning was non-existent ) . Mainwaring is the only one who is dressed as a British soldier , so he is driving . The men learn the shooting has been postponed for a week , and they return to their camp . But Mainwaring has to call his superior to explain what happened . He parks the car in front of a local pub , and while on the pay phone the men go into the pub for something to drink . Naturally soon rumors circulate that England has been invaded , and that the Nazis are led by a Quistling British army Captain . The truck reaches the headquarters of Mainwaring's Unit - a church . Word has just reached the locals about the Nazis led by the Quistling . They see Mainwaring addressing the Nazi troops , and run to the Church's bells to start giving a signal to call the locals together for defense . This is the " Ring Dem Bells " of the title . The storyline is obvious - once the men are in those uniforms and we hear they are not to reveal their moonlighting as actors playing Nazis to anyone , we know the misunderstanding will occur . No great surprise there . But what is fun is the interactions of the characters . John Laurie's Scotsman ( Frazer ) complains about how hot the uniform are to wear ( and stiff too ) . When he asks someone about whether he agrees about his complaints about the German helmet , he's told it does make his fierce eyed face look like an eagle ( hardly a negative comment ) . Another member tells how in an earlier war ( one does not know if the earlier war is World War I or the Boer War ) Lord Kitchener hated German helmets , thinking they looked like pots to boil food in . And then there are the two members of the unit who are to play Nazi officers ( Le Messurier and Ian Lavender as his nephew Pike ) . Le Messurier does note the Nazi uniforms do look smart , but Lavender lets his role go to his head - he starts staring out of his monocle , and he insists on not standing with the enlisted men when Mainwaring calls the men to order ( Mainwaring quickly puts that back to normal ) . Later , when the truck is driving along a deserted road , Pike is standing through a vent in the top , " heiling " imaginary crowds ! It was a good episode to catch to get into knowing this series . Hopefully more will be available soon .
A Pretty Faithful Adaptation of Voltaire's Novel .	This was a monthly episode / dramatization of a series on classic plays and literature . They had also done one of Arthur Pinero's better known plays , TRELAWNEY OF THE WELLS ( which I commented on the other day ) . This was a little more interesting - CANDIDE is a novel ( a small novel , to be accurate ) regarding the state of corruption and evil in the world , and attacking the philosophy of the German Leibnitz , in the persona of " Dr . Pangloss " , who insists that this is the best of all possible worlds , and that the acts of cruelty and sundry natural disasters are all for the best . Voltaire wrote the novel ZADIG in 1749 , and it had suggested that the efforts of a good man ( the Persian philosopher Zadig ) could change conditions . It has been suggested that Voltaire's mistress at the time made him more optimistic . But in the ten years following three things happened . Voltaire tried to influence the court and policies of his pen-pal , King Frederick the Great of Prussia ( and their relationship became quite strained as a result - until Voltaire left Prussia after an embarrassing period in a Prussian jail ) . Then his mistress died . Then ( in 1755 ) Europe was shocked by the terrible Lisbon Earthquake and tidal wave that killed nearly 40 , 000 people . This last disaster was the straw that broke the camel's back on Voltaire accepting Leibnitz seriously . In 1759 he wrote CANDIDE and mercilessly pilloried Leibnitz theory . He also made sure to bring in the Lisbon Earthquake in the novel ( Dr . Pangloss takes the opportunity to discuss the scientific origin of earthquakes while his student , Candide , almost dies from shock and starvation ) . CANDIDE is a wonderful , cynical novel , and it's solution - that we have to try to " tend our own garden " to find some degree of personal happiness and purpose on our Earth - is not a bad one . But it was not planned as a play ( although dramatizations of it began almost from the start - none by Voltaire himself ) . The best known attempt is the musical by Leonard Bernstein ( with libretto # 1 by Lillian Hellman , and libretto # 2 by Hugh Wheeler ) . It's best known tune , " Live and Be Gay " became the theme song for Dick Cavett's talk show . But this forgotten little adaptation was not bad . Frank Finlay appeared as Voltaire , from time to time , doing the portions of the story that were needed for continuity or to inform the reader of what was going on . This actually worked quite well , and the rest of the cast ( including Ian Ogilvy as Candide ) handled the off the wall plot wherein Candide and his companions go out of one frying pan into another fire time after time after time . It managed to hit the best moments of the story quite well , and keep the audience's attention . I see it is on video , so it is still available for current audiences to sample and enjoy .
Daffy and the scrap metal war effort	Another of the long forgotten Warner propaganda cartoons - like THE DUCKTATORS it is black and white , not in color . However , it is more concentrated in story line ( oddly enough ) than THE DUCKTATORS . Daffy is in charge of the scrap metal collection , and has a mountain of tin and iron and copper and the rest ( from a distance it looks like the Statue of Liberty ) . A headline shows that Daffy claims it helped unseat Mussolini ( in 1943 Il Duce was thrown out of his job as " Prime Minister " of Italy , and imprisoned - subsequently the Nazis freed him for awhile , but in 1945 he'd be killed by partisans ) . Hitler reads that Daffy claims it will do the same to Hitler . So the Fuhrer orders the destruction of Daffy's junk piles . We see the order sent through several layers of German officials ( the second is the fat , broad front of Herman Goering - but we don't see his face ) . A special U-boat is sent to " torpedo " the pile . The torpedo contains a secret weapon - a goat ! The goat does damage , and when Daffy tries to confront it he knocks the duck about . Daffy is about to give in when he is confronted by various historical ancestors ( Pilgrim , Revolutionary Soldier , Frontiersman , an " Abe Lincoln " clone , a " John Paul Jones " clone ) restore his self respect - he turns into super-duck and destroys the goat and the submarine . . . or he thinks he did when he wakes up from a nap . Did it happen or not ? I leave that for you to find out .
A Political Great Impersonation	In 1914 E . Philips Openheim wrote a classic spy thriller ( a timely one too ) about evil agents of Wilhelmine Germany plotting to place a mole in English high society . The plot begins in Africa , where a German aristocrat ( and spy ) named Leopold Von Ragenstein is on safari , and meets an worn out , drunken English aristocrat named Sir Everard Dominey . Dominey has very high connections in society to social and political leaders in England , and has access through them to major military and diplomatic secrets . Von Ragenstein notices that he and Dominey look very similar in appearance . The German decides to invite the Englishman on the safari , and kill him safely away from notice in the jungle , and then take over the Englishman's identity and use it to feed plenty of information to the Germans . The novel follows the return of Sir Everard , and the issue which perplexes everyone ( English and German ) is who has returned : Sir Everard or Baron Leopold . The Oppenheim novel was made into a film starring Ralph Bellamy . It is not the first novel about twins changing places ( Mark Twain's THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER dealt with the same situation ) , nor the first showing how politics might be affected . Is such a situation possible ? Probably not . Somewhere along the line the impostor would make a major error ( forgetting some critical fact the real person knows , or acting somewhat oddly ) . This film takes the idea of Oppenheim's novel ( and of Twain's earlier novel , for that matter ) , and puts it into a political switch . Instead of an important aristocrat replaced by a spy , it is an actor who replaces a great statesman to complete that statesman's policy . Akim Tamiroff plays actor Jules Lacroix who is performing before President Alvarado of a Latin American country ( also Tamiroff ) . Alvarado has been giving an honest government to the country , and has made a treaty he is negotiating a keystone to his policy . But he has made many enemies , and is fatally injured during the performance by a bomb . Before he dies he talks to the show's impresario , a friend of his named Sam Barr ( Lloyd Nolan ) . Alvarado notices how much Lacroix looks like him . He begs Barr and Lacroix to have the latter replace him so to complete the negotiations as Alvarado . They agree . So word is spread that it was Lacroix who was killed , and the President was wounded . There are a few problems . Robert Warwick plays General Hernandez . He and Frank Reicher ( Mandietta Garcia ) have been two of the leading figures of the administration , but neither really were favoring Alvarado's reforms . They are playing along " for awhile " , but expect that Lacroix will announce that he is too ill to continue in office and will advise that Warwick get the Presidency . They are nervous that if word of the actual death of Alvarado comes out the public will want the Presidency to be given to Dr . Luis Virgo ( George Zucco , curiously enough ) who has worked closely with Alvarado on the reforms . So the situation has the nervous Tamiroff being steadied by Lloyd Nolan , as he navigates between his ego ( he loves this - the part of a lifetime ) , his fears ( he knows he is a target of assassins ) , his sense of duty ( he comes to loath the selfish Warwick and Reicher ) , and his desires ( he finds an old flame - Mary Boland - who knows it's Jules and not the President who is alive ) . Nolan too has to fight the revolutionaries and hold off Warwick and Reicher . If the story is far fetched , it is also well told and acted . It's conclusion may seem a little melodramatic , but the last moments on screen between Boland and Tamiroff are actually quite moving . I would give the film a " 7 " out of " 10 " .
Robert Strauss's Last Movie Role	I have only seen the last portion of this film on a cable channel about five or six years back ( I think it was City College's channel , which frequently runs unusual film courses ) . I remember when THE NOAH came out in the middle 1970s . There was a review of it in NEW YORK MAGANZINE , and it got panned . But when it was shown on television it was treated with considerable respect . Basically ( and ironically , as Strauss died after it was briefly released ) it was Strauss's biggest chance to display his own acting skills to their widest . After his two appearances with Billy Wilder and his THE ATOMIC KID with Mickey Rooney , he was basically relegated to small support roles of a comic nature . He did have a recurring part as " Charlie Leech " the private eye who discovers that " Samantha Stevens " ( Elizabeth Montgomery ) was a witch on BEWITCHED , but he was only in a handful of episodes there . Strauss was always game for acting roles , and was perfectly willing to try carrying an entire film on his own shoulders . Here it was ( except for two voices ) as the sole human being left on earth after a nuclear war . One recalls the unfolding , unstoppable tragedy of ON THE BEACH , but there the citizens of Australia did have each other to live with until they all died in the end . Here Strauss is on an island , well stocked with food and supplies , and with radio contact to the rest of the globe . But there is no " rest of the globe " to contact . Initially he meets the situation with vague disbelief , then panic . But gradually he determines to face the end of humanity ( in himself ) with dignity . Our last image of Strauss on film is rather stoical , watching to see if anyone will show up after all , but determined not to give into temptation to make a fast end of it if he can . I wish the film was shown again - it was not as worthless a picture as the critic in NEW YORK MAGAZINE made it seem . And it gave Strauss a fine coda role to his underused career .
Sometimes a formula idea does not work well the second time	The coming of sound is erroneously said to have destroyed the careers of the great silent comedians . Not quite true , though some truth to it . Chaplin did not go fully into sound until 1940 with the generally excellent THE GREAT DICTATOR . Keaton actually went into the sound period with a final great silent film ( THE CAMERAMAN ) but problems with an unsympathetic ( even hostile ) Louis B . Mayer , divorce problems with his wife , and ( unfortunately ) alcoholism caused a serious collapse in his career . But he recovered slowly to be a fixture on television and in movies to the end of his career . Laurel & Hardy did better with sound than with silent films ( including getting into feature films ) . W . C . Fields also did better in sound films ( and so did the Marx Brothers after their fitful silent production ( s ) ) . After years in the wilderness due to scandal , Fatty Arbuckle was making a come-back when he died in 1933 . The only real casualties were Larry Semon ( who died in 1928 , presumably in part due to the collapse of his production company after some film failures ) , Raymond Griffith ( who was unable to speak loudly due to a physical problem - but would play his best remembered part as the dying French soldier in ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT , and then have a great career in film production ) , and Harry Langdon ( whose career toppled over his egomania , according to Frank Capra ) . Langdon still managed to occasionally appear in films ( HALLELUJAH , I'M A BUM , ZENOBIA ) and did work as a gag writer for Hal Roach . Harold Lloyd found the coming of sound relatively easy . Unlike Keaton he did not have domestic problems or drinking problems that interfered with his career . Like Chaplin he had invested his sizable income into a wide variety of different businesses , and was rich enough to pick and choose his vehicles . But he made mistakes in his first two films that managed to show what was no longer possible . Lloyd's comedy was the comedy of suspense and danger . Lloyd's characters , whatever their social class , always had to overcome death defying or dangerous problems to reach their goals . This included winning a football match ( in THE FRESHMAN ) or capturing a murderer to free his father and brothers ( in THE KID BROTHER ) . His best remembered sequence of danger and humor was the climb up the side of the department store in the aptly titled SAFETY LAST ! SAFETY LAST ! appeared in 1922 . Eight years later Lloyd repeated the climbing sequence in FEET FIRST , his second talky , and his second error at trying to repeat the successful formula . The first film was a crime melodrama / comedy WELCOME DANGER , which was too long and complicated to be successful . The sections dealing with potential dangers were not well handled - some reversed the whole concept of sound films by having Lloyd and others talking in the dark ( sort of making the movie the equivalent of a radio ) . Lloyd apparently was trying to return to the success of SAFETY LAST ! , but failed to notice one aspect of the first talkie . Audiences were not thrilled to hear people in peril screaming for help . As a result the audiences were confused about what their responses to the " comedy " was to be . SAFETY LAST ! had a natural build-up to the last half hour of Harold's climb up the side of the department store to win $1 , 000 . 00 and get married to his girlfriend . FEET FIRST was also tied to a romance . Harold is working in a shoe store in Honolulu , when he meets a female customer who is the daughter of the store's owner . They are taking a boat back to the U . S . and Harold is accidentally made a stowaway . He has tried to impress the girl that he is a millionaire too . So now he is romancing the girl as a rich man , and also trying to avoid being thrown into the brig as a stowaway . At the end of the film the ship is in San Francisco , and Harold gets off the boat by hiding in a mail bag . But he is taken to an office building , and accidentally pulled up the side of the building ( in the bag ) many stories above the street . Harold cuts his way out of the bag , but he is soon struggling to get to safety . Here , unlike SAFETY LAST ! , he is heard yelling for help . This actually makes his danger all the more real . But it keeps the audience from enjoying Harold's predicament . An audience today would also resent the humor of Stepin ' Fetchit ( here called " Sleep ' N Eat " ) as the only person who tries to assist Harold - but moving and acting in stereotypical manner ( i . e . , when he sees Lloyd has fallen a few floors down , he asks , " Whatcha doin ' down there ? " ) . To be fair one sequence has both men frightened by a stuffed gorilla , but it is not enough to undue the bad taste of the racism . Some of the jokes are definitely based on originals from the silent film - when Harold reached the top in SAFETY LAST ! he got hit on the head by a machine . Here he reaches the roof , only to breath in some ether that makes him woozy . He also does fall off the roof at the end and actually ends up within feet of the street pavement . It's a neat switch , but it makes the climb upward seem meaningless at the conclusion . Individual scenes and sight gags are funny ( Lloyd as stowaway hiding behind a lifeboat , and a gull lies on his head ) . But the total effect is mediocre Lloyd at best . Fortunately Lloyd learned from his error . His next two films were both good ( MOVIE CRAZY and THE MILKY WAY ) showing he had learned a bit from the misfires of the first two films .
The Problem Of Alfred Hitchcock : A Heretical View	SHADOW OF A DOUBT is not my favorite Hitchcock film . I suspect that STRANGERS ON A TRAIN or THE LADY VANISHES or REAR WINDOW are better films . They seem to be better to me . But SHADOW OF A DOUBT , good film that it is , always disappoints me because of what I term is the problem of Hitchcock . His problem is his inability to resolve issues properly ( or even present them properly ) . In many of his films , Hitchcock starts off certain points regarding the characters that are never fully developed properly . For example , in NORTH BY NORTHWEST there is an undercurrent of homosexual jealousy by Martin Landau towards the relationship of his boss James Mason with Eva Marie Saint . It culminates in the scene when , to prove a point about Saint's betraying Mason , Landau fires her gun point blank at a shocked Mason . Mason suddenly realizes it is loaded with blanks ( that Saint fired it at Cary Grant , pretending to critically wound him , to impress Mason ) . He reacts swiftly , punching Landau in the face ( he did not like being surprised like that ) , but fully believing what Landau showed him . This sequence seems to be setting up some future point in the film . It's a weak point possibly , but I always felt that the moment of resolution was that Mason should have been the man who stood over Grant and Saint when they were holding onto the cliff at Mount Rushmore , not Landau . Because , if you remember , in a desperate plea , Grant says , " Please help us . " I have always felt that Hitchcock missed the boat in putting the totally malevolent Landau over Grant and Saint at that moment - it should have been Mason . Because Mason , despite his own anger , did at one point like Saint ( he showed a better side to his nature ) . If Saint had been the one hanging on for dear life , and pleading , and Mason after an initial moment of anger overcame it and started rescuing her just as Landau turned up , the ending would have been more interesting . Landau would then have felt betrayed by Mason , and might have pulled out a gun and shot him ( this time fatally ) . It would have carried the relationship question to a more logical point . The same thing happens here in SHADOW OF A DOUBT . Young Charlie's problems with Uncle Charlie are compounded by the general liking felt by most people in the town for the latter . But if you notice , at various points in the film , members of Young Charlie's family do have " shadows of a doubt " about Uncle Charlie . Her father ( Henry Travers ) is humiliated in his bank job by Uncle Charlie hinting he is an embezzler , and that the books are cooked . Take a look at Travers when Joseph Cotton leaves laughing . It is one of curiosity and wonder compared to his general acceptance before . Young Charlie's two younger siblings notice Uncle Charlie's odd behavior destroying a newspaper to show them a trick , and then forgetting the trick ( the paper had an article about the " Merry Widow " murder mystery . But finally there is Young Charlie's mother . She is mothering sister - we learn that she can't help it , after her parents died she only had her little brother Charlie ( reading between the line she probably helped turn him into the selfish monster he is by spoiling him ) . But after the last of a series of accidents befall Young Charlie , as they all drive away to a social event , the mother says to herself that it is strange that so many bad things happened to her daughter , as though they were planned . This is never followed through ( a point brought out on this thread in another comment ) . It should have been . Given her incredible fondness for her worthless brother , it would have been more interesting if Hitchcock had ended the film with a slightly different conclusion on that train . Suppose , while Uncle Charlie purposely delays his niece from departing the train , his sister ( wondering what is delaying Theresa Wright ) re-boards the train at a different door to catch Cotton trying to push Wright off . At that point a moment of truth might have occurred to the mother - and of shock . It would have been more interesting if in rescuing Wright , the mother pushes Cotton off the train into the path of the oncoming locomotive . Why Hitchcock or Thornton Wilder did not see such a simple conclusion to the problem ( tying in with the idea of a " shadow of a doubt " theme ) is just beyond my comprehension .
A Long Forgotten Television Viewing	It is many years since I saw this television show - which was a special done in the U . S . Juliet Mills was hostess , but Michael Redgrave played the part of the ghost or spirit of Charles Dickens , talking about his career and works . Because it is so long ago I really have problems remembering the program , except for the last fifteen minutes . Dickens meant " Christmas " to many Americans and Englishman in his day to ours , due to his " Christmas Novels " like " A Christmas Carol " and " The Chimes " . Mills brings it up , and Redgrave says he doesn't mind discussing some of his Christmas works , but he'd prefer not to do " A Christmas Carol " because it has been done to death . So instead , he decides to tell a lesser story . Unfortunately this is a chancy gamble , because some minor stories are dull . Instead of choosing " The Chimes " or " The Cricket On The Hearth " , Dickens tells a story called THE SEVEN POOR TRAVELERS , which is about seven poor people traveling in the Christmas season in London and taking advantage of a religious charity . As a mildly interesting account of a fact of Victorian life it is worth noting , but the story was really dull . Still it was nice to see another of the " Christmas Novels " told to the public . For that reason and Redgrave and Mills good performances , I give the show a " 7 " out of " 10 " , but I wish they had done " The Chimes " or " The Haunted Man And The Ghost's Bargain " instead .
Supposedly One of Leisin's Best films	I first came across this film when I read a book ( written in the 1970s ) about the career of Mitchell Leisin . I have to admit that over the years I have watched many of his films and find his best work really high quality . SWING HIGH , SWING LOW was supposed to be one of his best . While it did not bore me , it did not impress me as much as HOLD BACK THE DAWN , DEATH TAKES A HOLIDAY , KITTY , or even GOLDEN EARINGS . I suspect it just dates too much now to be well liked . Working at Paramount Leisin had a problem in those films that he did which were musicals . Most of the scores he worked with were fairly mediocre . It's true that twice standards appeared in his films , but they were really rare cases : " Cocktales for Two " appeared in MURDER AT THE VANITIES , and " Mona Lisa " came out of CAPTAIN CAREY , U . S . A . But the rest of the score for MURDER AT THE VANITIES was forgettable . " Mona Lisa " was the only tune in CAPTAIN CAREY . It shouldn't have been this way - Leisin's studio had Rogers and Hart working for it in the early 1930s . Why couldn't he have been assigned to a project with them ? The score for SWING HIGH , SWING LOW , is pleasant but forgettable . Unfortunately , the movie is centered in the entertainment world , as Fred Macmurray demonstrates great talents as a trumpet player ( he even works Carole Lombard into his act by looping his arms around her when he blows his trumpet ) . The song ( sung by Lombard ) about how her lover's playing thrills her , is important to the plot . It works in the film , but it would have been better if the song was more memorable . There is a picaresque style to the film - it begins on an ocean liner that Lombard works on , as a manicurist . She is constantly being bullied by her boss Franklin Pangborn ( the ship's barber ) . Then the ship is entering into the Panama Canal , and we see MacMurray as a soldier , who's enlistment is ending shortly . Their first scene together has a nice Leisin touch in it : MacMurray is talking to Lombard , she on the deck of the boat and he on the edge of the wall of the lock . Nice way to keep the action going while the dialog hits a dull bit . The film follows the rise and fall of the Skid Johnson ( MacMurray ) as he meets Lombard , and begins his reputation as a trumpet player , but meets the " other woman " in the film , Dorothy Lamore . The best moments in the film deal with the collapse of the relationship with Lombard , and his collapse as a jazz trumpeter ( his appearance and need for alcohol is very untypical for a MacMurray character - even his darker figures like Walter Neff or Mr . Sheldrake or the naval officer who pushes the Caine Mutiny did not demonstrate a reliance on alcohol . Lombard is good as the woman loved but wronged by MacMurray . Lamore has little to really do - possibly the film had more scenes with her in it , but one stands out is her attempt to get MacMurray onto the wagon again . In his opening bit Pangborn is fine . Rarely noticed in films , small part actor Carl Judels is effective as a fair weather fan / friend of MacMurray , who drops him as he goes under ( though he gives him a hand-out ) . Charles Butterworth is as trivial in this film as usual , but he does have one moment when he looks sheepishly at his hands on the keyboard of a piano in the rooms he , his girlfriend , MacMurray , and Lombard share - his red faced appearance is due to embarrassment about a lie that MacMurray is insisting is true . It was a nice , subtle moment . If only his subtlety had been in his acting rather than his moments of diffident humor .
A Neat Variation on " The Lady Vanishes " Plot	Alan Curtis has a loud , violent sounding argument with his wife , slams out of his apartment , has a night of drinking with a mysterious lady with a large hat in a bar ( run by Andrew Tombes , in a nice villainous part for a change ) , and returns to find his wife dead and the police , led by Thomas Gomez waiting for him . His attempts to prove his alibi - that he was with that mysterious lady - fall because everyone that he can think of ( Tombes , Elisha Cook ) claims there was never any such person . He ends up with no alibi , although his secretary ( who secretly loves him ) Ellen Raines believes him . Convicted after a trial , he is awaiting his death sentence . Raines starts going out after the truth , discovering that Gomez has some doubts of his own . She also finds an ally in a friend of Curtis , Franchot Tone , who was apparently out of town the night of the crime . Will she clear Curtis in time ? THE PHANTOM LADY is based on a novel by William Irish ( the great noir writer Cornell Woolrich ) . As movie fans know from other works by Woolrich ( LEOPARD MAN , THE NIGHT HAS A THOUSAND EYES , REAR WINDOW , NO MAN OF HER OWN ) one cannot assume what is true on the surface anywhere . The missing wife of a salesman may not actually be upstate , sending him messages that she arrived , if he still has her jewelry . The mentalist may really be able to predict tragedy - or was he plotting the murder of his old partner , now an oil millionaire ? Did a leopard kill the young women , or is the wealthy recluse in town actually hiding some guilty knowledge ? Is the young woman , claiming to be the wife of a brother killed in a train wreck , actually an impostor ? Here it is Raines and Gomez ( with an assist by Tone ) trying to prove Curtis did see a woman nobody will admit seeing - and if he did see her , why is nobody else able to recall seeing her ? The problem with the story really is Curtis's personality - he gives in too easily when found guilty of the crime he did not commit . In reality anyone who is innocent would be screaming it to the moment they are executed . However , in defense of Curtis's collapse , it also happens to other people in various films : Gary Cooper , in MR . DEEDS GOES TO TOWN , gets so disgusted about the framing he gets as delusional and mad by Douglas Dumbrille and his minions that he does not defend himself at first , until the people who would depend on his help cry out their fears in the courtroom and reawaken his sense of responsibility . But Curtis just seems to give up . In normal circumstances Raines , Gomez , and everyone else would not care if Curtis didn't . But the film survives this weakness . The slow unraveling of lies by witnesses bribed by the real killer allows two set pieces for Raines with Tombes on a deserted elevated platform and Elisha Cook at a jazz session . Gomez turns out to be more perceptive than the villain expects in double checking his alibi again . And the villain manages to keep slightly ahead of Raines and Gomez until the concluding minutes of the film . If it is not as great a film as DOUBLE INDEMNITY or THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE or THE MALTESE FALCON , it holds up pretty well until the moment Curtis and Raines are reunited at the end .
Too much talking !	After reaching a peak among his sound films with MONSIEUR VERDOUX , Chaplin was to wait five years before releasing his last half-way decent feature film , LIMELIGHT . They were increasingly difficult years for Chaplin , as he and the U . S . government grew increasingly distant and strained in their relationship because of his outspoken liberal and left wing opinions and the government's slide into the McCarthy period . It would end shortly after the release of LIMELIGHT with Chaplin going to Europe on a vacation with his wife and family , and finding that the U . S . government pulled his passport so he could not return ( technically , Chaplin had never applied for citizenship here , and was still an English citizen , so the government could do this ) . A bitter Chaplin moved to Switzerland , and resided there for the rest of his life ( which was for another quarter century ) . While not flawless , VERDOUX was one of the great black comedies , and it's point about the evils of modern society were actually quite solid . It's preceding talkie ( Chaplin made only five real talkies , and included a brief talking scene in MODERN TIMES ) had been THE GREAT DICTATOR , which too had flaws , but skewered Hitler's Nazi regime , and Mussolini's posturing , delightfully . But LIMELIGHT was a lesser work . I have given it a for those parts that are meant for pure entertainment - the music hall turns of Calvaro , such as the flea circus act ( an idea Chaplin had been thinking about since 1919's THE PROFESSOR ) , his final sequence with Buster Keaton ( a joint triumph ) , and his musical score ( especially the memorable " Theme from LIMELIGHT " ) . Those are all worth watching and hearing . What is not worth watching is Chaplin's windy philosophizing about life and love . Somehow the criticism of society or the Nazis had been done with greater delicacy and accuracy in the two earlier talkies . But here Chaplin's dealing with the romance between old Calvaro and young Terry ( Claire Bloom ) seems over-expressed to the point of total awkwardness . Basically , Calvaro saves Terry , a girl just on the beginning of life , and nurses her back to health and to the proper start of her career as a dancer . She , in turn , tries to help restore the now poverty stricken man to his position as England's greatest music hall clown . There are moments ( due to the acting abilities of the two stars ) when their affection and mutual admiration comes through very nicely . But then Charlie talks ! Years earlier Paulette Goddard made a comment about her former husband and friend which many critics have since latched onto : " There is one problem with Charlie . He thinks he thinks ! " Like Charles Foster Kane Chaplin had hundreds of opinions on every subject under the sun ( including those political ones that finally blew up in his face ) . But most of his opinions were hot air . He didn't realize this . So when he starts giving Terry a pep talk about why life is worth living ( comparing us with jelly fish ) , one can only think that if one was living with this windy old fool one would like to take some artificial method to shorten one's existence and end the torture . He doesn't have to over-talk that way either - he can make one cringe when complementing Terry at her first big dance solo in a pantomime that he is involved in . The soulful way he tells her ( ironically the line is quite brief ) how beautifully she did it is so overdone as to make one wish Eric Campbell were still around to throttle him . There are other production flaws . One that always got to me showed Chaplin , the producer watching costs to the penny , having Norman Lloyd ( as the stage director ) explaining the pantomime to the dancers before they start rehearsing it . When he begins the camera properly shows the cast ( it includes Chaplin's ill fated oldest son and namesake , Charles Jr . , who later committed suicide ) on the stage listening intently . Then Chaplin has the camera concentrate on Lloyd's face while he addresses the cast , his back to the large , empty audience section of the theater . Fine - except we can see Lloyd's shadow on the back wall of that large empty audience section . We suddenly realize it is a backdrop ( and not a really good one ) and must be the size of a medium size oil painting ! Chaplin , of course , would not have considered hiring an actual theater for the filming of the scene as it would have been more expensive . Perhaps these comments seem too harsh . Enough of the film is entertaining to merit recommending it - at least as the last Chaplin film worth watching . Also as the last film with Nigel Bruce , as a theatrical producer . However , if my comments seem too harsh , I will say that the final tableau of Terry dancing to great acclaim on stage at the tribute to Calvaro , as he lies dying surrounded by the others , is quite a memorable conclusion - one of the best in any of Chaplin's films .
Cold War Wish Fulfillment and where's the great Mumford when you need him .	Robert Strauss was a remarkably memorable character actor . Although he looked physically threatening , he actually played comic roles more frequently than villains ( and if he played a convict or a hood , it was usually for comic affect ) . His great breakout part was in STALAG 17 , when he was the Betty Grable loving P . O . W . " Animal " , who had a memorable ( and ultimately sad ) moment dancing while drunk with Harvey Lembeck in a " blond wig " . But after STALAG 17 there was no comparable role to build on . His next film with Billy Wilder would be as the lecherous building superintendent in THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH . But it was ultimately easy and hard to cast him . Easy in supporting bit parts , but hard to find roles he really deserved . I consider THE ATOMIC KID the nearest Strauss got to a true leading part . It was made one year after STALAG 17 , so his name recognition was still high . And he was teamed with another sure fire box office draw ( though slightly faded in 1954 ) , Mickey Rooney . Rooney as a leading draw peaked in the 1940s in his series with Lewis Stone about the Hardy Family . But he was always a capable and entertaining performer , and he and Strauss work well together as a team . THE ATOMIC KID could easily have been an Abbott and Costello property . The two leads are looking for uranium in the desert , and they have car problems . They find a deserted house , and Rooney stays in it while Strauss goes trying to get help for their car . Rooney finds the larder of the house well stocked with provisions , and makes himself a peanut butter sandwich or two while he waits . Then hell breaks loose - the house is a faked house ( though if faked why does it have furniture and food in it ) and is at ground zero for an atomic blast site . It is hit , but Rooney survives . He becomes a national sensation - the first known human being to survive an atomic blast at it's metric center , untouched . Why ? Was it the diet of peanut butter sandwiches ? One can see Lou Costello in such a role ( although he might have insisted the sandwich be a pastrami sandwich ) , and Strauss replaced by Abbott . Like Bud , Robert always sees the big picture - the money to be made in marketing the celebrity of his friend the survivor . And he soon has all sorts of contracts being signed by Mickey ( as Bud would have had Lou sign them ) for endorsements - like peanut butter brands . Between this and the constant testing by the government , Rooney has time for little else - although he soon is romancing his nurse , Elaine Davis . However , soon the FBI ( Hal March ) is aware of another interested party : the Russians have sent an agent to try to discover Rooney's immunity secret . As a shot at the marketing of modern celebrity in America ( think now of Paris Hilton , Marilu Rettin , or George Foreman ) , THE ATOMIC KID is on target as much as it's contemporary Judy Holiday film , IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU . As a piece of amusing whimsy , it does proud for both Rooney and Strauss ( who , despite his crass greed , does show his loyal friendship to Rooney when the latter is endangered ) . But it is the business of cold war paranoia in the film's background that is fascinating . I reviewed , some time ago , a contemporary English comedy called YOU KNOW WHAT SAILORS ARE . It too dealt with the fear of nuclear annihilation in the 1950s , and how the public wished it away . There it was " demolished " when Akim Tamiroff and a friendly scientist concocted a scheme to convince the Russians that a make-shift gizmo ( that really did not do anything ) could demolish nuclear missiles upon take off . Here it is the survival of Rooney , apparently by eating peanut butter . Peanut butter would not be served as well again as a diet treat or power source until Jim Henson's Muppet , " the Great Mumford " would invent his magic catch phrase " a la peanut butter sandwiches " on Sesame Street . Would that something as tasty and satisfying as peanut butter could protect us all from nuclear destruction . It probably could not . Even , in the end , the scientists studying Rooney are not able to say why he survived .
When Agnes finally won one	Agnes Moorehead was a pretty terrific actress , and could actually play all types of roles : Charles Foster Kane's self-sacrificing mother , the love-sick and jealous old maid in THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSOMS , the put upon Countess Fosco who finally turns on Sidney Greenstreet in THE WOMAN IN WIFE , the hypocritical socialite who is not very patriotic in SINCE YOU WENT AWAY , JANE EYRE's evil but finally broken aunt . . . Moorehead was talented enough to breath life into all her roles . She was as convincing as the nurse and friend of Jane Wyman in MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION , as she was convincing in the sophisticated and malevolent witch and mother-in-law Endora in television's BEWITCHED . Yet for all of her performance excellence Moorehead failed to achieve major recognition from any of the performing awards . She was up for Oscars on four occasions ( as late as HUSH HUSH SWEET CHARLOTTE ) and failed to get one . This lack of recognition ended in 1967 , when she got an Emmy Award . She was nominated in two categories that year . One was for best actress in a supporting role in a comedy ( as Endora ) . It was one of four nominations for that role she would get - and she never won any for her best remembered television part . But she was also nominated for the role of Emma Valentine , Grant Administration hostess , matchmaker , and murder conspiracy organizer - in this episode of THE WILD WILD WEST . And finally she got the award she deserved . It's doubtful that people ( outside of fans of Robert Conrad's series ) recall the performance . Jim West and Artemus Gordon ( Ross Martin ) are sent on a mission involving the deaths of several of the nation's wealthiest men . All have had sudden violent deaths , and their wealth seems to be the only key to their demises . But West and Gordon discover that all have recently married younger women , and the person who arranged the marriages is Moorehead . Having failed to save J . Edward McKinley ( speared to death by his piano when playing it ) , the agents try to rescue shipping tycoon Henry Beckman . And they start looking closer and closer at Moorehead's Emma Valentine . Moorehead ( like most of the villains on the show ) is an egotist with a twisted set of goals ( she's determined to raise the position of American women - in suffragette America - by making herself the richest and most powerful woman in the nation ) . Like other villains ( Michael Dunn's Dr . Miguelito Lovelace comes to mind , as does Victor Buono's Count Mazzini ) , she has one trap after another to preoccupy Conrad and Martin , and they just manage to beat her each time . But she also has a charm and grace ( although she pushes too hard at times ) . She can be deadly when she wishes . I suspect that her winning this Emmy was a type of " booby prize " award for failing to give her the Emmy for Endora so frequently . Moorehead is very good as the villainous Emma , but the episode is hardly that brilliant to merit such recognition for her performance . In fact , it's another performance in the episode that in retrospect is far more memorable ( if not major ) . Emma ( like all good WILD WILD WEST villains ) has minions and roughs working for her . One is a middle aged , thin man , who is constantly laughing his head off ( except when he is knocked down by Conrad ) . This minion ( who is really insanely laughing - not " giggling " as this thread's description of the character suggests ) was played by Mickey Daniels . Daniels was the former child star member of the Hal Roach OUR GANG in the 1920s and early 1930s , and was also in the series ( with Grady Sutton ) of " Boy Friend " comedies as well . After a final minor film part in the late 1940s , Daniels ( who had a drinking problem ) did not have any other acting job until he did this episode of THE WILD WILD WEST . And it would prove to be his last performance . Working normally as a cab driver , he was found dead ( of cirrhosis of the liver ) in his motel rooms in 1971 . So forgotten had he become , it was 20 years or so before scholars found out when he had died .
The Doctor Who Treated The Insane Like Human Beings	I actually saw this short on television back in the 1960s , and never forgot about it . Dr . Philippe Pinel was an early doctor ( from France ) who handled the inmates of asylums . In the 18th Century the average mental doctor or alienist ( one did not call them psychologists or psychiatrists yet - there was no real psychiatry ) treated the mentally ill as though they were only slightly better than a criminal . Dr . Benjamin Rush , for example , was a signer of the Declaration of Independence , and a leading physician and spokesman for American democracy - but his invention to assist the mentally ill was an isolation - style device that sealed the patient in total darkness . It was not to cure the patient , but to so isolate him or her as to shut the patient up ! Pinel did something that showed a fine spirit and originality - he treated his patients as though they were sick human beings . He did not chain them to chairs or beds or walls . He used kindness and simple acts of normality to remind the mentally ill how to react to proper behavior . It was rudimentary psychiatry , but compared to what was going on around the world it was light years ahead of anyone else . Pinel got his position due to the favoritism of aristocrats who knew him in France . In 1793 , a mob of Revolutionaries chased Pinel in the streets of Paris to kill him as a typical aristocratic stooge ( this was not unusual during the Revolution - the great chemist Lavoisier was sent to the guillotine because he had been one of the Farmer Generals of the Revenues in the Ancien Regime , and Fouquier Tinville ( his prosecutor ) supposedly said " The Revolution has no need for scientists ! " as they took him away ; also the mathematician Condercet , a leading Girondist , committed suicide when facing a similar fate by the Jacobins ) . Pinel was cornered by the mob , when a respectable elderly man came over and started attacking members of the mob with his cane . The mob members fled , and the man took Pinel into a building to recover . It turned out the man was one Hector Chevigny , the first man that Pinel's treatment of decency helped recover his sanity . It was an interesting study of one of the first steps towards modern treatment of the insane .
The One Show of the series " The Partners " that I saw	I have always been a little leery about the tendency of popular television stars to leave one popular series and then try to repeat it almost immediately afterward . In 1968 GET SMART ended it's wonderful run on television , and Don Adams was known as one of the funniest dead pan comic actors on television . Within two years he had helped create this series , THE PARTNERS , wherein he and Rupert Crosse were two police detectives who fumble their ways to the correct solutions of their cases . Crosse had made a name for himself with an Oscar-nominated ( best supporting man ) role in the Steve McQueen film THE REIVERS . The casting seemed good , yet the series lasted one year only . Because of my own suspicions I did not watch THE PARTNERS - I figured I would pick an episode at random to check . The episode I chose was this one , " Magnificent Perception " . A crime has been committed and the police department is baffled . Then Adams and Crosse are told that they will be assisted by an internationally known psychic named Zinzer ( Hans Conried ) . In typical loopy - " Get Smart " style - humor , Zinzer is constantly slightly off on his psychic visions . He's not wrong , but he is a little late in his comments . Finally , in the mounting public rejection of his assistance , Conried makes the statement that if his next vision is wrong he'll leave . We see a photo in the newspaper of him making that statement , and a headline " Zinzer leaving " ! . But just as he's about to go Conried suddenly realizes why his work has been off - it seems that he never adjusted his watch to Eastern Standard Time , the time zone he is currently in . The episode was fairly amusing , particularly due to the cast leads of Adams , Crosse , and best Conried ( another of his classy eccentrics ) . The result was good , and yet I never was drawn to view the series again . The show ended in 1972 , and my suspicion is that Crosse's health decline ( he died of cancer in 1973 ) may have helped kill the show . Ratings possibly were too low to consider replacing Crosse with another actor . But it was not the worst comedy show that I ever watched , and capable of a few good chuckles .
Hitch's sacrifice for acceptance in Hollywood	The story of Lina " Monkey - face " Aysgard and her husband Johnny is from a novel by Francis Iles called BEFORE THE FACT . Hitchcock liked Iles ' novels , which were unusual because the heroes were actually anti-heroes . Johnny is an upper class wastrel who is not unwilling to swindle or kill if it benefits himself . He is responsible , actually , for at least three deaths in the story . Interestingly enough , Hitch always wanted to do Iles ' " Black Comedy " novel MALICE AFORETHOUGHT , as a film - possibly with Alex Guiness - wherein the anti-hero Dr . Bickley ( based on Dr . Crippen and Major Herbert Armstrong ) poisons his wife and several others in a charming little village in the English countryside . Unfortunately , Hitch never got to do MALICE AFORETHOUGHT ( but it has been done on BBC television once or twice ) . He had just pocketed the " Oscar " ( for the only time in his career , by the way ) for REBECCA - his first American film . Hitch apparently thought he could do anything . He was now to discover he could not do everything . To begin with , Iles ' novel ended with Johnny facing the loss of his wife ( but in a curious switch - Lina willingly takes the poison he brings her , and actually destroys him emotionally because Johnny was secretly ashamed of this crime - he really loved Lina and she kills herself to help him out ) . If the Hays and Breen offices had any imagination they would have realized that the film would have been so far better and more moral if they had left the ending alone . Johnny would have been too cowardly to ever kill himself , and would have gone to his grave realizing what he threw away . It would have been a worse punishment than if Johnny had been hanged . But the censors would have none of it . If Lina died Johnny must be punished . Hitch played around with changing the ending ( he did this frequently in his adaptations of novels ) . He would have had Lina write a note to her mother , explaining that she knew Johnny was going to kill her , but she loved him and would let him . Johnny would poison her with her evening milk , and then ( while happily whistling ) post the letter to her mother ( Dame May Witty ) . Here he came acropper with another portion of the Hollywood scene : Cary Grant's agent and RKO Studio . Both were very image conscious , but that image was comic or dapper or likable - but not murderous . Grant himself would have enjoyed the change ( ten years later he might have tried to do it with Hitch that way ) . But in 1941 too many interested parties were opposed . As a result , Grant's part had to be rewritten . ( A few years later , Grant appeared in MR . LUCKY , as a gambler who decides to commit a fraud regarding a war effort charity . He does use violence several times in the film , but he reforms against his partner in the fraud - though he violently kicks him in a fight - and ends up enlisting in the army . That and his role as Ernie in NONE BUT THE LONELY HEART were the two closest negative parts he had after SUSPICION , and neither is a total villain . ) Johnny remains a charming wastrel , who loves gambling , and who depends on others to pay for him . But he is struggling to try to go legitimate , and in his best scene in the film ( when he is trying to get financing from Nigel Bruce for a building project ) he shows a sense of reality that is just missing from most of the film . He turns on Joan Fontane , who thinks Grant is planning something crooked at the expense of his friend Bruce and begins " gumming up the works " of his business deal . Actually one sees there what the film might have been like , but it was a rare moment of real juice in the movie . Grant does as well with the part as he can , as does Fontane ( who won the Best Actress Oscar award ) . But it is a hollow victory in the film . Best are Nigel Bruce as Beaky Thwaite , Johnny's close , doomed friend ( and in the novel his victim ) . Also in a brief role is Leo G . Carroll as Johnny's cousin and employer who is swindled by him . Carroll only has one brief scene , but is memorable as one of the few outsiders who calls Johnny's character correctly . In later years , after he showed his box office success , Hitch would be able to make his central figures negative ones . As pointed out elsewhere on this thread , Joseph Cotton would be " Uncle Charlie " the murderer in SHADOW OF A DOUBT within two years . Later on he would do THE PARADINE CASE , where defendant Alida Valli was guilty , and STAGE FRIGHT , where suspect Richard Todd lies partially about the crime to the audience at the start . I have one particular complaint . Johnny borrows a volume from the Notable British Trial series from a neighbor who is a mystery novelist . It is the trial of a 19th Century poisoner who once killed a victim by betting the victim that he could drink a bumper of brandy without stopping for breath . This ( when Fontane hears of it ) resembles the death of Bruce . This actually happened in the 1850s to a notorious poisoner who was a gambler . He was Dr . Palmer of Rugeley . And there is a volume of the Notable British Trial series about Palmer . But it was Dr . WILLIAM Palmer historically . In the movie the volume is clearly labeled THE TRIAL OF RICHARD PALMER . Somebody did not do their research properly
Murders within Murders within Murders	When the novel THE NIGHT OF THE GENERALS ( by Hans Helmut Kirst ) was published in the 1960s , it was a best seller . It has a very clever ( devilishly clever ) theme - when is a murder considered heinous ? The plot is basically three levels or intertwined murder . 1 ) The organized murder ( both normal and war crime ) of World War II as practiced by the Nazi German Government . 2 ) The activities of a select band of German Generals ( led by Field Marshall Erwin Rommel ) to assassinate Adolf Hitler during a conference at Raustenburg , in July 1944 , seize the German Government , and negotiate an end to the war with the British and Americans ( probably not with the Communist Russians ) . 3 ) A series of apparently random prostitute killings across Europe ( first in Warsaw ) that appears to be linked to one of three leading German Generals : General Kallenberg ( Donald Pleasance ) , Seydlitz-Gabler ( Charles Gray ) , and Tanz ( Peter O'Toole ) . The crimes are being investigated by Major Grau ( Omar Sharif ) , who is as determined to solve this case as Inspector Javert was to capture Jean Valjean a century earlier . Now , one can make a general statement ( and it has been seriously made ) that warfare is organized killing and murder and is no different from Jack the Ripper's activities ( which resembles the activities of the prostitute murderer here ) . Yet while abhorring ( or supposedly abhorring ) the Rippers , Christies , Mansons , etc . in our society , people do still glorify and reward the officers and soldiers of armed forces ( for the most part ) who serve their countries . Rommel , for example , by his eleventh hour switch to support the Stauffenburg bomb plot , was technically committing treason - and was forced to commit suicide to protect his family from Hitler's full anger . But today , " the Desert Fox " is one of the few Axis generals to be regarded as great by both sides for his abilities , and a hero by both sides for his trying to get rid of a really evil madman . Yet that bomb plot actually killed two others in the bunker with Hitler who were closer to the bomb itself . Doesn't that ( even if we don't want to think it ) make Rommel an accessory to two murders ? Rommel is no more blamed for the deaths of Allied and Axis soldiers in his battles in North Africa than say George Washington and Lord Cornwallis are blamed for deaths at Yorktown . Yet their plans and orders set things up for such deaths - but we tend to ignore these . If people are blamed for wars it is the civilians or governments heads who are usually blamed . And what happens with crimes that are government policy at the time . The issue is still cropping up in the U . S . actions in Afghanistan , Pakistan , and Iraq . With the Nazis , you have the Holacaust and various battleground horrors ( i . e . " the Malmedy Massacres " during the Battle of the Bulge ) that are not considered normal ( if any warfare is normal ) actions in war . Are the soldiers involved in such activities true criminals or are they considered " doing their duty " . The answer depends on whether the country involved is willing to cover-up for them , and also successful in the war . Don't forget , we live in a post - Nazi defeat world . Had Hitler won , the war criminals would have included Churchill , F . D . R . , and Eisenhower , not Goering , Hess , and Von Ribbentrop . Survivors in Nazi controlled Europe ( no Jews or Slavs or Gypsies , or Communists or enemies of the Nazis ) would have barely heard of the death camps and the Holacaust . Here Major Grau is determined to find which of his three suspects is the murderer of the prostitutes . He has followed them across Europe . Tanz is the most ideological of the generals - a favorite of the Fuhrer . We see him destroying a section of Warsaw ( presumably the ghetto ) while being questioned by Grau . Tanz looks disdainfully at the Major and remains in his tank during the interview ( looking downward at the Major ) . Kallenburg is the most secretive and mysterious of the three suspects - and we realize he is not as cooperative as he pretends to be . Seydlitz - Gabler is in a loveless marriage , and seems to hide behind his aristocratic lineage . Grau does get some help from a French inspector Morand ( Philippe Noiret ) when the generals turn up in Paris . Morand actually makes some headway - he finds a crime being planned . But it is the bomb plot against Hitler . Grau hears this and laughs it off calling the plotters traitors ( which again makes us wonder when is a crime no longer a crime and a murder what it is supposed to be ) . Seydlitz - Gabler's daughter Ulrike ( Joanna Pettet ) is having a love affair with Corporal Hartmann ( Tom Courtenay ) . Her parents are not thrilled by her romance with this untitled nobody . Hartmann is assigned to chauffeur Tanz around Paris while he is on vacation there . They go to one of the forbidden museums of impressionistic art there , and Tanz discovers a somewhat kindred spirit in Vincent Van Gogh's art style . In fact Tanz keeps returning to the museum day after day . Tanz's reaction to the paintings is one of the most effective moments of the movie . In the end the case cannot be solved in wartime - it requires 20 years for the solution to emerge . And ( although the audience does know who did it long before the conclusion ) the end of the film shows that the sometimes a sense of disgrace can be brought about by the type of killing one gets tangled with .
The First Celebrity Super Couple ?	There is a trick about movies concerning great or even good composers . Few of them have lives that ( outside of musicologists or curious people ) are worth talking about . Also , as their music is the reason for their greatness , the music is going to dominate the film - any activity on screen is going to be less interesting ( unless the composer's life is interesting ) than what they created for their audiences and posterity . Which composers have popped up on screen ? Beethoven in several films ( best , possibly , by Gary Oldman in 1994's IMMORTAL BELOVED ) . Chopin in the film about to be discussed here . His pal , Franz Liszt ( Dirk Bogarde ) in SONG WITHOUT END . Johann Brahms and Robert Schuman ( Robert Walker Sr . and Paul Henried ) in SONG OF LOVE . Wagner in the television series of that name ( by Richard Burton ) , and Verdi in the television series of that name ( by Ronald Pickup ) . Douglas Montgomery ( MELODY LANE ) and Don Ameche ( SWANEE RIVER ) both essayed Stephen Foster . Clifton Webb was John Philip Sousa in STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER . Walter Connelly was the title composer in THE GREAT VICTOR HERBERT . Jimmy Cagney ( and Joel Grey ) were George M . Cohan ( in YANKEE DOODLE DANDY and GEORGE M . ) . Robert Alda was George Gershwin in RHAPSODY IN BLUE . Tom Drake and Mickey Rooney were Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart in WORDS AND MUSIC . Robert Morley and Maurice Evans were the title characters in THE STORY OF GILBERT AND SULLIVAN . Richard Chamberlain was Pyotr Ilytsch Tschaikowski in THE MUSIC LOVERS . Fernand Gravet was Johann Strauss Jr . in THE GREAT WALTZ . But few of them were really exciting people . Webb's performance as Sousa was good , but the biographical material of the story was passably interesting ( but no more - the music carried the film ) . Chamberlain's film was more interesting because of Tschaikowski's homosexuality . Cagney's breeziness and the theater background of the story of Cohan made that film a permanently popular one . Foster's tragic failure to succeed as our first professional composer ( and his alcoholism ) did give some grip to his biography , but sappy construction and writing hurt the Ameche film ( especially that profoundly stupid conclusion ) . Chopin was " blessed " in several ways biographically . He was a patriot , and part of the film is devoted to his support for the Poles fighting for their freedom from Russia . He did have a long time affair with George Sands , France's leading female novelist in the 19th Century . And he struggled with increasing ill health due to his tuberculosis . He only lived forty years , and oddly enough his birth and death dates almost correspond to his American contemporary Edgar Allan Poe , who was also plagued by ill health through much of his life . Cornell Wilde had been playing supporting parts up to this film , such as the cowardly inside-man in the heist in HIGH SIERRA . It was here that he finally came into his own as an actor , even getting nominated for an Academy Award for his performance . Merle Oberon had an unusual role . Normally she was a supportive lover ( her Cathy is ultimately deeply in love with Heathcliff , but proud and snobbish when she meets Edgar Linton in WUTHERING HEIGHTS - that was an exception for her ) . Here she is committed to her own literary success , and she does little to understand the musical success at the core of the man who adores her . There is a hint of nymphomania in her - a seeming hard incapacity to love that drives men wild ( not only Chopin , but his predecessor in her bed Alfred de Musset the poet ( George Macready ) ) . In the end she is the villain in the film , breaking the spirit of her Polish lover , and dooming him to early death . How true is this ? Not totally . While two creative spirits like Chopin and Sand could clash they both were deeply attached to each other . In a television series on the career of Sand , starring Rosemary Harris , it turned out that a message from Chopin on his death bed was withheld from Sand by her jealous daughter - a fact she did not learn until many decades later . Paul Muni gave a weak , over the top performance as Chopin's mentor Joseph Elsner in the film . He had done older men for years , and Elsner was a slightly comical one ( look at his scene with Howard Freeman as a music publisher ) . But it is overdone , and one of the weaknesses of the movie . Still it is not too serious a weakness . On the whole it is a good film , for the two leads and some of the supporting cast . But it is not true history .
Two Fifths of the " Rat Pack " Meet Agents West and Gordon	When the Will Smith - Kenneth Branagh - Kevin Kline film of THE WILD WILD WEST was made a few years ago , one of the interesting changes was that Will Smith , an African-American , was playing James West . The role of the hero of the original series ( and the two television movies of the late 1970s ) was Robert Conrad , a Caucasian-American . Many viewers of the show probably shrugged at this change ( as much as making the insane dwarf genius Miguelito Lovelace ( Michael Dunn ) over as an ex - Confederate engineering genius who had lost his legs ( Branagh ) ) . The setting in the Grant Administration was the same , and the anachronistic science fiction devices was the same . So if you were a fan of the series , the change of the villain's motivation ( world domination due to physical problems changed to revenge for losing the American Civil War ) was really the only major problem to swallow - especially if ( like myself ) you admired Michael Dunn as an actor and a personality . But the fact is there was at least one episode of the original series when it was suggested that the Post-Civil War Secret Service had African-American agents . This was such an episode . It was also one of the few that had two guest stars on it : Sammy Davis Jr . and Peter Lawford . The two members of the " Rat Pack " played their roles here fairly straight ( as opposed to some appearances , such as when they were " Salt " and " Pepper " ) . In fact , they are antagonists in this show . West and Gordon are visiting a small western town , whose leading citizen is Carl Jackson ( Lawford ) . He was responsible for keeping the town ( and that area of the territory ) loyal to the U . S . in Civil War . One of the workers on his ranch is Jeremiah ( Davis ) an ex-slave , who is also a kind of religious type . There have recently been activities in the area that suggest some group like the Ku Klux Klan , naturally scaring the ranch hands like Jeremiah . But he insists that it is something more supernatural than that - the creatures look like dead men on horses . After one instance of this , West shows Jackson a clue - a piece of paper with the name " Beaumont Carson " on it . Jackson's calm facade cracks as he repeats the name . . . a name he has not heard in nearly a decade . The name turns out to be that of a long missing Confederate officer who vanished with his men while transporting gold for the Confederate government - it being suspected they decided to turn from patriotism to greed and run off with the treasure . But Jackson's behavior ( as well as that of others in the area like the Sheriff ( Alan Baxter ) ) suggests some deadly secret that these know . The episode was a slow moving one at times , but interesting , particularly in Davis ' and Lawford's performances . Lawford ( normally a fairly mediocre performer ) did well as a man with a guilty secret who sees his seemingly secure position threatened . Davis played Jeremiah as not a stereotype but as a person with a mission : SPOILER HERE ( SORRY ) : Davis is actually a fellow Secret Service agent working behind the scenes with West and Gordon in investigating the circumstances of the disappearance of the gold and Beaumont Carson . He was very convincing ( as would be expected ) as a person of intelligence who was a government agent . The supporting cast ( Baxter , Hazel Court as Lawford's wife ) did well in their roles . If not one of the best episodes of the series it was an interesting one in the casting and characterizations , particularly Davis ' role .
Good Second Level Lubitsch	THAT UNCERTAIN FEELING is based on a French play by Victorien Sardou . He was the leading French dramatist for most of the 19th Century , but his specialty of " the well made play " was lampooned into oblivion by later writers ( most notably George Bernard Shaw , who labeled such carefully plotted works as " Sardoodledum " ) . Actually , like such good 20th Century dramatists as Terrance Rattigan , a really good drama can survive it's structural mechanics if the characterizations stand out to be true . Sardou's serious plays ( like his historical plays ) are too stiff to work today . But his lighter fare might still be able to work if up-dated . Lubitsch reset the story into modern New York . Melvin Douglas is married to Merle Oberon , and is a successful attorney . But their seemingly happy marriage has hit a dull spot . He is not aware of this but she is noticing his idiosyncrasies , and finding some too annoying for words : His habit of sticking his finger into her middle ( playfully , of course ) and saying " Keex " drives her up a wall . She tries a popular psychiatrist ( Alan Mowbray , in a kind of reprise of a similar role from Lubitsch's DESIRE ) . Then she goes to an art gallery and meets eccentric pianist Burgess Meredith . He is a man who seems more full of sour , but honest , opinions about everything than he has musical talent . He goes from picture to picture telling Oberon what is wrong with each . " That painting won't live . " , he declares of one work . Oberon , who can barely keep looking at it , says , " Thank God for that ! " . Meredith , with his sour view of most things , is soon ruining one of Douglas's business dinners ( for a bunch of Hungarian businessmen , led by Sig Ruman ) . Douglas has a first rate Hungarian meal , complete with goulash for his guests , and even teaches - or tries to teach Oberon - to say a Hungarian toast for their guests . But Meredith dominates the evening , by insisting on playing a classical piece of piano music , and then 19 variations he has composed on it . Gradually Douglas tries to restore his marriage , but finds Oberon in a deep commitment to Meredith . This leads to one of the best scenes when Douglas and his partner Harry Davenport try to stage an act of cruelty against Oberon for divorce purposes . To do this they have to have Eve Arden as an unsuspecting witness to an escalating argument leading to a slap in the face . But each time Douglas can't bring himself to do it , until he basically downs two or three drinks . In the meantime Arden keeps noticing that Davenport ( supposedly giving her dictation ) is actually doing everything over and over again , including snapping his fingers at the moment that Douglas and Oberon are supposed to start their argument . The film ends with Oberon considering the good and bad points of Douglas and Meredith , to reach her conclusion about who to stay with . It is an obvious choice , perhaps , and it may seem to take her too long to decide , but the three leads give bright performances ( supported by Davenport and Arden and the others ) . Not on the level of THE MERRY WIDOW or NINOTCHKA , but worth watching for some satisfactory chuckles .
Wilson's Mexican Misadventure	I have to agree that this is a film that is not as good as it should be . Robert Rossen is a fine director ( " All The King's Men " , " Alexander The Great " , " The Hustler " ) , but he is not a popular one . His films do tackle weighty themes and characters , but too frequently he gets talky and loses his audience . Such a thing happens in " They Came To Cordura " , where the theme of what is courage is overdeveloped . From what one of the earlier comments on this thread suggested Rossen's movie was half an hour longer than it is . Since many viewers lose their interest in the film at it's current length , why would a longer version improve matters ? In 1916 , while World War I was occupying most people's attention , President Wilson was concerned with the continuous unsettled state of Mexico , then in the sixth year of it's Revolution . Initially he was delighted with the first head of the Revolution , Francisco Madero , who was trying to make the country a nation ruled by constitutional law . But in 1913 , Madero was overthrown and murdered by the head of the Mexican army , General Huerta . Huerta had support by the then Ambassador to Mexico , a gentleman named Henry Wilson ( no relation to the then President-elect ) , who openly cooperated in the assassination . After Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated , he replaced Henry , but the damage was done to Mexican-American relations . The new President was too ham handed to improve matters . In 1914 he had the Marines land at Vera Cruz after our flag had been insulted . Many lives were lost in this battle . Wilson worked to force Huerta out of his office . This brought him into considering someone to replace Huerta . Why a puritanical prude like Woodrow Wilson thought of supporting Francisco " Pancho " Villa as the corrective to Huerta has never been adequately explained . Although the two men never met , it is inconceivable that Wilson would have found the hard drinking , bloody minded , and woman chasing Pancho as an ideal type to run Mexico . But he did , and for a year or so ( until Huerta left Mexico ) Villa was given arms and supplies from the U . S . This honeymoon lasted until a new figure arose - General Venusiano Carranza . Carranza ( like Madero ) wanted the adoption of a permanent national constitution to run the country . Wilson liked this ( he did not notice that Carranza did not hesitate to feather his own nest while stressing the constitution . So in 1916 Wilson began aiding Carranza , and slowly ceased assisting Villa . Villa was angered by this , and decided to teach the gringos a lesson . He raided the town of Columbus , New Mexico , killing about a dozen citizens . It was the first foreign invasion of American soil since the War of 1812 , and would be the only invasion of the continental territory of the U . S . between 1814 and / 2001 . Wilson was furious , and demanded that President Carranza arrest the bandit / revolutionary . Wilson might as well have demanded that Carranza arrest the winds of Mexico . He had fought several battle against Villa , and knew that Pancho was no pushover . When Carranza gave some half-baked reason for not catching Pancho , Wilson decided to take the matter into his own hands : he sent troops into Mexico under General John J . Pershing to catch the bandit revolutionary . For a year or so Pershing tried to catch Villa , but the wily Pancho managed to keep escaping . Finally the U . S . troops were called back . Mexicans were incensed at American arrogance in invading their country ( sound familiar ? ) . The only good thing was that it enabled us to test our army out here , under if's future Expeditionary Commander's leadership , before we went into the European conflict . Except , possibly , " The Three Amigos " , this is the only commercially made film that is set in the Anti - Villa expedition of 1916 - 1917 . As such it barely touches the reasons for the expedition . Instead it concentrates on Gary Cooper's assignment to find five men who should receive the U . S . Medal of Honor for gallantry and bravery in action . It is a cynical act by Washington , because 1 ) the purpose is public relations cosmetics for a botched armed intervention ; and 2 ) Cooper's Major Thorn is actually given the assignment because he acted cowardly on the field of battle . For the Major to be given this quiet assignment is actual an insult - his own courage is being questioned . Soon he finds a battle going on and picks out his five men ( Van Heflin , Richard Conte , Michael Callan , Tab Hunter , and Dick York ) . This gives him some problems with an old friend , Robert Keith , who planned the attack , and hoped it would lead to him getting the award ( actually , Cooper was only impressed at how slapdash and badly planned the attack was , and cannot think of it's architect getting any type of award as a result ) . Keith ends his friendship with Cooper as a result . Taking his five men with him , Cooper starts trying to get to know them . He soon discovers that the men are not interested in the medal , and ( as they have a long trek to Cordura , where they have to go to finalize the awards ) , Cooper learns that the men are not very noble at all . To worsen things , they capture a hacienda owner who is American ( Rita Hayworth ) , who gave assistance to Villa's men . The woman reawakens sexual tensions and rivalries between the five men , as well as Cooper . The film ends with Cooper and the men coming to turns ( after several nearly deadly confrontations ) with their own views of the values of true courage and it's being honored . It is not a dull matter , but one questions a full two hour about it . Because of the covering of this dismal incident of the diplomatic history of the U . S . and Mexico , and the acting ( all the leads are good ) , and Rossen's direction - it is worth a " 7 " out of " 10 " .
An innovated pilot	MAKE ROOM FOR DADDY was a highly successful television series in the 1950s and 1960s starring Danny Thomas , detailing his career and family problems . It became so successful that it made Thomas a successful television producer ( as it did for his show's director - producer Sheldon Leonard ) . One of the reasons for the success of Thomas ' series was he was able to get some really good surprise guests stars . In one episode , he had Lucille Ball as her television persona " Lucy Ricardo " . But in 1960 , he actually did something a little unusual . He and Sheldon Lewis were about to do a new series , starring Andy Griffith , about a sheriff in a small North Carolina town . It would eventually be called THE ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW , but before it appeared in the fall 1960 line-up , there was this episode of MAKE ROOM FOR DADDY . While it is pointed out in the other review on this thread that the episodes makes fun of speed traps , in reality it was the so-called city slicker Thomas who was the butt of the jokes here . Thomas is taking his family back north from a vacation by car . Marjorie Lord , Angela Cartwright , and Rusty Hamer are with him . He has been speeding , but he is too arrogant in the episode to do the simple thing and pay the speeding ticket . Instead , he keeps thinking he can overawe Griffith and force him to drop the whole matter . Instead , every attempt to show his contempt or his superiority to the " hick " Sheriff is met by Griffith at his friendliest and most devastatingly charming - and legally correct - reaction . From being able to pay a $50 . 00 fine , Thomas manages to boost himself into a prison cell by his conduct . I think the episode ended with a general apology to Griffith , and a reduction of the charges to time served and the fine , but the tail end of the story involved another disaster to Thomas ' car that caused him to be stuck in Mayberry for some more time . On of the running jokes in the episode is that various public officials might be of assistance to Danny in overcoming the initial ticket . Unfortunately , Andy happens to be all these public officials ( like the local justice of the peace ) . Interestingly this aspect of his work as Sheriff of Mayberry was not kept in the series . It was an amusing pilot , and I believe it was the first pilot for a spin-off series that ever appeared as an episode of the mother series on television .
Pity a poor wartime hero who needs money .	It is , I believe , the only time that those two silkiest voiced movie villains George Sanders and James Mason appeared together . Both occasionally played good guys ( Sanders was Simon Templar , " the Saint " , Mason was " Norman Main " in the Judy Garland A STAR IS BORN ) . Sanders would eventually win a deserved Oscar , but Mason ( though repeatedly nominated ) tied with fellow Briton Richard Burton for the most nominated actor who never got the Oscar . So they were well balanced , and managed to appear in this satire . A bit of historical background . In 1955 a mystery occurred at Portsmouth naval base in England . A war hero , naval frogman - Commander Charles " Buster " Crabbe - disappeared while doing a routine dive in the bay . It turned out that a Russian naval craft was visiting Portsmouth ( two Russian leaders were meeting the Prime Minister ) , and it was suspected that Crabbe might have been spying on it . But was he caught ? Or did he defect ? A body that was decomposed was found later that year , but was it Crabbe's ? His fate was never actually settled . It is this odd mystery that seems to be the germ for this comedy . Wartime hero Mason is in need of cash , as he is trying to beat out wealthy , snobby Sanders in a competition for Vera Miles . He starts noticing the worst aspect of the British press - it's outspokenness in making allegations " in pursuit of truth " . He gets an idea . Suppose he acted mildly oddly for a few weeks . He has a highly sensitive military post , and he could ( if he wished ) give valuable information to the enemy ( read the Russians ) . He might even defect . So he builds up a plausible appearance of approaching the Russians . Then he decides he will disappear while he is supposed to be on vacation . He arranges to disappear to an island , and hide there listening on a radio as the public is fed a diet of his apparent defection and treason . And he slowly realizes his plan is falling into place - he will bring a huge lawsuit against the various media for slander or libel on his reputation . Or will he get away with it , for while he is doing this one person noting his disappearance is suspicious . Sanders knows Mason , and he does not think him a traitor , nor does he trust him . I won't spoil the end . It is a good comedy and things work out in crazy ways in this mad world . See the film and find out .
Mel Brooks One Attempt at Producing a Serious Film	For my money THE DOCTOR AND THE DEVILS is a worthy horror film for several reasons . It has a good cast , including Timothy Bottoms , Jonathan Pryce , Twiggy , Sean Rea , Patrick Stewart , Sian Phillips , Beryl Reid , and Patricia Neal ( whose name I did not note in the cast - she was the mother-in-law of Dr . Rock ) . Secondly , it had a screenplay that was legendary for decades as one of the great unpublished screenplays by a prominent writer ( Dylan Thomas , of all people ) . Finally , for the only time in his career comedy king Mel Brooks decided to produce this work . Despite the occasional dab at horror that was in some of his spoofs ( the Holacaust in THE PRODUCERS - both versions ; anti - Semitism in " the Inquisition " segment of HISTORY OF THE WORLD , PART I ; the monsters in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula , DEAD AND LOVING IT ; the murder conspiracy in HIGH ANXIETY all come to mind ) , Brooks always showed the spoof or satire behind the familiar sequences . Here , for the only time , he showed the grimness of serial killings . Those points said I have to limit the success . One misses Brooks ' humor which leavens even the worse of his films . Still one can excuse it because Brooks did not direct the film ( or at least it is not apparent if he did suggest anything ) . His production standards are high - he is creating the Edinburgh of 1828 - 29 . For THE DOCTOR AND THE DEVILS is the retelling of the Burke and Hare story . As such it lacks the conciseness and tensions of the fictional retelling via Val Lewton and Robert Louis Stevenson of THE BODY SNATCHER ( still the best version of the story ) , and the best historical account , MANIA . Also it lacks the blank verse approach of Thomas ' original screenplay ( which was never totally completed ) . It has been retouched here to make it more approachable as a movie project - which explains why it finally made it to the screen . The story does show how the murders were committed by Burke and Hare ( Fang and Broome : Pryce and Rea ) , and even goes in greater detail about the luring of the victims and the method of suffocation used . But the variety of the victims seemed better shown in MANIA , and the chilliness of the killings were best shown in THE BODY SNATCHER in the sequences where the blind street singer and the blackmailing Joseph were both killed . Also here the capture of Fang is tied to his attempted rape of Jennie Bailey ( Twiggy ) , a good set piece but not historically truthful at all . But the betrayal of Fang by Broome is correct - and here we see Broome smilingly getting away with it ( not like the blinding of Hare - Donald Pleasance - in MANIA , which is not proved as true as of yet ) . Still , with all the changes , the story is still compelling enough , and the acting still first rate . It is a respectable attempt ( as I said earlier ) if not the best version of the horrible tragedy of the West Port .
" All The World's A Stage . . . . "	AS YOU LIKE IT is an odd duck among the major plays of Shakespeare that have been filmed . It is one of the three top romantic comedies ( with MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING and TWELFTH NIGHT ) that Shakespeare wrote , but none of them have been favorites for film ( not like A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM ) . MUCH ADO recently was redone by Kenneth Branagh , but not as well received as his HAMLET and HENRY V . AS YOU LIKE IT was done a few times on television , but not as a film - except for this 1936 version . AS YOU LIKE IT is set in the forest of Arden . Most of the characters are in hiding there or have been exiled there . The local Duke has been overthrown by his brother ( Duke Frederick / Felix Aylmer ) and exiled there . His courtiers followed . Lawrence Olivier is the son of a favorite of the old Duke , so he is not in favor with Aylmer . He is also finding life difficult with his older brother Oliver ( John Laurie ) , who is consumed with jealousy . So Orlando ( Olivier ) flees to save his own life , and is soon at the court in the forest of Arden . The true Duke's daughter , Rosalind ( Elisabeth Bergner ) , has also fled with her cousin Celia ( Sophia Stewart ) , because Aylmer is unhappy at his niece's continuous appearance at the regular court . Rosalind ( in the plot ) pretends to be a young boy , who tries to teach Orlando what real love is . He is full of the courtly love that percolated in European intellectual circles at the time , and Rosalind slowly makes Orlando realize how it is artificial ( listen to her dismiss the idea of dying over a broken heart ) . Slowly she makes Orlando a fit lover - a real lover - for herself in her genuine person . The forest becomes a place where truth keeps emerging out of the trees and bushes . One of the old Duke's closest friends , Jacques , gives the most famous speech of the play , " the seven ages of man " . In it he describes the seven different roles played by men in life , from infancy to old age . Jacques is a melancholic figure , and he is balanced in the plot by Rosalind and Celia's servant , the fool Touchstone , who also demonstrates what makes a real lover in his easy dismissal of his rival William ( Peter Bull , as a rather dumb rustic ) over a shepherdess . Eventually even Oliver / Laurie ends up in the forest ( Laurie is sent there because he is blamed for Duke Frederick's daughter's fleeing with Rosalind ) . A bare recital of the play's plot is not as good as watching it . In truth , even with Bergner's accent , she gives one of the most charming performances in Shakespearean film . The personality that made her the leading actress in Austria and Germany carries well in her English films . Olivier , for an early film , does a good job - his youth aiding the character's education in the plot , and his good looks being shown to advantage . Aylmer , Laurie , Bull , Mackenzie Ward ( Touchstone ) , and Leon Quartermain ( Jacques ) do the most with their parts . One wishes more of the play had been included , but the reduced size is not a big problem for the viewer . As an introduction to reading the play , and seeing a complete production , the 1936 film is pretty good .
A Novel That Outlasted It's Time .	The late 1960s into the 1970s saw a spurt of musical films based on Dickens ' works . The best of them was " Oliver " , based on " Oliver Twist " , which won the best film Oscar . But " Oliver " had a first rate score , and ( truth be told ) an interesting story about thieves and crime in early 19th Century London . In 1970 the novella " A Christmas Carol " was turned into " Scrooge " ( with Albert Finney in the title role ) . It's story was always a popular one , and one tune ( " Thank You Very Much ! " ) has become a standard . Then came this 1975 film . In 1840 Dickens was at a type of crossroads regarding how he wrote his novels . " Pickwick Papers " was a comic novel , " Oliver Twist " was a " Newgate " crime novel , and " Nicholas Nickleby " was a social problem novel about the state of the private schools in the backwaters of England which Dickens showed were frauds . But there had been a struggle regarding Dickens ' style of writing . " Pickwick " was a 19th Century " picaresque novel " , which included short stories and tales that Samuel Pickwick and his companions hear or read on their journeys . " Oliver Twist " was straight forward narrative , but " Nicholas Nickleby " briefly did return to the style of " Pickwick " with Nicholas and several others hear an unrelated tale at an inn about 120 pages from the start of the story . In 1840 Dickens began " Master Humphrey's Clock " . Master Humphrey has a set of friends who visit him and tell stories to each other . Pickwick and his valet Sam Weller ( and Sam's father Toby ) reappear to tell stories . Eventually Dickens decided to tell one story that got longer and longer - it was his first historic novel , " Barnaby Rudge " , which dealt with the 1780 Gordon Riots in London , and anti-Catholic persecution . " Rudge " is one of Dickens least read novels . When finished he turned another of the tales into another novel : " The Old Curiosity Shop " . It would prove to be far more popular with the early Victorian public . At the conclusion of it , Dickens announced the closing of " Master Humphrey's Clock " . That he had stretched the 1840 volume to 1842 and two complete novels demonstrated to him that he could not continue the scheme from " Pickwick " of combining two types of writing . He did not give up on shorter fiction . Starting with " A Christmas Carol " in 1843 he'd do his short Christmas novellas for several years . " The Old Curiosity Shop " was among the most popular novels Dickens wrote in his career . Just why bothers his fans today . It is not a dull novel ( nothing Dickens wrote was dull ) , but the melodrama of it's incomprehensible plot just does not play well today . Later novels of his have melodrama in them : " Dombey And Son " ( 1848 ) actually defeats the concept , when the second Mrs . Dombey entraps her would-be villainous seducer John Carker in one of the best turnabouts in Victorian fiction . But here the story line seems determined to ring out every tear possible for the ickiest child heroine / victim in his novels - Little Nell . SPOILER COMING UP : The plot of " The Old Curiosity Shop " is about how the elderly grandfather of Little Nell owes large sums to a money lender named Daniel Quilp . The reason is he is a gambler and is determined to win a fortune for his granddaughter . Nell loves the old man and tries to dissuade him from gambling but he won't listen . Quilp is a powerful , misshapen dwarf , who terrorizes most people - including a corrupt solicitor named Sampson Brass . Brass's sister Sally is the brains behind her brother and she is able to get along with Quilp . The only friends that Nell has are a neighbor , Dick Swiviller , and a young boy , Kit Nubbins . Quilp uses the Brasses to frame Nubbins for theft , and to isolate the lazy but able Swiviller . Nell and her grandfather flee and the novel actually takes up their journey through England . In the end nobody wins . Nell dies of exhaustion , and her grandfather dies of a broken heart . Quilp does not profit from his evil . Nubbins is able to prove his innocence , thus ruining both Brasses . To save themselves , Sampson reveals Quilp was behind the scheme . Quilp tries to flee his house on the Thames and falls into the river and drowns . Finally the person telling this story is the younger brother of the grandfather , who was trying to find him and Nell but got there too late . I told you it was an impossible plot . Oscar Wilde , speaking half a century after the hey-day of the novel's popularity , said , " One has to have a hard heart to read " The Old Curiosity Shop " and the death of Little Nell without laughing . " Wilde's put-down is the general feeling these days . It remains one of the least read of Dickens ' novels these days . The musical score is by Anthony Newley , who plays Dan Quilp , and it is serviceable ( but far less memorable than " Oliver " and " Scrooge ) . Newley makes a good villain , but he must have been aware of the weaknesses of the preposterous plot : he even takes the trouble of mentioning his " old friend Fagin " in one of the song lyrics , as though reminding the audience of a better designed novel and character . David Warner is good as Sampson Brass , as is Michael Hordern as grandfather , Sarah Varney as Nell , and David Hemmings as Swiveller . But if the film is a good production it still has to survive it's impossible weak plot . I gave it a for it's production . It's still lucky to get that .
The Warren Musical Songbook	This short was shown on Turner Classic Film Network at 7 : 40 P . M . today , and I watched it . It is not so unusual from other shorts from other studios . MASTER OF MELODY was a short from Paramount in 1930 starring Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart . But Harry Warren is intriguing . He is now recognized as the equal ( as a master song writer ) to Herbert , Jerome Kern , Rodgers and Hart ( and Hammerstein ) , Gershwin , Berlin , Porter , Youmans , Weill , Styne , Bernstein , Sondheim , Lerner and Loewe , and a handful of others . Was he America's foremost composer ? Not really - Gershwin had made a mark in serious music that Warren never did . In fact , Gershwin , Ives , Coplan , Hanson , and a few other composers of serious music have better claim to the title " America's Foremost Composer . Still it is a nice little film , with Warren playing his popular films ( from the Warner Brothers musicals - like WOULD YOU LIKE TO TAKE A WALK or I FOUND A MILLION DOLLAR BABY ( IN A FIVE AND TEN CENT STORE ) . Frequently new words are added to make the song fit the party atmosphere of the film ( Warren is seated at a piano playing for his guests ) . The film ends with part of the FORTY SECOND STREET finale as a coming attraction . It was a good film short , and a glimpse of things to come in the next big film musical hit .
" Barnacle Bill the Sailor "	An early Betty Boop cartoon , with Betty as the girlfriend of Bimbo ( as Barnacle Bill ) determined to flee his ship to have a tryst with her . Betty was drawn as a dog at this time - cut , sexy body and flapper hairdo - but dog ears . Since Bimbo was a dog too it did not matter , but this does lead to an interesting ( if eventually dull ) joke . The cartoon begins with the crew of the sailing ship that Bill is on taking it into port - and singing a chantey up to the dock . They are looking forward to getting off . By the way , the Fleischers do like to stick it to one of their artistic and commercial rivals : Walt Disney . One of the crewmen is a mouse who looks remarkably like Mickey did in the early " Steamboat Willy " cartoons . The ship captain tells the crew they can't leave the ship , but Bimbo / Barnacle Bill proceeds to do so , and knocks out the Captain when the latter tries to stop him . We see him trace the address of Betty ( not under her famous cartoon name - and at an address close to the docks , suggesting what her profession may be ) . He arrives and rings at her door , and they start doing " Who's that knocking at my door ? " and " Barnacle Bill the Sailor " in a long duet . He finally comes upstairs , and while they are alone on her coach she lowers the blinds . Here is that interesting , but eventually dull joke . Remember that both Betty and Bimbo are dogs . All the others in the building , and in the neighborhood are women who are cats , and who notice that Betty has lowered the curtain - and they proceed to " cattily " comment about Betty's behavior with each other . It took me a moment to notice it , but after awhile I felt the joke was milked for more than it was worth . At the end , love ' em and leave ' em Bill leaves a tearful Betty when he admits he'll never marry ( as she wants ) . And he heads downstairs , right into a confrontation with his captain ( who lives in the same building as Betty does ) . A chase and an odd resolution which is reminiscent of the movie SPLASH ends the cartoon . It is not a great Betty Boop cartoon , although the sexual relationship between Betty and Bimbo is interesting , and the use of lightning bolts in a fight at the end is creative . As said elsewhere on this thread , it is worth seeing once .
A Good Example of MGM Ensemble Acting	This is a wonderful movie about how children can occasionally see things more clearly than adults . Herbert Marshall is Mr . Craven ( great name ) the owner of a country estate . His son ( Dean Stockwell ) is bedridden . Marshall is aware that his son is paralyzed , and knows the reason for it . It is the secret that has blighted his once happy and secure family life . A young girl ( Margaret O'Brien , in possibly her best role ) gets a position at the estate , and despite warnings from the landlady ( Dame Gladys Cooper ) gets involved with Stockwell . Stockwell is initially a spoiled brat , but he is so lonely he and O'Brien become friendly . With O'Brien's assistance ( and that of Brian Roper , a boy whose father works on the estate ) Stockwell starts improving . They take him out , and find a large garden that has been locked for years . Nobody is allowed in it by Marshall's orders . But the three children find a way to get in . They go there ( against the order of Marshall and Cooper ) and play in it . Meanwhile Marshall is toying with selling the estate and going abroad . He first has a doctor ( George Zucco , in a rare good person part ) examine Stockwell . Marshall is furious at Zucco's sensible observations that if the boy happens to get air and exercise he will recover . Marshall prefers an incompetent doctor ( Aubrey Mather ) who affirms that Stockwell is beyond hope . The climax is when Marshall is taught a valuable lesson in getting past the past to save the future - I will leave that for the readers of this review to see for themselves . Most of the film was done in black and white , except for one powerful moment at the conclusion . The performances , especially Marshall , Stockwell , and O'Brien , are all perfect in this film as we see how sometimes grown-ups are not as smart as their children .
" Look out for Mr . In - Between ! . "	Bing Crosby was highly capable of really memorable acting jobs , but many of his musicals were good for just sheer entertainment . This is a good example of a Crosby film with sheer entertainment value . Crosby is a very popular singer - entertainer named Johnny Cabot . Cabot has been drafted into the navy . He is constantly wearing false whiskers that make him older and less recognizable by his fans , who are mostly young women ( like the bobby soxers ) . He meets a pair of twin sisters played by Barbara Hutton who are both WAVES . One is Susan , who is a madcap type , and the other is Rosemary who is quieter . Actually Hutton does quite well separating the two sisters ' personalities . Susan wants to win Cabot for herself - and the antics of Susan involving Cabot make up most of the film . However , he's more impressed by Rosemary . At the same time , Sonny Tufts is a sailor named Windy who is interested in Susan . Shakespeare it certainly ain't , but it is a well made musical comedy , containing several popular tunes such as " Ac-cen-tu-ate the Positive " and the song which I believe is the show stopper : " There is a Fellow Waiting in Poughkeepsie " , wherein Hutton and the other women singing the song reverse the sexual stereotypes with Crosby and Tufts . Hutton and her pals are like the soldiers and sailors with their little " black books " , full of the names of available dates - only the dates are Crosby , Tufts , and the other males , who are shown concerned about make-up and proper attire for their dates . It's a rather unusual number , and quite good of it's kind . The film was meant as escapism in wartime - and concentrates on the loves of four people in the naval forces during the war . But it is so goofy in it's way that the dated nature of it's original purpose does not really matter . It's fun to watch , so that I can strongly recommend it .
Stan directs Finn and Ted Healy	Frequently one has to wonder about how certain careers would have panned out but for luck or re-direction . Fidel Castro has ( for better or worse ) written his name in history books as the Dictator of Cuba since 1959 , and yet he seriously was scouted as a baseball prospect for the United States once ( he just missed out on it ) . Sir Edward Marshall-Hall , the preeminent defense counsel / barrister of most of the leading criminal cases in early 20th Century Britain seriously considered a career as a jeweler ( he was an expert in jewelry ) . Before becoming an Indian fighter , war hero , politician , and ( briefly ) President of the United States , William Henry Harrison got a degree as a medical doctor ( the only President to do that by the way ) . Closer to home , song writer and sometime composer Johnny Mercer had a successful career for awhile as a singer , and performers Lionel Barrymore and Stan Laurel were both briefly directors ( Barrymore even directed Laurel and Oliver Hardy in THE ROGUE SONG ) . Stan's turn as a director was within a year at the Roach Studios ( in 1925 - 26 ) . His solo work , even when first rate ( DR . PYCKLE and MR . PRYDE ) just did not generate audience enthusiasm . Hal Roach wanted to have a star like his previous one Harold Lloyd . Since Lloyd was now on his own , Roach tried to pick someone from his regulars . The choice should have been either Stan ( if some sort of push could have been given his solo work ) or Charlie Chase ( certainly deserving of his own stardom - but never quite getting the recognition in his lifetime from the public ) . Instead Roach tried an approach called " the Hal Roach Comedy All-Stars " which certainly produced many fine comedies , but was meant to give each of the regulars a chance to show what he or she could do on screen . In the long run it did not solve anything regarding finding a new star . Stan decided to see if his forte could be directing , and he is good at it . WISE GUYS PREFER BRUNETTES ( a dig in it's title at Anita Loos ' current best selling novella GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDS ) is well directed , and even has a good lead in Jimmy Finlayson . Finn is the Dean of Pinkham University ( like the Dover Boys in the Warner's Cartoon , the colleges ' initials are " P " " U " ) . He is trying to restore ( with the blessing of the College President , Burr McIntosh ) the dignity of the University . But the females on campus are more interested in fun and clothes , congregating to the boutique in town that is owned by fellow student Helene Chadwick . Finlayson follows a pack of the girls to the boutique , and hears them making fun of him and his stuffy opinions . He confronts Chadwick and expels her from the college and orders her to close down her store in 24 hours . Chadwick's boyfriend is Ted Healy ( his name here is " Napoleon Fizz " ) who is a perennial student and working on a fountain of youth formula . He has just achieved it , and he and Chadwick decide to test it on Finlayson in an attempt to ruin him with McIntosh and the Board of Trustees . Finlayson does get the formula into his system , and becomes Mr . Joe College of 1926 , pursuing Chadwick first in a swimming pool , and later ( that night ) to her rooms in her dorm . This is what Chadwick and her fellow female students want , as they plan to frame Finlayson with a photo of him supposedly making out with the hated matron of the dorm ( Charlotte Mineux ) . The " matron " for the photo is Healy dressed in drag . But while the photo is being set up , the matron returns , and then McIntosh and his Board of Trustees shows up , leading to a series of weird confusions at the end . It is a very funny short , not a classic perhaps but worth watching . I have never been a fan of Ted Healy , although in his day he was exceptionally popular . Best recalled for creating the Three Stooges ( and then discovering they had no use for him to make film history ) , Healy was basically a burlesque and knock-about comic who occasionally is funny . His ending was tragic - he died officially of alcohol related nephritis , but in reality was beaten to death in a bar fight - but despite his sad end one cannot look at his various movie roles without thinking he was trying too hard to be funny and wasn't succeeding too often . The very fact that Moe , Larry , Curley , and Shemp did get as much mileage without Ted around proves his very lack of effective staying power in comedy . Yet here his knock about is used twice , and most effectively , with Finlayson . First when he tries to force Finn to take his fountain of youth formula and then when he and Finn ( both disguised as the matron ) have a wrestling match in front of the women in the dorm and McIntosh and his Board of Trustees . Yes , in this film Healy's knockabout actually is funny .
Another Find On " You Tube " : Stan with Finn and Charley , but not Ollie	Buster Keaton did a very funny short about the dangers of mislabeled prefabricated houses called ONE WEEK . There his love rival , Al St . John , purposely renumbers the various crates of Pre-cut timber and plumbing fixtures that Buster and his girlfriend are putting together . They create possibly the movies ' ugliest and most lopsided house - mercifully destroyed in the film's conclusion . A similar plot , by the way , appears in one of the Abbott and Costello television shows - again a rival sabotages Lou's dream house in the crates . Possibly Sid Fields recalled Keaton's movie when creating that episode . There is no love rival in SMITHY ( also called - as on " YOU TUBE " where I saw it today - THE HOME WRECKER ) . Instead Stan Laurel is chosen to lead the mayhem regarding smashing a home site . He does it without his future partner Oliver Hardy , but with some help from Jimmy Finlayson and a small assist from Charlie Hall as an extra ( in Charlie's case very small , unfortunately ) . As pointed out earlier in another review , Stan is " Smithy " , a dough-boy who is soon to be released from military service at the end of World War I . His sergeant is Finn , and in typical fashion Sgt . Finnlayson is finding all his men ready to get final dismissal from their Colonel except one : Stan's still washing up , and even applying toothpaste to a large brush for his mouth . Finn is soon kicking Stan into his uniform and into his position on line . Ironically enough Stan is the first one to get his honorable discharge ( but given what a doofus he is , maybe that's why he is the first ) . He shows the wisdom of trying to instill army discipline into him by giving a friendly " wave of the hand " to the apoplectic Colonel as he leaves . One has to keep this relationship between Stan and Finn straight when watching the film . It explains a moment later on . As mentioned in the other review a real problem after 1918 was the sudden release of thousands of able bodied soldiers ( in the U . S . , Canada , Britain , France , Germany , Austria , Hungary , and Italy ) without any jobs to return to . The subject is looked at in other films ( look at James Cagney's THE ROARING TWENTIES , where a career in bootlegging makes financial sense in 1919-20 ) . We see Stan seeking employment near a factory when a wealthy contractor ( William Gillespie ) hires him out of compassion that Stan is a former soldier . Gillespie's heart does him credit , but he really would have been advised to seek a more intelligent beneficiary . Stan goes to a construction site , and among the men there is Finn , no longer a sergeant . Please to keep that in mind . Stan is told to start working by taking a roll of tar paper to the roof . And he eventually does do so , after repeatedly dropping the roll of tar paper or his hat and climbing and dismounting and twisting around the ladder . The foreman watches and keeps shouting ( like in the later Laurel & Hardy comedies the onlookers never quite grasp they should step in and stop the madness early ) . As for Finn he gets conked on the head twice , first by the roll rolling off the roof , and then by Stan's hammer falling off the roof . Angry Finn actually climbs up one ladder to confront Stan , only to find Stan's not there ( he'd climbed down another ladder to retrieve his hammer ) . While Finn looks down the other side of the roof Stan returns , unrolls the rest of the tar paper , and accidentally knocks Finn off the roof . To complicate matters , Gillespie has to go away , and he is leaving his assistant Mr . Smith ( Glenn Tryon ) in charge of the office and work site . But the idiot messenger boy goes to the work site and gives Stan the written orders that seemingly puts him in charge . And here comes the conclusion of the reversal with Finn . Finn wants to kill him for repeatedly causing him to get injured , but the foreman reads the instructions and immediately falls into line regarding who is the new boss . Finn can't stand this , but Stan is enjoying his new power - and orders the foreman to fire Finn . Finn does try to strangle Stan , but is thrown off the work site . As I said , the film's actions do explain themselves . . . even if slowly . Gillespie returns to find the great error . But upon going to the work site he sees everything is fine - the building is finished . Stan is to be congratulated . A moment later the building indeed is finished , and Stan suddenly recalls an appointment in Honolulu ! A very nice conclusion to a funny short .
Lili and Esmond take on the Merrick Gang	The situation was this . In 1927 ( according to Robert Osborne in introducing this and two other films on TCM ) a British law insisted that British casts and crews had to be used in films shown in the U . K . by foreign distributors . Warner Brothers - First National got around this by doing films at a British studio they bought at Teddington - so that they would show one of the British films with one of their American films on the same bill . This proved to be acceptable , and they would turn out about 100 films in the 1930s and 1940s , before the studio was closed due to bomb damage from a V-2 rocket . Later it was repaired , but the law was changed and Warners sold Teddington to British interest . It still is in use . Only a third of the Warners Teddington films survive , and Turner Classics showed three last Monday , and three a week before - all shown the first time in the U . S . The first shown on Monday was CRIME UNLIMITED . This melodrama fits nicely into it's London locale , as it deals with a phenomenally successful jewelry gang under one " Merrick " that keeps beating Scotland Yard's attempts to stop it . When they kill an undercover cop ( they've also killed three stool pigeons ) , the Yard knows it must crack the case to regain public trust in it's abilities . The dead detective held onto a clue that mentions " A D 1935 + " on it . Hopefully this taunting clue can be cracked . The Assistant Commissioner ( Cecil Parker ) decides on another risky scheme . Again , plant a police inspector to spy and uncover the gang inside the gang . But to do this , the police inspector must appear to be a really clever jewel thief - one that " Merrick " would consider for his gang . Shortly afterward we see Esmond Knight as Pete Borden , pulling off a clever jewelry snatch of three expensive bracelets worth 3 , 000 pounds . He manages to go to a gambling den to try to fence the jewels . There he meets one Natasha ( Lili Palmer ) , who is one of the members of " Merrick " ' s gang . He is taken ( blindfolded ) to Merrick's headquarters , and speaks to him over an intercom . Given little option ( join or be killed ) , he joins the gang . From that point on he acts totally as a member of the gang , but their well organized heists keep going awry . " Merrick " is increasingly suspicious of Borden , as all the mistakes occurred after he joined . The climax is when Borden and Natasha steal a famous necklace at a society party , although Borden's alias is revealed to be false . He escapes . But although Natasha gets a piece of jewelry , it turns out to be a paste imitation . At which point " Merrick " decides Borden ( and possibly Natasha ) are expendable . It's actually not a bad little mystery , as we keep wondering who is " Merrick " , and as we see each of Borden's leads passed to the police get stymied by this criminal genius and his gang . If the conclusion seems a trifle melodramatic ( the actor who is Merrick seems too giggly when uncovered - the role called for Henry Daniell if possible for perfect affect ) . Knight is a feisty little actor ( with sufficient English restraint , believe it or not ) . As for Lili Palmer , Natasha was a good early role as a bad girl who reforms in time . But she did go on to better things - and for awhile so did Knight .
Sinister Probabilities amidst a theme from Brahm's Third Symphony	Dum de dum . . . DUM DUM DUM . Da de dum . . . DUM DUM DUM , Da de da , Da da dah , Dum de dum . . . de da dum da dum ! ! The third movement of Brahm's Third Symphony is quite a moody sound to the listener . It suggests hidden secrets and dangers . And it is fit as the main theme of UNDERCURRENT . This is a very special movie . It was the only time that Katherine Hepburn made a film directed by Vincent Minelli . It was also her only appearance with both Robert Taylor and Robert Mitchum ( though not , oddly , with Edmund Gwenn - here briefly appearing as her father ) . And it was one of the few film noir that Hepburn appeared in . It is not a great film - the script needed polishing . Taylor's character is dashing and likable for nearly half the movie before cracks begin appearing , dealing with his reputation as an inventor and industrialist , and his relationship with his " blacksheep " brother Mitchum . Either more of the film should have built up his sinister background and character , or it should have appeared later in the film to have more shock effect . Instead it almost makes the film like two movies stuck together . But he does make his villain sufficiently threatening to be interesting to the end . Taylor had appeared as villains rarely before this . He had been in one of the " Crime Does Not Pay " shorts in the 1930s , and he had been BILLY THE KID ( but like his opposite number at 20th Century Fox , Ty Power as " Jessie James " , his character was a hero not a psychotic villain ) . Unlike Power , Taylor rarely showed any desire to fight for a role , but was willing for Louis Mayer to just hand him the next script . So his getting this role was an unexpected gift . It was his first real villain part . Hepburn found working with Taylor fine , but she was less than enamored by Mitchum . Apparently the latter was not unduly impressed by her either . Again it is a weakness in the plot , as the two don't generate any chemistry together . But it is not a fatal problem . The film ends before the flatness of their relationship appears .
The Closest that DeMille Gets to a " Shakespearean Tragedy " Conclusion	After the financial flopping of THE CRUSADES , Cecil B . DeMille concentrated on films dealing with different aspects of American history from 1760 to 1942 . THE PLAINSMAN dealt with Wild Bill Hickok , Buffalo Bill , Calamity Jane , and even Custer . THE BUCCANEER dealt with the Battle of New Orleans , Jean Lafitte , and General Andy Jackson . UNION PACIFIC dealt with the transcontinental railroad ( no really historic figure dominated the story here ) . Then came an exception to this trend , when DeMille turned to the Mounties v . Louis Riel in Manitoba in NORTHWEST MOUNTED POLICE . But he returned to the American History with REAP THE WILD WIND . The final two films were THE STORY OF DOCTOR WADDELL ( DeMille's only World War II film , oddly enough ) , and THE UNCONQUERED ( his only pre - 19th Century American history film ) . REAP THE WILD WIND , at first sight , does not quite seem as understandable as the others . THE PLAINSMAN is about the threat to the frontier of the Indians ( getting modern weapons via villainous Charles Bickford ) . THE BUCCANEER does deal with how Jackson and Lafitte won the defining victory of the War of 1812 , and saved the Mississippi Valley . UNION PACIFIC was how , despite crooks like Brian Donleavy , the great railroad united the U . S . with a backbone of steel . Even NORTHWEST MOUNTED POLICE explained why there were two nations going west to the Pacific , not three ( the third made of Frenchmen and Metis and Indians ) . But REAP THE WILD WIND did not deal with westward expansion , or with land . It dealt with the America's other 19th Century frontier : the seas . We don't think of it ( outside , perhaps , of New England ) , but from 1800 to 1865 our merchant marine was quite vigorous . Confederate raiders like C . S . S . Alabama destroyed much of it , but until that we were giving Great Britain serious competition . But the background of REAP THE WILD WIND is actually a little out of date in the film . The story takes place in 1840 or so . It should be in the 1820s to early 1830s . When Great Britain ceased being our rulers , our merchant ships suddenly were targeted by various predators . The best known was the Barbary Pirates ( with whom we had two wars in 1804 and 1815 ) . But in the Caribbean a number of freebooters and pirates sprung up to ravage our struggling merchant ships . Indeed , Jean Lafitte and his brother were suspected ( possibly unfairly ) of being among these - more likely the Lafittes were simply smugglers . In the late 1820s , Captain David Porter was sent with a small flotilla to clean out the worst pirate stations in the Caribbean . He did a good job . Actually , by 1840 our navy was doing a fine job protecting our ships . But for some reason DeMille moved the story into the 1840s . It does not hurt the film , but it weakens it's historical accuracy . Ray Milland represents a wealthy ship owner ( Walter Hampden ) whose ships are being lost to wreckers in a gang headed by Raymond Massey . Hampden's chief ship captain is John Wayne . As the film progresses he and Milland become rivals for Paulette Goddard . Her sister , Susan Hayward , becomes enamored with Massey's younger brother Robert Preston . Massey is not too keen on this , except if it gets him additional information of the movement of Hampden's ships . On the other hand , he uses the Wayne - Milland rivalry to get control ( of a sort ) over Wayne . A shipwreck of the flagship of Hampden's line results , and this leads to Milland's attempts to bring Massey to book in court . But the latter is extremely clever , and he suggests that Milland's behavior may have led to the disaster . The court decides they need further evidence - and this leads to testing the testimony of a slave , who claims the ship was haunted , and there was a noisy ghost in the hold . Is it so , or was there a stowaway - possibly the missing Susan Hayward . The conclusion , with three of the leads drowned or shot down on deck and Paulette Goddard averring that this was all her fault reminds one of the conclusion of say HAMLET , with corpses littering the stage . De Mille never tried that conclusion again , but it was a curious ending . It is also odd seeing Wayne ( on his way to super-stardom after STAGECOACH , THE LONG VOYAGE HOME , and DARK COMMAND ) in a supporting role , as was Hayward . Yet a decade later , when it was re-released , they got top billing over the actual stars Milland and Goddard .
Groucho finds G & S	I have only heard this production , as a record of the show has been sold in the 1970s ( and I purchased a copy ) . Since I have not seen the actual production I have to base my enthusiasm on the recording , which suggests it was a good production , if heavily cut . Certain comedians fit certain great dramatists . John McCabe once suggested that Chaplin would have been wonderful in Moliere's satires , and that Laurel & Hardy could easily have played Sir Andrew Aguecheek and Sir Toby Belch in Shakespeare's TWELFTH NIGHT . If I can suggest it , Groucho Marx might have essayed Gilbert and Sullivan's operettas . Groucho appears to have picked up on G & S after a vacation to Great Britain with his family in the 1930s . He returned and started collecting recordings of the D'Oyly Carte Company of the major operettas . He even studied the lives of the dramatist and his composer partner , discussing their gradual mutual dislike and split ( his then wife had gotten so sick of hearing Groucho talk about them that she mentioned she had gotten to dislike both and could understand them splitting ) . If Groucho had tried it , it would have been a solo act . Harpo and Chico would not have fit into the operetta ( unless they were doing THE GONDALIERS , wherein Chico's accent might have been of use ) . Aside from Reginald Bunthorne's solicitor in PATIENCE and Mr . Go - To in THE MIKADO , there are no silent roles in the Savoy Operas for Harpo . Zeppo might have tagged along as the romantic interest ( Nanki-poo in THE MIKADO , Ralph Rackstraw in HMS PINAFORE , Frederick in THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE ) . But only Groucho ever showed real interest in G & S . And only this one time did he attempt a performance . He does well with it . He appreciates Gilbert's malicious wit , so he follows the direction well . No novel interpretation for him , as Eric Idle would demonstrate in his later version of THE MIKADO . As Martyn Green was involved in this production that reinforces Gilbert's staging and ideas from a key Savoyard . But it worked , and it shows what Groucho could have done on his own . Whether or not it would have worked in the long run is another matter . It is hard to think of Groucho , with his uninhabited wit and mouth , straight-jacketing his performing talents to Gilbert's words and staging . Perhaps it is just as well he did not follow THE MIKADO with H . M . S . PINAFORE , IOLANTHE , RUDDIGORE , and the rest . He hit the bell nicely in this 1960 production , and did not have to prove anything anymore again .
Crippled body , Crippled Mind	West of Zanzibar was based on one of those torrid dramas that were big on Broadway in the 1920s , set in some distant rain forest or jungle . The best recalled is WHITE CARGO , in which a half-breed ( as they were called in the 1920s ) named Tondelayo manipulates one man into marrying her , and later tries to poison him for her own comfort . The play RAIN was based on a better piece of fiction ( Somerset Maugham's short story of the same name ) and set in the South Seas - and told of how a holy man proved more man than holy man after he met a prostitute . But KONGO , the basis of WEST OF ZANZIBAR , is not as well remembered except for the two films that came out of it : the silent film here with Lon Chaney as " Deadlegs " and the talkie movie version with Walter Huston called KONGO . They gave the same type of background - exotic and rotting to White " European " types . But KONGO / WEST OF ZANZIBAR also is a study in vengeance and it's dangers and limitations . Lon Chaney Sr . plays a prominent magician named Phroso , who is married when his wife deserts him for a rival named Crane ( Lionel Barrymore ) . There is a fight , and Crane cripples Phroso by throwing him down . Crane leaves with the wife , but a year of so later she tries to return to Phroso , who rejects her . She dies , leaving a young girl . Phroso takes the girl , believing it is Crane's daughter . Tod Browning's films were good on building suspense and showing the odd in life from " Freaks " to Mad Magicians to Great Vampires ( of fake Vampires ) . But the plot lines are not well thought out . Phroso learns Crane is an ivory dealer in Africa , so he follows him there , sets himself up as an ivory dealer too , and proceeds to slowly drive Crane out of business as part of a long term plan for vengeance . He also brings up the daughter ( Mary Nolan ) as a drudge and a drug addict . His compound in Africa includes a drunken doctor ( Warner Baxter ) and the local natives . It is with the scenes and plot developments with the natives that the creakiness and racism of the play shows through - Phroso keeps the natives under control by his magic tricks . Baxter , who is usually soused , is seen playing a guitar rapidly in one scene , while a heavy native woman is " shimmying " in a suggestive dance . One thing in the plot that the natives have been promised is that when Crane dies they can put the daughter to death as a sacrifice to their gods . Eventually two things upset the plotting of Phroso . First , Baxter finds that he is falling for Nolan . Soon , instead of being pliant to Chaney he starts defending her defiantly . Second , when Chaney finally confronts Barrymore , he learns that the latter could not care less about what happened to Nolan - because she is not Barrymore's daughter , she's Chaney's ! All of his plotting has only endangered his own child ! The film was a good one for Chaney , playing one of his most belligerent and dangerous fiends , but one who recovers his own humanity too late . Barrymore played mostly villains in the movies at this time , and makes Crane a person devoid of any charm at all ( one wonders what Phroso's wife saw in him to begin with ) . Baxter and Nolan do the best with their roles , Baxter pulling himself together and belatedly discovering Chaney's rediscovered humanity . If not as well known to the public as THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA or THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME , WEST OF ZANZIBAR gave Chaney another eccentric villain to play with , and is worth watching .
A Sinister Philanthropist ?	This television movie appeared in 1970 , and fits an odd series of film roles that were part of the career of Burl Ives . Usually thought of as playing southern or western types , frequently Ives played characters who were millionaires or large land owners . " Big Daddy " in CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF owns 10 , 000 acres of the richest acres of land East of the Nile . Henessey in THE BIG COUNTRY is the large land owner of a ranch that confronts a large one owned by a rival played by Charles Bickford over water rights . The tycoon he played in THE POWER AND THE PRIZE enjoyed the fun of the successful deal and kill in business as much as the monetary results . On television he was the world's richest man in O . K . CRACKERBY . But his performance as T . M . Trask was unique . Although Henessey is mortally at war with his enemy in THE BIG COUNTRY , and the tycoon in THE POWER AND THE PRIZE is not a man to trifle with ( as Robert Taylor finds out ) , neither is the worst type of man . Trask is . Trask has set up a medical clinic " for research to benefit mankind " in the Canadian Rockies . Two new physicians on the staff , Dr . McCarter Purvis ( Stuart Whitman ) and Dr . Enid Bingham ( Sandy Dennis ) discover that Mr . Trask , who lives in the clinic , seems to have an extraordinary agenda outside any benefits to the great public . They find that the clinic keeps special records of those people who happen to share biological similarities to Trask . They also notice that Trask is incredibly fit for a man of his age - some of his organs and body functions are those of a person decades younger than he is supposed to be . And some of the patients who were reasonably healthy seem to suddenly disappear - as though they have died without " warning " . Can Trask have something to do with this ? And why is it nearly impossible for the staff members to leave the clinic ? It was a surprisingly ghoulish story for Ives , but he showed that quiet threatening aspect to his screen persona that few of his roles really developed . Here they blossomed , and he gave a rather memorable performance . Whitman and Dennis , as the team who confront and escape from his clutches were good too , ending the film with an exciting chase on skis . It was an above average television movie .
Lightning almost struck twice	1939 is usually credited as the greatest year for first rate memorable Hollywood classic films ( something between a dozen and twenty five ) . But 1940 had several notably great ones : " The Grapes Of Wrath " and " The Philadelphia Story " were among them . The latter has been called the " wisest " fairy tale from Hollywood . An interesting reading of a sophisticated Broadway play hit by Philip Barry - possibly one of the few comic dramatists of that period comparable to Eugene O'Neill . Barry was lucky to have Katherine Hepburn head a first rate cast on Broadway including Shirley Booth and Joseph Cotton . And Hepburn headed a similar great cast with Ruth Hussey , Jimmy Steward ( his Oscar role ) , and Cary Grant in the MGM production directed by George Cukor . " The Philadelphia Story " remains among the perfect social film comedies of all times . I think the success of " The Philadelphia Story " explains the movie production of " Susan and God " in the same year . It has the earmarks of a copycat affair . A Broadway hit ( starring Gertrude Lawrence ) , the film was produced by MGM , directed again by Cukor , and had Ruth Hussey in a major supporting part ( the stars being Joan Crawford and Fredric March - their only film together , by the way ) . If " The Philadelphia Story " dealt with life among the rich of Philadelphia's Mainline , " Susan and God " dealt with the rich of Long Island's " Gold Coast " . One of my favorite lines is when March tells his daughter ( Rita Quigley ) that he walked from their estate to Roslyn 15 miles away . That area is so crowded with small towns these days , for the big estates of the rich have moved into the Hamptons long ago , so the dating of the film becomes apparent . But " Susan " , while interesting , falls short of the success of " The Philadelphia Story " . In place of Hepburn's " Tracy Lord " discovering her frailty after making herself into a self-proclaimed Goddess , we have Crawford's " Susan Trexel " discovering the shallowness of her professed new religion as she finds the pleasures of motherhood and wife-hood with daughter Blossom and husband Barrie . Cary Grant ( C . K . Dexter Haven ) was driven to drink by the harshness of his marriage to Hepburn in " The Philadelphia Story " , while March's " Barrie " becomes a drunkard due to his deep but unreturned love from the selfish Susan . Though Virginia Wiedler was Hepburn's younger sister in " The Philadelphia Story " she is not in the same predicament there as Quigley's " Blossom " , who is hoping to see a family unit reappear before it is too late ( however , it does resemble the torment Wiedler had as the daughter of Norma Shearer facing her parents ' divorce in " The Women " ) . See , there are a lot of similarities between the two films . But while people flock to see " The Philadelphia Story " ( and it even was remade into a successful musical in the 1950s as " High Society " , " Susan and God " languished and disappeared . It certainly was not due to the failure of the director or cast . Cukor certainly knew how to create the right rich atmosphere of the Long Island set . March , Crawford , Hussey , Bruce Cabot , Rose Hobart , Nigel Bruce , John Carroll , a young newcomer named Rita Hayworth , Constance Collier , and Marjorie Main all show their performing values . It's even interesting to note an early performance by Dan Dailey ( almost silent ) as a publicity man . But the story just doesn't seem catchy enough . Tracy is not a bad person in " The Philadelphia Story " , just a trifle self-righteous ( hence that last name ) . She gradually realizes she has to be more human . So does Susan , but she insists on forcing her religious views on everyone in sight ( at least in the first half of the film - the sudden appearance of a drunken March stops her in her tracks ) . The results are that the marriage plans of a close friend are smashed , and the marriage of Bruce and Hayworth threatened . Susan does this all claiming that the others must discover what God wants them to do - do the correct thing . But that ignores their humanity in a worse way , especially as Susan keeps confusing her view of the correct thing with God's . The result is we never really cotton to Susan as we did with Tracy . We want Tracy to save herself , and find contentment . We don't really care at the end if Susan ( even after an apparent self-revelation ) straightens out . If the film is good for anything , aside from watching March and Crawford acting really well , it is seeing the close patterning of Crawford's performance on that of Gertrude Lawrence . It makes it easy to imagine that stage superstar on camera for a change .
Black gold - " Oklahoma " tea	In 1973 I saw this film when it first came out accompanied with my father . We saw it in a movie house out in the Coney Island section in Brooklyn , and it was on a rarity these days - a double bill with a film from France ( I believe it was TRAFFIC by Jacques Tati ) . The movies were entertaining for a change . OKLAHOMA CRUDE was an unexpectedly good film - not a great western but an unusual one . The plot is similar to the plots of many westerns . A woman owns a small parcel of land which is the subject of interest by powerful local interests . Instead of it being land where the local water hole is located ( as in THE BIG COUNTRY ) it is potentially rich oil land . The woman here ( Faye Dunaway ) is very independent and very bitter - her father ( John Mills ) has always been distant and never helped her or her mother . But circumstances force her to rely on Mills and on drifter George C . Scott . Scott is quite a slippery type - out for himself . So Dunaway proceeds to keep him on a tight leash . The local Oil Company represents the big land owner in traditional westerns . And , taking a leaf from SHANE , it's " gunslinger " is Jack Palance . But Palance is a smoother villain ( and at times a funnier one ) than his classic killer in SHANE . When Scott offers to sabotage Dunaway's attempts at fighting the big , bad corporation , Palance , calmly smoking a cigar motions Scott over to him . " I don't think I can use you for that . " , our Jack says in a typically deadly confidential whisper of that gravelly voice of his , " but I'll tell you what . I'll give you $10 . 00 if you'll kiss my ass ! " Scott doesn't reply immediately , but later on he gets a little back at Jack - at a particularly dark threatening moment , Scott pulls his shotgun up against Palance's groin ( lower section ) . Caught off guard and frightened , we see a river come out of Jack's midriff . When he is " emptied out " , he looks disgustedly at his ruined overcoat , strips it off him gingerly , and dumps it on the floor of Dunaway's homestead before he leaves . The film had many choice moments - like John Mills and one of Palance's army of thugs confronting each other , both firing their guns , and both discovering that they have no ammo in their guns . They then have to race to arm their weapon first . . . and it becomes a really close thing . The slapstick moments enliven the film - and even last to the last moments when ( much to Palance's amazement ) his bosses are ready to meet any demand to get that oil . All in all a pretty good and unusual movie , and one that should be seen by people who like western films .
How we missed having the city of " Neropolis "	Henryk Sienkiewicz was one of Poland's great historical novelists , and one of the first recipients of the Nobel Prize for literature ( 1905 ) . It has only been in the last decade or so that translations of other novels by him have appeared in English , but his major work , QUO VADIS ? , has been known since it appeared over a century ago . It was a study of the early days of the Christians in Rome , and their first persecution by the Emperor Nero ( 54 - 68 A . D . ) It concentrates on the burning of Rome and the persecution of the Christians ( including the death by crucifixion of St . Peter ) . So the background is identical to Cecil B . DeMille's THE SIGN OF THE CROSS . Inevitably comparisons between the two films , their plots , and the performances of the two Neros ( Charles Laughton and Peter Ustinov ) result . But the two stories are not the same . Sienkiewicz threw in far more of the history of the Rome of that period than the author of the play THE SIGN OF THE CROSS did . And because of his deeply felt commitment to his faith , Sienkiewicz showed the destruction of Nero's rotten regime and the first triumph of Christianity . THE SIGN OF THE CROSS does not do that - my comment there was that DeMille never made such a pessimistic and tragic film in his career , with all the good people being destroyed and Nero ( at that time ) triumphant . This does not happen in QUO VADIS , where the corruption and incompetence of the regime finally loses the support of the people ( and . . . ironically worse . . . the army ! ) . There is also the addition of the leading poet-courtier of the day , Petronius Arbiter . A man of wit and taste , Petronius was one of several figures of literary note in Nero's court , and one of several to meet tragedy by being near that egomaniac . The others were led by Nero's original chief minister Seneca , the stoic philosopher and dramatist . Seneca's nephew Lucan was also a leading figure in the court . Both men were eventually turned into foes of the regime , especially as Seneca fell from his ministerial position after the murder of Nero's mother Agrippina . Petronius managed to avoid the political conflict that involved the other two , but the Emperor's irrational jealousy helped link the three . Lucan wrote a savage epic poem against the Imperial family ( PHARSALIA ) which signaled his rejection of the regime . Lucan joined a conspiracy against Nero led by a Senator named Piso . It was discovered , and Lucan and Seneca implicated . Both were forced to commit suicide ( by opening their veins ) . Tigellinus , Nero's leading adviser , insinuated that Petronius was involved too ( he wasn't ) . Petronius also committed suicide the same way , but wrote a witty and accurate denunciation to Nero which was given to the Emperor after the writer's death . Petronius ' major surviving work , THE SATYRICON , was a wonderful look at the rot at the center of the regime of Nero . It ( by the way ) was turned into a film by Fellini in the late 1960s . Leo Genn brought Petronius and his delicate wit and taste out in the film , and merited the Oscar nomination he got for this - his best remembered role ( aside from Dr . " Kick " in THE SNAKE PIT ) . Ustinov brings a degree of frailty to Nero - an uncertainty as to the acceptance of his public persona . He flails about between seeking the approval of the artists like Petronius and those who manipulate the tyrant in him ( Poppeia and Tigellinus ) . Despite his vicious evil one sympathizes with him - he is a sick man . And his reconstruction program ( he burns down old Rome to create " Neropolis " ) is on par to that of another tyrant of more recent vintage , who planned to build a world capital called " Germania " over Berlin's bones . He too left many bones , but it is hard to consider him at all sympathetic . As spectacle and history QUO VADIS ? is quite rewarding . It may telescope the events of 64 - 68 A . D . ( when Nero committed suicide with assistance ) , and avoid the three brief Emperors who ruled after Nero within the year ( Galba , Otho , and Vitellius ) before Vespasian came back from the war in Israel to take the throne for a decade - but it does show how Nero's regime collapsed . DeMille never tackled it . But despite those two omissions the film does do the period pretty well . Robert Taylor is more effective as a military commander / hero than Fredric March had been in SIGN OF THE CROSS . Deborah Kerr is more believable as an early Christian convert . And Finley Currie is wonderful as Simon Peter - who realizes that he must die for the Lord that he once denied . His end is based on a legend that Peter was crucified upside down , supposedly at his request that he did not deserve to be crucified in the same way as the Lord he briefly failed . Altogether a superior religious - historic epic .
Mark Twain's Last Great Mississippi Novel	The four best known novels of Samuel Clemens are " Tom Sawyer " , " Huckleberry Finn " , " The Prince and the Pauper " , and " A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court " . All four were turned into films on several occasions . His fifth best novel is " Pudd'nhead Wilson " , written in 1894 , which is his last novel set in the Mississippi Valey he grew up in and loved . Set in 1835 to 1856 , " Pudd'nhead Wilson " is ( like " Huckleberry Finn " ) a serious look at slavery and it's effects on all people . Twain is trying to show that it demoralized everyone , and just wrecked lives . In fact , it makes the situation facing the escaping slave Jim in " Huckleberry Finn " look relatively irritating but almost bearable - and Jim is separated from his wife and kids by the system . In " Wilson " , a slave Roxy is almost sold down river ( to the harsher plantations of the deep south ) when suspected of theft . She has had a baby , and she realizes what an uncertain future Chambers ( short for " Valet de chambres " ) faces . Her mistress has just died in childbirth , giving birth to Tom Driscoll . He and the light skinned Chambers looks very similar - so she switches them . She reasons that later on she will reveal the truth to the real Chambers , and he will be grateful for what she did . But her son becomes a spoiled brat , and a wastrel . Why shouldn't he be , when he lives in a system where he commands all these slaves ? He even stabs " Chambers " ( the real Tom ) for displeasing him at one point . Roxy tries to control him - but " Tom " ( the real Chambers ) is uncontrollable . When he does learn the truth he tries to shut her up by selling her downriver . As for " Chambers " ( the real Tom ) he becomes a downtrodden slave - he is a good person , but he lacks education , and he is frightened of his safety around the clock . Twain's point is brilliantly developed - in a slave culture nobody prospers . " Tom " ( the real Chambers ) is heir to his uncle , Judge Driscoll . He really frightens " Tom " because of the threat of disinheritance - especially as " Tom " is a physical coward . The threat of his fighting a duel with one of a pair of Italian twins who have moved to the area leads ( briefly ) to his being disinheritance . But " Tom " manages to give a sophistic excuse that his uncle accepts . The story has other interesting aspects , including the first use of " fingerprinting " in a novel to solve a crime . And it is loaded with the humorous aphorisms and saying of Puddn'head Wilson himself . Pudd'nhead is actually David Wilson , a lawyer who moves to the town and practices their . A comment he makes labels him a " Pudd'nhead " because the yokels don't realize he has a clever ironic sense of humor . He really is not a " puddinghead " ( a fool ) and actually rises to be town mayor as well as the person who reestablishes justice at the end of the story . This television version was part of the series of Mark Twain stories that appeared in the early 1980s and is ( so far ) the only modern version of the story on film . Ken Howard was quite good as " Pudd'nhead " and Steven Weber gave a good performance as " Tom " ( the real Chambers ) . The film is well worth catching if you can see it . It is a worthy version of Twain's novel .
The Doors Made Me Do It !	My father had certain movies that he liked to refer to with real or imagined quotes . MILDRED PIERCE was one ( " Vita you slut ! " , he'd say as though it was said by Joan Crawford ) . But another one was the statement " The doors made me do it ! The doors made me do it ! " . He was actually quoting ( correctly , as it turns out ) Ida Lupino in her climactic courtroom moment in THEY DRIVE BY NIGHT . I just have discussed the actual original version of this plot - BORDERTOWN ( 1935 ) with Paul Muni ( awful ) , Bette Davis ( fine ) , and Margaret Lindsay ( above competent ) in a romantic triangle , where ( oddly enough ) both women seriously lose out ( Bette losing her mind , and Margaret her life ) . The films of all the studios had a habit of being reused if necessary . GRAND HOTEL became WEEKEND AT THE WALDORF . GUNGA DIN became SOLDIERS THREE . But usually a decade or more passed before such reuse occurred . Not so here - only five years . Yet there are improvements . Muni's hammy performance as incompetent , overwrought Latino Johnny Rodriguez ( certainly among his worst performances ) was thrown out . All the characters in this film are Americans ( except George Tobias as George Rondolos , but at least he sounds normal ) . The roadhouse story is dropped : now we are dealing with trucking , and actually this is a plus . Few of us run fancy roadhouse gambling establishments , but most have regular jobs like driving trucks . The screenwriters noted the problems of independent truckers , such as money lenders like Charles Halton ( a nice wormy performance ) who drain them dry . There are so many of these guys around they are cutting each other's economic throats . Both George Raft and his brother Humphrey Bogart ( one of their two films together - the other is INVISIBLE STRIPES ) do have their friends on the road ( their is a tragic side plot about the death of their friend John Litel who falls asleep driving a truck for too many hours ) , but they have to fight for every cargo they can get . Raft is able to tie up with trucking concern of Alan Hale Sr . , and things improve for him and Bogart ( who has lost an arm in a trucking accident ) . But like Bette Davis in BORDERTOWN , Ida Lupino takes a hankering for Raft , and does in her husband Hale using the same method ( the closed garage with the car motor still running ) . The only difference is that the doors are electric doors ( did they pick that trick from Stan and Ollie's misadventure with an electric garage door in BLOCKHEADS ( 1938 ) ) . When Ida turns on George after he rejects her advances , and tries to ensnare him as a co-conspirator , her mind collapses on the stand , and she starts screaming about the doors ! No problem of Raft losing all sexual fulfillment here like Muni did - Ann Sheridan is available to take up with him now . No , this is a far more satisfying film than BORDERTOWN , but still ( despite a grand Warner Brothers cast ) it is a minor film for all that .
An unusual Wayne flick - but a pretty good comedy .	The plot of WITHOUT RESERVATIONS is about how popular novelist Claudette Colbert is traveling to Hollywood to assist in the screenplay of her best selling novel . The producer is Thurston Hall . But his ideas are typically grandiose - get well known Hollywood stars for the film ( the names of Cary Grant and Lana Turner are being bandied about ) . Colbert feels the hero of her novel ( a Marine ) is someone that should be a new face - and so she is traveling across the country by train looking for such a face . She meets two air force fliers heading to California to San Diego . They are John Wayne and Don DeFore . Wayne and DeFore and Colbert soon form a threesome in going across country , and the film follows their adventures in Chicago , getting tossed off the train in in a small town on the plains , acquiring an antique automobile which takes them to New Mexico , getting involved with a family of Mexican immigrants ( which ends with them being chased away by the family head with a rifle ) , and finally reaching Albequerque . In the meantime Hall is going crazy as the delayed arrival of his star novelist is playing havoc with his well planned publicity campaign . ( Oddly enough , this particular casting pairing was never to appear in real life in any film of the careers of Turner and Grant . Turner never developed a semi-independent view of film selection that others in her lifetime ( including Grant , Kirk Douglas , Burt Lancaster , Elizabeth Taylor , and even Hedy Lamarr ) did . Turner seemed more willing to accept projects her studio handed to her . ) To add to the problems is that Colbert has found Wayne read her novel and did not care for it , and so she has disguised her identity from her . How long can she keep up this masquerade - and can she get Wayne to Hollywood to surprise him with a film test for the role . Also can she maintain his interest in her , which is difficult because Wayne's conservative nature ( which is eloquently expressed by Wayne in critiquing Colber's book ) is easily transferred to Colbert when she talks to him . She can become quite insistent on her point of view . It is not as odd a film as it seems . Wayne could co comedy ( John Ford frequently found small bits of business in his films for Wayne to kid around with ) . But here he is in the middle of a character comedy that manages to keep his own persona and political views up front . And it is not a strain when he talks of them . Also other bits of his personality come out . He is vamped by a Mexican woman who takes a fancy to him , and he returns the interest . Wayne , of course , liked Mexican people in general , and Mexican women in particular . His chemistry with Colbert is not as good as her chemistry with say Don Ameche or Ray Milland , but it is strong enough to work . In particular when she quietly uses various stratagems to help him and DeFore out ( like when she reveal her true identity to liquor store proprietor Erskine Sanford , in order to get several bottles of scotch when it is being rationed per bottle per customer ) . She is able to see that her views of her characters in the novel and the fate of mankind might not be as correct as she originally rigidly maintained . There are other nice bits in the film . Don DeFore had a good supporting part as Dink , Wayne's pal who is less intolerant about being lied to than Wayne is . By the way , this is one of the few times DeFore actually gets a chance to sing a little in a movie . Frank Puglia and his family make an interesting early example of a Mexican American family who seem fairly realistic for a change ( at least until Puglia believes he's been tricked ) . This film , ably directed by Mervyn LeRoy , is the only film that Colbert shared screen time with Cary Grant ( just about half a minute dancing ) . It was also the last film in Wayne's career where he had second place in the billing . On the whole then it is a reasonably good comedy of the limitations of abstract literary arguments between the sexes about the future ( which is what Colbert finally learns by the time the movie ends ) . Life is more than what we write in books - fortunately the lesson is not a costly one . And frequently it is presented in a funny manner here .
Not as Good as the 1940 Remake , But Has Good Moments	Most of the fans of the Hecht - MacArthur stage play THE FRONT PAGE probably think that the 1940 version with Cary Grant , Rosalind Russell , and Ralph Bellamy is the best . It certainly has a spunky approach that is due to the sexual tension of the the female lead with her two male partners . But the play originally had the role of " Hildy Johnson " as a man ( played here by Pat O'Brien , and in the later Billy Wilder version by Jack Lemmon ) and so those two versions actually are closer to the actual play . Still one of the best lines of the play does not appear in this version . When Molly ( Mae Clarke ) , the streetwalker who befriends Earl Williams ( George E . Stone ) , confronts the reporters as a bunch of lying jackals she is shoved out of the press room by Murphy the reporter ( Walter Catlett here ) . But although her words sear the men ( as we see once Catlett shuts the door on her ) , the same scene in 1940 was handled better by Howard Hughes and Rosalind Russell . Russell led the actress playing Molly out of the room , shuts the door behind them , and then re-enters facing the men who are all shame faced . Quietly , and with dignified disgust , Russell says , " Gentlemen of the Press ! " to summarize how they have mangled Williams and Molly Molloy by their lying . As I said , that line is in the play , spoken by Hildy . This version was produced by Howard Hughes , and directed by Lewis Milestone . Milestone's use of a moving camera is obvious in several scenes where we see reporters and characters moving in the reporter's room at the city prison around the central table . This is obvious to counter the fact that much of the play is static - it's a one set play . But the movement reminds one of how Milestone used a moving camera a year earlier in ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT in the sequences showing doomed charges against machine gun emplacements . While not comparable to Cary Grant's Burns in 1940 , Adolphe Menjou does make the editor a figure of silent control . He shows up suddenly at the reporters room ( after sending several phone calls earlier ) while everyone is facing the opposite direction , making his entry properly silent and sinister in its way . Grant was more pompous in the role , while Menjou is a master of psychological approach when he wants ( watch he plays O'Brien to get him to type his news report ) . Menjou is also seen breaking a law ( setting off a fire alarm box to force O'Brien to come into the street ) . Bits and pieces of business are shown that did not appear in later versions . Slim Summerfield's Mr . Pincus ( a nice performance but nothing like that immortal example of kindly befuddlement , Billy Gilbert's Mr . Pettibone in 1940 ) is seen not only dropping off the pardon from the governor , but seen descending in an elevator . Edward Everett Horton , believing he's going to a better job , is seen trying to get a cab , and finding that he has gone into Mary Brian's by accident . Molly is taken ( after injuring herself ) to a hospital cell and the reporters are there waiting to see if they can question her . The shooting of Dr . Englehofer ( Gustav Von Seyfertitz ) with the Warden's ( Clarence Wilson's ) gun is actually shown here ( with the idiot psychiatrist declaring the stunned Williams " dementia praecox " . The performances ( besides Menjou's ) are good . O'Brien is certainly at odds with himself as he sees how much he loves his career , and how much he loves Brian . O'Brien is more aware of her newspaper rival ( personified by Menjou ) than Bellamy was in the 1940 film . The newspapermen are an interesting mixed bunch , best being Catlett , Frank McHugh ( oddly enough his character's name is McCue ) , and Horton . Horton is quite the hypochondriac fussbudget ( Ernest Truex was not quite like this in the 1940 version ) , constantly spraying against germs , and gargling with Listerine - Catlett , in disgust , asks if Horton can stop stinking up the room with disinfectants ! It lacks the surer touch of Hawks , who again and again knew how to make successful film comedies . Milestone usually directed dramas , and while he is not ham handed one misses Hawks better control . Still this 1931 film is a good version , and won't disappoint the viewer .
" Why Did You Have To Wake Me Up . . . He Was About To Do Something Cute ! "	This is an interesting change of pace comedy for Jean Harlow . She is not playing a lower class shop girl or even a prostitute like in THE GIRL FROM MISSOURI or RED DUST , nor a slumming upper class girl ( as in THE PUBLIC ENEMY ) . Instead she is playing a very popular film star with a very sexy body and screen personae - gee , it sounds like she is playing Jean Harlow . According to the thread the character she is playing ( " Lola Burns " ) was supposed to be based on Clara Bow ( certainly the two names are similar in sound ) . But it could be based on Harlow's attempts ( tragically repeatedly doomed ) to have a happy normal life but finding her screen personae interfering . Still , even if one starts thinking of Harlow's marriage to Paul Bern or her romance with William Powell , the film is engrossing and humorous enough to make you push aside the tragedy of the life of Harlean Carpenter . Lola is , like all movie stars , a prisoner of the studio's determination to get all the public attention publicity can garner from it's merchandise ( it's stars ) . In particular Lola finds herself at the mercy of the studio's head publicity man " Space Hanlon " ( Lee Tracy ) . Tracy is always coming up with goofy stunts , or twisting events that involve Lola in her attempts at normality ( like adopting a baby , or dating a " normal " man ( Franchot Tone ) into another mess . The studio only cares that she personifies sexual allure - so Hanlon keeps making that the key to his publicity : he even arranges a fight between several men on the set of her latest film ( one is director Pat O'Brien ) supposedly over Lola's love . Lola is not against sex and love - the quote in the " Summary line " is Lola's when her maid wakes her at the start of the film , and she's just had a promising sex dream . She really needs a confidante - but everyone around her takes advantage of her . Her father ( Frank Morgan ) is an alcoholic , cadging old scoundrel ( who keeps reminding her - to her growing disgust - of her owing him obedience as her loving father ) . Her sibling ( Ted Healey ) is also an alcoholic , constantly having sexual affairs that she has to get him out of . Her maid actually steals from the household accounts ( Lola is aware of this - she is not stupid ) . And all constantly are as demanding on her as her studio . Ironically there is one person who would be her confidante and more - but he knows she'll reject him . It's Space , who loves her . In fact , some of the stunts he sets up is to get rid of possible rivals . Eventually , can he get her to recognize this ? Ah that is the final point of the film . Harlow was a gifted comic actress , knowing how to use her image for fun ( such as Wallace Beery's unfaithful wife in DINNER AT EIGHT ) . But I suspect because of her own problems in Hollywood and real life she put more of herself in this film than in any other . I can't say it was her best performance ( I tend to like RED DUST and CHINA SEAS a little more ) but it was somehow her most real performance , and the film benefits as a result .
A kind of friendly valentine to a foe	George Tobias is best remembered by my generation for a wonderful comic " cameo-supporting " role he had in the series BEWITCHED , opposite Alice Pearce . He was the immortal Abner Kravitz , neighbor of Samantha and Darren Stevens , who was married to the overly snoopy Gladys Kravitz ( Pearce ) , who was always certain something odd was going on at the Stevens ' home . Gladys was right , but she never was able to get her timing correct with Abner ( always reading the newspaper , or doing his taxes , or watching television , while she was certain she saw something unearthly across the street ) . Tobias could play dramatic as well as comic roles , but his timing as a comic performer was wonderful here - with a complete deadpan he always put down his wife , whom he was increasingly convinced was a nut job ! This comic ability was put to first rate use by Warner Brothers in his career from the middle 1930s to the 1940s ( lest I leave you thinking him just good at comedy , look at his self-sacrificing legionnaire in Burt Lancaster's TEN TALL MEN or his escaped convict in RAWHIDE ) . In films like THE STRAWBERRY BLOND or YANKEE DOODLE DANDY Tobias enlivened the proceedings like others of the perennial supporting actors crew ( like Frank McHugh , Alan Hale Sr . , S . Z . Sakall ) . Tobias did it very realistically . Look at his performance in YANKEE DOODLE DANDY as Mr . Dietz ( of Dietz and Goff , the theatrical producers ) . His matter-of-fact rejection of George . M . Cohan's work the audience knows is wrongheaded , but we also know that 90 % of the theater producers in 1903 would have agreed with him . His look of total puzzlement listening to Cohan's tunes ( Cagney's singing " Harrigan " ) makes sense as the tune is not the type of sentimental number about Irishmen that was acceptable on stage in 1903 ( Cohan's tune has a feistier , more realistic type involved ) . When a fed up Cagney dismisses Tobias by saying he has no ear for music , Tobias quietly answers he has a wonderful ear for music . Even if the long term result for Dietz and his partner was wrong , the short term one happened to make sense . I bring this all up because of Tobias ' role in TORRID ZONE , as the local revolutionary " bandit " chief , Rosario La Mata . Head of a gang who commit robberies mostly of the local American owned businesses ( ironically for this comedy , his two henchmen are the ill-fated George Reeves and the ill-fated Victor Killian ) , he is usually assisting the locals against greedy gringos and their corrupt minions . This is not approved of by the American owned fruit company that employs Jerome Cowan , Pat 0'Brien , and Jimmy Cagney , but the closer the employee is to the reality of the situation ( Cagney is the lowest rung of management here ) , the more apparent that for all the trouble La Mata is doing he actually is helping his people more than the government is . Notice , Cagney does refer to him as " Rosie " , hardly a negative view of the man . The main plot of TORRID ZONE bears comparison to MGM's film ( set in French Indo-China ) of RED DUST . There to we have Clark Gable and his staff ( Tully Marshall and Donald Crisp ) on their rubber plantation , awaiting the new manager ( Gene Raymond ) and his attractive wife ( Mary Astor ) . There a triangle develops between Gable , Astor , and Jean Harlow ( who is currently stuck on the plantation ) . Here it is Cagney's relationship with Cowan's wife Helen Vinson , and his growing attraction to Ann Sheridan . O'Brien ( in this , another of his " buddy " films with Cagney ) is Cagney's immediate supervisor trying to keep the peace in the business between Cagney and Cowan . It is the business with Tobias ' Rosie that lifts it . There is no similar character in RED DUST . His antics , his confrontation at the conclusion with Cagney , O'Brien , Sheridan , and the others , and the nifty way he and Cagney get each other out of the final jam lift the film . Now my question is why was Tobias given such a likable rogue figure in 1940 . Well it's obvious that the screenwriters were thinking of someone , a trifle less funny but somewhat admirable in his way . Rosie is a clone ( if you will ) of August Sandino , the Nicaraguan national hero who was fighting the Somoza Family and their ally ( the United Fruit Company ) in the late 1920s ( see my film review on MARGIE ) . Sandino was a more ruthless type , but his goal was understandable to his foes . One of them , General Smedley Butler , wrote an interesting book of memoirs about how his Marine Corps commands ended up being used by the Federal Government to help American corporations in Latin America - including Nicaragua . One wishes that Sandino could have seen the film to see some Americans did appreciate his goals . Unfortunately , he was killed in an ambush in 1933 .
Young Men and Young Women on a Small Campus	Rodgers and Hart rarely were served well in the movies . A handful of classic musicals in the middle 1930s ( including LOVE ME TONIGHT and HALLELUJAH . I'M A BUM ) and an occasional partial success ( MISSISSIPPI , abetted by Bing Crosby's voice in two standards ) , but most of their best work was shelved . The fact was Richard Rodgers would not really be well served in terms of his scores until his partner's last name was Hammerstein . TOO MANY GIRLS is not one of the best scores , but the film version is actually quite good . As pointed out elsewhere the plot is like GIRL CRAZY , but the central figure is a female ( Lucille Ball ) not a male ( Mickey Rooney ) . The film is the one where Lucy met her future husband and partner Desi Arnaz , but ( ironically for what we now know about them ) , in this film Desi is paired off with Anne Miller , and Lucy with Richard Carlson . The other star ( Eddie Bracken ) is paired off with Francis Langford . This is one of those musicals for a wet afternoon at home , and it works as entertainment . It has some good moments that are unexpected . Lucy is shipped to this out of the way college in the southwest ( for its day it is ahead of its time , as Desi is one of the football stars at the college , and Anne - his girlfriend - is a Native American ) . The reason she is sent is her too open sex life . Her father wants to end this , and he does by sending her to his alma mater . But her father is played by the old reliable Harry Shannon , here ( for a change ) a millionaire . He gets a chance to warble the university theme song , which is as asinine as " Boola Boola " is for Yale . Shannon gives it his full pipes and acting , even pounding his breasts while singing the nitwit lyrics ( Lorenz Hart must have been enjoying himself when he wrote this - his version of " Grand Old Ivy " in HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING ) . Regretfully Shannon , after shipping Lucy to the college , never reappears in the film - he really deserved a second silly number . One number from the show was cut from the film - probably wisely . Desi does eventually do his " Babaloo " number in the film , and with real spirit ( forming a conga line the others are on ) . But in the show he had a tune , " Everythin ' is Spic and Spanish ! " . While it would be curious to hear Desi singing it , it did not make the film . As a result the film is still available to be seen by the public . I suspect if the number had been kept in ( and why shouldn't it in that simpler , more openly racist period ) , Latino groups would be demanding it be cut in re-release of the movie . I suspect that Arnaz , a proud Cubano , would probably have also regretted singing such a tune in a released movie after say 1970 or so . The film is also one of the few films directed by Broadway legend George Abbott , who directed the stage version . Abbott also directed the film version of DAMN YANKEES ! , again a musical he directed on stage . While both films are good , I notice one tendency by Abbott that is barely controlled because it appears in both films : at some point in his musical numbers he picks up and misuses a close-up . In DAMN YANKEES ! one of the songs involves three of the baseball players dancing . This is not annoying , but Abbott suddenly pulls a close-up of one of them , winking at the others ( who we cannot see ) , tipping his cap at an angle and stepping forward to do his soft shoe act . We don't have to see this close up , and Abbott ( who probably had done that done by the actor on stage ) did not think of that . Here , in a major dance number involving all the student body at the college , he pushes the camera towards a cannon that is pulled 90 degrees to face the camera , and when the camera is about ten feet from the cannon the cannon is fired " into the faces of the audience " . Again Abbott probably did that on stage , but it is less than effective in close up in a film . In fact , had he done it from a distance it would have blended in nicely with the dance number . Still those mishaps are few . I don't dwell on the plot ( dealing with colleges and football and the girls versus their boyfriends until the final clinches ) , but it is definitely worth watching once or twice . So I give it an " 8 " out of " 10 " .
Maugham's Look at a Driven Artist . . . Gaughin ?	This film is a good one to add to MOULIN ROUGE , LUST FOR LIFE ( especially LUST FOR LIFE ) , THE NAKED MAJA , and THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY , as one of the few to tackle the great artist struggling to perfect his art ( interestingly none of the films look at female artists , such as Rosa Bonheur or Mary Cassatt ) . In this case it is based on a novel by W . Somerset Maugham of the same title as the film . The novel is different . To begin with , Maugham is clever enough to add little touches to the story that suggest it is a biography , not a novel . For example , he includes footnotes to non-existent literary studies on the works of Charles Strickland . I did not think that anyone did that sort of thing except the " Devil's Lexicographer " Ambrose Bierce . But the basics of the story are the same : Charles Strickland is a middle class stock broker , living in apparent Victorian respectability with his wife and children . Then , without warning , he deserts his wife and becomes totally bohemian , and when confronted by her and her family he repudiates their middle class morality and insists he wants to paint , and only paint - he is not interested in stocks and bonds . Throughout the rest of the movie we see Strickland use and drop people like old laundry . He is a detestable cad ( and is played by moviedom's most detestable / fascinating cad , George Sanders ) . But he is a painter of genius . And we watch as he moves from London to the continent to the South Seas for the stunning conclusion of the film . Yes it is based in part on the career of Paul Gaughin ( whom we last saw as Anthony Quinn in LUST FOR LIFE , shrugging off that nut he was living with in Arles who mutilated his ear lobe ) . But Maugham apparently also included some details with a less recalled artist who was a friend of his , Sir Augustus Johns . Johns too had a bad reputation of using friends , and was also determined to be free to paint ( I suspect Joyce Carey may have had him in mind too for Gully Jimson in THE HORSE'S MOUTH ) . The business of Strickland going to the South Seas is pure Gaughin , although not the final chapter of Strickland's last masterpiece . That is pure invention . I remember when I saw this film back in the 1970s the conclusion was one of the versions that showed Strickland's final work in color , and it is basically Gaughin's work or style . It is a breathtaking moment of artistic splendor ( sorry if I am being a bit explosive , but you'd have to see it to understand ) . And given the circumstances of the artist when it was achieved , and the ironic conclusion to the story , the effect does knock the viewer for a loop . Sanders gave his best to the role , never apologizing for his using people . Herbert Marshall is okay as Somerset Maugham , but his role is relatively simple and drab , as a type of narrator . Best in support is Steven Geray , that always reliable supporting player who all too infrequently was not used enough ( see him in GILDA or THE MASK OF DEMETRIOS to see him when he had a well written role ) . Here he is a man who finds that Sanders stole his woman and his happiness from him , but when the woman dies after Sanders deserts her , Geray visits Sanders and says he forgives him ( getting a sneer back from Sanders as his reward ) . As I said it is a very fine film .
All About Eve made palatable	This film was made in the shadow of ALL ABOUT EVE , and paints a more benign view of that film's central situation . Ginger Rogers plays a leading Broadway star , who retains a close relationship with her former husband ( Paul Douglas ) , and works closely with playwright William Holden ( possibly a softer build-up for his play director in Bing Crosby's / Grace Kelly's THE COUNTRY GIRL ) . Pat Crowley , a younger woman of some acting talent , is trying to break into the circles that cast and produce Broadway plays ( she is doing mostly off-Broadway work ) . The relationship of these four characters are the basis of this comedy . There are differences between the situation here and the situation in EVE . There was more of an atmosphere of the theater and it's traditions in EVE ( because Joseph Mankiewicz writes literate scripts , and was determined to show what goes on behind the stage curtains ) . But there Bette Davis has gotten trapped into a lonely greatness on stage , and she turns out to be willing to vacate her pedestal if she can have a human life with Gary Merrill . She just does not like the way Anne Baxter is trying to replace her in her parts - Baxter's underhanded methods are despicable . Crowley is not Baxter . She genuinely admires Rogers , and just wants entry ( which she may get through Holden ) . It is just that Rogers is still clinging to her youth - Holden is her last chance for such a cling when they go out together . But even Rogers realizes that she is beyond the point of return . In fact , towards the end of the film the audience and Holden and Crowley discover that Rogers actually gives herself a long summer vacation where she can wear softer , easier clothing and eat as much as she wants to . In the end she accepts that the scepter is passed , but she still has her old husband / friend / and continuous argument partner Douglass to play with .
Porky's bete noir	This is an amusing cartoon , which ( as was pointed out in another comment on this thread ) was taking a typical Bugs Bunny - Elmer Fudd situation ( " Peace and welaxation at wast ! " , said Elmer in one very similar earlier cartoon ) , using Daffy Duck and Porky Pig as the alternates . At this point in time ( 1942 ) Elmer was still in a period of change in shape and features , sometimes fat and sometimes with a red pickle shaped nose - and sometimes referred to as " Egghead " . But Porky Pig's basics had been laid down by the late 1930s ( originally he too was immensely fat , but gradually his rotundity was made more acceptable ) . Daffy and Bugs went through alterations too , though not as extreme as Porky and Elmer . Both the duck and bunny were anarchistic and malicious , but Bugs had demonstrated a cleverness and control over the world that lasted until the end of every cartoon . Bugs is a master of his universe ( much to the discomfort of such foes as Elmer , Yosemite Sam , Wile E . Coyote ( " Genius " ) , and the Tazmanian Devil . Daffy due to personality problems never is such a master , and the conclusion of this cartoon demonstrates it . Porky is going on a hopefully restful vacation in the wild , but he finds Daffy tagging along to annoy him at every possible moment . This includes preventing him from putting his tent up anywhere on land , and even stealing his food . But the real ace up Daffy's sleeve for most of the cartoon is that it is not Duck hunting season , so nothing can be physically done to harm Daffy by Porky in retaliation for what Daffy has been doing . It is a good trick - unfortunately it doesn't last . Daffy suddenly finds that it is now Duck hunting season , and ( moreover ) he in particular is to be targeted for destruction . Daffy finds he is in serious danger from an enraged Porky . The ending of the cartoon was actually slightly reused years later in a Bugs - Yosemite Sam cartoon , where the film seems to break and we are unaware of what happened to the two characters . It is symbolic of Bugs mastery of his universe as opposed to Daffy's attempt at mastery that Bugs gets the better of Sam , while Porky gets the better of Daffy .
Orson Welles and Leopold and Loeb	In 1924 Nathan Leopold and his friend / lover Richard Loeb were two wealthy young Chicagoans , from Jewish American families , who were extremely well educated . Both were believers in the theories ( somewhat twisted ) of Friedrich Nietzche regarding the idea of the superman . They believed that supermen could regard certain laws as being only meant for " little people " , not supermen . One thing they felt they could ignore was the criminal code . . . and this included murder . They decided to commit a perfect crime for the thrill of it . They would kidnap and kill a child , demand a large ransom , and leave a trail of clues that would befuddle the police . To do this they did do some things that showed careful planning ( like stealing a typewriter so they could send untraceable letters ) . Finally they kidnapped a cousin of Leopold , Bobby Franks ( age 14 ) , killed him in their car , mutilated the body with acid and knives , and hid him in a deserted park culvert . Unfortunately for these two geniuses , Leopold dropped a pair of eyeglasses at the site where Bobby was deposited . It was the eyeglasses that led the police to Leopold and then Loeb , and the two supermen were fairly fast in caving in and confessing . The criminal historian , Jonathan Goodman , once wrote that if he ever planned to commit a murder and would ask infamous criminals for advice , he would certainly choose Burke and Hare ( the Edinburgh body snatchers , who were not caught until they killed 16 people ) over Leopold and Loeb . They did not hang . Their families hired America's greatest attorney , Clarence Darrow , to defend them . He pleaded guilty for them , but requested a bench trial ( just a judge ) for the sentencing . His theory was that a jury would never be able not to divorce the cruelty of their actions from consideration of their punishment . For Darrow , a lifelong opponent of the death penalty , was unwilling to risk losing two guilty clients to public hatred . He gave a classic discussion of the death penalty , and how it would not do what the public wished - stop further crime as a warning , and bring back ( or closure to the family of ) Bobby Frank . And the Judge did decide to not order the execution of Leopold and Loeb . They were sentenced to life plus ninety nine years ( the sentence was later used as the title of Leopold's autobiography ) . But Richard Loeb was murdered in prison in 1936 ( he made a homosexual advance on a fellow prisoner who slashed him to death - and was not punished for it ) . Leopold was released in 1958 . He married , moved to Puerto Rico where he worked as a nurse , and died in 1971 . COMPULSION is based on a novel by Meyer Levin ( a best seller in the late 1950s ) , that was based on the case , changing the names of Leopold and Loeb to Artie Strauss and Judd Steiner . The film only goes through the crime and the trial , culminating in the performance of Orson Welles as Jonathan Wilkes ( a . k . a . Clarence Darrow ) . Dean Stockwell plays a sympathetic , confused Leopold ( an issue among criminal historians - how really weak was Leopold - was he Loeb's sex slave ? ) and Bradford Dillman as a more aggressive Loeb . Martin Milner plays their college friend ( and Leopold's rival for a girl in the class ) , who also finds the eyeglasses . E . G . Marshall is District Attorney Horn ( and gives a very effective performance as an intelligent adversary of the two criminals as well as Welles ) . Diane Varsi plays the girl both Stockwell and Milner love . For some reason her performance is considered weak - actually while not fascinating it was more than competent . The film does show the crime in it's aftermath ( unlike the other film version of the Leopold-Loeb Case - ROPE - this movie does not the actual murder ) . It shows the increasing nervousness of Leopold , while Loeb keeps his cool ( even " helping " the police investigation by suggesting some possible suspects of pedophile leanings ) . It is ( unlike ROPE ) shot as a period film , in the 1920s , but the film is in black and white - so the period costumes and accessories are not detracting from the action . It is a well done film , but Welles appearance is only in the last half hour , culminating in the speech before the judge and his effective parting shot at Stockwell , who feels there is no God ( " Perhaps it was God who made you drop your eyeglasses . " ) . Welles performance of the speech was so effective that it was recorded on a record and was a best seller that year . And it is beautifully done . But the film misses one point . Darrow did not win the sentence he sought by convincing the Judge of the impracticality of the death sentence . The Judge actually dismissed this argument of Darrow's . But Leopold and Loeb were under 21 . He felt they were too young to be hanged . It has been suggested that COMPULSION and ROPE could be shown together , but it would equally be possible to view COMPULSION with INHERIT THE WIND , to compare the performances of Welles with Spencer Tracy as Darrow / Henry Drummond in the latter film . There is also a peculiar type of movie loop in COMPULSION and INHERIT THE WIND . COMPULSION has a scene where Welles , is in his hotel room , when he sees some Ku Klux Klanners light a cross outside his window . In INHERIT THE WIND Tracy answers his hotel door room to see Gene Kelly ( as H . L . Mencken / E . K . Hornbeck ) wearing a hood and saying " Boo " as a joke . This is a reference to Darrow's agnostic / atheistic reputation , which was disliked by many people in his day . And early in INHERIT THE WIND when Kelly announces that Dick York ( as Bertram Cates - John Scopes ) will be defended by Tracy , one of the townspeople says , " He just got those two child-murderers off the other day . " ) . It is rare for two films to have such mutual references in them , when they are not sequel films .
Baldwin's Crowning Achievement - Which We Should Thank Him For	There was a time that the abdication of King Edward VIII in December 1936 was considered one of the most romantic and beautiful gestures of modern times . After all , the ruler of the greatest empire in modern time gave it away willingly because he could not rule comfortably without the love and assistance of the woman he loved . It certainly is a beautiful gesture . But the truth was uglier . Frances Donaldson wrote the biography that was the basis of this series , and showed that the good natured Prince of Wales was a lightweight in terms of understanding the key to modern British monarchy - public service comes first . As titular head of the Church of England , Edward had a moral obligation of setting a good example . It was accepted that he ( like his grandfather Edward VII ) could have a girl friend who might have a current husband , or could not legally marry the ruler . Edward VII understood this . He and Alice Keppel had a close , long standing affair ( as he had prior to her with Daisy , Countess of Warwick , Lily Langtry , and others ) . But he always returned to his wife Alexandra . Edward could not understand this , and instead of keeping the twice divorced Wallis Warfield Simpson as his girlfriend , he decided to marry her . Seventy years later one might see this done - Edward's grandnephew Charles has just married his long time girlfriend Camilla Parker-Bowes . But Charles first wife Diane has been dead seven years . Even now however , many people are disappointed by Charles behavior . What Donaldson brought out was that Edward was too pro-German . He was willing to let bygones be bygones , but he went beyond that by attending meetings with German war veterans . Later he openly was friendly to Nazi leaders like Hitler and Goering . During World War II , although in the Bahamas , he attracted many Nazi supporters there , and he may have botched the investigation into the murder of Sir Harry Oakes because of Nazi involvement . Enter the Prime Minister , Stanley Baldwin . He was usually involved in normal political matters , but the King's demands to wed Mrs . Simpson brought about a political crisis . . . one that Baldwin loathed . He was fully sick of the reason for this crisis and he did not like the young monarch , who seemed more attuned to taking long vacations than doing his job as monarch . Baldwin certainly distrusted Edward's liking for Germany and it's regime . So he stage managed ( beautifully , by the way ) the refusal of most of the leading portions of the Empire / Commonwealth of any marriage . Australia , Canada , both Irelands , India , South Africa all rejected the marriage for moral reasons ( New Zealand actually supported the King ) . He managed to keep the story out of British papers ( outside of Britain everyone was aware of it ) . Then the Archbishop of Canterbury learned of it , and all hell broke loose . Wallis urged her lover to forget the whole matter for the time . Edward refused , and gave away the throne . His brother George would turn out to be a better King , and one not in love with Germany . Edward Fox and Cynthia Harris were very good as Edward and Wallis . David Waller , a British character actor - usually in comedies - played Baldwin as he should be played , as a cagey customer who by getting rid of the King helped the Allied cause immeasurably . Peggy Ashcroft as the Queen is excellent too . If they show it again you should catch it .
The Fall and Rise of " Nothing's On ! "	I was lucky enough to catch the Broadway production of NOISES OFF in the 1980s with Dorothy Louden , Paxton Whitehead , and Linda Thornton ( yes , " Tara King " from THE AVENGERS ) , and enjoyed the weird construction of the deconstruction of a farce in three acts . I have to say that Michael Frayne's play was wonderful at showing the difficulties of producing a farce ( in this case a third rate one ) , and the toll of repetitive performances and back-stage relationships have on the production crew and cast . Frayne thought of everything . At revivals now I don't know if they include it , but in my copy of the PLAYBILL , Frayne inserted a fake PLAYBILL giving the idiotic careers of the stars of the show and the director and his crew . It was as funny as the show was . Farce is at once the most popular form of theater and it's most difficult . To work properly everything must be timed and in place for the sequences to fall into clockwork like movements to the conclusion . All countries produce them . France produced a master of them in Georges Feydeau ( see HOTEL PARADISO ) . But the British love them and at their best they occupy much of the West End and the major theaters in the rest of the isles . Frayne , of course , having his background in the theater is aware of this . But he is also aware of the worse part of it - that because of the popularity of the form too many hacks put their poor wits to it , and really make it tiresome . Such is the case with this particular farce in NOISES OFF ( Frayne purposely gives it the name NOTHING'S ON as a counterpoint to the title of the actual play ) . From the beginning ( when the cast are being directed by Lloyd Fellowes ( Michael Caine ) ) we are gradually being aware that the author of NOISES OFF demolished a key portion of the play's plot to explain an additional confusion and twist in it ( it explains why one character has to be disguised as an Arab sheik in the play - but now that bit of business is meaningless ) . There are also split second timing problems that increasingly mangle the jokes and situations due to backstage bickering . Watch for Carol Burnett's performance as the the housekeeper . As the play goes through more and more disastrous rehearsals and productions Burnett's Mrs . Clackett is slowly having a nervous breakdown over the word " sardine " . Frayne has sexual interrelationships backstage between the lead players ( Burnett , Chris Reeve , Marilu Henner , John Ritter , Nicolette Sheridan ) as well as the production staff ( Caine , Mark Linn-Baker , Julie Haggerty ) create so much confusion and poison as to threaten the very health of the audience ( Caine at one point hearing call after call over the theaters intercom system that the curtain will be rising in five minutes runs backstage announcing the incipient panic among the elderly retirees watching the play ) . Add to all this Desmond Elliot ( in one of his last roles ) playing the critical role in the farce of a burglar ( who is supposed to end up in bed with Burnett ) is a happy alcoholic who constantly misses his cues and proper entrance points ( particularly if he has another fast one before going on ) . At one point Caine , Linn-Baker , and Elliot end on stage in the same role at the same time , reciting the same lines to the other performers ! The play is destined for Broadway in five months . Will it survive the road tryouts ? Will the cast and crew survive without killing each other off ? Watch this very funny film to find out .
Trapping a traitor	The plot of this episode of THE BIG VALLEY was a curious one , because it invented a piece of history which ( for ought we know ) may very well have happened - but nobody has ever found conclusive proof that it did . At the start we see Victoria Barkley ( Barbara Stanwyck ) taking a buggy ride with a family friend , General Alderson ( Henry Jones ) . They are discussing some business involving both , and drive back to Victoria's home . But they find the house has been under surveillance by several men who have invaded it - and are holding Victoria , her sons Jarrad ( Richard Long ) and Nick ( Peter Breck ) and stepson Heath ( Lee Majors ) , and daughter Audra ( Linda Evans ) prisoner there . The men are southerners - ex - Confederates who have been tracking down Alderson for years for a variety of claimed war crimes he committed during the Civil War ( which they claim he successfully covered up ) . They intend to kill him for the maiming and killing of their wives , parents , children . What happens in the episode is that Jarrad ( who you recall is a professional lawyer ) pleads with the men to at least give the General a chance to defend himself . They have the power of life and death over all the Barkleys and the General , but why can't they allow Alderson to try to show they are mistaken ? Although there is grumbling about their plans and possible tricks the ex-Rebels agree . So we watch these men present their case against Alderson , and the latter and Jarrad trying to disprove the allegations . But Alderson is a very reluctant witness - he is obviously frightened by his situation , and he is more of a protesting whiner than someone who is actually prepared to give meaningful rebuttal to these charges . As he wilts under the glare of these stories , Victoria and the others are amazed by his lack of fight : this is the man they have always respected , isn't it ? The conclusion of this fine episode is what always impressed me . Alderson tries to flee on several occasions ( but is constantly caught ) . These actions don't improve the fall of his stock with the Barkleys any , especially as their lives might be sacrificed if he does flee . Then the court-martial makes it's decision : it declares that Alderson should be hanged . Although Heath and his brothers try one last time to stop this , the ex-Confederates hold them off , and drag Alderson to a tree . And here , Alderson's facade cracks . He insists that they have gotten the wrong information about him . He was always loyal to the Confederacy , and the proof is that in the winter of 1864 - 65 he met with John Wilkes Booth and several of his conspirators to plot Lincoln's Assassination . Of course this is the final blow to whatever shreds of respect Victoria had for the General , but the final trick comes up . It turns out that Jarrad has been working with the leader of the " Ex - Confederates " ( Alan Bergmann ) in building up a treason case against Alderson - that the General was suspected of treason against the Union . At the end the General is arrested and taken away . No doubt there were people who were involved with Booth's conspiracy that we have no real knowledge of . Over the years a Portuguese ship captain named Captain Joao Celestina has been mentioned , and there are theories linking Booth to a Northern set of traitors ( led by Secretary of War Stanton and Secret Service Chief Lafayette Baker ? ) or to Southern leaders ( Jefferson Davis and his cabinet , or the raider General John Mosby ) . But , as far as I know , only this episode of THE BIG VALLEY ever actually dealt with the issue of unknown co-conspirators of John Wilkes Booth .
The Patience of Job	" Mr . Skeffington " is one of Bette Davis ' best performances , and the best of the four teaming with Claude Rains ( " Now Voyager " does not have as many sequences with both of them sharing scenes as " Skeffington " ) . It is the story of a silly , vain woman who marries a man for his money , and to protect her brother . She fails to protect her brother , but she does find that the man she married is a better man than she deserves . It is also an over-the-years tale , beginning about 1914 , and involving World War I , prohibition , the rise of Nazism and anti-Semitism , and ending in World War II . Job Skeffington is a successful stock dealer and banker on Wall Street , and he is a rarity : he's Jewish . Somehow he hires Fanny Trellis's brother Trippy , who returns the favor by embezzling some funds . As Fanny and Trippy are socialites they are used to their friends covering up for their errors . But Job can't simply allow this , because the money doesn't belong to him but to his customers . When he approaches Fanny ( gently - he just wants Trippy to return the money ) Fanny pulls out her stops to entice him . It works and they marry . Job puts the money back himself . But Trippy is an anti-Semite , and is furious that Fanny sold herself to that Jew . He leaves in high anger . Later Fanny hopes that he will return after he gets it out of his system , but Trippy is killed in the war . Although it is not Job's fault , Fanny does not quite forgive him for that . She becomes more and more outspokenly unfaithful , much to Job's chagrin and pain . Eventually it leads to a divorce . They have a young daughter who lives mostly with Job , and only joins Fanny later . But that is after a shock hits Fanny's self-image . . . and sets the stage for a final reconciliation with Job . All the performances in the film , Davis , Rains , Richard Waring , Walter Abel , Jerome Cowan , are excellent . But one of my favorites is the unexpected comic turn of George Coulouris as the popular psychologist , Dr . Byles . Coulouris usually was a humorless schemer in movies and television , but could rise to the occasion in comedy ( witness his progressively increasing irritation as Walter Parkes Thatcher in " Citizen Kane " ) . Here he is ready to leave on a long planned , much needed vacation , when Fanny barges in to unload her misery and woe without so much as a scheduled appointment . By only showing the clock in the background to show the length she takes away from the boiling Dr . Byles , one is ready for the inevitable conclusion - when the good Doctor tells her off . And he is the first person to do so in the movie .
The Price of Patriotism in 1780	Most fans of Abbott & Costello , if they don't consider THE TIME OF THEIR LIVES the best film they made consider it among the best films they made . It is an unusual film - their is some interplay between the two in the 18th Century sequences , where Abbott's Cuthbert plays his normal bossy and unscrupulous acquaintance to Costello's patriotic Horatio . To add to their normal problems with each other , they both like the same servant girl . Horatio has one prized possession - a letter from George Washington praising his patriotism . Unfortunately , the servant girl's employer is a large landowner who is a traitor ( and a member of Benedict Arnold's conspiracy ) . The landowner has a girlfriend named Melonie , played by Marjorie Reynolds ( probably her best remembered role after Bing Crosby's girlfriend in HOLIDAY INN ) . Melonie is momentarily in control of the letter , but her boyfriend takes it and hides it inside an expensive clock . Then the patriots arrive - Major Andre has been captured and the conspiracy revealed . Everyone flees , but Costello and Reynolds are shot and killed before they get away . A curse is put over their remains in their grave on the estate that ( mistakenly considered ) traitors they are doomed to be forever at unrest there . The ghosts of the two find they literally are stuck their ( the special affects are good - they accidentally run through each other and find they are wearing each other's clothing ) . They see a sign that reveals the curse that was unfairly put on them . Both know if the letter is found they would be released . But time passes . They don't know where the note is , or how to get to it . Comes the 20th Century and Binnie Barnes , Abbott , and John Shelton show up - Abbott a descendant of the 18th Century scoundrel . They are planning to turn the old estate into an inn . Costello , with two centuries of bile and anger building up in him , torments Abbott ( in this film Costello maintains the whip hand for a change ) . Gradually , with the aid of medium Gale Sondergaard , they learn what happened . And Abbott decides to redeem his family name by freeing the ghosts . It is surprising that the Arnold Conspiracy is the only incident of the American Revolution that seems to have been properly handled in the movies , both here and in the later THE SCARLET COAT . But that was a more in depth look at the tragedy and heroism of Major John Andre . Here the Arnold conspiracy , while the motor for the plot , is only shown in the first twenty minutes of the film ( then it goes modern ) , and the film ( for all the tragedy for Costello and Reynolds in their rightful lifetimes ) is mostly comic . The antics of the pair , in particular Costello's campaign against the hapless modern Abbott , is funny - living up to the first part of the pun of the title . For all their anguish at being cursed unfairly , the two ghosts get to enjoy themselves - they do have the time of their lives . The other half of the pun , of course , deals with the key to their salvation : that all important letter - hidden inside an 18th Century timepiece .
Itinerant Musicians	YOU'RE DARN TOOTIN ' was one of the last silent films Stan and Ollie appeared in - within a year they would be in UNACCUSTOMED AS WE ARE , where they demonstrated that they could handle talkie films with the best of their competition . Because of it's transitional nature , there is a major problem in the opening of the films , which suggests that the Roach Studio may have originally planned to do it as a talkie . The boys are in a town band , and they drive the conductor ( Otto Lederer ) wild by wrecking the piece of music the band is supposed to be playing . That the six to eight minute section of the film is not a waste ( it is quite funny ) is due to the antics of it's stars and the band conductor . Viewers tend to forget that Lederer's character ( according to one of the title cards ) is generally regarded as an idiot by the locals listening to his concerts - but he's worse when dealing with the boys . Watch the fairly simple problem just at the start , where they are out of sync with the other band members ( including Charlie Hall ) and keep standing when the conductor taps his baton at them ( while the others sit down ) and then sit down when the conductor tries to get the others to stand up with them ! It is only when they are playing the music that the lack of a sound track occurs . We need to know what the music is that they are lousing up ( on You Tube's three video transfer version the music appears to be Von Suppe's Light Cavalry Overture ) . Still the antics , including Stan showing quicker wits than usual ( surprisingly ) , are amusing . Stan's clarinet music is accidentally blown off his stand , and he sees it is under the conductor's foot ( and Lederer is stamping his foot on the paper to keep the time ) . Ollie is not watching , so Stan steals his french horn music , and when Ollie notices it is gone Stan points to the missing music under the conductor . Ollie goes to retrieve it , and gets stepped on several times before retrieving it . Fired for wrecking the concert , the boys have no money to pay for 14 weeks bread and board at a boarding house - so they are thrown out there too . They try to make some money as street performers , only to find that they can't coordinate their musical timing . They also keep running afoul of a local beat policeman because they lack a license ( when asked about this , Ollie indignantly says " We don't have a dog ! " ) . They have problems with manholes , falling down several by accident ( and Ollie getting a warmed rear end at one point as a result ) . Finally comes the fight at the end . Stan was more aggressive in the silent films - he would not take any of Ollie's bullying here as in the later sound films . A case of reciprocal damage of their clothes begins ( with Ollie getting the worst of it ) . And soon others ( including the cop ) get drawn in - and grown-up men are soon ripping each other's pants off . The conclusion reminds one of the ends of THE BATTLE OF THE CENTURY where a whole city block is engaged in a pie fight . The final shot ( regarding one really large man's loss of his trousers ) also is suggestive of another silent Stan and Ollie classic : LIBERTY . On the whole the film is quite funny , and well worth catching on You Tube or video or in a revival house .
An evil marriage between science and capitalism	Lew Ayres had a long and distinguished career in motion pictures from the 1930s until his death in 1996 . It takes in plenty of territory , such as his lead in the original ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT to his alcoholic younger brother in HOLIDAY to his psychiatrist sleuth in THE DARK MIRROR to his doctor in JOHNNY BELINDA to his ignored Vice President in ADVISE AND CONSENT to his later television work on a Columbo episode and even in L . A . LAW ( as a super-annuated but likable attorney ) . There was also some interesting ( but acceptable ) political controversy : he took his exposure to war's horrors in ALL QUIET quite seriously , and was a conscientious objector in World War II . But he actually still served in that war as an ambulance driver , so nobody accused him of shirking his duty or of cowardice . He never did achieve Oscar status , but then neither did his contemporaries Edward Arnold nor Greta Garbo . One of the few times Ayres played a less than likable person was in this marvelous little science fiction film from the 1950s . Actually Ayres is portraying two personalities : First he is playing a typically good character , Dr . Patrick Cory . Doc Cory is working with his wife / nurse Janice ( Nancy Reagan - here Nancy Davis ) and Dr . Frank Schratt ( Gene Evans ) on research into brain waves and keeping brain tissue alive . He's making great progress with monkeys and animal brains . But he realizes that he has yet to have any experience with human brain tissue . So he is fascinated when an accident occurs near his desert laboratory / home . A private plane crashes killing the people on board . One is Warren H . Donavan , a multi-millionaire of questionable attitudes and business ethics . Because of his work with the local police department , Ayres is called in to the wreck site as a coroner . He writes up the death reports , but he notices that Donavan's brain case is in a good physical state despite the crash . He waits until the police leave , and ( with Schratt's questioning assistance ) he cuts out Donavan's brain and puts it into one of his specially designed tanks to be kept alive and measured for brain waves . Gradually Ayres picks up his second role and personality . You see , he does not realize that Warren H . Donavan was a very forceful personality - indeed a very hateful one . Early on Ayres ( as Dr . Cory ) meets Donavan's son and daughter , neither of whom are totally sorry to see their tyrannical and evil father dead ( he'd been threatening to disinherit both for not listening to his " advice " to them ) . This should have tipped him off . Gradually , as day follows day , Cory and Schratt see that the brain of Donavan is getting healthier under their care , and seems able to function in the apparatus . But Schratt and Janice Cory notice that the Doctor is not himself - he is rather sharp with them both , and he does not seem to notice he has acquired some negative characteristics of Donavan's . Actually , of course , the powerful brain of Donavan is slowly taking over the softer , gentler Cory's brain . So the second personality emerges , and for long stretches of this neat thriller Ayres is actually playing Warren Donavan , complete with Donavan's diet ( he likes milk and steak three times a day ) , wardrobe ( a specially designed pinstripe suit ) , and limp . Donavan was having problems with the Federal Government at the time of his death : he was against paying any income taxes . I don't mean he lied and paid a minimum by playing fast and loose with the rules - he loathes the idea of income taxes . He has bribed a Washington IRS man ( Tom Powers ) to find legal roadblocks regarding a full scale investigation into his wealth . Donavan has also hidden a huge proportion of it ( about $600 , 000 in 1950 dollars ) in bank accounts under assumed names around California . Using the imprisoned Cory as his body , he takes this money out and starts assaulting the stock markets . His goal : to basically take over the American economy . How to do this : by having Cory and Schratt build better equipment to keep that mighty brain of his alive as long as possible . He does not plan to be stopped . And he won't be . He is blackmailed by one clever reporter Herbie Yokum ( Steve Brodie ) who has half the story correct : Yokum saw ( when taking photos of the autopsied bodies of the plane victims ) that Dr . Cory had done something with the brain of Donavan , although he never reported it to the police . He does not realize , as he gloatingly shows the autopsy photos to an angry Cory , that he is not talking to Cory but to Donavan at that point ( who is not pleased to see photos of his body cut up ) . So Donavan makes fast work of Yokum in a subsequent accident . Eventually the brain also demonstrates it's willingness to injure anyone - Dr . Cory himself , Schratt , and even Janice . It is just by a sheer piece of luck or divine intervention at the end that the brain is finally stopped . Science fiction films in the 1950s tended to confront the Cold War issues of American threatened by " alien " cultures or beings . But only in DONAVAN'S BRAIN was it the threat of uninhibited capitalism boosted by science that took central stage . A very thoughtful little film indeed .
A Good Look at a Military Debacle	Isandhlwana is to the Britain what Little Big Horn is to American colonialism , and they were only three years apart in time . It was like a pair of warnings that for all the benefits and advantages of civilization and science , the western powers could still be toppled or stopped by third world powers . The lesson has been learned again and again and again , America having learned it in Vietnam in the 1960s and 1970s ( after France learned it in Indochina and Algeria , and Britain in Kenya , Palestine , and Ireland , and Italy in Ethiopia ) . But it is easy to forget that being human great powers can lose just like smaller countries . In the case of the Zulus and the Lakota Sioux the defeats were smothered to contemporaries ( who deified Pullein and the others in their African camp , and Custer on his little hilltop ) because the British went on to smash the Zulus ( after a year of heavy fighting ) and the Americans went on to destroy the Sioux ( Crazy Horse , who won Little Big Horn , was killed within one year while under arrest ) . ZULU DAWN was meant to be the prequel to ZULU , which is ( in some ways ) a better film . Here we are told how the perfidy of Bartle Freer and Lord Chelmford caused the war and the disgrace of the massacre . ZULU was about the next military event of the war ( on the following day ) - the attack on Roarke's Drift and it's monumental defense at great odds by Welsh troops . The end result , a remarkable acknowledgment by enemies of each other's abilities , was that the Zulus willingly left the battlefield after several attacks failed , saluting the Welshmen . What is not told is why Bartle Freer and Chelmsford were so perfidious . Although the Zulus are depicted as peaceful , and aimed at for imperialist reason , the British were more concerned that the Zulus were traditionally a warlike group , and they had a tradition that occasionally their young men had to go on the warpath with their neighbors to earn their manhood . These neighbors were the British settlers in Natal . This point would have made the Zulus somewhat less sympathetic ( similarly , by the way , the biggest imperialist move in the plain state region in the first half of the 19th Century was by the Lakota against their neighbors - a point frequently avoided by Indian rights groups in attacking American imperialists ) . It is always a case of whose ox is being gored , and in an age where the third world is always pictured in the right , one keeps forgetting when they were in the wrong . The film is well produced , but ZULU is a better film for concentrating the action only on Roarke's Drift . The acting by Lancaster , O'Toole , and Mills is fine as as the always dependable Peter Vaughn and Desmond Elliot . It does teach us a valuable lesson in hubris , and makes one wonder ( like Bishop Colenso in the film ) that in such a large world why can't we all be contented ?
Alistair the Assassin	THE GREEN MAN is one of the funniest black comedies ever made , but it has been hidden from most movie fans because it came in a period of many films from Britain of equal value and with higher star quality ( i . e . , Alec Guiness and Peter Sellers as the star , rather than Alistair Sim , their equal in British cinema ) . Sim influence Guiness ( who copied him in appearance in THE LADYKILLERS ) and he appeared to better effect in film with Sellers ( THE MILLIONAIRESS ) , but he never accepted knighthood or got the Oscar like Guiness did ( nor did he get nominated for an Oscar like Sellers did on several occasions ) . So he gets an unfair short shrift , although there is considerable evidence that he was their total equal as an actor . . . certainly as a comic actor . Sim is a professional assassin , who blows up his targets . However , he insists on agreeing to destroy the men he is hired to kill only if they happen to be rather pompous as well as politically objectionable . At the start of the film one sees him blow up a Latin American dictator with a bomb in a soccer ball . He also blows up a self-important millionaire with an exploding hammer ( used to call a stockholders meeting to order ) . His target in the film is a rising , self-satisfied politician . . . and who can better personify smug self-satisfaction in British comedy than Raymond Huntley . Sim plans to hoist Huntley with his own petard - a recording of his normal , boring speech , set to blow up at a particular moment of dullness . Huntley is going to a seaside resort for the weekend , and Sim plans to go after him . Unfortunately for the normally careful Sim , a cleaning lady stumbles on his plot , and he has to tie her up . But she manages to get the attention of vacuum cleaner salesman George Cole , who slowly realizes that the " helpful " Sim is not so helpful . Sim manages to get to the hotel , but Cole soon follows him . Huntley is there , but his weekend is not so clean - he has a young lady there for some non-political activity . Also at the hotel ( which is called " The Green Man " ) is Terry-Thomas , also there for the weekend , and hoping to become lucky . There is also the normal set of normal eccentrics that people British farces like this . So the last half of the film is following the following points : Will Sim manage to avoid Cole , and get at Huntley ? Will Cole find Sim , and save Huntley , without getting Terry-Thomas sufficiently angry at him for spoiling all of his attempts at picking up ladies ? And will Huntley have his improper weekend , and enjoy hearing his own speech ? Sim's bomb plot against Huntley hits one snag which for sheer unexpected effrontery is hard to top - he sets it in motion , only to find he has not counted on an active critic . It is only a ten second bit in the film , but it is a hoot !
The Real Firebrand of our Revolution	He wasn't always contrary and ornery . Sam Adams was once Samuel Adams whose father was a leading figure in the Massachusetts political and social world . And with a bit better luck the senior Adams might have remained that way - but he did something which was farsighted and foolish at the same time . The senior Adams , during a fiscal crisis in the late 1740s ( when son Sam was still young ) pushed for and financially supported a land bank . His idea was that the colony had so much land it was a key resource - as good ( if not better ) than gold . Mr . Adams wanted the colony to base the economy on a land based bank , which would mint it's own money to pay debts . But Sam's dad did not realize the opposition of such figures as the Hutchinsons and Olivers , hard currency ( i . e . British currency ) men who opposed what they thought was anarchistic " voodoo economics " ( to use a much later dismissive term ) . With their political clout , they knocked the props out of Adams ' land bank . It bankrupted the old man , and probably helped kill him . It also changed his son . It made him look differently at the Hutchinsons and Olivers . Sam found employment here and there - once even as a tax collector . He hated it . Since he lived in straightened circumstances he sympathized with the debtors . He build up lasting friendships and contacts all over the place . He had a natural gift for making friends ( except for one group - unfortunately Sam disliked the Catholics intensely ) . Still most people liked straight forward talking Sam ( as opposed to his cousin , the hard working lawyer John Adams ) . He found the road to his glory in the aftermath of the French and Indian War . Sam saw that the bungling of the British governments , with their taxes , could lead to what would only be fitting . His father was destroyed by the British Kingdom and it's local allies . Here was a chance to overturn these forces and enforce local control . So Sam helped lead the attack on the Stamp Act , and on every other tax the British imposed . His close alliances of friendships assisted him in his plans . Within an hour he could get a sizable of angry citizens together . And in the Stamp Act crisis they demonstrated his wrath . They attacked and destroyed the home of Lt . Governor Thomas Hutchinson . Soon he was allied with money - John Hancock , the wealthiest trader and banker in the colony : also it's biggest smuggler , and a foe of British insistence on obeying the old " Navigation " Acts against smuggling . They were an unbeatable pair - Adams the usual brains of the group ( not that Hancock lacked them ) . They now had funds to do some real damage . When in March 1770 another mob of Sam's pelted British troops in Boston , causing some of the soldiers to panic and fire into the mob , killing Crispus Attucks and four others ( including a boy ) , Sam had pal Paul Revere do some quick sketches that were incorporated in the first great political propaganda work in our nation's history : Revere's massively printed and distributed ( thank's to Hancock's money ) picture of the Boston Massacre . The success of the propaganda coup was somewhat blunted when cousin John agreed to defend Captain Preston and his soldiers on murder charges , and won acquittal , but the executions of the soldiers was not necessary . Besides , soon after cousin John was back alongside cousin Sam giving legal advice on moves . The events in Boston were like a boxing match between a Mohammad Ali or Jack Johnson or Jack Dempsey and an old pug . Sam knew how to pick up on a current to cement his supporters and their determination against any attempt at full or partial apology by Hutchinson , Oliver , or later Sir Thomas Gage . The British best acted when they did virtually nothing , but it annoyed the King and it did not sit well with Parliament ( which felt it's authority was being knocked - it was ! ) . In 1773 the British East India Company was in serious financial difficulties , and the British Government got a brilliant idea to sell cheap tea with the smallest possible tax on it for the colonies . Actually the newly priced India tea was cheaper than rival imports . The tea arrived in Boston Harbor , and nobody ( thanks to Sam ) was willing to unload it . Instead it was on three ships which ( for safety sake ) were parked near the fort in the center of the harbor . Then , on the night of December 12 , 1773 , boatloads of " Indians " came out to the three ships and dumped all the tea overboard . Just why the " Indians " did this ( Mohawks , apparently , according to some descriptions ) was never ascertained . If asked Sam just shrugged - he wasn't an Indian . This episode I hope had fun with the incident - nobody was killed in the " Tea Party " , just a lot of valuable tea was dumped and waterlogged . Sam is played here by E . G . Marshall , who probably was quite good in the role - I just hope he added the right amount of destructive fun Sam had in his role . The aftermath looks very simple in retrospect . More troop sent to Gage . The Boston Port Bill closing the port until the tea is paid for . The colonies getting sympathetic to Massachusetts ( because as Sam's Sons of Liberty groups say ) it could be them next ! Gage trying to grab weapons at Concord and Sam and Hancock in Lexington on April 18 , 1775 . Paul Revere and friends warn the countryside , and the war begins . Sam's war more than anyone else's . And he got that independence . He died in 1806 . He and Hancock split after the war but both men were Massachusetts ' first two governors . And while he never reached the heights of cousin John , in the 1796 election he opposed John and got a few votes for the Presidency !
When in doubt , print the legend . . . .	In 1893 an American history scholar named Frederick Jackson Turner announced that as of two years before the western frontier had closed . Turner created the theory of the frontier thesis - that the frontier was the safety valve of the U . S . , where people who failed in the established eastern U . S . found a last chance for opportunity in the west . But Turner claimed that the unsettled west ( in the lower U . S . - not Alaska ) was settled finally by the Oklahoma land rush and the establishment of six new states in the Benjamin Harrison administration . What really strikes one in Turner's thesis is that he did not note an earlier year that might be considered more critical in the turning of the wild west into the tame west . For , although gangs like Butch Cassidy's " Hole-in-the-Wall " and the Daltons ' would be active into the 1890s , the fact is that 1881 - 1882 was staggering at the number of violent legends that were ended and created . To whit : the killing of Billy the Kid by Sheriff Pat Garrett , and the show-down between Wyatt Earp , his brother Morgan , and his friend Doc Holliday against Ike Clanton and his brothers , and Johnny Ringo at the O . K . Corral , and the shooting of Jesse James by Bob and Charlie Ford . All three incidents occurred between July 15 , 1881 and April 2 , 1882 . Just why this concentration of western history has escaped attention I cannot understand . My guess is that contemporary Americans were less interested in the fate of the Kid , the Earp-Clanton feud , and Jesse's betrayal than in the near contemporary assassination of President Garfield ( July 2 , 1881 to September 19 , 1881 ) . But the death of James did shake up the public a bit more than the other two events - you might disapprove of Jesse's violence and political views , but he was shot in the back by two " friends " who made a deal with the Governor of Missouri . There was a great deal of questioning on the morality of this hired assassination of a desperado . It finished the career of Governor Crittenden of Missouri . The Earp - Clayton confrontation is usually suggested to be a victory of the forces of progress and law & order over criminals in controlling the west . This is how the story has been presented up to today , although the recent film TOMBSTONE suggested that Earp ( with his gambling casino income ) was little better than Ike Clanton . It's just that Clanton and his gang were stealing cattle ( which is brought out more in MY DARLING CLEMENTINE than in this film ) , and Earp was a peace officer ( a Marshall , as a matter of fact ) . For better or worse we have to consider Earp as the hero of the confrontation , even though it may have been more of a massacre than a gun battle . As a film , John Sturges ' GUNFIGHT AT THE O . K . CORRALL is really a look at the two leads , Wyatt and Doc , and how they manage to create a friendship ( at least a temporary one until the film ends ) to clean up Tombstone . This friendship is based on a mutual respect that transcends Wyatt's distrust of Doc due to the latter's temper . Both come to the other's rescue at key points . GUNFIGHT was actually a " buddy " film , and is ( odd to think of it ) the first " buddy " film in the careers of Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas . They had made I WALK ALONE before it , but that film was Lancaster as a paroled convict trying to get his half of a theft that Douglas benefited from , but never paid for . There they were antagonists . After GUNFIGHT they would play antagonists again in SEVEN DAYS IN MAY , but most of their work together ( up to their last joint film , TOUGH GUYS ) were buddy films . The tension between the leads stays the film . Wyatt relies on Doc to help keep an eye on the various bad guys who wander in and out - not only Clanton ( Lyle Bettger ) but Shanghai , the cattle drive leader ( Ted De Corsia ) . But he is aware that one of the reasons for his alliance with Doc is that Doc hates Johnny Ringo ( John Ireland ) ( they have had a rivalry over the same woman ) . If that ends , Doc might find himself siding with Clanton . It does end by the end of the film - Ringo is killed . So at the conclusion , a satisfied Holiday ends his career as a peace officer and resumes his career as a gambler and fast draw gunman . While Lancaster and Douglas dominate the movie , the character actors in other roles are good . Ireland is properly hostile to Douglas in their rivalries over the girl and as rival gunslingers . Bettger is somewhat put-upon as Clanton , resentful of how Earp is cramping his style , but trying to keep his forces ready and in tact . Also good is Frank Faylen as Cotton Wilson , a former Sheriff in Texas who has sided with Clanton . Faylen is best recalled for being Dwayne Hickman's father , Herbert T . Gillis the grocer and " W . W . II " veteran in television's THE ADVENTURES OF DOBIE GILLIS , and was usually ( even when playing a heavy ) a comic actor . Here he is a tired , defeated man - he only wishes to complete his work for Clanton and then retire to a small ranch for some peace and quiet . Tragically it does not work out for him . Martin Milner and Dennis Hopper are equally good as younger brothers of Lancaster and Bettger , who become casualties in the battles between the two groups . Hopper's fate , concluding after the O . K . Corral battle , is particularly sad as Lancaster tried to save him earlier ( he saw that Hopper was not as rotten as his brother ) . It was an early film for Dennis Hopper , and showed the talents that have led him to be a recognized leading actor today .
The Private Life of the Only Fictional Character Ever Given Honorary " Reality "	The wonderful thing about Sherlock Holmes is that Arthur Conan Doyle's abilities gave us so much information ( and lack of information ) about him that we can invent details all the time . For example , in 1886 Doyle wrote a manuscript which became A STUDY IN SCARLET , and initially was entitled " A TANGLED SKEIN " . He named Watson , his narrator , Orrin Sacker , and named Holmes " Sherrinford " . He thought better of both ( fortunately ) . However , in the 1970s Gene Wilder made the movie SHERLOCK HOLMES'S SMARTER BROTHER , and in it he made the younger brother ( third after the " Canonical " Mycroft and Sherlock ) Sherrinford , and he is assisted by a Scotland Yard Sergeant named Orrin Sacker ! Holmes is the only character in modern ( post 1700 ) fiction that generated so much interest as to make a cottage industry of books , magazines , clubs , and continuations on his ( and Watson's , and Moriarty's , and Irene Adler's , and Lestrade's ) adventures . Nicholas Meyer did two fictional continuations , one ( THE SEVEN-PERCENT SOLUTION ) being turned into another successful film with Nicol Williamson , Robert Duval , Alan Arkin - as Sigmund Freud , and Vanessa Redgrave . He is also the only fictional character that many people insist was real - not simply based on Doyle's teacher Dr . Joseph Bell ( the subject of a series of " Bell - Doyle " television adventures with Ian Richardson as Bell ) , but a real " Sherlock Holmes " . That is real immortality folks . When was the last time someone suggested there was a real Prince of Denmark named Hamlet ? This Billy Wilder film was unfortunately re-cut for economic reasons that Wilder could not control , but enough remains to enjoy it . Although Robert Stephen and Colin Blakeney are not as powerful box office draws as Peter O'Toole and Peter Sellers would have been , both were highly respectable performers . Stephen played the art teacher lover of Maggie Smith in THE PRIDE OF MISS JEAN BRODIE , and Blakeney was the treacherous servant of Sir Thomas More in A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS ( and later one of the train traveling suspects in MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS ) . They are convincing in their parts here . Wilder's story is about a woman ( Geraldine Page ) who is fished from the Thames with Holmes ' address on her person . She is trying to find her husband , and Holmes agrees to help . The plot , involving the Loch Ness Monster and national security problems ( enter Holmes ' brother Mycroft - Christopher Lee in a rare comic performance ) is suitably complex , and leads to Holmes stumbling a bit as he falls for the woman in the case . The conclusion is sweet in it's way , but melancholy too . Wilder being Wilder he could not fail to bring in a sharp joke or two at the expense of his central figures . The Holmes - Watson friendship has been the subject of some speculation over the years : just how close was the friendship ? In the scene with the Russian ballet and their impresario ( Clive Revill ) we see Wilder making a thrust at this particular rumor . Also , unfortunately in a cut scene , Lestrade comes to a preoccupied Holmes with the news of another of those unsolved Ripper murders - they need him on the case . Holmes says he is too busy and can't get involved . Now we know why Jack got away with it !
Jewish Travails in Brooklyn and Manhattan	OVER THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE is probably not well recalled by most people today , but the film is only twenty two years old , and certainly captured a spirit that is rarely seen in American films . For all the so call liberalism of the American cinema , certain aspects of ethnicity are quietly buried . Anti - Semitism was attacked in GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT , but the anti-Semitism under scrutiny was a social form ( you can't join certain clubs , you can't get certain jobs , you can't register in certain four - star hotels ) which is annoying but somewhat bearable compared to European or Middle Eastern versions . Except for one notorious incident ( the Leo Frank trial , and lynching ) in Georgia in 1915 , it is rare that the degree of anti-Semitism in this country has gotten so hot as to make Jews literally fear for their lives . In the case of the Frank affair , the Anti-Defimation League of B'Nai Brith was created . But that was the real highpoint of rabid anti-Semitism going so far . One of the misguided ways that Hollywood has acted to reduce the tension is to ignore or make fun of it or concentrate on other side issues . So if we see Jewish lives at home , it is done in a funny manner . For example : in MY FAVORITE YEAR Alan Swann the famous movie star is invited to a Jewish home for dinner , and he is well treated , but the family act like a bunch of clumsy oafs in their reactions to the polished ( if drunken ) Swann . Most of the time Jews don't act so stupidly , but not in Hollywood comedies . OVER THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE tried to mingle the comic with the dramatic in a study of religious bigotry and financial muscle . Alby Sherman ( Elliot Gould ) is a coffee shop owner in Brooklyn who has been saving his money and planning to buy a fancy eatery on the east side of Manhattan . To do this he is dependent on the good will of his Uncle Benjamin ( Sid Caesar ) , who has made a good living in the clothing trade . Benjamin is very fond of Alby , looking at him as the son he always wanted ( Benjamin has a wife and son , but the son is a smirking non-entity , and certainly not one to have a wife and children ) . However , Benjamin is very conscious of being Jewish , and he wants Alby to marry a Jewish girl . Alby is currently shacked up with Elizabeth ( Margaux Hemingway ) , who is a " shiksa " ( a non-Jewish woman ) . Ben is not happy about this , and basically lets Alby know that if he wishes to get financial assistance from his uncle he has to drop Elizabeth . To his credit Alby does not do so - he tries to find alternatives to going to Ben ( even toying with a loan shark ) . Ben , in the meantime , presumes to meddle further by confronting Elizabeth and asking if she really wants to hurt Alby or sacrifice their love to enable him to succeed . Ben , of course , does not see his meddling in a bad light . He even has a replacement for Elizabeth in mind - Alby's distant cousin Cheryl ( Carol Kane ) , a schoolteacher who lives with her elderly father , and appears to be demure and quiet . The film follows the twists and turns of our hero and his family and Elizabeth . We see a world that Jews are fully aware of , where members of families know each other's business whether they should or not , and where diplomatic maneuvering is as vital on a small scale as the same maneuvers would be between nation states . The film had many funny moments . One I cherish is meek little Cheryl finally cutting loose with the wrong person . Another is when Alby is desperate enough to make a late night phone call from Time Square , turn down the silent request of a derelict for some change , and get a commentary on his generosity he never expected . But to me the most interesting part is watching Sid Caesar's performance . Usually playing comic roles , such as in THE BUSY BODY or in Mel Brooks ' SILENT MOVIE , Caesar has always showed how to exaggerate successfully for a laugh . Only he would introduce a drunken woman to a dummy as his friend Matthias Kreplach , the millionaire , in THE BUSY BODY . But here , despite some mild comic touches ( his dealing with the Japanese businessmen ) most of his performance is serious . In fact , OVER THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE was Caesar's best straight performance in a motion picture . The scene when he finally collapses and explains why he relied on Alby towards the end of the film was a small marvel , as he literally collapses in tears admitting to decades of personal disappointments . Aside from that the performance of Margaux Hemingway haunts me a little . Made less than a decade after her first film ( LIPSTICK ) she should have been having a first rate career . In many ways OVER THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE represented the highpoint of her career , as most of the other titles were far more obscure . She seemed to have the world open to her in 1984 , and few could tell that it would be over so badly in twelve years . For her , the glimpse into Jewish life and real problems , and for Sid Caesar's best dramatic work , I give OVER THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE a " 10 " .
The Shadier Side of Presidential Politics	In the later group of Columbo episodes several previous villains were able to return for new confrontations with Peter Falk . William Shatner and Robert Culp ( actually in a comic bit ) were two of the returnees , but Patrick McGoohan made two return visits . The first was this one . McGoohan is a leading criminal trial lawyer , who has been managing the career of a former assistant District Attorney ( Denis Arndt ) who is now a popular young Congressman . McGoohan is approached by a Governor ( Arthur Hill ) who is the party's leading contender for the Presidency - he wants Arndt as his Vice President . McGoohan is quite happy at this prospect - not only his protégée as Veep but he would possibly hold a cabinet post . But he gets a call from Louis Zorich , a mobster who is facing prison . Zorich knows a dirty secret about McGoohan ( his former attorney ) and Arndt regarding destroying vital evidence against Zorich twenty years before . Zorich wants McGoohan to help quash the criminal case against him now . McGoohan has no intention of ruining his chances or Arndt's . Instead he kills Zorich , but sets things up to make it look like a suicide after a conference ended hours earlier . Of course , when Colombo shows up he notes the interesting modern tech telephone system that Zorich has , and that it records the last phone number he dialed - and this is where he starts zeroing in on McGoohan . With the earlier episode co-starring Jackie Cooper Falk's detective twice gets involved with political campaigners who don't deserve their chance at office . But the unraveling of the two cases are different , and the duel of wits by McGoohan with Falk was far more compatible and even ( Cooper seemed too surprised in his battle of wits at times ) . This episode is interesting too because it is one of the few episodes that refers to an actual criminal case : here the conviction of Ted Bundy . Definitely one of the better later episodes .
The Tragedy of Anthony John , Actor of New York City	A DOUBLE LIFE has developed a mystique among film fans for two reasons : the plot idea of an actor getting so wrapped up into a role ( here Othello ) as to pick up the great flaw of that character and put it into his life ; and that this is the film that won Ronald Colman the Academy Award ( as well as the Golden Globe ) as best actor . Let's take the second point first . Is Anthony John Colman's greatest role , or even his signature role ? I have my doubts on either level - but it is among his best known roles . Most of his career , Ronald Colman played decent gentlemen , frequently in dangerous or atypical situations . He is Bulldog Drummond ( cleaned up in the Goldwyn production not to be an arrogant racist ) fighting crime . He is Raffles , the great cricket player and even greater burglar , trying to pull off his best burglary to save a friend's honor . He is Robert Conway , the great imperial political figure , who is kidnapped and brought to that paradise on earth , Shangri-La . He is Dick Heldar , manfully going to his death after he learns his masterpiece has been destroyed and knowing he is now blind and useless as an artist . I can add Sidney Carton and Rudolf Rassendyll to this list . But here he is not heroic . In fact he is unconsciously villainous - he murders one person and nearly kills two others . It does not matter that he is obviously mentally ill - his behavior here is anti-social . To me Colman should have gotten the Oscar for Heldar , or Carton , or Conway - all more typical of his acting roles . But the Academy has a long tradition of picking atypical roles for awarding it's treasure to it's leading members . Colman's Anthony John is a very good performance , and at one point truly scary . When alone with Signe Hasso in her home , she at the top of a staircase and him at the base , they have an argument . She demands that " Tony " leave , saying she won't see him . He stares at her , his face oddly hardening in a way he never used before , and he says , " Oh , no you won't ! " He starts moving upstairs , frightening Hasso , and she runs into her room . He stops himself and leaves . It actually is the real highpoint of his performance - even more than his assaulting of Hasso on stage , or of Edmond O'Brien , or his killing of Shelley Winters . It showed his blind fury . For that moment it was ( to me ) an Oscar-worthy performance . But it is only that moment . I'm glad he was recognized for the role , but he should have gotten the award for a more consistent performance . His actual performance in the Shakespearian role of Othello is not great , but bearable . Too frequently he lets the dialog roll off his tongue in a kind of forced singing style ( one wonders if that was due to the coaching of Walter Hampden , who probably knew how to handle the role properly , or a reaction to it ) . Nowadays " Othello " is played by an African American actor more frequently than a white one . Paul Robeson's brilliant performance in the role set that new tradition firmly into place . But the three best known movie performances of the part are those of Colman , Orson Welles in his movie of OTHELLO , and Laurence Olivier in his movie of his play production of OTHELLO . All three white actors did the role in black face . My personal favorite of the three is Welles , who seems the most subtle . But even watching Welles ' fine film version makes me angry that Robeson never got to put his performance ( with Jose Ferrer as Iago ) on film . Now the first question - can an actor get that wrapped up in a role ? I heard different things about this . Some actors have admitted taking a role home with them from the theater or movie set . Others have found a role they have to be stimulating , influencing them on a new cause of action regarding their lives or some aspect of life . But actually I have never heard of anyone who turned homicidal as the result of a role . It seems a melodramatic , hackneyed idea . As a matter of fact it was not a new idea in 1947 with Cukor , Kanin , and Gordon . In 1944 a " B " feature , THE BRIGHTON STRANGLER , starring John Loder , had used a similar plot about an actor who is playing an infamous " Jack the Ripper " type , and who starts committing those type of killings after an accident affects his mind . There was an earlier movie in the 1930s , in which an actor playing Othello gets jealous of his wife ( I think the title was MEN ARE NOT GODS , but I'm not sure ) . But due to Colman's name and career , and Cukor's directing , it is A DOUBLE LIFE that people think of when they recall this plot idea . It even reached comedy ( finally ) on an episode of CHEERS , where Diane Chambers is helping an ex-convict who may have acting talent , and they put on OTHELLO at the bar , just after he sees her with Sam Malone kissing . Only Diane is aware of the personality problem of the ex-convict , and can't delay the production long enough ( she tries to start a discussion into the history and symbolism of the play ) . The cast of A DOUBLE LIFE was first rate , and Cukor's direction was as sure as ever . So the film is definitely worth watching . But despite giving Colman an interestingly different role , it was not his best work on the screen .
A Grab-Bag Look at the Celebrities Who Made Up Edwardian England , 1901 - 1910	The series was only shown once in the U . S . , and not in 1972 , but more likely 1975 or so . It was shown on " Masterpiece Theatre " but not the entire eight episodes . Only a few of the episodes were shown , such as one about a strike that threatened the British Music Halls , that involved Marie Lloyd ( Georgia Brown ) and Charles Coborn ( Peter Pratt , singing " The Man Who Broke The Bank At Monte Carlo " - Coborn's most famous number ) . The plot in that episode was how Lloyd was trying to talk an illusionist to join the budding labor walk-out . The episode regarding the founding of Rolls - Royce ( with Michael Jayson as Henry Royce ) was another of the episodes , as was one dealing with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle ( Nigel Davenport ) saving a young Parsee solicitor named George Edalji ( Sam Dastor ) from being accused of maiming and mutilating horses and cattle in England's midlands ( the basis , by the way , of the play EQUUS ) . Anthony Hopkins played David Lloyd George , rising in this period to the Chancellorship of the Exchequer , and finding that his personal life and personality threaten his ambitions to be Prime Minister one day . The connecting link of the episodes was Thorley Walters , as Prince of Wales , and later King Edward VII . His own life was illustrated in dealing with his love affair with Alice Keppel . But that episode never aired in the U . S . , nor did episodes about Baden-Powell and the founding of the Boy Scouts and the oddest of " great " Edwardians , the journalist - politician - lay lawyer , and swindler - Horatio Botttomley ( Timothy West ) . Those episodes that were broadcast were pretty good ( especially Hopkins , in real life a Welshman , playing one of history's greatest Welshman for a change ) . One wishes that the complete series was shown one day - it deserved to be shown completely .
Believe it or not , a piece of classical Greek history transposed	I remember seeing this when it came out in 1979 . It upset many people for it's nod at the idea of street gangs as good guys . Actually , it is a bit more than that - and the street gangs are definitely not all good guys . If you study ancient Greek literature , there are three classic Greek historians . We met a bit with Herodotus , who was the first with a surviving , in - tact history , . His account of the battle of Thermopolye is the account used in the movie " The 300 Spartans " ( that I reviewed ) and the more recent " The 300 " . Thucydides wrote a classic denunciation of war and imperialist aggression " The Peloponesian War " , which is still in print . The third of the classic historians was Xenophon , a military man of aristocratic background . He is of interest to us because of a memoir he wrote called " The Anabasis " ( more shortly ) , and because of his close friendship as a student to Socrates . He wrote several books about Socrates , which are ( with Plato's writings ) all we have to know of the Greek philosopher . Now , " The Anabasis " is not ( except briefly at the start ) about Socrates . It's English title is usually " The March Up-Country " , or " The Ten Thousand " . The story begins about the year 404 B . C . The long , and fruitless war between Athens and Sparta has ended in Athenian defeat , but Xenophon wants to continue learning his chosen trade of warfare . So he asks advice from Socrates if he should go and join an expedition to support a pretender to the Persian throne in a Civil War there . Socrates looks at the problem and then basically says that if Xenophon thinks it will be of help to him to do it . The leader that Xenophon ( who is technically a Greek mercenary ) is Prince Cyrus the Younger . Note the name - in " The Warriors " , the charismatic leader of the attempt to unite the street gangs of New York City is Cyrus . Xenophon has left us a biography of Prince Cyrus , and he appears to have been an intelligent person - possibly worthy of being Emperor of Persia . But we will never know . He was killed in battle . His staff of generals are soon approached for a parlay with the Persian Army leaders ( presumably to discuss their leaving Persian territory ) . Instead , they are tricked and massacred ( except for one who manages to get back to Xenophon and the other 10 , 000 mercenaries to tell them what happened ) . The Persians then send word to surrender or die . The average army mercenary of the ancient world knew how to obey the orders of whoever paid him and little else . The Persians generals , having forgotten the lessons of Marathon , Thermopolye , Salamis , and Plataea , came to the totally wrong conclusion that these mercenaries would behave like any others , not do anything because their leaders were all gone , and be ready to be slaughtered . But ( as Edith Hamilton says in her discussion of the story in " The Greek Way " ) , they forgot these were Greek mercenaries - Greeks , no matter what city - state they came from , were more likely to think about the situation and act very carefully . The Greeks took a quick vote , and elected news leaders ( including Xenophon ) to be the council in charge of their army . Immediately they beefed up security , and started planning a retreat . Here they knew what was the fastest way home - head for the sea . " The Anabasis " tells of the weeks and months it took , but the bulk of the mercenaries eventually reach the sea coast and got back to Greece . Now that I have told you the plot of " The Anabasis " , you can see that in it's essentials ( besides the name of the hero they wish to make emperor ) , Xenophon's story is the story of " The Warriors " . It has been updated to 1979 New York City ( or some screenplay writers idea of 1979 New York City ) but it is actually been trimmed . The Cyrus of the film feels the street gangs ( with a so-called army of 100 , 000 total ) could take over the city if they unite ( under himself , of course ) . All the gangs meet up in Van Courtlandt Park in the Northwest Bronx to discuss this idea . But among the gangs is a trouble-making one ( whose leader is one of those half demented half irritatingly childish idiots that crop up ) which assassinates Cyrus . This gang makes it look like a rival Brooklyn gang called the Warriors is responsible . ( Later , when confronted with his act and asked why he killed Cyrus , this boob only smiles in his vacant eye manner and ways " Because I liked to ! " ) Van Cortlandt Park is at the northernmost border of the city of Greater New York . The Warriors happen to be a gang from south Brooklyn at Coney Island ( not the southernmost border of the city - Staten Island has that honor - but roughly thirty miles from Van Cortlandt ) . Note : Coney Island is on the sea ( like Greece ) . To get home the Warriors have to go through the Bronx , Manhattan , and Brooklyn , hopefully speed-ed on subways but mostly on foot . And due to the framing at the murder of Cyrus , every other gang in New York is after them . The film is actually an exciting one , as The Warriors maintain their cool , and fight ( literally ) all types of gangs and slowly get back to their home turf . There were some problems ( I recall one sequence when the production twisted a west side subway with an east side subway stop for an effective fight sequence ) , but it actually all of it works . A running commentary by an underground / sexy voiced radio commentator encouraging the gangs chasing the Warriors to get them , but noting how well they fight back . I won't say anything further about the conclusion but it is not a let-down . Definitely an unexpected , and good urban jungle adventure film .
The Biggest Damn Stick in the Play Yard !	I find it remarkable that so little was actually done with the story of the a-bomb and it's development for decades after the Manhattan Project was completed . My suspicion is that this was due to serious fears in the movie and entertainment industries ( in the 1950s through the 1970s ) with " McCarthyism " and related national security phobias ( including the Hollywood blacklist ) . There was one film in the 1950s ( with Robert Taylor ) about Col . Paul Tibbits who flew the Enola Gay in the Hiroshima bombing , but otherwise nothing else . One could glance at a side issue tragedy ( the sinking of the U . S . S . Indianapolis soon after the delivery of the bombs to Tinian ) in Robert Shaw's description of the shark attacks on the survivors in JAWS . But the actual trials and tribulations of Groves , Oppenheimer , and their team was not considered film-able . And then in 1989 two films appeared . I have reviewed one already ( DAY ONE ) which I feel is the better of the two in discussing the lengthy technical and emotional and political problems in the Manhattan Project . The acting of Brian Dennehy as General Groves and David Strahairn as Oppenheimer was first rate and neatly balanced . Small side vignettes concerning the anti-bomb crusade of Szilard ( Michael Tucker ) help fill out the story well . That's the problem here . Paul Newman is a great actor ( as is Mr . Dennehy ) but Newman approached Groves in a different way that while not dreadful is lesser than Dennehy's intelligent but soft spoken military brass . Newman seems too popped eyed about the possibility of the weapon as the biggest stick to confront the other boys in the after-school yard with . Yes it certainly was , but the real Groves would have been more like Dennehy keeping his mind not on that great toy of the future but on the business of creating that great toy . Dwight Schultz's performance as Oppeheimer helps maintain the film's basically interesting and good production , aided by Bonnie Bedelia as his wife . But the most interesting aspect of this film is in the upgrading of the two tragedies of Daghlian and Slotin , in particular the latter , in the character of John Cusack's Merriman . Inevitably in all technological advances people are killed . It's just that these two tragedies ( on top of the tens of thousands that were lost in Hiroshima and Nagasaki ) brought home the dangers of the new unleashed power even in a so-called peaceful , controlled experiment . The two tragedies ( particularly Louis Slotin's slow , agonizing death by radiation poisoning ) showed how much care was needed in using atomic power - and how the barest of chances could still cause disaster . The only really different thing I saw in Cusack's performance ( and the script ) and the actual incident with Slotin was that Slotin actually took some time after the accident to figure out where all his fellow research scientists were when they were hit by the radiation from the accident ( he was able to show that only he got the full effect of the accidental blast , so that only relatively minor treatment would be needed by the others ) . Perhaps the full story of Slotin's actions was too technical for the screen , but given the humongous pain he suffered in the end that he took time off to think of the others shows what a first rate person he really was .
Stanley Ridges Makes The Most of It .	There are a lot of aspects about this fine film which are odd . Coming at the end of the first horror film cycle , it re-teamed Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi , but they never shared a scene in the film . The character who was most interesting ( actually two characters , literally welded into one ) was Professor George Kingsley / " Red " Cannon played by Stanley Ridges . The screenplay was partially written by Curt Siodmak , who would eventually return to the subject of brain surgery and transplanted brains ( to far better effect , it must be admitted ) in " Donavan's Brain " . But that novel and film looked at the threat of unhampered capitalism in the hands of an evil man . That's not the case in " Black Friday " , which touches on greed ( a missing half a million dollars in 1940 dollars ) but also looks at the struggle of personality - as appears in " Donavan'S Brain " as well . Whatever was the reason that Boris and Bela did not share scene space ( and jealousy can't be ruled out - Bela's feeling that Boris was too good a competitor in the area of horror films is well known ) , they don't appear together . It's hard to imagine how their characters , Dr . Ernest Sovak and gangster boss Eric Marnay , could have shared any scenes . Most likely they might have shared one if Marney tried to sabotage the brain transplant at the hospital ( to make sure that Cannon dies ) by threatening Sovak's daughter or by kidnapping the doctor . But the screenplay would have been radically different then . There was one aspect of the film that was never fully affected in the production . When Marnay is captured by Cannon , he is shut in an airtight closet and locked in . We see Marnay yelling to be let out . Eventually we see him collapse and die . In the planning stages of the production Bela was supposed to be hypnotized into gradually looking weaker and weaker while being suffocated . The scheme did not work well on film . There are stills showing Bela undergoing hypnosis for the attempted treatment . Siodmak is fascinated by the way certain personalities dominate . Warren Donavan's is strong enough ( and his rejuvenated brain - thanks to Dr . Cory - even stronger ) to take over the brains of Cory and of a greedy news photographer in that film ( among others ) . Here Kingsley is a sweet old fellow - a close friend of Sovak - who has the misfortune of getting seriously injured in the assassination attack on Cannon . Cannon is a brutal creep , who thinks nothing about hurting anyone if it gets what he wants . It's the key role in the film , and Ridges was the right guy to get it . Stanley Ridges was one of those actors who never disappointed you . In " Yellow Jack " he is this doctor working on the Yellow Fever cure , who when Henry Hull dies accidentally questions the logic and correctness of the experiment . It seems they had to give Yellow Fever to the subjects ( volunteers ) but accidentally Hull got infected and died . Ridges ' scene is a brief one , but he actually hit the moral center of the movie - Hull's character , Dr . Lazear , was a widely gifted man . What was the gain to the world by the loss of someone like this due to this experiment ? Another example ( again based on history ) was in " The Suwpect " with Charles Laughton . Based on the 1910 Crippen Case , Ridges plays the Scotland Yard Inspector ( based on the real life Inspector Walter Dew ) who realized that the death was no accident and pursued his quarry step by step . While not following Dew's success in catching Crippen , like Dew with the Doctor Ridges gets to sympathize with Laughton as a basically good man caught up in a nightmare . Laughton was a super-actor , and only one of his own type could come off well with him . Ridges could play villains . He is Ronald Colman's cynical friend in " If I Were King " who sees the conflict with Charles the Bold against Louis XI as an opportunity to loot Paris ( while Colman would save Paris ) . He could play sympathetic losers , as in " The Scoundrel " , as Noel Coward's rival over a woman . He could play anything . He delineates his two roles perfectly , to the point that they seem to be two men ( even his features get younger as Cannon ) . Kingsbury , a charming fellow in the script , gets progressively more and more confused at the personality switches - reassured by Sovac it is part of his recovery . But every time he hears heavy bell ringing ( did Siodmak think of Pavlov's dog experiment ? ) he changes into the bullying Cannon . Ironically it is Cannon who deservedly gets shot in the end , but poor Kingsbury who dies wondering why he was shot . Karloff posthumously attempts to explain .
Delightful , Sweet Comedy	In the late 1920s Cornelia Otis Skinner and her friend Emily Kimborough decided to travel to England and France for a vacation . It was the first time they went abroad . Cornelia was the daughter of the notable stage star character actor Otis Skinner , and he agreed to their plans because he would be going to England with his wife shortly afterward and could meet them there and return with them . After the trip was over , the two friends wrote a book THERE HEARTS WERE YOUNG AND GAY about the trip . It became a best seller and was the basis for this 1944 film version . It is a charming comic travelogue tale , bearing comparison to Jerome K . Jerome's THREE MEN IN A BOAT and ANITA LOOS ' somewhat more cynical GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDS , except that this seems to be a true account ( although Jerome's book has some elements of truth in it ) . We watch the two female Candides trying to prove themselves as capable of self-protection ( and mutual protection ) but not adverse to a little safe romance where they can . But from the start things keep going awry for them . Nothing major , but all quite embarrassing . When Cornelia ( Gail Russell ) and Emily ( Diana Lynn ) are strolling the deck of the ocean liner taking in the cool evening air they pass wealthy , imperious , Alma Kruger . They happen to make a sharp turn while walking around Ms Kruger , and snag her loosely held pocketbook without Ms Kruger noticing . When they notice this they are in their cabin . Before they can return it safely , they hear that Ms Kruger is screaming about being robbed and wanting the thieves arrested . So they have one of their dilemmas : how to get the bag back to the old bat without getting arrested ? It is like that ( delightfully ) throughout the story . When in a boarding house that is cheap but very old fashioned , they are told that if they want to get hot water they have to put a penny in the " Geyser " ( pronounced " Geezer " ) . Naturally , when they see an elderly , crotchety gentleman near the washroom , they give him ( the old geezer ) a penny which he throws back at them . Their misadventures follow them throughout the film , even involving their parents ( Charlie Ruggles and - in a rare sound movie appearance - Dorothy Gish ) . Like many others they manage to get lost in the maze at Hampton Court , only managing to drag in Ruggles and Gish and others as well . This was a nice film , too rarely seen on television ( and not - apparently - on video or DVD ) . It also has it's period charms ( the Skinners and Kimborough having dinner at a fancy restaurant , with Skinner / Ruggles ordering a bottle of Mumm's 1928 has a nice touch to it ) . I think that most of you would enjoy it .
The Theory of Degrees of Evil - Wartime Style	After THIS GUN FOR HIRE , Paramount realized they had a popular star and leading man in Alan Ladd . Good looking , and with camera angles and tricks to disguise his short height , he was soon a leading star at the studio . But like so many other good ideas , Paramounts production heads thought only of image in making Ladd movies . In THIS GUN FOR HIRE he had been Raven , a cold-blooded killer made that way by a crummy childhood ( culminating in his self-defense killing of his aunt ) , and years of reformatories and prisons . Is it any wonder that he sells his killing services for whoever pays the best price . . . but wait , he does like little kids , does like cats , is willing to consider replacing the blouse of an obnoxious maid he had a fight with , and he does start a type of patriotic reform with the aid of understanding ( and pretty ) Veronica Lake . It takes too late , but he dies on the side of the angels ( aiding the U . S . ) . THIS GUN FOR HIRE set up a formula that would be used again and again , until Ladd would try to vary it with westerns ( like his classic SHANE ) , and even classic novels ( THE GREAT GATSBY ) . He was a tough guy , who gradually learns that there are certain things that are so bad or evil they transcend stuff you are willing to accept as part of doing illegal business ( i . e . , breaking someone's head is tolerable , but setting up a death camp or marching soldiers on a death march is not ) . This theory of " degrees of evil " had been used in the 1930s in gangster films ( and would be used again in film noir gangster films in the 1940s and 1950s ) . The idea is that the criminals should not be lumped together so easily . It was okay for Jimmy Cagney ( as Rocky in ANGELS WITH DIRTY FACES ) to shoot down two " business associates " , because Rocky was fair and even handed with loot - just insisting that his loot was left his loot , while those two associates ( one is Humphrey Bogart as a crooked lawyer ) were just willing to cheat Rocky of his loot . Similarly , with Edward G . Robinson in THE AMAZING DR . CLITTERHOUSE , he is a cultured , urbane , and helpful man doing research into crime , who ends up running Bogart's mob - but Bogart is a nasty customer who tries to do all his enemies in ( he tries to freeze Robinson to death in a fur vault ) . Bogart ( when he too rises to stardom in HIGH SIERRA ) is an intelligent and loyal lieutenant to good old Donald McBride , but McBride's other lieutenant is Barton MacLane , who is a corrupt ex-cop ( so he's totally bad ) . See - degrees of evil here . It must have caused consternation with the Hays Office and the Breen Office to follow these illogical , logical sequences mirroring thought or philosophy in screenplays . The villains in THIS GUN FOR HIRE ( Tully Marshall , Laird Cregar , and Marc Lawrence ) are going to sell poison gas to Japan after Pearl Harbor , so they are traitors ( well paid ones too - Marshall has some secret Japanese medal for his services to Hirohito ) . Their destruction by Ladd is welcomed by the post-Pearl Harbor audience watching the film ( although Ladd also takes a pot shot at Robert Preston , who is not a traitor but a detective , and does kill a cop ) . LUCKY JORDAN was a logical extension of the plot of THIS GUN FOR HIRE . Ladd , as Jordan , is the surly head of a mob , and is drafted . He soon is in the stockade for insubordination , but flees to return to his mob . He really is at home in his urban street jungle . But he finds his second in command ( the superb Sheldon Leonard ) has pulled a " Moriarty " ( i . e . SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SECRET WEAPON ) , in that he is aiding the Axis ( Miles Mander ) in spying and working against the U . S . Ladd has learned enough about the Axis to be opposed to this , and Leonard ( in any case ) is not really interested in returning the mob's leadership to Ladd . So the audience watches Ladd's patriotism rise enough to overcome ( or blend in with ) his surly gangster mentality . Eventually he is the personification of FDR's famous comment about backing Trujillo in the Dominican Republic during the war . An aide told FDR that Trujillo was a real s . o . b . " Yes , " said the President somberly , " BUT HE'S OUR S . O . B . ! " With Helen Walker as the love interest , but she's not as good in blending with Ladd as Lake is . So the film is only an " 8 " out of " 10 " . But still entertaining , despite it's weird morality point of view .
A Nice Sense of Period and One or Two Moments of Interesting Logic	Terry Jones wonderful examination of the mess of Viking life and legend is a funny film - almost as good as MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL . His intelligence is at work here . Jones wrote a book version of the story first , and in it examined some of the odd concepts of that remarkable period of rapine and violence . Jones is an expert on the Middle Ages ( he did a very amusing and informative multi-episode series on the people of the Middle Ages for the history channel ) . So his grasp on detail is marvelous . To date , this is the only film to look at the Vikings and their religious / spiritual beliefs . What was their idea of heaven and hell . Well , we finally see Valhalla for what it was supposed to be . And the fallacy of it is brought home in the conclusion when Erik and his crew realize what garbage their culture embraces . This is the only movie I know that also deals with the lost island of Hy-Brazil . Not to be confused with the huge country in South America , Hy-Brazil was one of many fictitious islands that were believed to be in the Atlantic Ocean in the Middle Ages - in some cases to the 19th Century . Hy-Brazil was supposed to sink every now and then , as it does in this film . But it sinks due to a violation of the moral purity of the island , for an act of violence occurs there that is against the state of the island . And the King of Hy-Brazil ( Jones ) is so self-centered that he can imagine that everything is fine , that he refuses to accept that the island is sinking and his subjects are drowning . The King is also one of the examples of the marvelous twisted logic of the film - he has gotten a piece of cloth that he is told makes the wearer invisible . Nobody else but the king believes this . Erik , caught in the rooms of the King's daughter , puts the cloth on him . The King comes in to see who is there , and can't see him , although everyone else can see him . There is a similar piece of logic at the end of the film , when the crew has reached Valhalla , and found it not as they wanted to find it . They are trapped there because their belief and religion makes them seek Valhalla . Only the one Christian among them ( Freddie Jones , in a nice performance ) can't see what they see - he is a Christian , not a Viking Pagan . So he is able to return to their boat and free the others because he is not trapped by their mindset . The performances are good , especially John Cleese as an expert in extortion and torture , who is treated like the benevolent laird of the manor ( he willingly changes the dates of torments and tortures he schedules ) . Eartha Kitt as a priestess , and Mickey Rooney as a feisty grandfather of Erik , give good performances too . It is an interesting , odd , but successful period comedy .
A Sympathetic Viper and his Viperish Wife	A day or so ago I commented on the film ( made only a few years after wards ) that somehow resembles this one : FOOTSTEPS IN THE FOG . The basic story is of two ill-matched people who are in a marriage from hell . FOOTSTEPS was about a Victorian gentleman who murders his first wife , only to be blackmailed into marrying his socially ambitious maid , and how he starts conspiring to get rid of her as well . The problem with FOOTSTEPS was a lack of decently spirited direction . It lacked spark and pace , and gets boring . The cast tries , but it does not help enough . Not so with DEAR MURDERER . Unlike FOOTSTEPS ( which was a Hollywood product - so it had to be burdened by larger budgets , and needed vervier directing ) , DEAR MURDERER is typical of the success story of British cinema - how with a concentration on minimal effect their films are sharper than bloated productions like FOOTSTEPS . The plot is also more devious . In FOOTSTEPS Jean Simmons ' ambitions help destroy her and Steward Granger . But one can easily understand where she is coming from , as we tend to sympathize with people trying to pull themselves out of lower classes into upper classes . But this is dented because she is a blackmailer ( though Granger's misdeed deserves such a punishment ) . Here , Eric Portman is married to a perpetual flirt ( Greta Gynt ) who despises him . She has been carrying on with Dennis Price , and Portman decides to kill Price . Yet , even in the process of doing just that , Portman gets to know his victim , and realizes that if he had not been sleeping with his wife Price could have been a good friend of his . So his guilt is increased when he discovers that Gynt and Price had broken up their relationship shortly before the murder . See : the story is still melodramatic , but the characterization is more interesting . So is the difference regarding Gynt's personae , as opposed to her opposite number in FOOTSTEPS . Simmons is socially ambitions , but the audience can accept that . Gynt is sluttish and also unlikeable . She is tired about the marriage to Portman ( who does , misguidedly , love Gynt ) , and eventually wonders how she can end it - quickly . The film speeds to it's conclusion . If one dislikes Portman's Nazi in 49TH PARALLEL ( his best remembered performance ) , his performance here certainly makes up for his totally unsympathetic villainy there . I have no problem recommending this film to the readers of these reviews . And of recommending it over FOOTSTEP IN THE FOG to them as well .
Nice acting and directing job - Poe shown as Poe	I finally saw this tonight on Turner Classic Movies . Edgar Allan Poe's stories are always " expanded " for the movies , be they films by Roger Corman or films that are older ( even by D . W . Griffith , whose silent movie " The Avenging Conscience " is also based on " The Tell-Tale Heart " . The effects are mixed . Corman's films are not liked by everyone , but some of them are quite good ( I like " The Masque Of The Red Death " , for example ) . But it actually goes beyond the effect of the Poe original . Poe is trying to show that you can't escape your fate or death . Prince Prospero and his guests think themselves safe from a deadly plague in their countryside castle . At the end they all die . But Corman turned it into a study of sadism , making Prospero ( Vincent Price ) an evil tyrant . His effects were good , and Price ate up the role properly - but was it Poe ? No it wasn't . Poe's best short stories are influenced by his artistic sense of words and their sounds . It is little wonder that he is the only leading American fiction writer who was also a major poet ( though Melville comes close ) . " The Tell - Tale Heart " starts off by being a monologue of the person who has committed the crime in it . The rhythm of his sentences and the choice of words show the speaker is high-strung at best , and unstrung at worst . He is constantly denying his mental problems , and is at great pains to put the blame of his crime on an abstract cause ( the deformed eye of the old man ) . But after he commits the crime , the sound of the " thump-pump " of the heart's beat is brought to the reader by the words used , and the description of the sound . Gradually the reader can hear what the narrator can - so his final explosion at the end is a relief to him and the reader . Here , this twenty minute short , was a showcase for Joseph Schildkraut to play the killer . His motive is changed so the audience can sympathize with him , but his actions are expanded by his increased nervousness under the gaze of the old man's two friends , the police officers . He tries desperately to control his fears amidst the rising sound of the beat . At one point he stops Will Wright ( one of the two policemen ) from drumming on a table because it is what he wrongly thinks is the source of the beat noise . He even covers the spot where the remains are buried with a chair , but he can't remain still . So he finally gives away his horrible secret . Jules Daissin , later the director of " Riffifi " , " Topkapi " , " Never On Sunday " ( which he starred in ) and " The Naked City " was starting out when he directed this film . Given the speed of the movie ( 20 minutes - which is about the length of time it takes to read the short story original ) , he gets a lot of mileage with the spartan sets and the performance of Schildkraut . The result is a very well done short - and one of the few times a Poe short story is done in a way similar to what it's literary original was like .
Arson Case and Old Masters	This film was shown tonight on TURNER CLASSIC FILMS channel under it's American title , SHE PLAYED WITH FIRE . The title ( to be honest ) is misleading , but understandably so - Arlene Dahl's character is innocent of anything connected with fire , but for her American fans it suggested sexual promiscuity , which translates into more box office . Jack Hawkins was one of the great tragedies of British cinema in the middle years of our last century . From the 1940s to the 1970s ( when he died ) he was in many films , several of them classics ( such as THE FALLEN IDOL where he is supporting Ralph Richardson , and BEN-HUR when he plays a Roman general who befriends Charleton Heston ) . He had superb classic profile , including large but well trimmed eyebrows , and a firm nose . He could do comedy as well as drama . But his biggest asset was his great speaking voice - a true British trumpet without forced affect ( as even Olivier's could be at times ) . But at the height of his international career , Hawkins developed larynx cancer , and to save his life his voice box was removed . He continued acting , but the words were spoken by other actors imitating his voice . Sometimes ( as when he played Emperor Franz Josef in OH , WHAT A LOVELY WAR ) he did not say anything in the film - he just appeared briefly . It was a sad conclusion to a fine career . Many of his roles were as a detective or policeman . Think of him as Chief Inspector Gideon in John Ford's GIDEON'S DAY , or as the aviation investigator who is trying to come to grips with eccentric Jimmy Stewart in NO HIGHWAY IN THE SKY . And , of course , he played crooks too . Think of him as the leader of the ex-army band in THE LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN . Here he is a type of investigator - an insurance adjuster for a firm like Lloyd's of London . He discovers that a fire that destroyed some classic paintings at a great country house was covered by a policy of his own company . The policy was taken out by Dennis Price ( the conniving Louis Mazzini-D'Ascoygne in KIND HEARTS AND CORONETS ) , who is married to Arlene Dahl . But Dahl and Hawkins had known each other five years before and had a heavy romance . It collapsed , and they haven't seen each other since . Normally astute , Hawkins gives a quick look-over of the damage and okays the payment . Subsequently Price takes out more insurance on the house's main section . But Hawkins notices something odd concerning the house when he is shown the estate - he remembers having seen the country house in a position that he could not have physically been at before . Later it dawns on him - he has seen a picture that was painted by an old master of the house in that position . He finds the picture again in the apartment of an American ( John Phillips , the British actor who frequently played Americans - he is the American Ambassador in ROMANOFF AND JULIET ) . He questions Phillips and finds out the picture is an original that a woman ( who sounds like Dahl ) sold to Phillips . That's nice , except that Hawkins realizes that the original was one of the pictures supposedly destroyed in the fire . Hawkins now suspects a forgery and arson fraud case . Knowing that the house should be empty , Hawkins returns to it at night to examine some of the paintings . He finds an apparently dead Price and a raging fire . After sending for the fire department ( pretending to be Price ) , Hawkins returns home . He keeps a low profile , having his associate Geoffrey Keene conduct the investigation . As a result , Dahl gets 30 , 000 pounds . Hawkins at first confronts Dahl months afterward , but subsequently realizes his suspicions about her are not supported by fact . He proposes to her , and they marry . They plan to return the money , but instead they find that she is facing blackmail , and that circumstances are making Hawkins look like a co-conspirator . The film is talky at times , but it goes along pretty well , and the closing noose around Hawkins and Dahl as they make one blunder after another without trying is a nice touch . I should add that the film ends with a plausible explanation of what happened the night of the second fire , but it could easily have ended differently . I like it on the whole , and felt that it gave Hawkins and Dahl some good moments ( note Dahl's scene with blackmailer Bernard Miles ) . Certainly I was glad for the opportunity to see this rarely shown film on television .
Seen frequently on television c . 1960 - 1976 , and hardly since then .	This review is going to be a little lop-sided . I really enjoyed this film when I was younger - and when it was frequently available on television ( usually on Channel 9 or 11 on New York City television ) . It is a " reminiscence " film : the central figure is using his ( sometimes her ) experiences to explain the ways of the world to a younger friend or relative . Here Laurence Harvey is Sir Humphrey Tavistock , now a man in his late 60s , who has had a long and distinguished diplomatic career around Europe . He is visited at his home by a young relative who is having marital problems , and who is going off the deep end in roundly condemning all women as false to men all the time , or as totally unscrupulous or totally inconsistent . Harvey calms down his young friend and reviews his own loves over his last half century ( which takes him back to pre-World War I's Ottoman Empire . He has had many female friends , and lovers , and they are as varied in their behavior towards him as possible to imagine . Some used him , or were never in a position to be united with him due to diplomatic pressures . One of them became the center of a divorce action brought about by her calculating husband , and ended it by returning to the said husband ( who was not counting on that ) . The happiest relationship was a truly loving marriage , which only lasted three or four years ( in the most moving moment of the film , Harvey counts out the exact number of days the marriage lasted ) until that wife died the day after childbirth . In short his experience has shown that there is no single truth about all women - it all depends on the woman involved . It was a skillful little blend of comedy and pathos , and for some reason , since 1976 or so , I have never seen it listed on television listings for the New York Metropolitan area . More is the pity for that . If you should see it listed again , by all means catch . You won't be disappointed at all .
Allan and Rose - a forgotten love affair ?	There are a certain bunch of actors and actresses whose fates will always color our appreciation of their performances . When we watch Rock Hudson in all his sex comedies with or without Doris Day , our knowledge of his homosexuality and his death from the ravishes of A . I . D . S . will always interfere with watching his work . Similarly , questions about the suicide of Marilyn Monroe or the drowning of Natalie Wood will always bother our pleasures at their films , as will thoughts about the premature death of Jean Seaberg . Even if the actor leaves a tremendous film heritage , like Leslie Howard , his death in a plane crash will make us wonder what further glorious performances he would have given us ( as does that of his contemporary Carole Lombard ) . Chris Reeve is in this bunch too . He was lucky to have fit early into a character part that identified him to his generation . As Basil Rathbone was Sherlock Holmes in the 1940s , and Sean Connery was James Bond in the 1960s and early 1970s , Reeve was Superman to the generation born from 1954 to 1972 . It helped him that he had nearly the same name as George Reeves , the actor who had made the same part his own on the successful television series in the 1950s . But if one believes in curses , there must have been one attached to that part for actors with names spelled with " R " , " E " " E " " V " and " E " . Both men came to tragic fates . George either shot himself or was murdered ( the verdict is still out ) . Chris may have had a worse fate - he was left permanently crippled after a horse riding accident , and became more involved with stem cell research and spinal surgery than he probably ever thought he would be when he was growing up . In a sense his mission in that last decade colored his entire career and remains his monument . It is a pity , for Chris Reeve was an above average actor and director ( he even won an Emmy for his directing a remake of REAR WINDOW ) , and his entertainment career was really curtailed by the accident that ruined his spine . Before his accident , he made this film for Ted Turner in 1990 . Turner was producing a series of movies about the American Civil War for his cable network , and decided to deal with the Civil War careers of two famous spies . The northern one , played by Reeves , was the railroad detective Allan Pinkerton . The southern one , played by Madelyn Smith Osborne , was Rose O'Neill Greenhow . Let me say this - the film is well acted and directed . Reeve manages to make us appreciate Pinkerton's abilities as a detective ( who eventually founded the largest private detective firm in the world ) quite early . The Scottish immigrant had gotten the attention of two men in Illinois when heading the railroad police for the Illinois Central Railroad . One was the line's attorney , Abraham Lincoln . The other was the line's President , George Brinton McClellan . When Lincoln was headed for Washington for his inauguration in 1861 , it was Pinkerton whose operatives foiled the " Fernandina " plot in Baltimore to assassinate the President ( see the Dick Powell film , " THE TALL TARGET " for a version of that story ) . After the inauguration Lincoln made Pinkerton head of the new Secret Service . McClellan , when Commander in Chief and head of the Army of the Potomac , would also use Pinkerton's services gathering information on Confederate strength . In the film we are concentrating on the events of February to August 1861 . In this period McClellan is not involved in events in Washington . But when Pinkerton gets Lincoln safely to the capital , he is appointed to head the Secret Service . He goes to one of the last dinners given at the White House by out-going President James Buchanan ( Jeff Corey ) . Buchanan teases and laughs at Pinkerton and his activities , and so annoys the detective that the latter turns on the President and pointedly sneers , " Perhaps if you had been more concerned about intelligence gathering you would not be leaving this office now ! " Buchanan does not answer that one . Rose O'Neal Greenhow was a prominent boarding house owner in Washington , D . C . , who was well connected to several leading southern politicians by family or marriage . She became a very effective spy for the south . The film does involve what may have been her supreme success in the war ; she managed to get the battle plans of General Irwin McDowell , which enabled the Confederates to defeat him at the first battle of Bull Run . Traditionally it has been suggested that Ms Greenhow romanced the information out of the head of the Military Affairs Committee of the Senate , Massachusetts Senator Henry Wilson ( Kevin McCarthy here ) . Actually we are not fully sure , but the movie supports this particular theory . We do know that after that military debacle , Mrs . Greenhow was traced by Pinkerton's operatives as a southern spy , and she was imprisoned . Here the film goes off the historical record , suggesting that Rose and Allan fell in love . SPOILER AHEAD : The film also makes Allan fall so hard for Rose that he helps her escape prison before she was going to be shot . Actually , Rose was never in any danger of that . She had too many friends in high places ( despite her politics ) to allow that to happen . She got exchanged for a Union operative who was captured . Later in the war Rose went to Europe to try to get medical supplies for the Confederacy . When she returned to North Carolina , in the fall of 1864 , her boat got swamped while trying to land and she was drowned . The film was well produced and acted . A scene of Reeve riding a horse at high speed is a little hard to take nowadays , given what caused his accident . But otherwise the film is worth seeing , even if the " love affair " is just a myth .
A good , abbreviated version of the Lawrence - Lee Play	I saw this in 1965 and enjoyed it almost as much as the film version with Spencer Tracy and Frederic March . Melvyn Douglas portrayed Henry Drummond / Clarence Darrow in this version . He had briefly played the role on stage while Paul Muni was making a film or was on vacation . But more interesting was seeing Ed Begley Sr . doing his performance as Matthew Harrison Brady / William Jennings Bryan . He played Bryan on stage opposite Muni , and so his performance in this production was actually one of the few times a Broadway production was repeated and preserved on tape or film . Begley was somewhat softer around the edges than March was in the film version . It was like Begley took Bryan's great orator ( which March repeatedly returns to ) and made it into an evangelical preacher type . Not that he forgot to be threatening at the right moments ( when cross-examining Bert Cates ' girlfriend , for example ) . It was just that the silk glove around the fundamentalist iron fist was more apparent . It would not be Begley's only " Bryan " role . He appeared on an episode of the television show THE GHOST AND MRS . MUIR as an honest reformer politician seeking to restore democracy to the town by running for Mayor . In that episode , where Begley's character represented the more progressive side of William Jennings Bryan , he actually made up - in part - for the negative view of Bryan that arises from this play . It's also interesting to notice that Dick York plays Betram Cates again in this version of INHERIT THE WIND as in the film .
You asked for it . . . . you got it . . . Toyota	FORGET Paris is a sweet romantic comedy which Billy Crystal made after his best romantic comedy , WHEN HARRY MET SALLY . This time , though , it is Debra Winger rather than Meg Ryan who is opposite him . But Winger does nicely in the Ryan part and Crystal does nicely too . Crystal is a basketball referee who is accompanying his father's dead body to Normandy for burial . The airline sends the body to Switzerland accidentally , and Winger is the airline official who smooths Crystal's ruffled feathers . She even attends the funeral , and soon the two of them are exploring the sites of Paris together . They get on well , but Crystal has to return to the U . S . But he returns and proposes marriage . After an initial delay , Winger accepts the proposal , and we watch the resulting marriage . It is an intensely felt love affair , but it isn't smooth . She does not like losing her high paying job in Paris to return to the U . S . , nor that he is going around the country most of the time as a referee at games . He tries to work at a different job , and finds her father ( William Hickey ) driving him batty with his senility ( he keeps repeating the Toyota automobile slogan from the 1990s ) . And there are more serious problems about infertility , including a funny routine when Crystal is repeatedly delayed running to a fertility clinic . The story of their love affair and marriage is related by Joe Mantegna , Richard Masur , Julie Kavner , and John Spencer , at a dinner party in an Italian restaurant . The personalities and marriage situations of the friends of our hero and heroine get exposed too during the dinner . All of the friends give good performances as does Hickey and Robert Constanza as the world's most philosophically charming waiter . Listen to him describing various drinks . The film is a feel good movie , and does well as such .
The First Warning of the Computer Age From Hollywood	It is hard to think that there is a road from this film to 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY . Yet there is . DESK SET was a Broadway play that was optioned by MGM , and turned in for what ( at the time ) seemed the last film co-starring Katherine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy . For this purpose the role of Richard Sumner ( Tracy's ) was built up . The play was really about the inner workings of a modern company , that was about to undergo computerization , but the relationship between Bunny Watson ( Hepburn ) , Sumner , and Mike Cutler ( Gig Young ) was not as centralized in the story . The workings of the company's " grape vine " and the promise and threat of computers were sufficient to hold the audience's attention . But at least the audience did not expect the computer ( Everak ) to turn into a lethal " H . A . L . " Still the idea of the threat of computers is in both movies . Tracy is hired to install a modern computer in the reference section of a national entertainment ( television ) network . This is presumably the beginning of full scale automation and computerization because he is also installing a similar machine to handle payroll . He shows up silently , without warning taking notes . This gets the attention of Hepburn , who runs the department and whose boss is Young . Young and Hepburn have been carrying on a romance for several years , and ( if one believes what Hepburn's fellow workers and friends Joan Blondell and Dina Merrill say ) Young's success is do to her . Finallly , the office grape vine informs her that Tracy is going to be installing an electronic computer of his design in Hepburn's section , and that it will probably cut down jobs there . In all of the Tracy - Hepburn films a collision of views or goals cause them to be at odds with each other , even as they get to like or love each other . In ADAM'S RIB it is the issue of the inequality of the law when it comes to the so-called " unwritten law of husbands shooting adulterers ( but not wives ) . In PAT AND MIKE it was the different standards of working for athletic success ( Tracy's being more shady in some ways than Hepburn's ) . Here it was the issue of whether computerization is a good thing or not . Everak may make retrieving information faster than it was , but it may effect the financial situation of human beings it may replace . But Hepburn , Blondell , and Merrill have little say , being relatively small cogs in their company . And Tracy is such an unassuming , likable man . The key scenes that develop his relations with Hepburn are when he takes her for lunch on the roof of the corporate building , and gives her an intelligence test ( that she passes with ease ) . Admiringly he calls her " a rare fish " , which actually is a complement . The second scene is when he is caught in the rain with her , and goes to her apartment to share a chicken dinner . His clothes have been soaked , so he puts them out to dry , and puts on a robe which was meant to be a gift for Young . Both Blondell and Young find them eating and Tracy wearing the robe . Young jumps to conclusions ( the first time he actually shows jealousy ) but in confronting Hepburn ( remember she is innocent ) in her defending her honor Young realizes he does not have a lock on Hepburn's affections . After he leaves , Tracy gets dressed and prepares to leave too . The scene was not a usual one for Tracy , and he ad-libs a bit at the end repeating what were the events that led to this situation - but acting like he's inebriated ( and both Hepburn and Blondell are apparently enjoying this ) The Christmas Party scene is a nice touch , added a bit of irony with the arrival of Tracy's stiff assistant . A reminder of possibly bad news in the future . And then comes the final sequence , when the limits of computers are demonstrated ( at least computers in operation in 1957 ! ) . The film ends with it's leads apparently mutually satisfied with each other and the future . Of course , 1957 was just the start of the computer age . Things have changed since then - not always so happily . And come to think about it now , this year ( soon to be ending ) is 2006 . H . A . L . may still be around the corner !
Lazslo's Valentine Now Put Back into 1890s America	In 1940 Ernst Lubitsch had done a film called THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER , based on the play PERFUMERIE by Miklos Lazslo . The comedy about two fellow employees in a store who fight all the time , and don't realize that the pen-pal they have grown to love is the same person opposite them became a film classic , and would be the first of many versions . The second version was this 1949 film , which would also be the first musical version ( the second was the Broadway musical by Kander and Ebb SHE LOVES ME ) . Instead of Jimmy Stewart , Margaret Sullivan , Frank Morgan , Felix Bressart , and Joseph Schildkraut , this film would have Van Johnson , Judy Garland , S . Z . Sakall , Clinton Sundberg , and Buster Keaton . But there are differences between the two films in setting and plot . Mr . Matuschek is driven into a depression ( misdirected at his favorite , Kralek ) due to awareness that his wife is having an affair with an employee . Here Sakall plays Mr . Obenkugen , who owns a music store ( not a leather goods shop ) , and who is not married . He is in love with his secretary Nellie ( Spring Byington ) , and plans to marry her . Joseph Schildkraut was the villain in THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER as Ferencz Vadas . Buster Keaton is not villainous , but just clumsy . He does fill in as a technical rival to Johnson for Garland , but this is never fully developed in the plot ( one wonders if scenes were shot that were cut involving Buster " dating " Judy ) . Judy also notes that there is another young lady in Johnson's life - Louise Parkson , a gifted violinist ( Marcia Van Dyke ) . No such character is in THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER . But the basic situations of the former film's plot , and their resolutions , are the same . The flavor of the " gay ' 90s " is found throughout the film , in the choice of the music used ( not only the title song , but such tunes as " I Don't Care ! " ) and in the atmosphere of mid-western America with its barbershop quartets and singing waiters , and it's pretensions to culture ( the business with Sakall's prized Stradavarius violin ) . There is only one final , charming addition at the conclusion that is not in the first film - Margaret Sullivan's daughter did not make a special appearance at the conclusion as her child by Stewart . But Liza Minelli did make her first appearance here as Garland's child by Johnson . It was the only film the mother and daughter ever made together .
The Dangers of Reading a " Classic " Novel	I wonder how many of you read any of these novels : THE CAXTONS , THE LAST OF THE BARONS , MY NOVEL , PAUL CLIFFORD , EUGENE ARAM , THE COMING RACE . Any takers out there ? Well how about PELHAM ( which has nothing to do with an 18th Century British Prime Minister , nor an area of the Bronx near the Connecticut Border ) ? No ? Well , how about THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII ? Bet you heard that title somewhere ? It has been the subject of about seven or eight major productions in the movies from the silent period ( a major full length version by the Italians in 1913 or so - which was a flop ) to a television version in 1985 ( that remains something of a critical joke to this day - all 240 odd minutes of it ) . Most people agree that of all the versions of the story , the 1935 version starring Preston Forster and Basil Rathbone ( as a sad , philosophical Pontius Pilate ) is the best . That it is basically entertaining is true . That it jettisoned the novel by Edward Bulwer-Lytton is equally true . That the novel is unreadable today is also true . Bulwer-Lytton has become , in a small way , a literary immortal from Victorian England - actually from late Regency through Victorian England ) . He was a wealthy landowner and aristocrat , who would be in the British cabinet as Secretary of State for the Colonies in the middle 1850s . He was the father of a would-be poet , who rose to be Viceroy of India . Lytton was a baronet when he started writing in 1825 , and would eventually be an Earl ( First Earl Lytton ) . He wrote all the titles ( including THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII ) which I mentioned . Only PELHAM , his novel of Regency England's aristocracy ( which he knew well ) and THE LAST DAYS are still reprinted . That's because ( as his own contemporaries - especially the greatly amused Thackeray noticed ) Lord Lytton's ideas out paced his abilities . He wrote bad prose . A " Bulwer-Lytton " prize is now presented every year to those writers who write the worst , cliché-full opening paragraph for a novel . It is named for him because of the start of his novel EUGENE ARAM : " It was a dark and stormy night . . . . " He tried to be original in his concepts . EUGENE ARAM was based on the 18th Century schoolteacher , linguist , and murderer ( hanged in 1759 ) . Lytton tried to make a case that Aram's philosophical beliefs allowed him to take the blame for the murder he was hung for . The story sold well in the 1830s , but it met with mostly critical rejection . In MY NOVEL , his villain , Baron Levy , actually has a very human reason for his improbably complicated vengeance on two men : he's angry of their attentions to a woman he loves . Levy is Jewish , so it was a curious thing to make his motivation so mundane as love for a woman - but Bulwer spoiled it shortly after by adding the image of a vengeful Jew who had been insulted . That was always the problem with Bulwer-Lytton . He's a literary Ed Wood , in that his concepts outstrip his abilities ( and in comparison Wood is more bearable - one of his movies lasts about an hour or so , while Bulwer can write a novel of over 700 pages ! ) . The reason THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII happened to have a long shelf life is that the subject ( the small town near Naples that was buried in a sea of ash and lava by Vesuvius , and rediscovered preserved 1 , 700 years afterward ) fascinates us , and to his credit Bulwer did his classical history homework . But as a piece of fiction his characters are dry as dust . One of the more interesting is a wealthy Egyptian who plans to take over the Roman Empire . He's the villain in the plot . The events that destroyed Pompeii are clearly revealed to us , including the earthquake that hit the town a decade before the volcanic eruption . So when the movie was made they wisely jettisoned the actual story line ( which I plowed through when I read the boring novel about 1985 ) . Foster is a blacksmith who becomes a successful gladiator , and then a wealthy land owner near Pompeii . Early he lived in Judea , and met Christ , and he ( like his old patron Pilate ) are aware of an alternative to the materialist and corrupt empire . The film is old fashioned , but bearably so , and gave Foster one of his best screen performances ( his retired police captain in KANSAS CITY CONFIDENTIAL is it's closest rival ) . Never a leading man in major productions , Foster demonstrated here that he could handle lead roles . Except for an occasional film though he usually was in supporting parts . For his performance , and Rathbone's Pilate , and for jettisoning Bulwer's idiot writing and plot , I'll give this an 8 . By the way , if you want to see an interesting , literary view of the later life of Pilate - by a Nobel Prize Winner no less - read the short story , THE PROCURATOR OF JUDEA by Anatole France . Far from being so thoughtful and sad as Rathbone's Pilate acts , France's version of the Procurator seems more realistic regarding his memories .
Hoist By Their Own Petard	Somehow I have to believe that Mel Brooks saw this film as a young man , and filed it's plot line away for future use . Basically it is an embryonic version of THE PRODUCERS , but unlike Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder - who produce a dreadful musical to score a windfall by Broadway accounting methods - Alan Mowbray and Donald MacBride are seeking to force a departing star from departing for a rival producer . Helen Vinson has been starring in a series of plays written by Mowbray , and directed by him , and produced by his partner MacBride . She is tired of being their " Galatea " ( they constantly take credit for her talent ) . So she has given notice to MacBride that she is not renewing her contract . However , the contract has a clause that after giving such notice Vinson must be in one last production before the contract is finished . But it is chosen by MacBride and Mowbray . Mowbray is on his vacation when Vinson springs her surprise . The vacation is in a small town ( Mowbray likes to go duck hunting near there ) . One of the locals is Barbara Read , a young girl who has written a long-winded tragedy called THE END OF EVERYTHING . She somehow manages to get a tired Mowbray to say that she can send him a copy of the play ( he says it to get rid of her ) . She does so , just as MacBride and Mowbray start seeking a sure-fired bomb . Just like Kenneth Mars writes SPRINGTIME FOR Hitler , Read's play is a seeming godsend to MacBride . Mowbray ( like Gene Wilder ) is not so certain about this . He doesn't like the damage such a bomb would do to his reputation as a director . What MacBride hopes is that Vinson , when she sees the play , will panic and cave in to returning to the contract with no problems . But Vinson reads the play and likes the fact that the central figure is her role . It has most of the lines and is the center of attention - a great star vehicle . So she starts encouraging Read's involvement in the production . But Mowbray ( and a now panicked MacBride ) want to doctor the play into some type of coherence . To do this MacBride suggests that Mowbray try to romance Read so that he can start making " helpful " suggestions regarding the structure of the play . In some ways the best moments of the film are when Mowbray is forced into a round-the-clock romance and play rehearsal timetable . He is soon fairly potty because of lack of sleep ( his abilities as a director are so compromised he acts like a zombie ) . Suffice it to say , Mowbray finally pulls himself together to straighten out Read , and to save the production . One misses the snappy musical comedy numbers of " Springtime for Hitler " , but Mowbray and MacBride ( with Vinson and Read ) make this an enjoyable little comedy . It eventually spawned a sequel , which I have yet to see .
When something missing finally turns up	There are moments when scholars or specialists get really happy . When ( in the 1950s ) the play DYSKOLOS by Menander popped up ( in the hands of a Swiss bibliophile ) , the world finally had a complete play by the only other extant Greek Comic Dramatist after Aristophanes . Archeologists saw the discovery of Tutankhamon's tomb by Howard Carter in 1922 as wonderful because we got an idea of what the treasure of a dead Pharaoh of Egypt was like . The same thing happens with movies , when a " lost " film somehow turns up . One of those that did was DUCK SOUP , a 1927 short subject that was considered gone forever until a copy ( with French subtitles ) showed up in 1982 in Holland . It turned out to be an important rediscovery . In 1927 Hal Roach was still experimenting with his players ( as his main star , Harold Lloyd , had gone off into his own production company ) . He was using Stan Laurel , Oliver Hardy , Charlie Chase , James Finlayson , and others as " the Hal Roach Comedy All Stars . " A typical film for this group is CALL OF THE CUCKOO , where the story is about Max Davidson buying a badly made house next door to an insane asylum where Stan , Ollie , Charlie , and Jimmy are cavorting about . The film did give the Stan and Ollie " Cuckoo song " theme to them , but it did not highlight them ( they are cavorting about with a bow and arrow in the film ) . Roach's point of view was to avoid a star , as he did not want a second ingrate walking out on him . Ironically , by doing this method of film making , he overlooked not only Stan and Ollie as a great duo for awhile , but he also failed to push Charlie Chase as he should have . Then , Roach slowly began pushing Stan and Ollie into roles in several films where they were more or less confrontational ( WHY GIRLS LOVE SAILORS is an example of this , with Stan as a stowaway on a ship where Ollie is a bullying purser ( who thinks he is a ladies man ) ) . But finally came DUCK SOUP . In it , although the characters are still in transition to the two " babes-in-the-woods " they became , the embryos appear there for the first time . A great hunter sportsman leaves his home on a trip , giving orders to his butler to rent the mansion while he is gone . The Colonel's name ( apparently originally ) was Colonel Blood . However , because DUCK SOUP was remade as ANOTHER FINE MESS in 1930 , the character was renamed for the same one that Jimmy Finlayson played in the later film , " Colonel Buckshot " . Similarly , the couple who come to rent the house are " Lord and Lady Tarbotham " , but the new prints rename them " Lord and Lady Plumtree " , after the characters in the 1930 film . It's understandable that the name changes are kept . The basic plot is the same . The boys are chased by representatives of the law , and hide in the mansion . When the renters arrive they pretend to be the Colonel ( Ollie ) and his maid ( Stan ) , and they proceed to make a successful rental sale to his Lordship , only to have the original Colonel show up . The only difference is that Ollie and Stan are hobos who are fleeing a dragnet of army personnel rounding up tramps to help put out some forest fires . We learn that two tramps were responsible , and we wonder if it's our boys here . Ollie has a grubby week of heavy beard on his face ( something unusual for him ) but he wears a monocle to show his original gentility . Stan already shows his infantilism ( Ollie always tries to be more serious - with disastrous results ) . Stan and Ollie are first seen reading a newspaper on a bench , but Stan concentrates on the comic strip page . When they see the military men approach them they flee , steal a bicycle , and drive off until they get to the home of Colonel Blood . Then they fall into their roles as the two inhabitants of the mansion . The rest of the film reminds us of the later sound remake , but the sound remake let's them escape in a crazy manner on a bicycle . Here they are recaptured while trying to rob the mansion , and they are then taken to the spot of the forest fires , only to have a final mishap with the fire hose . I must admit that while it is an enjoyable short , the later one is far better . The dialog is a plus , as is Hardy playing the piano in the mansion , and the idiot nobleman does have a good running joke about introducing himself and handing out his card . But the silent film does stand up well for the most part , and is a welcome re-addition to the existing corpus of Laurel & Hardy films .
The Scoundrels We Barely Notice	I watched this last year on the Turner Network . When talking about film noir BORN TO KILL somehow manages to escape the notice of most film viewers who find meatier , better known titles ( THE BIG SLEEP , CROSSFIRE , DOUBLE INDEMNITY , THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE , even DETOUR ) more worthy of discussion . Yet it is a film that touches upon the leveling forces of personality between classes . It also looks at how slender the difference is between respectability and sleaze . There are four characters in the film whom illustrate this : they are the stars , Lawrence Tierney , Claire Trevor , and Walter Slezak , and the supporting actress Esther Howard . Tierney is a sociopath , and a dark one at that . The slightest insult can turn him into your worst nightmare . At the start of the film , while Trevor is having a vacation in Las Vegas ( and staying in Howard's rooming house ) , Tierney finds his girl friend has two-timed him . He confronts the girl friend and her new lover in the rooming house and kills them both . He leaves , and Trevor , who was upstairs , comes down to find the dead bodies . But she decides not to get involved in the tragedy , so she packs and leaves , leaving the revelation of the crime in the hands of Howard . Now it turns out that Tierney has a history of violence prior to this : his closest acquaintance ( Elisha Cook Jr . ) convinces him to leave for California before the police show up to question him , and in convincing him mentions some bloody incidents in Tierney's past . Tierney heads for Los Angeles on the same train as Trevor . They meet , and click . Gradually Tierney forces his way into Trevor's world , but due to social problems ( for all her breeding she has no money ) Tierney looks for some quick cash solution to their eventual union . It turns upon his marrying her foster sister , a millionairess who owns a newspaper , and Trevor possibly marrying a millionaire shipyard owner . Trevor is not totally at ease with this , but her attraction to Tierney allows her to accept his marrying her foster-sister . She does worry about Tierney's decision ( one he really enjoys thinking about ) of taking over the management and editorial policy of his wife's newspaper . Howard ( in an interestingly complex role - she enjoys a good time , but she turns out to be extremely moralistic ) hires Walter Slezak as a detective to find out who killed her friend . Slezak is a highly intelligent detective , but corrupt . He discovers what Tierney did , and he also discovers that Trevor knows more than she admitted . So he ends up blackmailing them ( carefully though - he has no intention of being bumped off ) . When he confronts Trevor for a payoff , in his wonderfully silky way , Slezak gives the theme of the film . Smiling before he leaves Trevor's company , he says , " Truthfully , who would think that two respectable looking people like ourselves are such scoundrels ? " I will not reveal much more about the film , but it is a well made film noir , and deserves a bigger audience than it has gotten .
A Georges Simenon Treat	Most people think of the name " Georges Simenon " and can only recall Inspector Maigret . Even Agatha Christie has two detectives to her credit ( Poirot and Miss Marple ) , and Conan Doyle did create the science fiction hero Professor Challenger besides Holmes . But Maigret is forever linked to the psychological / sociological thrillers concerning Maigret . Yet he did write other novels without his plump inspector . One is THE MAN WHO WATCHED THE TRAINS GO BY . Claude Rains is a family man in a textile firm in Holland , and is a model husband , father , and employee / clerk . But he has a yearning to travel . He wants to see the world . His sense of responsibility prevents it . Rains works for Herbert Lom . Lom inherited his company from a line of family owners through his father . It is several hundred years old . Lom appears to have great probity and honesty . He won't hire old Felix Aylmer because Aylmer's firm collapsed under questionable circumstances . So honest does Lom seem that Rains and the other employees were convinced to invest their savings in his firm . But then , one day , a police inspector ( Marius Goring ) comes to the firm to talk to Lom about his relationship with Marta Toren , a questionable ( if beautiful ) French woman . Raines listens to part of the interrogation , which Lom barely goes through with dignity in tact . This makes Raines nervous . That night , he goes for a private walk after dinner , and finds himself back at the business . He sees Lom emptying out the firm's safe . Lom is confronted by Raines , and in their struggling Lom falls into a canal and drowns . Goring turns up ( he was coming back to the business to look over the books again ) , and questions Raines about why Lom was at the business . Raines ( who has hidden the satchel with the money ) says that he couldn't answer , and suggests Lom may have been planning suicide . Goring is thoroughly suspicious , and keeps tabs on Rains , who does not go home , but decides to take the money and see Paris . And in Paris he hunts up Toren - and suggests that they take up where the deceased Lom left off . Toren is not keen on this , and tries to strong-arm Rains out of the picture using her friends Ferdy Main and Eric Pohlmann . At that point I will leave the further details of the novel / movie . It is a study of a desperate middle aged man who takes a last opportunity to vary the drudgery of his existence with some sparkle and pleasure , even though it is doomed due to the source of the money it takes to achieve the sparkle and the pleasure . All the cast is good ( Aylmer is used only in one scene , unfortunately ) , but Rains is terrific as a desperately unhappy man who is trying to grab his last possible chance at happiness .
It's Raining In California !	The line in the " Summary Line " is one of the last in this film - uttered by that consummate Englishman Terry-Thomas . Throughout the film he is usually carrying his brolly , but at this last moment it finally becomes useful . This nice little film came out in 1962 , but failed to do for Terry-Thomas what LOLITA or DR . STRANGELOVE or THE PINK PANTHER did for his fellow comic actor Peter Sellers : turn him into a super star . It really could not do so , for Sellers genius was to transform himself into dozens of different personalities , whereas Terry-Thomas usually played a bounder who got into comic difficulties because of his plotting , or character flaws , or circumstances he could not control . But in BACHELOR FLAT he was playing a decent sort , who finds himself ( without intending it ) to be attractive to females because of his pleasant English manners and erudition . Terry - Thomas is Professor Bruce Patterson , a paleontologist who is teaching in Southern California . He doesn't plan to , but his crisp , clipped English manner has won many fans among the ladies in the university and in the neighborhood that he is residing in . He lives near his girlfriend Helen Bushmill ( Celeste Holm ) , who is headed for Europe for a couple of weeks . Patterson , left on his own devices , soon finds that he is the center of a great deal unwanted attention from the ladies . One of them seems to be a young girl named Libby Smith ( Tuesday Weld ) who actually turns out to be Helen's daughter . He is assisted in trying to solve his problems with Weld and the others by his room-mate Mike Pulaski ( Richard Beymer ) . Pulaski is soon attracted to Smith . In the background , midst all the problems with the ladies , is Patterson's career goal . He has located a large dinosaur bone , and wants to return to the foreign country where he found it to do more digging for the rest of the fossil . This requires financing , and has brought up the attention of Dr . Dylan Bowman ( Howard McNear ) , who is a " friendly " rival in the paleontology field . Bowman starts sniffing about to find out what Patterson's discovery is ( the latter has not shown the bone to anyone ) . But when the bone is accidentally buried , Patterson is seen by Bowman digging in the beaches near the bungalow he lives in , and retrieving the bone . As a result , of course , Bowman starts thinking the potential site for the dig is in the California beach that Patterson resides near . As career and girls collide , and as Bushmill returns early , things get out of hand for our doctor . Among other things Bushmill thinks Patterson has become a ladies man . Patterson finds that his quiet lifestyle has been invaded by the ladies ( they put a hole accidentally into his favorite derby hat , in one memorable slow burn ) . He asks Pulaski what to do to win back Bushmill , and in the process of being told what is expected from him as a male , he gets drunk - and proceeds to let his libido take over memorably . The comedy was actually quite sweet , as Terry-Thomas played an average man in over his head . The rest of the cast ably supported him , especially McNear as his sneaky , spying rival - who got the last laugh in the film . It may not have been in the same class as DR . STRANGELOVE , but it was a good showcase for it's star . He didn't always have to play comic cads and bounders .
Popeye Aids Switzerland's Hero	I find this an amusing cartoon , and it does show some of the things to expect in the Fleisher studio . There is the " in-joke " of the photo of the son of William Tell ( a former star at Paramount , which produced the Fleisher cartoons ) , and the way the characters are developed . The cruel despotic governor actually momentarily defends Popeye ( pretending to be Tell's son ) when Tell slaps Popeye for smoking . The governor , who is watching this hits Tell for slapping his kid ! Popeye rounds it out by knocking out the governor for hitting his dad ! ! It was of a series of Popeye cartoons where he met Sinbad , or Ali Baba and the 40 thieves , or Rip Van Winkle . Bluto was the villain in the first two of these , but was not in the latter or this one ( nor was Olive in the latter and this one ) . But they are not missed , as there was plenty of mileage to get out of the Tell story . Finally the townspeople resemble in dress and actions the characters in the " Gabby " cartoons , and in Fleischer's major flop , " Gulliver's Travels " . The townspeople were the best things about Gulliver - and they added to the amusement of the " Gabby " cartoons as well .
Entertaining enough and fun , but ultimately forgettable .	Meryl Streep has actually sung in several films . She sang a great spoof of opening musical numbers in DEATH BECOMES HER , and also sang a country western tune in POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE at the end of that film . She has a good voice and can carry a tune . But this film is the first one where she is center stage in a musical , and carrying several show tunes . Again she does well enough singing them . MAMMA MIA has been on Broadway for several years , and it is an infectious musical , even if only the tune " Dancing Queen " has managed to get any permanent notice . The story line is slightly like that of the film BUONO SERA MRS . CAMPBELL . Donna Sheridan ( Streep ) runs a hotel on a small Greek island . Her daughter Sophie ( Amanda Seyfried ) is about to marry Sky ( Domenick Cooper ) , and there is a large scale wedding being planned ( although Sophie and Sky wanted to elope ) . Sophie has discovered her mother's diary and finds that in the year that she was born her mother had very close affairs with three men : Sam Carmichael ( Pierce Brosnan ) , Harry Bright ( Colin Firth ) , and Bill Anderson ( Stellan Skarsgard ) , one of whom was her biological father . Confiding in her two closest friends Sophie has secretly contacted all three men and invited them back to the hotel . At the same time Donna has invited her two oldest friends the much married Tanya ( Christine Baransky ) and the well known cooking expert Rosie ( Julie Walters ) to help her get through the wedding weekend . The story follows how Donna discovers the three loves of her past ( especially Sam ) are back , and she is upset that Sophie will want to know which one is her father ( a question that Donna is unable to answer ) . The three men are interested in why they were called back , Sam being a divorced man with children , Harry a successful businessman in London , and Bill an independent type who lives most of his life on board a ship . Each slowly realizes what Sopnie is doing , but each concludes that he must be the father - something Sophie ( for some reason , presumably over-enthusiasm ) never carefully thought out . Donna enlists her two friends to assist her in keeping the three ex-boyfriends away from her , which they try to do . As it turns out she is most glad to see Sam again , but is uncertain that the relationship is still revive-able . The film is one that keeps the viewers involved , and is fun . It's unusual to see an actor like Brosnan singing and dancing ( passably ) , and apparently enjoying the experience . Baransky has a nice number thrown in when she reveals her sexual control over a bartender and would-be lover ( a number her alter-ego , " Mary Ann " would have enjoyed on " Cybel " ) . And it does end with a satisfactory conclusion . But it's pleasant but not a great film . It is worthwhile for entertainment value only - not thought provoking . But then , it was meant for entertainment value when it was put on Broadway , and when it was produced as a film .
Worthy expansion and remake of " No Sad Songs For Me "	Sometimes a great star is able to make a final screen appearance that his or her fans realize is fitting their stature . Spencer Tracy did it with his final screen speech to Katherine Hepburn and the cast of GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER about the lingering passions in his elderly frame towards the woman he actually did love . Paul Muni did it too in his last film , THE LAST ANGRY MAN , giving a performance as a true humanitarian doctor in his final days . Laird Cregar did it in those concluding , unforgettable shots of his mad musician in " Hell " in the burning conclusion of HANGOVER SQUARE . And Margaret O'Sullivan did it as the terminally ill mother and wife determined to have her family secured by a worthy second wife ( Vivica Lindfors ) in NO SAD SONGS FOR ME . O'Sullivan left a small output of films compared to her fellow female stars of the 1930s - 1940s , but they were mostly good performances in such films as THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER , THE GOOD FAIRY , THREE COMRADES . and THE MORTAL STORM . She never won the Oscar , but she is recognized as one of the finest actresses of her age . The ultimate tragedy of her life - the emotional troubles that led to her suicide in 1960 - reinforce the sense of loss in her curtailed movie career as much as the death of James Dean does for him or the cancer that killed Judy Holliday a few years after O'Sullivan died . The film NO SAD SONGS FOR ME was remade in 1998 with a first rate cast and expanded . STEPMOM demonstrates how a remake can help redefine the characters of the original film and even make them more interesting . In NO SAD SONGS FOR ME , O'Sullivan moves silently for most of the film to manipulate husband Wendell Corey into seeing Lindfors as a worthy replacement for herself . But this is a little hard to believe ( though the acting of O'Sullivan makes it acceptable ) . Instead the remake forces Susan Sarandon ( in the O'Sullivan part ) to make 180 degree reversal for the sake of her ex-husband and kids . Instead of a placid household disrupted by on-coming tragedy , Sarandon's household is disrupted initially by her husband ( Ed Harris ) two-timing her with his new love Julia Roberts . Harris wants a divorce , and being a successful professional man he can give Sarandon a lot of money . But Sarandon is furious at the slap in her face and in the opening of the film she confronts both Harris and Roberts about their adultery . Her anger also spills over into resentment by her children ( Jena Malone and Liam Aiken ) who fully side with Mom . It is after the divorce that she learns the truth about her health problems . But there are methods of handling the cancer in 1998 unavailable to Margaret O'Sullivan in 1950 . Methods like chemotherapy . Sarandon ( who is determined to beat back her illness ) tries these methods , and leaves the scene to explore these treatments . Meanwhile Roberts finds she is trying to maintain her photography career and to somehow overcome the resentment of the two step-children . Now all this additional material enables the main thrust of the original story to make a trifle more sense . For after Sarandon finds all the treatments to be unworkable she returns to see what can be salvaged in her limited remaining time . This means making an alliance with the suspicious Roberts . . . one that eventually does soften into a close friendship as they both find each other's finer qualities . Not that Sarandon is really happy at what is going to happen to her . In one of the film's best scenes she vents to Roberts her total anger that she will not be alive to see her daughter get married . The venting actually helps break down the final walls between the two women . Slowly , as Harris , Malone , and Aiken become aware of the impending tragedy , the family unit expands to make room again for Sarandon as she makes sure she and her children spend as much time together as possible . And Roberts makes sure that Sarandon's intentions for the two children are carried out ( which enables her to finally win their trust and affections ) . The best moment in this section of the film is Roberts making sure that Malone is avenged against an obnoxious ex-boyfriend at her high school , where ( with Sarandon's approval ) Roberts uses a male model she knows and some special dialog ( regarding a disgusting sex act ) to humiliate the boy before his friends . NO SAD SONGS FOR ME was a great conclusion to a fine actress's screen career . STEPMOM was a first rate remake and expansion of that film enabling two of our finest current leading actresses to share the screen in two equally memorable parts .
Incredible dance sequence - where Fred Astaire does not dance !	" Daddy Long Legs " was one of those movies that were made again and again in the teens up to the 1930s , sometimes under it's own original name ( the name of the novel it was based on ) and sometimes , like in a Shirley Temple version called " Curley Top " , under a different name . Although Mary Pickford was in a silent version , the best known early version was a 1931 film with Warner Baxter and Janet Gaynor . However , aside from Temple's " Curley Top " ( which had a plot difficulty changed by a rewrite ) , the most successful version to modern audiences is this one that starred Fred Astaire and Leslie Caron in 1955 . It was one of Astaire's last musicals , and was one of the series of musicals from " An American In Paris " through " Lili " that led to Caron's best remembered musical starring role in " Gigi " ( 1958 ) . The plot of " Daddy Long Legs " was about a millionaire who sees a young girl in an orphan home and secretly adopts her . His shadow on the wall is noticed and he is referred to as " Daddy Long Legs " The girl grows up and meets the man when she is reaching adulthood , and her secret guardian falls for her , and eventually marries her . It is a kind of wish fulfillment plot - and it's unintentional overtone of twisted sexual relations between an adopted father figure and and adopted daughter figure has been commented on . In fact it really gets a going over in the current version from the American Ambassador to France ( Williamson ) played by Larry Keating , who points out how really scandalous the matter is to Astaire . It causes a bump on the road to a happy conclusion , but it is a big bump . Only in " Curley Top " was this avoided by having Shirley Temple have an older sister who could be romanced by the millionaire . Oddly enough , the 1931 version has an unintentional eerie footnote to the strange sex issue . When that version came out , one of the people who saw the film ( it is , apparently , one of the last films she ever saw ) was the ill-fated Starr Faithful , whose still mysterious death ( murder / suicide / accident ? ) is debated to this day . Starr had been having an affair with her mother's older cousin , Andrew Peters ( the Mayor of Boston in the early 1920s ) , which somewhat looked like the relationship between the guardian and the young orphan in the story . Whether Starr went to see " Daddy Long Legs " for that reason or not is a minor mystery in the last days of her life . I've never seen the Baxter-Gaynor version . This 1958 version was shown on the 20th Century Fox Cable network this afternoon . Forgetting the central problem mentioned above about the twisted relationship , it is a good musical . There are several good musical numbers , such as the " slue-foot " dance at the college prom ( that Astaire does with Caron ) to the music of Ray Anthony's orchestra . There is also the use of two popular tunes : " Dream ( which becomes a type of theme tune for Caron , while thinking of Astaire ) , and " Something's Got To Give " , which unconsciously summarizes their odd relationship ( Astaire being the old unmovable object hit by the unexpected force of Caron ) . But the major musical number of the film is rather odd . When ( after his unfortunate conversation with Keating ) Astaire breaks with Caron on a sexual level , she has a dream sequence which in design reminds one of Caron's earlier dance / ballet sequence with Gene Kelly in " An American In Paris " . She dreams she is back in the hallway of the luxury New York City Hotel that she was in when Astaire was romancing her , but all the rooms have " 3203 " ( her room number ) on them . But the hallways and doors are all drawn ( they are not solid wooden doors . It's like the backdrop of Paris that Kelly stands in front of when he begins his dance sequence regarding Caron in " An American In Paris " . It gets weirder , as Caron changes styles of dancing - first ballet , then tango , than carnival - as she enters rooms representing Paris , Buenos Aires , or Rio . What makes it weird is that Astaire does not dance with Caron or alone - he appears as an onlooker , either in an opera / ballet box , a table on the side , or a tourist looking at the carnival . It is the only time I can recall Fred Astaire in a musical number where he does nothing ! The cast is good , particularly the outspoken personal secretary Ms Pritchard ( Thelma Ritter ) trying to get Fred to reveal himself , and the long suffering lawyer / business adviser Griggs ( Fred Clark ) trying to keep Astaire aware of what he should be doing , and what he is doing all wrong . It's a good musical , once you swallow that odd sexual connection between the principals . Due to the cast , the musical numbers ( even the one where Fred does nothing ) , and the light touch of director Jean Negulesco I would say it gets an " 8 " out of " 10 " .
Before there was a Maxwell Freer . . .	Erich Von Stroheim will always have his champions - there was a great artist in him . When I reviewed the fragments of " Queen Kelly " a few days back , I said that his method is time consuming compared to what a normal film editing / directing job is like , but it does hold one's attention closely . " Queen Kelly " had a melodramatic , impossible script . But " Foolish Wives " , " The Merry Widow " , and " Greed " had good scripts . After " Queen Kelly " folded Stroheim had to find another job because he had a family to support ( a wife and son ) . He had , originally , been an actor . In fact his early roles in World War I and post 1918 films was as " the man you love to hate " - the perfect German militarist swine , who while raping some French woman would silence that squawking brat of hers by flinging it out the window . He carried this into his own films : His fake rake-Russian Prince in " Foolish Wives " ( gleefully looking through his pocket mirror at a woman undressing in back of him ) , or his German noble in " Blind Husbands " , who plans to cuckold a fellow traveler . He did these actions with commendable panache ( imagine throwing a baby out the window with style ! ) . So he could act . In fact , in his later career , given a great director ( Jean Renoir , Billy Wilder ) Von Stroheim was superb as an actor . So he returned to acting , and " The Great Gabbo " was the result . The criticisms on this thread are sensible . Anyone turning to " The Great Gabbo " to see the artistry of early talking picture musicals will run screaming from the room . To me the best songs are those dealing with Gabbo and his dummy " Otto " . " Otto " singing any tune is a stunt , and one is willing to accept it as such . One is not listening to his tunes to recall them for later humming or singing purposes of one's own . Instead , the dominating force of " The Great Gabbo " is the masterful , high strung , egomaniac Von Stroheim . He does make himself the world's greatest ventriloquist , and rises to head a show . But the man has serious emotional flaws , and one senses they are not entirely his own fault . He cannot relate easily to people , even Betty Compson ( who did care for him ) because he can't trust them . They are flawed or they fail him at critical moments . One wonders what caused him to become this way , but it is a flaw of the script that it is never explained . That he dismissed Compson due to an error on her part is true , but he still carries a strong desire for her . But she's found another , and it sends him into a tailspin . " The Great Gabbo " saved Von Stroheim . Aside from a talkie disaster he directed ( " Walking Down Broadway " , a . k . a . " Hello Sister ! " ) he never directed any film again . He did have some affect in some of his B-features in the 1940s , such as " The Mask Of Dijon " , where some critics have noted his touch in various scenes . But it wasn't directing . When he tried to suggest ideas for " Max Von Mayerling " in " Sunset Boulevard " , Billy Wilder listened respectfully but did not use them . Instead he would be an actor for the rest of his career . And he would turn in " Von Rauffenstein " in " Le Grande Illusion " , " Field Marshall Erwin Rommel " in " Five Graves To Cairo " , and " Max " in " Sunset Boulevard " . Not a bad final reckoning for the loss of a great directorial career . And it was " Gabbo " that started it .
A Peculiarly Hard Bank Note to Spend	This is an amusing trifle , set at the turn of the century in England , but based on a story by Mark Twain of all people . Twain at his best could take a trifling idea and run off with it . He demolishes detectives in " The Stolen White Elephant " , which describes the ineptitude of detectives in finding a huge creature that has run off . Similarly here he demonstrates the limitations of money and how easy one can live on credit by simply having a note that nobody can cash . Two brothers who are very wealthy give the Bank of England one million pounds so that they can settle a bet . There is a single bank note for one million pounds in existence . What would happen if someone in need were given the note as an act of charity ? An American sailor is shipwrecked , and brought to England when rescued without any money on him . He is given the note . Like the two wealthy brothers in " Trading Places " they have a bet : will the sailor survive or starve to death because nobody can cash the note ? Less we think that such notes don't exist , the Federal Reserve System used to use a limited set of $100 , 000 bills with the face of Woodrow Wilson ( the President who signed the Federal Reserve Act into law ) for transfers between the branches of the Federal Reserve Banks . I do not know if they are still in use . There were also notes for $10 , 000 ( with the face of Lincoln's Secretary of the Treasury , Salmon P . Chase - who okay-ed the first national " greenback " currency ) , and for $5 , 000 ( with the face of President James Madison , who refused to save the first Bank of the United States , but did push the recharter of the second Bank of the United States - a semi-private early version of the Federal Reserve System ) . The film follows Gregory Peck's discovery that he is a guinea pig for this bet , but making the most of it . The two brothers ( Ronald Squiers and Wilfred Hyde-White ) stay mostly in the background . Both give good performances , and while I agree with another writer on this website that Hyde-White is better remembered today , Squiers was a widely respected film and stage actor of the time ( " The Rocking Horse Winner " , for example ) . Jane Griffiths plays the aristocrat who falls in love with Peck . A . E . Matthews has a nice role as a Yankee hating aristocrat , who suddenly realizes that there is one thing worse that that - a greedy Briton . And Hugh Griffith does the most with the part of a suspicious newspaperman . Twain was fascinated by a legal case of the 1870s , the Ticheborne Claimant , wherein an impostor claimed title to a baronetcy and it's multi-million pound estate . Twain even wrote a novel , " The American Claimant " , based on the incident . One of the noteworthy incidents of the actual case was that " Ticheborne Bonds " were sold promising profit to investors who would give money needed for the Claimant's legal fees ( if he won , they'd be paid out of the estate ) . Similarly here , in the film , bonds supporting Peck's honesty are printed . At one point there is a run by the bond holders when they believe that they've been lied to . It is a very amusing trifle , and well worth catching whenever it appears on television .
The Curse of the Duries	It is generally conceded today that Robert Louis Stevenson's two greatest works are the unfinished novel WEIR OF HERMISTON , and the completed THE MASTER OF BALLENTRAE . The latter story ( published in 1889 ) is centered on a filial rivalry and hatred that lasts literally until the death of the two brothers involved . Ballentrae is an estate in 18th Century Scotland , and the chief heir is James Durie . On the surface he is an easy going , fun loving type . When the 1745 Jacobite revolt under Bonnie Prince Charlie occurs , the Laird of Ballentrae is in a quandary . As a Highland Laird , he has to show he is a supporter of the ancient royal house of Scotland ( the Stuarts ) that Prince Charles represents . As a man who knows what the Hanovarians are like , he dare not fully come out as a supporter . So he hedges his bets . He has James go off to fight for the Stuart cause , but keeps his younger son Henry at home . Henry is not a fun loving type - he is a quiet , business-like type , who does not make friends easily . So James goes off , and time passes . He is eventually reported as dead . Henry immediately becomes the heir to the estate . But suddenly James returns , and willingly brings troubles with him . The British government does have a price on his head , and if he is found on the estate the Duries may be imprisoned and their wealth taken away . Yet the old man insists that Henry do what is right for his older brother , and James keeps reminding Henry that by rights he is " Master of Ballentrae " . What happens , of course , is a disaster . To begin with , it slowly comes out that James may have declared for the Stuart cause , but he never showed up to fight for that cause . In short he acted like a loud mouth , attracting the anger of the government but then showed he was a coward . Not a total coward ( where his own interest is involved ) but one who won't put himself out for others when the chips are down . Secondly it turns out that his fun-loving activities are coming home to roost - he's had an affair , and left an illegitimate child . This , of course , means that the family has to support the bastard child . Moreover , Henry has married the woman who would have married James under normal circumstances . He is now trying to unofficially regain her attention . This proves too much for Henry , and leads to one of the best passages in Stevenson's writings - the duel between the brothers in a darkened room . It ends with Henry believing he killed James . Would that he had . James persecutes Henry and his wife for the rest of the novel ( the father eventually dies of shame after learning how James was so cowardly at Culloden ) . The novel eventually goes to New York ( then a colony ) where both brothers meet up and meet their joint destiny . This review of the story does not go into Henry's character flaws ( he is a money grubber in the end ) . Stevenson never did make a better completed novel , even though there are elements of the improbable in it . The story was made into this 1953 film , probably the last good movie Errol Flynn had the lead in that was a swashbuckler . The ambiguities and moral lapses of the two brothers are not used here ( Henry is played by Anthony Steel , and he is far too young here for the role ) . James ' opportunistic streak , and his non-appearance at Culloden is not in the film - he shows up at the battle . Indeed , he meets Colonel Francis Burke , an English Jacobite ( Roger Livesey ) who becomes his one ally and friend in the novel . In the film there will be other allies . Mervyn Johns plays the family servant MacKellar , who narrates the actual novel ( but not here ) , and sees the flaws of both brothers all too clearly ( although he ends up sympathizing with Henry ) . Lord Durrisdeer , the father of the brothers is Finlay Curray . The cast is generally quite good . But the excellence of the story is dropped and replaced into a tale of misunderstanding , and how a universal dislike of the English manages to keep the family together . Stevenson would have been amazed and hurt by what was done here . I am willing to give the film an " 8 " for it's good points , mostly the performances ( in particular Livesay's chemistry with Flynn ) . But I miss the tragic element of the novel . To properly appreciate the novel , if one can't read it , try to catch the television version made with Michael York and Richard Thomas and John Guilgud back in the 1980s . It too changed the end , but it stuck closer to the spirit of hopeless competition and hatred that Stevenson concocted in his masterpiece .
It was 1852 - 53 " dumplins " , 1852-53 ; and women did not get suffrage until 1920 !	Let's put the best features forward . JEZEBEL is a superbly acted film and well directed . Both Bette Davis and Fay Bainter deserved their Oscars for their performances in the film . Davis's Julie has a remarkably blind spot about how far womens rights have gone in the age of Millard Fillmore , for it is only four years since the first womens suffrage conference was held in New York State . The most noted woman of 1853 was probably George Sand the novelist , but people thought of her as the lover of Chopin . Henry Fonda's Pres is a man of dignity and one who will not let anyone make a fool of him . George Brent as Buck represents a final flowering of the Old South's aristocracy and even chivalry ( and again demonstrates that Brent could act - note the heavy restraint when he confronts Richard Cromwell's Ted toward the end of the film ) . Donald Crisp has a great moment telling off the cowards in the saloon in New Orleans who won't assist him with a prominent patient . William Wyler does do a first rate job of directing - as in what is an early highpoint of the film : Pres teaching Davis ' Julie a lesson by humiliating her at the " Nimbus " ball for wearing a scarlet dress . That said , why is JEZEBEL a lesser film than GONE WITH THE WIND ? JEZEBEL was a film about a willful and spoiled southern belle named Julie , and how her selfishness hurts many of the people in her life . It is a great part for Davis ( and probably would have been just as good for Miriam Hopkins , the one who played the role on stage ) . But it is not grand enough . Maybe if it concentrated on the " Yellow Fever " epidemic it could have been ( but then , the 1938 audience had also seen MGM's YELLOW JACK , and was aware of how to tell the story of that scourge ) . GONE WITH THE WIND had a willful , spoiled heroine too , named Scarlet O'Hara , and played by Vivienne Leigh . But while she too is at the center of the story , the story is epic in describing the Civil War's affect on Atlanta and Georgia , and the slow " Reconstruction " of the economy there in the late 1860s and 1870s . As a result there was more meat in GONE WITH THE WIND ( compare Fonda's genteel banker Pres with the rough and ready Rhett Butler of Clark Gable and you can see what I am talking of ) . This does not diminish JEZEBEL as entertainment , even if one dislikes the stereotypes of African - Americans as incredibly loyal slaves . I somehow think the average slave in Louisiana in 1853 would have looked to their own safety in such epidemics and been rather neutral about the number of Caucasian - Americans who were carried off by the disease . But then stereotypes abound in GONE WITH THE WIND ( to its detriment ) . But there is no character like " Mammy " ( Hattie MacDaniel ) in JEZEBEL , to steal the picture from the star . Actually , despite her being shown to be simple-minded , Butterfly McQueen's " Prissy " is also more memorable than her equivalents in JEZEBEL . In the end , what can be said of JEZEBEL ? An entertaining film that was well made and acted . . . a little out of date due to stereotypes of slaves . But it's overall significance ? - it answers the question , " which was the better of the two movies that Bette Davis won the Academy Award for in the 1930s ? " ( the other one is the now forgotten DANGEROUS ) .
Golf and Prison Experiences : An odd combo	Buster Keaton's films will always be amusing , but that doesn't mean they are flawless . This is a good short comedy he was making on his way up , and shows he is learning his craft . But the key to this film is a little flaw that is not really resolved until the last shot . The short is really two shorts stitched together . In the first we see Buster playing golf and trying to impress an expert female golfer ( Sybil Seeley ) . The highpoint is a spoof by Keaton of water traps : his ball goes into a stream full of trout and he has to try to locate the trout that swallowed his ball . It works because of the typical Keaton determination to get to the heart of the matter - he goes through several fish before he finds the trout and removes the ball . Probably that would have been the conclusion for most comics , but not Keaton . He tops it with two other jokes ( hitting the ball out of the stream back into the fairways ; and then paddling his makeshift river raft to shore with his golf club ) . Had he stuck to the golf game only the resulting short might have been a " 10 " . Likewise when he goes into the prison section : the prison section could have been a " 10 " also . But when pushed together that stitching shows , as does it's resolution at the conclusion . Supposedly , while Buster is golfing , a convict flees a nearby prison . Buster manages to knock himself out with his own golf ball . The escapee sees Keaton lying on the ground and exchanges clothes . Buster ends up " Convict 13 " in the local prison , and he discovers he is to be hanged soon . He also discovers the girl he likes is the daughter of the warden . He is prepped for his hanging by hangman Eddie Cline ( who would be a successful director in Hollywood ) . One of the best moments in this section is when Buster corners Sybil in the prison yard , puts a handkerchief on the ground , kneels on it announcing how he loves her forever and wants to marry her , and is dragged up by the guards and hustled over to be hanged ! Sybil does try to help ruin the hanging by substituting an elasticated rope for the hangman's rope . Cline is left puzzled by Buster bumping up and down in a weird anticipation of bungee chord exercise . Another nice touch in the hanging sequence is that the other prisoners are enjoying the show from bleacher seats . The final section is dealing with the meanest of the prisoners , Joe Roberts . We see him effortlessly beating up on guards until confronted by Buster ( now having switched his prison garb with a guards ) and threatening Buster . There is even a repeat of the hanging business , this time varied with Joe being attached to the rope from the wrong end . Buster ends up thwarting a prison break ( set at 3 : 00 P . M . ) and being made Assistant Warden . If you noticed how effortlessly Keaton steps from golf player to prisoner to guard to Assistant Warden , something would tip you off as to what is going on . That comes out in the last moment of the film , when all these crazy switches that everyone accepts are resolved . I won't explain how , but look over the sequence of events and you'll probably figure it out . It is a very funny comedy , with Keaton using his physical abilities to show he could have had fun with an Argenine bolo if one came his way . It's just the seams that ironically keep it from being one of his best shorts .
The Isolated Shakespeare History Play	In the early 1980s the B . B . C . did the complete plays of William Shakespeare in a series that ran over five years . They played in the U . S . A . once , and then never played again . It's a pity , because some of the Shakespeare plays ( TIMON OF ATHENS , PERICLES , PRINCE OF TYRE , ALLS WELL THAT ENDS WELL , CYMBELINE ) are not produced that frequently . Of the 37 or 38 titles ( depending on if you count THE TWO NOBLE KINSMAN that Shakespeare wrote with John Fletcher ) that are usually ascribed to the Bard , only twenty get produced . Look at the titles here , and see how many movie versions of OTHELLO , MACBETH , HAMLET , ROMEO AND JULIET there are as opposed to say AS YOU LIKE IT or MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING . Shakespeare's plays are divided up into three groups : Histories , Tragedies , and Comedies . There is actually some overlap , as several of the tragedies ( JULIUS CAESAR , CORIOLANUS , ANTHONY AND CLEOPATRA , KING LEAR , CYMBELINE ) are based on historical or legendary figures ) . But the one's officially labeled " Histories " have these titles : KING JOHN ; RICHARD II ; HENRY IV , PARTS I and II ; HENRY V ; HENRY VI , PARTS I , II , and III ; RICHARD III ; HENRY VIII ) . We are aware that Shakespeare also wrote a scene in a play whose manuscript exists called The Play of " SIR THOMAS MORE " , dealing with the life of that political writer and martyr . As More was a contemporary ( and victim ) of Henry VIII , those two plays are contemporary in historical content , and only the lack of a play called HENRY VII prevent their linking with the bulk of the plays from RICHARD II to RICHARD III ( all dealing with the years from 1397 to 1485 . As we realize other plays of Shakespeare's may be missing or non-recognized so far ( recently one called EDWARD III was suggested as a play of Shakespeare's and produced to mixed reviews ; Charles Hamilton , the New York autograph expert , found a missing play , CARDENIO , based on a Cervantes ' story a decade ago ) , it is likely there were plays called HENRY II or EDWARD THE CONFESSOR . History plays were very popular . But at this moment KING JOHN is unique as the first ( in terms of chronology ) of the histories , and the most isolated one . JOHN takes place from 1199 - 1216 , when that monarch reigned and died . We have been aware of him from other sources . As the troublesome rival and younger brother of Richard the Lion Hearted ( King Richard I ) he is important in the films THE LION IN WINTER , THE CRUSADES , KING RICHARD AND THE CRUSADES , ROBIN HOOD , ROBIN AND MARIAN . He is the unscrupulous schemer , out to get that throne his brother Richard possessed . Unlike the later King Richard III ( as Shakespeare and Sir Thomas More presented him ) he is not a successful schemer . He only gets the throne when Richard dies . Richard had no legitimate heir . So John has no real problem - except everyone hates and distrusts him . KING JOHN follows as the pig-headed monarch turns off his nobles ( culminating in his greatest " achievement " - the Magna Carta he was forced to sign ) , gets his kingdom under a papal interdict ( he never learned from his brilliant father's example with Thomas A'Becket to avoid controversies with Rome ) , and he allows the English hating Philip of France ( again , remember THE LION IN WINTER ) to invade to depose the interdicted John . He also faces an attempt to put the son of his older brother Geoffrey to replace him . It's a messy bit of history - another reason it is not frequently performed . Leonard Rossiter is best recalled for his comedy performances , especially in the Reginald Perrin television series . He gave a convincing performance here as an unscrupulous and inept monarch , who managed to lose control very quickly . The amazing thing was he died still King , and passing on the throne . Luc Arthur played Arthur , the nephew who became such an unwitting threat to the monarch , and John Thaw played Hubert De Burgh , who tries to help young Arthur but fails .
Streamlined version of the 1947 Classic , but reasonably good	I watched this last night on television for the first time ( I did not see it when it came out in 1973 ) . It sticks to the basics of the story : a jolly , fat old man named Kris Kringle ( now Sebastian Cabot ) is hired by Karen Walker ( now Jane Alexander ) to replace a drunken Santa Clause at the Thanksgiving Day Parade that Macy's throws . Kringle proves such a wonderful Santa that Mr . Macy ( David Doyle ) hires him for the season . He soon becomes a fixture in the Department Store by his fresh honesty that brings in customers . He also becomes a fixture in the lives of Karen and her daughter Susan ( Susan Davidson ) and her neighbor Bill Schaffner ( David Hartman ) , encouraging Susan to rid herself of the mother-imposed controls on her imagination and childhood spirit , and encouraging Bill and Karen to get together . The fly in the ointment is the skeptical reaction of Dr . Henry Sawyer ( Roddy MacDonald here ) who is certain that Kris must be a mental case , as he openly claims he is Santa Clause . Eventually all is led to an insanity hearing before a politically active Judge ( here Tom Bosley ) with the prosecution led by the District Attorney ( James Gregory here ) . The results are the same as in the original film . Familiarity supposedly breeds contempt , but here it was accepted that the audience knew the story ( most audiences are aware of all the best stories connected to Christmas that have been made into films ) . The results is the film is still good , even if some of the edge and drive of the 1947 version are lost . For example , a definite highpoint of the original was William Frawley's funny speech of warning to Judge Gene Lockhart to be extremely careful about handling the insanity hearing . Frawley looked and spoke like the old time political pro he is supposed to be , and delivers the speech with a chirping little smile that the audience appreciates and cheers on . That speech has been dropped here , and while Jason Wingreen ( best recalled as " Harry " the bartender on ALL IN THE FAMILY and ARCHIE BUNKER'S PLACE ) is fine he has no really good replacement speech . Certain characters seem wasted . Karen's assistant is played by Jim Backus , but he is never given any really memorable bit of business his comic and acting abilities deserve . The hearing is a closed one , and it lacks the noise and publicity the original film gave ( which added to the pressures on Lockhart and the D . A . in that film , Jerome Cowan ) . Roland Winters is in this film as Mr . Gimble , and has one good scene besting his rival for publicity . But the character also ended up in the 1947 version testifying ( as does Mr . Macy ) at the hearing . The biggest change ( and a flawed one ) is Dr . Sawyer . In the original it was Porter Hall , who really had no right to call himself a doctor , as he was not a real therapist ( he just fell into the job at Macy's ) . He is a spiteful , despicable little worm , who eventually finds that his own actions get out of hand and ruin him . Here MacDowell is shading the character a bit . He actually is a psychiatrist , and he does believe that Cabot is off the wall , but he is also angry at Cabot's contempt for him and humiliating him in public . Something could have been rewritten to allow him to come around to seeing Cabot was right ( if rewriting was part of the plans of the production ) . Still for all these changes or deletions , as I said the film holds up well , and the cast gives it their all . So as far as remakes go it is a good one , and worth watching .
Clint Mixes Western and Allegory	In talking about COMES A HORSEMAN I discussed a curious switch in the stereotypes of the characters there - that Jason Robards was not the all powerful land baron that appears in say SHANE . Oddly enough the same thing happens with Richard Dysart in this film , but while COMES A HORSEMAN is set in the late 1940s , PALE RIDER is set in the late 19th Century . Dysart is seen at the start of the film returning from a business trip to the state capital . He is leaving the train , and his face is tired and somewhat discouraged looking . The big honcho of the local area he is approached by the sheriff and his deputies about the news he has to bring . And here it veers closer to Robards ' in COMES A HORSEMAN , and further away from . . . say Forrest Tucker visiting the territorial governor in CHISUM . Dysart says that due to changes ( more middle class voters in the state than formerly ) his clout is not as big as it was a decade or so before - especially because of the local farmers and the rival mining interests . And he does not know if he can reverse the trend . Like Robards the big 20th Century rancher in COMES A HORSEMAN , Dysart is finding that he is on a potential slippery slope to bankruptcy . It is an interesting aspect of the westerns we were raised on . So many fortunes were torn out of the American west - frequently by less than honest means , that it is not usually recognized that many of these fortunes did not last . For every Leland Stamford or James J . Hill or Harriman ( the railroad tycoon we never see in BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID ) , there were others like Haw Tabor ( the basis for Edward G . Robinson's millionaire in SILVER DOLLAR ) who lost it all in the end . It is not the only odd thing about PALE RIDER . Clint Eastwood took elements from the film SHANE , and combined them with a type of dark-viewed religious allegory . His character , " Preacher " has some ancient history with the sheriff and his deputies and Dysart - they talk of some threat in the past that they took care of , and there is evidence that Preacher was once seriously wounded ( maybe left for dead ) . Yet the silent , relentless Preacher almost seems more than an avenger - like an angel of vengeance from the Lord , perhaps . The weakness ( I feel ) in the movie is Michael Moriarty . He tries hard , but does not seem as forceful a father and husband as Van Heflin was in Shane . But perhaps that is just as well . One final interesting point in the film : Richard Kiel . Best known as the oddly likable villain " Jaws " ( in the later Bond films with Roger Moore ) , Kiel plays " Club " who is one of the workers / goons used by Dysart to do his dirty work . But he is also supposed to keep order in Dysart's business . When Chris Penn ( Dysart's son " Josh " ) and some of the others start molesting a woman , Kiel actually runs over to try to prevent it . He is preempted by the arrival of Eastwood , who thrashes Penn and his buddy . Interestingly enough , Kiel enjoys seeing the would-be rapists punished .
The Best 19th Century French Novel ?	It is impossible to do a perfect movie version of any novel . This is particular true about great novels . There have been huge numbers of versions of Les Miserables , The Hunchback of Notre Dame , Tom Jones , David Copperfield , War and Peace . . . you can add the titles . . . and while many are really impressive as movies ( or are favorites of the viewers ) few of them are as good as the novel . It's because there is a serious change in the art form involved - the written word can be read and interpreted in so many ways , while the cinematic " eye " of the film may not encapsulate all the writer planned to push with his / her words . When Gustave Flaubert wrote MADAME BOVARY in the middle of the 19th Century , he shook up that country in a way that was unusual . Flaubert wrote a story of passion and love , but from the standpoint of a female bourgeoisie in the countryside . And one who finds her escape from humdrum provincial life by her overly romantic imagination . But Emma Bovary is doomed by that imagination , and the unscrupulous reactions to it by the men who dominated that same provincial world . Her lovers , like the aristocratic Rodolphe , see her as a willing tool for their pleasure , or as a silly impediment to their careers ( as her lawyer lover soon finds ) . As the strands of her romanticism are lopped off , as the debts she gets that her husband Charles cannot pay lead to bankruptcy , she goes to pieces and kills herself . The full novel is wonderful , and even now I consider it possibly the best 19th Century novel . But it's appearance met with public disbelief and anger . Flaubert was put on trial for publishing an immoral book . The censors and hypocrites felt that he had besmirched the pious middle classes of the France of the 1840s and 1850s . Flaubert was acquitted , and the scandal of the trial improved the sales of the novel . Vincent Minnelli's 1949 movie can't reach the effect of the full novel - and I say this thinking that I could only read it in English , so that I can imagine what it must be in French ! He does peel the skin of the provincial society , with it's social leaders , money lenders ( like Lhereux - Frank Allenby ) here who are all business and no sentiment , aristocrats ( Rodolphe is Louis Jourdan ) , and attempts to push themselves into the greater world outside . Just as Emma sees herself the object of desire by aristocrats at the ball Rodolphe throws , the village sees itself made into a household name if Charles can perform the great foot operation that will restore one of the rustics feet to normal . Both are in for great disappointment . Minnelli sense of composition works wonders in the film . The scene where Emma finally is the center of attention looks shows her surrounded by handsome beaus in a mirror - it looks like an idea from the mid-century painter Winterhalter ( although he was Austrian ) . The backwoods provincial background is caught perfectly . When debts starts swooping around a frightened Emma , she goes to a man she respects , and finds he's ready to make a financial arrangement if she'll sleep with him ! Minnelli surrounds the telling of the story by showing the trial of Flaubert . James Mason plays the writer , eloquently " forgiving " his heroine for flaunting the conventions of a hypocritical society . Jennifer Jones possibly had her best performance in this film - not her Oscar winner , SONG OF BERNADETTE . The climatic moment when she decides to destroy herself makes her behave like an animal - and she is a trapped animal at that point . Van Heflin plays the good-natured but boring Charles quite well . Actually the cast was up to snuff regarding their parts , and somewhat surprising . George Zuuco , for example , is the lawyer ( Dubocage ) whose clerk Leon ( Alf Kjelin ) was Emma's second lover . He does not appear frequently but appears reading the papers of a lawsuit that Emma is trying to use to raise money on her father-in-law's prospective estate . Zucco is appalled by it , and angrily confronts Leon about this waste of time for their busy office . But a moment afterward , Zucco suddenly realizes why Leon is doing this . Actually ( for a Zucco character ) he softens , and says , " Do yourself a favor and forget her my boy . " Not helpful for poor Emma , but actually sensible for Leon ( who has a future in law ) .
Even Screen Titans Have To Start Somewhere	Finally after many years this film has reappeared for evaluation by new audiences . It's about time . It was the only film that John Ford directed Humphrey Bogart in , and the only film that Bogie appeared with one actor he really respected ( who respected him ) : Spencer Tracy . Ford would eventually make THE LAST HURRAH with Tracy , with better equipment and production values , and ( to be fair ) one of the best political screenplays in movie history . But if THE VAGABOND KING has to be taken as symbolic of the changeover of motion pictures to sound , and how it was not a total success at first , so is UP THE RIVER a similar transition film . Currently it is in a package of twenty movies ( surviving films ) of Ford made at 20th Century Fox from the 1920s to 1952 . In 1930 , Ford had at least seven years of heavy movie work behind him , laying the groundwork for his magnificent westerns and regular films like THE GRAPES OF WRATH and HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY . But he was just getting used to sound , and while he was more creative than the forgettable director of THE VAGABOND KING , there are moments when you see him struggling to place his performers into position near microphones ( the number of scenes of people aimlessly congregating is amazing in this film ) . Positively it does show a young Tracy and a young Bogart playing off each other . Less positively Bogart is separated from Tracy for much of the film - Bogart is leaving prison on parole , when Tracy is returned , and Bogie heads back to his home in New England . But problems dealing with a blackmailer forcing Bogart to work in a swindle with him leads to Tracy promising Bogart's prison sweetheart ( Claire Luce ) that he will help Bogart out . So they do reunited for more scenes ( including one odd one - they are on a relaxing hay ride with Bogart's friends ) . Bogart is a good guy who killed a man in a fight and was sent to prison as a result . Tracy is a smart-aleck crook , who is teamed usually with occasionally smart , but frequently stupid Warren Hymer ( in the beginning of the film Tracy abandons Hymer rather simply by having him check a back tire on their getaway car - one that is not damaged actually ) . Still Hymer does occasionally trump an amazed Tracy - at a dinner with a clergyman , Hymer's brief period as a member of the Salvation Army proves to be useful . Despite being a smart-aleck , Tracy is actually a decent type , which is why he helps Bogart with the blackmailer . A number of others are sprinkled in the film . William Collier Sr . is the 40 year life termer at the prison who is now captain of their baseball team . Note the scene where he tries to get Tracy an extra pillow at the expense of either Hymer or Bogart to protect Tracy's arm . Robert Emmett O'Connor , soon to be driven to distraction as the immigration detective chasing the Marx Brothers in A NIGHT AT THE OPERA , is the warden here . The prison is a prison to the men , but they are not a bad bunch and do thank the warden for his efforts for them ( including putting on a yearly show of their own talents ) . I suspect that O'Connor's character ( although the prison is in the mid-west ) is based somewhat on the leading American prison warden penologist of that period : Warden Lewis Lawes of Sing Sing Prison . Lawes did everything he could to try to make Sing Sing a real place for rehabilitation , and was even an early outspoken ( and eloquent ) critic of the death penalty . Remembered only by criminal historians and penologists today , he was a very famous man in 1930 . One problem with the film is that African-Americans will find the use of a minstrel act in the prison show is actually offensive ( although Ford shows a tall African-American prisoner enjoying the humor ) . On the other hand , those African-American prisoners who are in there mix and mingle pretty easily with the white prisoners . Ford was ahead on that point . Another problem is due , possibly , to deteriorating film stock . Sequences in the film jump - dialog is lost . Also a plot point - the associates of the blackmailer warn him not to try to cheat them or else . He is later followed into his office late at night by these suspicious associates . We never ( now ) see if they carry out their threat . Two other people who appear are Ward Bond as a bullying prisoner , put in his place by Bogart and Tracy ( Bogart would re-team with Bond eleven years later in THE MALTESE FALCON , on friendlier terms ) . The other is Bob Burns , the " Arkansas Traveller " musician and comedian whose career really took off in the later 1930s . Burns is part of the minstrel show , in black-face ( unfortunately ) , but he is playing his famous " bazooka " musical instrument .
" And to Hell with Burgundy ! "	The early sound films were in one sense a step forward and in another sense two steps back . If you look at the late silent films , like Chaplin's " A Woman Of Paris " or Murnau's " Sunrise " the stories are sophisticated , as is the acting and the directing techniques . But the films are mimed plays - we don't hear any dialog ( we may hear musical accompaniment ) . Then comes 1927 and " The Jazz Singer " . Finally we hear something , and it is worthwhile ( it's Al Jolson's voice - talking and singing ) . But even there huge parts of that first talkie are silent ( the Warner Brothers were not willing to destroy everyone at once ) . By 1930 , except for Chaplin ( constructing " City Lights " ) , most of Hollywood was switched to talkies . But the early problems of acoustics and sound recording make many of these films difficult for modern audiences . Also , a reluctance to trust voices of established stars led to over reliance on stage performers . Dennis King happened to be an exceptionally talented actor and singer . Oddly enough ( due to his own choice ) he decided to stick to stage work until television came into it's own ( and then he willingly got into that new medium ) . This is fine , because it leaves a record of his acting abilities ( and of his singing ) . But he only made a few movies in Hollywood , and the best known one is not his initial film " The Vagabond King " , but his supporting turn as comic villain and lover in " The Devil's Brother " / " Fra Diavalo " with Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy . It's ironic that that performance is recalled , but understandable given the alternative two ( although both are good performances ) . His gentle vicar in " Between Two Worlds " has a moving scene where he leads the passengers on that odd ocean liner into a quiet , childlike prayer - a very fine sequence , by the way . And his performance as the brilliant gutter poet of the 15th Century France , Francois Villon , is preserved in " The Vagabond King " , one of the leading American operetta of the 1920s . But the former part is not the lead role of " Between Two Worlds " , and the productions standards of " The Vagabond King " are hopelessly dated today . Still " The Vagabond King " has much going for it : four top performances by King , Jeannette MacDonald as Katherine ( the King's niece ) , O . P . Heggie as the crafty old " Spider King " Louis IX of France , and Lillian Roth as Villone's girlfriend and ( ultimately ) savior Huguette . Given the datedness of the dialog ( from Justin McCarthy's turn of the century play , " If I Were King " , the leads manage to squeeze every drop of value out of it . Sometimes without the dialog ( look at the scene where a shaved Villon awakes in a royal bedroom , and slowly realizes things have changed ) . Look at Roth's moment singing of her love for Villon in the tavern ( when he is missing and considered in custody ) . MacDonald has to play a " perfection " part - a perfect princess who Villon falls quickly in love with and who slowly falls for him ( when he is made respectable by the King's whims ) . It is a thankless role ( she can't have much fun being perfect ) but she radiates charm , and her singing songs like " Only a rose " ( that one in duet with King ) reminds the viewer of things to come in her future when her partners were named Maurice or Nelson , not Dennis . Heggie's King does not sing in the film , but he gets the craftiness of the " Spider King " . But not quite the brilliance of the political genius of that sinister man . Catch Basil Rathbone's version in the Ronald Colman version of IF I WERE KING later on to see that . However Heggie does capture Louis ' least likable trait - he was one of the most vindictive men of his age . Fighting against them is the sound equipment and direction . Some aspects of the stage production were saved . The different types of servants serving Villon in the palace ( fat men as waiters bringing breakfast ) , ladies in waiting to amuse him , and dwarfs to help dress him ) must have been in the original Broadway production . Another positive thing is the amount of Friml's score ( at least three of his best songs are in the film , including the celebrated " Sons of Toil and Danger " . But the sound quality is awful , and the director at times fails to show any talent at all ( like his failure to show two duel scenes between King and his enemy the Grand Marshal of France ( a somewhat wasted Warner Oland - did part of his part end up being cut ? ) ) . It's interesting to note that only three years later ( 1933 ) King appeared in " The Devil's Brother " . Tendencies to emote which he had in 1930 ( another failure of the director of " The Vagabond King " to control ) were replaced by a more relaxed style , and the sound quality improved remarkably well too . Therefore it's another plus for the Laurel & Hardy comedy ( as King's best performance on film ) as opposed to the historically more important Villon in the current movie . All of which is terribly ironic . But for the strength of his performance , as well as his three leading co-stars ( I wish Oland's was as good as theirs were ) , and the Friml score , the film is worthy of an " 8 " out of " 10 " .
I don't know who went here - William Howard Taft , William Jennings Bryan , WilliamTell - It doesn't matter , Their spirit is dead here !	I will not try to determine what is the best film performance in Al Pacino's career , which included Donnie Brasso and Michael Corleone and Serpico . But his performance as Lt . Col . Frank Slade in SCENT OF A WOMAN must rank among his top ten performances . It was a surprise film performance that captured his second Oscar , and gave new impetus to his career . It is also an interesting view on the importance of character , and how it can be intentionally smashed by those supposed to be building it up . Chris O'Donnell is Charley Simms , a teenager on a scholarship to one of the most elite prep schools in America . He works in the library . One day he and another student are the last two locking up the library , and they see three students ( one is Bradley Whitford ) trashing an expensive new automobile belonging to the pompous and unlikeable new headmaster Mr . Trask ( James Rebhorn ) . Trask sees the activities and runs to his car , but the three boys scatter . He is pretty certain who they are , but he did not see them clearly . He does stop Charley and the other boy and demands to know what they saw . And here the problem begins that will mushroom until the film ends . Trask is a petty little snot-nose , and wants the heads of the three boys not so much because they did a wrong , but because they held him up to ridicule before the school body . Soon he is pressuring his two " witnesses " to cooperate , or face serious consequences ( expulsion and probable social ruin ) . The other boy , your typical rich kid party animal , is weak and under additional pressure from his father ( who'll ship him to the military if he does not knuckle under ) . Charlie is poor , and can be easily swatted , but Trask is willing that if Charlie cooperates there is nothing the school won't do for him when he heads for a high university career . It is Thanksgiving weekend , and Charley is not going home to Oregon . He sees that there is a blind officer who wants to go to New York City for the holiday , and needs an assistant . It is Lt . Col . Slade , and Charley goes to offer his services , only to find Slade a bitter and prickly man . He was once a promising military figure ( he was an aide to President Lyndon Johnson ) but he lost his eyesight in a stupid trick he was playing , and was retired from the military . Although he has a good pension he feels his life is in tatters . The two go to Manhattan , checking into a first rate hotel , and enjoying the sites ( as much as Slade can enjoy it , or Charley for that matter due to the crisis back at the school ) . But the two click , and Slade begins seeing in Charley the son that he would always have liked to have . Highlights of the trip include a wonderful moment when Charley and Slade ( who can pretend he can see ) test a magnificent convertible on a deserted twelfth avenue in Manhattan on Sunday morning with Slade driving while Charley keeps an eye on potential dangers . Slade also is still quite the lady's man , the title being a reference to his enhanced sense of smell of women's perfumes . In the end Slade learns what the situation is for Charley , who cannot depend on anyone to help him ( his father is long gone from his life , and his step-father could not care less about him ) . Slade ends up with Charlie at the conclusion - a hearing where Trask is going to break both his witnesses to get at the three guilty parties . And while the other boy somewhat caves in , Charley just can't bring himself to say anything . SPOILER COMING UP : Slade is the one who humiliates Trask . He announces that whatever Charley failed to do to satisfy the little headmaster he was not a snitch , and that the ideals of the school are dying in the hands of the headmaster who'd break the spirit of the boys there for his own pettiness . The quote in the Summary Line is part of Slade's speech , in answer to Trask commenting about the great men who came out of the prep school . What good of having these great men to talk of if the very character building blocks that are sought are demolished by the likes of Trask ? Slade points out to the students and teachers that if they leadership they should stick to Charley who won't snitch as opposed to the other fellow and the three idiots who caused the prank but lack the spirit to confess and face punishment . Slade's speech does the trick , and Charley is not punished . In the end one senses the two men will remain close . It seems right that they should . Oh , I kept referring to the other witness without telling who he is . It was a surprise when I watched the film recently . The character , George Wills Jr . , is a party animal type - not really bright and his father has paved his way in with money and donations . I knew someone like that in my college - he was a nice guy but a heavy drinker . He died prematurely ( before his own father ) in 1989 , from the results of his heavy drinking . The character of George Wills , Jr . , helpless in the hands of his dad and Trask ( though he tries to limit the damage of his " testimony " ) was played by the young Philip Seymour Hoffman . It's interesting to see a budding personality of the screen in an early performance of promise . Within fifteen years Hoffman too would have his best acting Oscar . As for my old college acquaintance , this is dedicated to the unfortunate Donald .
Did it Happen Or Didn't it ? - The time warp at Versailles	Oddly enough this particularly interesting story never showed up on the old American series ONE STEP BEYOND . One could see John Newland delving into it and whether it was true or not . Ms Elizabeth Morrison ( Wendy Hiller ) and Ms Francis Lamont ( Hannah Gordon ) were two proper English ladies , Oxford graduates and educators both . In August 1901 they took a vacation trip to France , and were viewing all the famous historical landmarks . This took them to the palace at Versailles on August 10 , 1901 . What happened depends on your acceptance that there are many unanswered phenomenon in our world . The ladies got separated from other people in their tourist party , and sat down for awhile . Suddenly they heard people speaking French , and saw men and women appear who were wearing clothing and fashions from the late 18th Century . In fact , one of the ladies appeared to be Queen Marie Antoinette . There were anxious looks on the various people , who were listening to a messenger pointing towards Paris . Gradually the oddly dressed people left the scene , and our two ladies wandered off , and found the modern dressed people again . One of the ladies would return on her own and have another similar experience . Being bookish they studied the existing material and found that they may have somehow been taken back in time to August 10 , 1792 , the day the Tuileries palace was sacked and the Swiss Guard massacred . They also found that the ghost of the Queen may have been seen on the grounds by others . The two ladies presented their story to various psychic societies , damaging their academic credentials . Finally they published an account of it in 1911 , but the drama ends with the death of Lamont , apparently worn out by denying she was hallucinating or lying . Actually the two ladies did not die ( in real life ) so soon after 1911 . For a short account of the story see Rupert Furneaux'a THE WORLD'S MOST INTRIGUING TRUE MYSTERIES ( New York : ARC BOOKS , INC . , 1969 ) , pp . 24 - 38 " An Adventure in Time " . The television film ( first shown on the series " MYSTERY " in the United States ) was a good one , particularly in the performances of the two leads . As mentioned in the other reviews , tricks with photography were used to suggest events going on around the ladies that could have been ghosts , or could have been due to heat prostration .
Historic truth ? , . . or Orson Welles ' posthumous revenge ?	When Pauline Kael did her celebrated combination of original research and character assassination , entitled " Raising Kane " , she mentioned that in the course of the final version of CITIZEN KANE that we have Orson Welles pruned out some events put into the script by Herman Mankiewicz . Mankiewicz , for example , wanted to make the eventual collapse of the first Kane marriage to Emily Norton Monroe to be caused by Kane's accidental encouragement of the assassination of Emily's uncle , the President of the United States . This was based on an incident that Hearst's enemies seized on involving Ambrose Bierce ( a Hearst columnist in 1900-1901 ) writing a quatrain about the killing ( in 1900 ) of Governor-elect William Goebel of Kentucky , that suggested that the missing assassination bullet was headed for Washington " to stretch McKinley on his bier . " When Leon Czolgosz shot and killed the President in September 1901 Hearst's foes recalled the lines and said Hearst encouraged political murder . The original script for Kane had Emily accusing Charles for her uncle's death , and never forgiving him . That was cut , with Emily's growing dislike for Charles based , instead on his ego , his concentration on his newspaper empire and political ambitions , and his neglect of her ( and probably their son ) . The business with Susan Alexander is the final straw . It was not the only cut of a sensational nature . In the final film Susan tells the reporter that he should speak to Raymond the butler because " ( h ) e knows where all the bodies are . " In the original script Raymond was ( with Susan ) a witness to Kane actually killing a man , but covering it up . This is why Raymond remains so important to Kane in his later years . It also helps explain Susan's growing dislike for her husband . It too was cut . Welles was wise here - everyone in Hollywood would have known what that was about , and any denials about Kane not being based on Hearst would have been dismissed because the dead man would have been too much of a coincidence to ignore . In 1941 it was generally suspected throughout Hollywood ( and in much of the U . S . ) that William Randolph Hearst was in some way responsible for the death ( in 1924 ) of movie director / producer / pioneer Thomas Ince . Ince had been one of a set of guests invited on Hearst's luxury yacht , the " Onieda " for a cruise . Others on the cruise included novelist Elinior Glyn , Hearst's mistress Marion Davies , the great Charlie Chaplin , Tom Ince , and a newcomer to the Hearst empire , gossip writer Louella Parsons . At some point on the trip ( which was supposed to be a two week cruise ) Ince was rushed ashore in serious condition and taken to a hospital . He died two days later . The cause was varied according to the bulletins , usually being either a heart attack or a stomach ailment . However , rumors soon emerged that an incident happened on board the Oneida that led to the shooting of Ince , probably at the hands of Hearst . The story has never completely died , and even today there is a small body of evidence that Ince did not die a natural death . The basic scenario was that Ince was on deck when Hearst was chasing Chaplin ( who had been fooling around with Davies ) and in shooting at Chaplin Hearst accidentally wounded Ince . Hearst was powerful enough to clamp down on the tragedy , but at the same time there was a cost : Louella Parsons was just a new employee at the time . Now , she blackmailed her boss into making her a national columnist and a real power in Hollywood . Peter Bogdanovitch ( who directed THE CAT'S MEOW ) was a close friend of Orson Welles . One can't quite get it out of one's head that this film , a twisted " prequill " to KANE , was meant as Bogdanovitch's homage to the classic film and his attempt to smear Hearst , who after 1941 did everything he could to hurt Welles . The period detail is very good , and Edward Herrmann makes a dandy Hearst ( sort of a return to the mad playboy husband of Goldie Hawn in OVERBOARD , which also takes place on a yacht ) . Certainly he is supremely confident as the millionaire , but he is also smart . A running story line is that Tom Ince ( Cary Elwys ) is trying to get Hearst's backing for a rejuvenation of Ince's film career ( supposedly on the verge of collapse in 1924 ) but that Hearst is not stupid enough to waste his money that way . However , Herrmann does also demonstrate that he is more than a little possessive about Ms Davies ( Kirsten Dunst ) , and that he is worried about that little cockney Chaplin ( Eddie Izzard ) going after his woman . Certainly Chaplin's reputation with the ladies was enough to give any man pause . Jennifer Tilly ( Louella Parsons ) certainly is keeping her eyes open ( she is , after all , a gossip writer ) , and it pays dividends at the end . As for Joanne Lumley as Elinor Glyn , she gives the film a kind of narrative and framework ( Glyn , by the way , if you can't recall her was the woman who termed the euphemism for sex appeal as " it " , and was to make a screenplay called " It " that starred Clara Bow , who became the " It girl " - otherwise she has become pretty forgotten ) . The film is worth watching - not perhaps another PAPER MOON or LAST PICTURE SHOW , but better than AT LONG LAST LOVE . Do I think Hearst killed Ince ? If he did it was a sheer accident , because who would kill a well known figure under such circumstances as part of a comprehensive murder plan !
Mr . Bogarde's choice villainy	I watched this film this evening for the first time . It's a bit stagy at times ( understandable because of the movie's basis in a stage play ) . This has one bad effect - there is too much dialog in the conclusion , with Dirk Bogarde and Kay Walsh's final confrontation being too long as the psychological control see-saws between them over each other . Dirk Bogarde has become one of the forgotten figures of British cinema in the last thirty years , because of his decision to have a remarkably quiet lifestyle . Up to the 1970s , when he made Visconti's " The Damned " , and " Death In Venice " , he was one of the leading British cinema stars with great name recognition in America . But after that , the star appeared increasingly infrequently . He would live for several decades more , but by the time he died ( even though he had gotten honored ) he was like an afterthought . It was a regrettable conclusion for a fine acting career . Bogarde played all kinds of films , from comedies like " Doctor In The House " and " Doctor At Sea " ( as Dr . Simon Sparrow ) to dramas like " The Spanish Gardener " to war films like " A Bridge Too Far " . A homosexual in real life , he portrayed a blackmailed one in " Victim " . He was able to do costume films , such as " H . M . S . Defiant " . And that last film brings up an interesting point - Bogarde was quite good at playing villains . His character in " The Damned " is a fortune hunter marrying into a Krupp-like family , who willingly sells his soul to the Nazis to get backup for his ambitions ( and eventually is out-maneuvered by even more ruthless figures ) . In " Libel " he is fighting charges of impersonation and treason , playing two men who were in a P . O . W . camp together ( one a good guy , one a sneak ) . Bogarde plays " Teddy " Bare , a charming creep who romances elderly , rich women . He aims at Mona Washbourne , and succeeds with her , but before he kills her she changes her will so he can't benefit . He then aims at a younger woman ( Margaret Leighton ) , who is loud and common . Someone on this thread compared Bogarde's character to Charlie Chaplin as " Monsieur Verdoux " . If one does that ( although Chaplin is far more suave ) , Leighton resembles a rougher version of Martha Raye . But she is also not easy to twist like Washbourne had seemed . So Bogarde aims for Kay Walsh , another older woman with money . He thinks she might be a better target - and then he starts finding her quite unsettling . Is he pursuing Walsh as another Victim , or is she hunting him , and why ? The conclusion is quite predictable ( unfortunately ) due to one of the characters showing up for the last confrontation , suggesting what has to happen to Bogarde . But the acting ( especially Leighton's lower class rich woman who is fragile despite her hard shell ) is quite good . And Bogarde is such a fascinating creep . . . as he was in all his villain roles .
Another superb novella of Henry James	The basis of this movie is a Henry James novella entitled THE ASPERN PAPERS . In the story , the narrator is a publisher who is trying to find a trove of love letters that were supposedly written by one of early 19th Century America's great romantic poets , Jeffrey Aspern . His search takes him to Venice , where he ingratiates himself into the household of Aspern's still living lover and her niece . He succeeds better than he expects , because the letters do exist - but to get to them he has to be nicer and nicer to the niece . Eventually he does read some of the letters , but his success is cut short - the niece is expecting the publisher is in love with her , and will marry her . This was not planned , and ( reluctantly ) he gives up his search . Then , a few years later , he returns after the aunt has died . The niece is still there , but realizing why he had been so interested in her she decided on her revenge ( reminiscent , in it's way , to the the revenge of Catherine Sloper to Morris Townsend . in THE HEIRESS / " Washington Square " ) . She tells she burned all the letters . End of story . The movie expands the part of the aunt ( Agnes Moorehead ) , making her the keeper of a grave secret . Susan Hayward properly shows the emotional problems of an attractive woman facing spinsterhood . And Bob Cummings is able to show that , for all his business interest in the literary find , he is not without a human side . Oddly enough the story was based on a true one , that is discussed by Professor Richard Altick's classic book THE SCHOLAR ADVENTURERS . The actual incident involved a cache of love and private letters of George , Lord Byron . Regretfully , they too were burned .
The Events Leading to the Death of General Yang	Made the same year as DESIRE , THE GENERAL DIED AT DAWN is closer to the norm of Gary Cooper's film image . Rather than the charm and humor of Borzage and Lubitsch's film , Lewis Milestone's movie concentrated on the straight and honest decent American that Coop played in westerns and adventure films . Here he is on a mission to buy weapons for the peasantry fighting one of the warlords who overran China between 1911 and 1931 , when Japanese aggression became a centralizing force in uniting Chinese ( except for Kuomintang v . Communists for awhile longer ) . The General here is Wang ( Akim Tamiroff , at his most subtly threatening ) . He is aware that there is a scheme to arm his enemies , and he is making all efforts to scotch it by kidnapping the gun dealer ( William Frawley - as said elsewhere on this thread in a performance that unfortunately mirrors his frequently mean drunk self ) , and finding the man who is trying to buy the weapons . Cooper shows early his " boy scout " honor by illustrating ( to Russell Hicks , a glib , cynical traveler ) what Wang's rule means to the peasants . He asks for a match , and Hicks says he hasn't any . Cooper knocks him down , and calmly asks for the match again . A furious Hicks repeats he said he has no matches . Cooper says he understands that , but what he just did to Hicks about matches is exactly what Wang does to the peasants for food , possessions , whatever he wants , and he treats them far worse than just knocking them down if they refuse him . Madeleine Carroll is the anti-heroine , the daughter of Porter Hall ( a year away from killing Cooper as Jack McCall in THE PLAINSMAN ) . As sneaky as ever he encourages her to help preoccupy Cooper while Hall gets the money from him . Cooper does realize ( slightly late ) what's going on , and he does confront Carroll ( who is not happy at her actions ) . Eventually there is a confrontation with Hall as well - which ends badly . Hall is not the worst figure in the film . Besides Tamiroff and Frawley there is also J . M . Kerrigan as " Leach " ( an apt name ) , who is a blackmailing scoundrel only out for his own benefit . Like the other villains in the film he does a first rate job . So does Dudley Digges as Mr . Wu , the restaurant owner who is also the contact man for Cooper when he is supposed to get Frawley's weapons . Notice his comment about the pleasure of a particular Chinese dish . Also notice ( briefly ) the appearance of John O'Hara , the novelist , as a reporter early in the film . He is closer to " Samara " than to " Gibbsville " in this movie . The film's threads all come together in a mass confrontation on Wang's junk . The conclusion is one that only makes sense if you realize what an egomaniac Tamiroff's character really is . I like this adventure film , which is a worthy continuation of the story of China's fragmentation in those years to Von Sternberg's SHANGHAI EXPRESS . Definitely a film to watch and enjoy .
A Wonderful Suspense Film - But I Would Have So Wanted to Change the Ending	I actually recall seeing CHARADE when if first the movie houses in 1963 , and it has remained a fond memory ever since - one of the examples of a clever plot with a good cast and a surprisingly adroit director . Stanley Donen is best recalled for his work in the late 1940s and early 1950s on several of the best MGM musicals ( usually working with Gene Kelly ) . But it is an interesting surprise that in the 1960s he did two thrillers ( CHARADE and ARABESQUE ) which were very well done indeed . CHARADE is about Reggie Lambert , a woman about to get divorced from her American husband . But before the divorce can get underway she learns her husband has been brutally murdered ( we see his body thrown off a train ) . Soon she meets Peter Joshua ( Cary Grant ) who starts befriending , even romancing her - but their relationship is twisted when it turns out his name is not Peter Joshua but Alexander Dial , the brother of a man who was killed in a suspicious incident during World War II , where a fortune in gold was lost . Although the Germans apparently were responsible , the suspicion was that the men guarding the gold hid it , to divide it up later on . These men are James Coburn , George Kennedy , Ned Glass , a dead soldier named Carson Dial , and the deceased husband of Hepburn . The three living ex-G . I . s are in Paris - they had apparently tracked down Hepburn's husband , and one of them may have killed him . But each denies this , and suspicion is also on Grant ( supposedly for the share of his dead sibling ) , and Hepburn . To add to the tensions , Hepburn is contacted by a Mr . Hamilton Bartholemew of the U . S . Embassy in Paris ( Walter Matthau ) who explains that the U . S . Government is interested in recovering the stolen gold . There are several mysteries in CHARADE : what happened to the fortune in gold ; what is the game that Grant is playing ( is he friend or foe to Hepburn ) ; and who is bumping off the various ex-G . I . s . For as the film passes first one then the other is killed off . As these problems are wrapped up we reach the conclusion , a scary showdown in the empty Paris Opera House . Photographed in Paris , the film is also an able visual valentine to the great city . Only another Hepburn film , FUNNY FACE , shows as many romantic sites ( a third one , HOW TO STEAL A MILLION , comes close too ) . It sort of fits the mood , with Grant romancing Hepburn in the great city . If you want to be totally surprised , I advise not reading beyond this point of this review . But if you want a personal observation read on : SPOILER COMING UP : All his career Cary Grant wanted to play a villainous part . He was always the hero ( his roles in NONE BUT THE LONELY HEART and MR . LUCKY and SUSPICION were the closest to villains he played ) . This film was his last chance , and it would have been curious if he had played it as such . Oddly enough , the actual chief villain in the plot , Walter Matthau ( as Carson Dial , pretending to be Mr . Bartholemew ) was also at a crossroads . Most of Matthau's early film parts were villainous , such as the whip-happy tavern owner in THE KENTUCKIAN . However he had shown signs of being a " good guy " . In A FACE IN THE CROWD , as a television executive , he tells off a scheming , collapsing , Andy Griffith that he'll be lucky in a year or two to be recalled as a has-been . And in ONIONHEAD , he was a good natured cook on a naval craft who befriends Griffith . Still his most recent performances were mostly villainous - as when he was the government adviser in FAILSAFE who recommends the accidental launching of an attack of Russia be followed up by a full scale sneak attack . I might add , to Matthau's later success , he demonstrated where he could his great sense of timing and humor . It has often struck me that if Donan and Grant had gotten together , rather than a routine romantic adventurer for Grant he should have been the killer and villain , and been the threat to Hepburn at the conclusion - that Matthau would have been great fumbling his way to rescuing her . There need not have been a romance between Matthau and Hepburn , but he could have saved her . After all , she had started the film married to a man with a secret about a government theft , and if she fell for a killer ( as Grant would have been ) it would have been consistent with her being a poor judge of character .
A Snipe at FANTASI	Nicely made Warner's Cartoon " Merrie Melody " from 1943 . The Warners ' Cartoon stable occasionally took a swipe at the far most prestigious Disney group across town . Here they decide to have a go at Disney's one attempt at grand art - his musical cartoon movie FANTASIA , which did episodes such as alligators and hippopotomi dancing ballet , or Mickey Mouse in the cartoon's most famous sequence : The Sorceror's Apprentice , or Moussorgski's A NIGHT ON BALD MOUNTAIN followed by Schubert's Ave Maria . The Warners Cartoons never ( at that time ) expanded beyond nine minutes - usually they were seven to eight minutes . So there was no full scale spoof on the Disney masterpiece . But everyone could see the spoof by the appearance of the shadow on the podium ( Leopold Stowkowski in FANTASIA - here it was Elmer Fudd ) . Elmer introduces the two segments ( both Johann Strauss the Younger standbys : THE TALES FROM THE VIENNA WOODS and ON THE BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUBE ) . He too tries to uplift the cultural level of the audience , by explaining how the melody flows around and around , " and it comes out here " . To people not around in the 1940s , it is a reference to a popular tune , " THE MUSIC GOES ROUND AND ROUND " . Elmer's attempt at cultural awareness is undercut by his shirtfront , which keeps popping up and hitting him in the face . He eventually tears the shirt off . Later he strips even more . THE TALES FROM THE VIENNA WOODS is a ballet with Porky as the hunter ( filling in for master of ceremonies Elmer ) , hunting Bugs . He has brought along his hunting dog , and Bugs ( progressively more effeminate in this ballet than usual ) is able to fool them . There is a bit of a knock at SWAN LAKE here , with Bugs disarming the hunters , only to enrage a squirrel by hitting him with the rifle . Then , for the first time in any Bugs Bunny cartoon , Bugs dies ( briefly ) . His resurrection , involving a brazier , is also unique in his cartoons . ON THE BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUBE deals with a variant on the " ugly Duckling " of Hans Christian Anderson . Lonely baby Daffy wants to be accepted by a family of Swans ( a mother and her three daughters ) , but he is obviously a duck . He proves himself when he bests a vulture who momentarily grabs the three baby swans . The avenging Daffy takes on the appearance of a U . S . Air Force fighter plane , while the vulture suddenly takes on a yellow coloring . The most subtle point in this sequence is when the mother Swan faints after failing to find her three children . She has fallen faint in the center of a pond or lake surrounded with water . A shocked Daffy runs off , gets a pail of water , and flings it on the Swan - without any effect whatsoever to the Swan . A delightful romp into cultural pratfalls , to the strings of Strauss .
Peter Sellers as a concert pianist and would-be lover	It was 1964 and the great wave of fascination with Peter Sellers as an actor who could do anything well - could flesh out any character - was in full bloom . His films were growing an international audience that would culminate with his " Clouseau " performances and his multiple performances in DR . STRANGELOVE . But his films did show some odd choices , one of which was this unexpected study of adolescent puppy love . Sellers played avant garde ( or self-appointed avant garde ) pianist Henry Orient , who manages to pick up two acolytes , Tippy Walker as Val Boyd and Merrie Spaeth as Gil Gilbert . Both come from Manhattan homes with some claims to privilege ( they attend the same girls school ) , but Walker is from a family with more money . Both girls also have family problems : Spaeth's parents are divorced , and Walker's parents are in a state of marriage doldrums . Walker's mother is Angela Lansbury ( at her most irritatingly snobbish ) and her father is Tom Bosley , a decent man who is increasingly showing strains putting up with his wife's behavior and even her possible infidelities . He is a loving father , and this despite his uncertainty if Walker is his daughter or not . Spaeth's mother ( Phyllis Thaxter ) is a decent woman raising her daughter with the help of her friend ( Bibi Osterwald ) . The girls decide on being devoted followers of a " cult " of Orient , a concert pianist of dubious popularity whose records they collect and whose photos they pick up . Gradually they also invade his personal life , following Sellers all over the place . He starts getting a complex about them , wondering if they are detectives . They certainly spoil his personal lifestyle - especially his relationship with wealthy Paula Prentice . Sellers had some choice , but minor moments in this film - his trying to put a curse on the girls at one point , or his running from backfire ( thinking it is a jealous husband ) . Prentice had a hysterically funny scene when her tryst with Sellers is spoiled - a scene where Al Lewis popped up as a nosy shop-keeper who signals the police . There was also a concert sequence with the conductor getting angry at the " embellishments " in the score that Sellers puts into the concerto he is playing . But the bulk of the film was really carried by the two girls , who are shown growing up and trying to maintain their friendship . And the equally trying problems concerning Walker and her mother . It was sold as a Peter Sellers movie , and he has a sizable part , but it was really not his film at all . It was a film that featured him in support of Walker and Spaeth . That it was a good film is not in doubt , but for a person interested in Seller's mad , creative artistry it was not as important as the earlier British comedies , or some of his later international films .
Paging Private Schultz	Turner Classic Movies has a Saturday Morning " Cartoon " Alley hosted by Josh Mankiewicz . I happened to turn it on between 12 : 00 P . M . and 12 : 30 P . M . yesterday . They showed three Warner Brother Cartoons that were done for the morale of home audiences respecting the war effort in World War II . This was the first one . I have to admit that I first saw this in the 1960s , when it was shown fairly frequently . Of course some of the humor did not make much sense to me - except that it was destructive . The business of Von Falcon , the Nazi Commandant , cleaning his eye which looked like the sort of monocle that Conrad Veidt wore in ESCAPE was funny , but I could not see the reference . Nor did I understand " Oh is that you Mert ? " when Von Falcon tries to use the payphone ( the rate of a nickel for the phone call is rather upsetting in 2007 - if one uses a pay phone now it usually is $ . 25 for a local call ) . The reference to Fibber McGee would be a dead loss in 1963 , even though Bob Sweeney would be in a drab television version of the Jordans ' successful radio comedy . The plot of this ten minute cartoon is simple . Von Falcon is assigned to keep American commandos out of his area - or else ! He spots Daffy Duck parachuting in , and with the aid of Private Schultz he tries to capture Daffy . Instead Daffy manages to blow up Schultz ( with a bomb meant for Von Falcon , and to cause four Messerschmidts to destroy each other trying to hit his plane ( " A mess of Messerschmidts " , Daffy chortles triumphantly ) . Finally , however , the German bird momentarily gets the better of Daffy and shoots him out of a cannon . But Daffy remains clever enough to use this to advantage - he is fired towards Berlin , and ends on the platform with Hitler ( who is giving a speech ) , whom he hits on the head with a mallet . All along Von Falcon has called for the loyal Private Schultz , who shows up just to be hit on the head with a mallet . Now it is Der Fuhrer who calls for Schultz , as the cartoon ends . Oddly he is singing the old British music hall song , " It's the same the whole world over " as he descends . It has been pointed out that the hapless Private Schultz in the cartoon may be the origin for the John Banner character in HOGAN'S HEROES . Possibly that may be right . But actually , the character and the constant calling of his name by his superior officer is taken from the movie TO BE OR NOT TO BE by Ernst Lubitsch , and starring Carole Lombard , Jack Benny , Robert Stack , and Sig Ruman . Ruman's character , Col . " concentration camp " Erhardt has an assistant named Schultz , whom he calls whenever he needs a flunky to blame things on . When , at the end of that movie , Erhardt thinks he is in disgrace with Hitler over Lombard , Erhardt pulls out his revolver . We watch behind a closed door and hear the gun fire . There is a pause , and suddenly we hear Ruman yell " SCHULTZ ! ! " That was probably where the idea of the Private Schultz who is blamed for everything came from . I should also add that Private Schultz's appearance may have had a later , more lasting version . With him being all helmet , eyes ( wide behind glasses ) and feet , he is the model for the later immortal Martin the Martian - Daffy Duck Dodgers ' evenly fallible rival in the future .
Belatedly , how it all started - with a boost from PRIVATE SECRETARY	There was a time that episodes of THE LUCI - DESI COMEDY HOUR were rerun almost every summer up to about 1969 ( about the time I entered High School ) . Then they vanished , and only reappeared in the last decade . Most of them held up fairly well ( like the episodes of I LOVE LUCY do ) , but some of them may seem odd or distant to youngsters . While the episodes of I LOVE LUCY that had then prominent stars like Robert Taylor or William Holden as guest-stars may still catch the attention of the viewer as memorable , how does one explain those episodes of the COMEDY HOUR that starred the great , but tragically long forgotten Ernie Kovacs , or that fine actor Paul Douglas ? The first one has a curious original note that most viewers would not be aware of anymore . That is that when the story unfolds Lucy reveals who was her closest chum before she met Ethel Mertz ( Vivian Vance ) . For the story here is that news gossip columnist Hedda Hopper ( another long forgotten figure to today's audiences - but in her day a really powerful figure in the movie colony ) is interviewing the Ricardos to learn how they met . Actually , over the years , we got some idea of the odd marriage of Ricky Ricardo , musician and band leader , and Lucille McGillicuddy . Her family ( in particular her mother ) were not really crazy about it - it was so sudden and rushed into ) . And it was really unheard of in the 1940s for American women like Lucy ( caucasian as she is ) to marry Latin Americans . However , although religion is rarely mentioned , it is probable that Lucy like Ricky in Catholic , and that she is of Irish descent ( which makes a marriage with a Spanish-American more possible : Irish - Spanish unions were not unheard of , such as the family of Eamon Da Valera of Ireland or General / President Bernardo O'Higgins of Chile ) . But the details of the meeting of the couple and their marriage are not told until this episode . And it also includes the first meeting ( on board a cruise ship ) with Fred ( William Frawley ) and Ethel . Fred is younger here - he still has hair ! But since this was where Lucy met Ethel , we learn Lucy traveled with an older friend : one Suzie McNamara ( Anne Southern ) . Southern and Ball had become close friends on their way up in movies in the 1930s and 1940s , and even appeared together at least once . While Ball had been making I LOVE LUCY , Southern was on another station doing PRIVATE SECRETARY with Don Porter and Jessie White . But that show ended in the late 1950s . So Southern was in a unique situation : She could pop up in her persona from PRIVATE SECRETARY in Lucy's new show , and link the two characters . This had not been tried before on television . ( I have never found it , but there is a story that in the dialog of one of the I LOVE LUCY episodes , Lucy returns home in an angry mood and tells Ethel she had a run-in with a bus driver in Brooklyn named Kramden . It's just barely possible , as THE HONEYMOONERS as a program only lasted those 39 episodes after being on Jackie Gleason's earlier program as a skit . Certainly it is easy to imagine Ralph having some ditsy problem with Lucy as a passenger on his bus . ) The episode is how Lucy and Suzie meet two musicians on the boat , Ricky and Carlos Garcia ( Cesar Romero ) , and two romances develop . But the complications involve the police and some period in a Cuban calaboose . The upshot is that Ricky and Lucy end up together ( Suzie is with Carlos at the end , but as she and her boss - Don Porter - ended up together in her show we know this union didn't work ) . Ethel ( with a reluctant Fred ) get involved in helping Lucy and Suzie out of their predicament with the law , which is how Lucy finds her new pal . As a start to the new series of hour long shows it was okay . A few of the later ones ( particularly one with Fred MacMurray , which I always enjoyed ) were funnier . But the linking of Southern's heroine with Ball's was quite simple but clever . Interestingly enough , when Ball did her THE LUCY SHOW in the 1960s , Vivian Vance did not stay on it very long . For a number of episodes Southern came back as an old friend of Ball's named the Countess Framboise . She nearly became a regular .
Probably the Least Remembered LUCY - DESI COMEDY HOUR	The casts in these productions still showed the considerable power and influence of the star - producers . If the likes of John Wayne , Robert Taylor , and William Holden popped up on the older television show I LOVE LUCY due to it's success and the creation of the DESILU Production firm , the COMEDY HOUR attracted luminaries like Maurice Chevalier ( a real coup only a year after his smash hit in Vincent Minelli's Oscar winning GIGI ) , Ida Lupino , Tallulah Bankhead ( who rarely did television ) , and Milton Berle . But this episode ( as I mentioned previously ) has a small problem . The guest star is Paul Douglas . Oddly enough one has to know something about Douglas in order to fully appreciate the episode today . Paul Douglas , a good performer , is remembered for two film parts he had and for a stage role he originated . He first appeared on Broadway in BORN YESTEDAY as Harry , the junk dealer tycoon , and lover of Billy Dawn ( Judy Holiday ) . For some reason Douglas did not play the role in the movie version - instead it went to actor Broderick Crawford . Crawford made Harry a believably thuggish type - who is also out of his depth in dealing with a business world of contracts and contacts . But Douglas had made a good impression in the Broadway role , and he would appear in movies before Harry Cohn produced BORN YESTERDAY at Columbia Pictures in 1950 . In 1947 Douglas made his screen debut as Porter Hollingsway in A LETTER TO THREE WIVES , and demonstrated a dry wit and reasonably good presence and scene control that matched fellow stars Linda Darnell , Kirk Douglas , Anne Southern , and Jeanne Crain . Why on the strength of that he could not get his stage part in the film is anyone's guess ( most likely Cohn decided Crawford's " Oscar " made him good film insurance ) . The second film Douglas is recalled for is the 1956 comedy ( with former leading lady Judy Holiday ) THE SOLID GOLD CADILLAC , wherein he was McKeever the business tycoon who leaves his corporate baby for a government job , not realizing the men who control it now are all crooks - but they are facing Holiday who is a corporate watchdog type . Douglas and Holiday showed very fine chemistry in the film , and again it makes us wonder about his failure to be in BORN YESTERDAY with her . There were plenty of other films in the 1950s that Douglas appeared in , like BEAU JAMES with Bob Hope , CLASH BY NIGHT with Barabara Stanwyck and Robert Ryan , and FOREVER FEMALE with William Holden and Ginger Rogers . He certainly graced most of the films he popped up in . Unfortunately he died in 1960 ( his last role was to have been the unscrupulous head of the insurance company in THE APARTMENT , a role recast with Fred MacMurray ) . Had he lived longer Douglas might have left a bigger imprint in motion picture viewer's minds . Forgotten by the viewers of today , this cuts down on Douglas ' impact in the episode . You see , a viewer in 1958 would have remembered that before he was an actor Paul Douglas was a reporter and a sports commentator . There are still some newsreels showing a younger Douglas interviewing baseball figures in the early 1940s . Keeping that in mind the background of this episode makes sense . Lucy tries out to be a television weather girl on a news program that is being produced that has Douglas returning to his reporting roots as anchorman . The episode is not a bad one , first building up on how Lucy makes a pest of herself with Douglas , until he decides to hire her , and then how ( after initially showing she can handle the job ) it becomes more and more difficult as her commuting to and from work leaves her exhausted , to the point she is falling asleep on the air . Of course , Douglas ' reactions to Lucy's forms of collapse are among the best parts of the last third of the episode . If you see this episode , just keep Douglas ' sports reporter background in mind , and the episode will improve tremendously . Sometimes we have to have information in our heads before we can appreciate a piece of work .
The Mountain out of a Molehill Caper .	Walt Disney usually had good production standards , talented performers , and good production groups ( directors , etc . ) . In the last year of the Mickey Mouse Club he had this 19 week serial centered around his most attractive and talented Mousequetier , Annette Funicello . She plays a newly orphaned girl who moves in to the home of a wealthy aunt and uncle , and tries to adjust to a new town . But she has lived on a farm , so the clique of rich kids at the top of the school are likely to look down at her . In particular , the typical " rich bitch " character Roberta Shore ( as Laura Rogan ) , who dislikes Annette as a basically decent person who is her rival . There was music and nice settings in the episodes , such as a hay ride where ( I believe ) Annette sang a tune I recall , " How do I know my love ? How do I know my darling ? " . The real crux of the conflict occurs when Annette is invited to a party at Shore's home and the latter's necklace vanishes . Shore of course jumps to the conclusion that Annette took it , which she finally denounces as untrue . It was in the middle of the series of episodes , and only at the tail end did it blow up in Shore's face . SPOILER : The kids ( including Annette and Shore ) had been around the grand piano in the mansion's living room . Shore took her necklace off to basically wave it in the face of Annette . But she puts it down poorly and it falls into the piano . Now about five months pass with the necklace lost , but although Shore claims they looked apparently nobody looked in the piano . So when in the last episode someone playing the piano finds it sounds out of tune , and discovers the necklace was in the harp , they naturally think Shore knew and lied . It smashes her reputation . Still I do remember the show and series . It was fine for kids from 5 to 11 .
Nothing Like Olivier's film , but a good , workmanlike horror flick	There are several reasons to recall " Tower Of London " . It gave Basil Rathbone one of his few chances to portray a character that could be compared to Lawrence Olivier's portrayal in another film of the same character . It had a performance by John Rodion , Rathbone's illegitimate son , who tried to follow his father's footsteps into movies but was ultimately unable to do so . It was one of the few films that Rathbone did with Boris Karloff ( others being " Son Of Frankenstein " and " The Comedy Of Terrors " ) . It was , I believe , the first film that Rathbone did with Vincent Price ( oddly enough some twenty three years later Price appeared as Richard III , in a remake of this film ) . There is a story that Rathbone tells in his memoirs , " In And Out Of Character " , of a practical joke played by himself and Karloff on Price . Price here was playing " false , perjured Clarence " , that is George , Duke of Clarence , the middle brother between Edward IV and Richard III . The Duke of Clarence was in the Tower of London , charged with treason , when he died suddenly - reputedly he was purposely drowned in a " butt of Malmesey Wine " ( a barrel of wine ) . Clarence , historically , was a very untrustworthy figure , who kept switching sides to better himself at everyone else's expense . In reality he was probably executed for treason . But rumor about the odd death in the barrel of wine spread , and eventually his death was thought to be due to the evil plotting of his brother Richard . When the film was shot , Rowland V . Lee ( the director ) decided that wine could not be used for the barrel's liquid - it would be wasted and was too expensive . He used Coca Cola , which is dark looking like a dessert wine . Price had to be tipped upside down into the barrel full of this Coke , and hold his breath for about a minute , and then be pulled out . He was shot a few times to be sure they got the best take for the film . Then he was taken out of the barrel , and was resting when Rathbone and Karloff came over - they gave Price a bottle of Coke to drink and relax with ! The film has some novel touches in it , none of which are remotely true . Miles Mander's King Henry VI is killed by order of Richard while he is praying . Henry VI did die violently in the Tower of London in 1471 , shortly after the failure of the attempt by Warwick the " Kingmaker " to restore him and the Lancastrians to the throne at the battle of Tewksberry . More likely , though , he was dispatched by order of King Edward IV . There was no box of wax dolls that Richard kept to remove the dolls representing the rivals he had knocked off . Mord is apparently a figment of the movie writer's imagination - no British monarch ever boasted of using a hangman to climb the genealogical tree to become king . Finally , I don't think that Richard's older brother , Edward IV ( Ian Hunter ) , was such a ninny as to wink at Richard's acts of villainy as matters to laugh about while such a character came closer and closer to threatening the succession of Edward's own sons . For all the errors , it is stylistically a good film , with Rathbone at his wormiest as the ultimate bad uncle and usurper . Karloff's Mord is one of the few villain's he played with absolutely no good points to his character . It's not " Richard III " , wherein Olivier ( with Shakespeare ) looks at the soul of a demonic villain . But as a good programmer it was worth watching . About eleven days ago was August 22 , 2006 , the anniversary of the Battle of Bosworth Field , the battle where Richard and his cause fell in 1485 , destroyed by Henry Tudor . As it does every year , the " Richard III Society " put a notice in the death columns of the New York Times regarding the sad fate of the monarch , and concerning loyalty ( Richard's death in battle is tied to the opportunistic switch in loyalties of the Earl of Stanley and his men in the battle ) . I still hope that one day some serious film director will try to produce a film version of Richard's career and story that shows that the evidence that he killed his nephews and most of those other " victims " is not proved and probably was not done by him . But I wonder if such a film as that would turn out to be acceptable with the public , which is now used to seeing Richard III as always being a super-villain .
The Best of the Extended , Rewritten episodes of the " Brett " Holmes series	Doyle had never wanted to resurrect Holmes from his joint death with Professor Moriarty in THE ADVENTURE OF THE FINAL PROBLEM . However , financial considerations made him willing ( in 1901 ) to write THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES , which is still considered his best Holmes ' novel and possibly his best novel . But it was a " memoir " of the great detective , written before his death . Only a greater outcry from his public led Doyle to fully resurrect Holmes in THE ADVENTURE OF THE EMPTY HOUSE , published in 1905 . It is not that the new short stories ( and the last novel ) are really bad . Maybe three of the stories are really terrible , but even the terrible ones are very readable . Several of the later ones ( like THE ADVENTURE OF THE SOLITARY CYCLIST ) are really very good . But the unevenness of production ( in particularly after the stories in HIS LAST BOW ( 1917 ) ) become increasingly apparent . He repeats past story lines , and he shows really negative aspects of Holmes . In the story THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE GABLES Holmes shows a sneering sarcasm at a character who is of African ancestry . SPOILER COMING UP : THE ADVENTURE OF CHARLES AUGUSTUS MILVERTON deals with Holmes trying to recover compromising letters from Milverton , a hugely successful blackmailer . It is an interesting example of how Doyle could make a highly readable story with a minimum of plot for there is little real detective work in the tale . Holmes is hired to try to negotiate with Milverton regarding the purchase of the letters , but to get them back no matter what ! Milverton proves not only unwilling to consider a smaller amount for the papers but prepared to protect himself from Holmes attempting a search of his person . Later we learn Holmes has gotten into the household of Milverton by romancing a maid while disguised . At the end Holmes goes with Watson to burglarize Milverton's home . He and Watson are in the house when they find that Milverton is awaiting some new business deal in his study ( someone with information that Milverton can use ) . Carefully hiding , Holmes and Watson watch as a woman comes in , who turns out to be a victim of collateral damage from Milverton's past activities , and who shoots the blackmailer to death . Holmes and Watson are able to set fire to Milverton's collection of compromising documents before fleeing the house , and subsequently discover ( for themselves ) the identity of the woman . The police ( under Lestrade ) don't discover who the two mysterious men seen running from Milverton's home are , and they are so disgusted by Milverton's activities ( they never were able to bring anything home against him ) that it is obvious the murder will never be solved . The tale is not one of the fascinating ones with real detective work involved like THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND or SILVER BLAZE . It is a tale of mood and late action - the issue being will Holmes and Watson get the papers or will they be caught by Milverton ? It is not one of the best stories , but it is in the bulk of the tales as being really well told and interesting . At the time he wrote CHARLES AUGUSTUS MILVERTON , Conan Doyle had an experience with the police regarding his sometimes activities as a highly respected amateur detective / crusader . An artist was found murdered in his studio in London , and Conan Doyle began writing his opinions about how the killing was committed . Then he stopped - apparently warned by his friends at Scotland Yard that the murder did not bare looking into . The victim had been a homosexual , and the police were certain that it was a lover's spat gone horribly wrong . For the sake of the family of the Victim ( this was in 1905 ) Doyle dropped his interest in the case . So he was aware that sometimes the British police behaved with restraint on matters that did not seem to justify their full probing - as Lestrade's restraint towards whoever did kill the villainous Milverton in the story . Given the description of the story it could have been told in the normal hour long version of the series . But the teleplay for THE MASTER BLACKMAILER spent some time showing the horrible dilemma Milverton's victims ( in Victorian / Edwardian England ) faced . We see a promising young aristocratic army officer kill himself when faced with a homosexual exposure because of Milverton's extravagant demands , all at the start of the teleplay . And it is not only homosexuals . Men and women of good reputation in heterosexual marriages could be smeared by uncovering illegitimate children or past indiscreet relationships . Indeed , in the story , the woman who kills Milverton is avenging the destruction of her husband ( a prominent nobleman ) destroyed by the blackmailer . Milverton is well played at his most poisonous blandness by that fine actor Robert Hardy , who even when confronted by the unexpected furies he has unleashed is totally unperturbed ( he looks like he will just have the angry woman showed out of his home in a moment ) . Brett and Hardwicke do quite well in their Holmes and Watson roles , as to be expected . How serious was the loss of character by rumor or innuendo in 1905 ? In 1898 one of the heroes of the various imperial wars , and the leader of the last victorious charge at the battle of Omdurman that destroyed the Mahdist army ( see FOUR FEATHERS ) was Sir Hector MacDonald . He was governor of Ceylon in 1903 when he suddenly , unexpectedly resigned . Sir Hector returned to London , and shot himself in a hotel while awaiting some sort of hearing . It later came out that " Fighting Mac " , frequently considered the most popular army commander in Britain , had been caught having sleeping arrangements with native boys . Milverton would have eaten him up very quickly . . . or his real life counterparts would have .
A Reasonably Amusing Early Technicolor Short	I've always had a problem with Leon Errol as a comedian . Although he had a big reputation from his years with the Ziefeld Follies , the payoff somehow never lasted with him as it did with fellow Ziegfeld comics W . C . Fields , Ed Wynn , Fanny Brice , and Will Rogers . He did have an active performing career up until his death in 1951 , but there was no single film performance of his that stands apart . Fields ( who appeared with Errol in NEVER GIVE A SUCKER AN EVEN BREAK and another earlier film ) had at least four film performances that were worth while . Rogers was in a slew of early films directed by John Ford . Wynn was able to switch , in his old age , to a series of fine dramatic performances such as THE GREAT MAN and THE DIARY OF ANNE FRANK . Brice had less success in film , but she did appear as herself in THE GREAT ZIEGFELD , did a sketch with Hume Cronym and William Frawley in ZIEGFELD FOLLIES , and had stunning success as " Baby Snooks " on radio . Errol did have talents - he had a " rubber leg " dance routine that he used in many films ( to the point that it becomes somewhat tiresome after awhile ) . He also had a long series of shorts , similar to the ones done by Edgar Kennedy . But Kennedy somehow managed to vary the story lines in his shorts , sometimes fighting with his troublesome in-laws , sometimes with his neighbors , sometimes trying to reclaim valuable lost property , and sometimes trying to do some relatively simple chore that is complicated by all kinds of side issues . Errol's shorts constantly stuck to his trying to leave his wife and house to go out on a toot alone or with his friends ( a theme occasionally - and I reiterate , " occasionally " - by Laurel and Hardy too ) . It was like he couldn't think of anything else . Later , when he was co-starred with Lupe Velez in the " Mexican Spitfire " comedies , he added his playing Lord Epping , which disguise makes up the confusions of the plots of those films . One can say that Epping is his star turn , but it is a feeble one for all that . It is with some relief that Errol's appearance in this film is different . As Walter Webb , Errol plays a gas station owner with a sense of humor . He's constantly telling cornball jokes . He leaves his business with his mechanics , and goes home for the day . That night he happens to get a phone call and is told his gas station has burned down . He is desolate , but his wife ( Marie Wells ) reminds him that they bought a large insurance policy on the business . As a result Errol decides to put in a claim for serious losses that will enable him to build the gas station complex of his dreams . It's quite a place , with dozens of chorus girls as mechanics , and assisting a dating service as well as an attached 19 hole golf course . They serve lunch to waiting customers ( one complains at the cost of repairs and lunch - $1 . 65 ! ) . Jalopies are turned into fancy new cars by the staff . There is even a store that sells various gadgets to make car travel better ( like a mallet to knock out back-seat driver ) . The film has a nice rhythm in it's humor and musical numbers , and it's color ( this short was an early showing of the three color Technicolor method that was used in the 1930s ) . By the end of the film , it's all been quite enjoyable . The conclusion is a final , unexpected joke - one that Errol finds hard to laugh at . For being one of the few Leon Errol shorts that was amusing , and for it's production values , I give this short an " 8 " out of " 10 " .
The Best Large Screen Version of DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE ?	The 1931 version of DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE was directed by Rouben Mamoulian , and it starred Fredric March in the dual title role . It won the star the Best Actor Oscar , the only time that award was won for a horror film role ( or a science fiction part ) . Mamoulian experimented at the start , and in one key sequence with the " I am a camera " technique , wherein the viewer was treated like he was seeing things from the perspective of the character of Jeckyll . Jeckyll himself was supposed to look like an early form of prehistoric man - nearly an ape . It's still a good performance , but many feel it is too stylized . Ten years later MGM decided to do the property again , this time with Spencer Tracy . Tracy actually decided to follow a more classical approach to the role . He eschewed the make-up that March ( and in the silent film , John Barrymore ) used for the evil Hyde , and used a combination of facial contortions and lighting to change his appearance from the good doctor to his evil counterpart . One would like to say that it works . It worked pretty well in 1888 for Richard Mansfield in his celebrated stage performance . But Mansfield could play with the theater lighting to create the physical change on stage . It was an amazing stage effect . It can't be done as well on film ( or at least in a 1941 film - computerization might help today ) . Tracy's grimacing face does not look much different from his serious , good natured face for the Doctor . Even with the lights concentrating on his eyes it still doesn't look that different . The result is that the audience has to make a logical jump and say that there was a physical change , in order to accept the story line . Otherwise , everyone would say that Jeckyll and Hyde is the same guy in the movie . Fortunately Tracy's acting allows us to make such a logical jump . He was a terrific actor , and he certainly uses a subtlety in his evil that is unnerving . Except for his Arnold Boult in EDWARD MY SON he never portrayed as evil a character . The best scene to catch Tracy's Hyde at it's best is when he is visiting his mistress Ivy . She had been hoping he would not come , but she was drinking when he arrives - to steady her nerves . No wonder - Hyde is like a cat toying with a mouse as he plays with Ivy . He plays the piano and keeps discounting various things that he and Ivy could do if they leave the apartment ( as she would hope - if they are in public she has a better chance for help ) . But he keeps finding reasons not to do things , so that ( in his opinion ) it is better for them to stay at home . And even at home , they have limited options . " You could read to me , " Hyde sweetly says , " But we do not have the book ! " A later scene where he surprises a sleeping Lana Turner on a park bench , leering at her , is also unnerving . You never see Tracy like that in other films . Bergman's Ivy is to be compared with Miriam Hopkins in the earlier film . Both realize that Dr . Jeckyll is sexually interested in them , and both secretly hope to catch him ( not realizing that he has caught them in his bad personality ) . But Hopkins always seemed prepared to act like a prostitute ( in the 1931 film she readily shows off her leg for March's Jeckyll ) . But Bergman is more tragic in a way . She has a job as a bar maid that she is serious about ( Hopkins was more of an " entertainer " ) . Bergman's Ivy is friendly but seemingly careful , and unfortunately she falls under the gaze of an unscrupulous man . Interestingly in the 1931 film Hopkins was singing a version of an actual tune called " Champaign Charlie is my name " , changing it to " Champaign Ivy is my name . " She sings it happily at first , but when March demands her singing it , she sings it haltingly and frightened . Bergman sings a jaunty number , " Do you want to dance the polka ? " at the bar , but is forced to sing it ( as Hopkins did the other song ) in a broken version for Tracy . Interestingly enough , when Michael Caine appeared in 1988 in a two part television film about Jack the Ripper , the music in a scene involving three of the Ripper's prostitute victims used " Do you want to dance the polka ? " as background music , and I believe it was not a 19th song at all , but composed for the 1941 film . Rose Hobart played the role of General Carew's daughter ( Jeckyll's respectable fiancé ) in the 1931 film . There was nothing especially interesting about her ( except she was pretty ) , so she did not do much in that film . But Lana Turner was was a rising star , and her part got built up a bit with some scenes alone with Tracy . She also appears in a sexual fantasy sequence as one of a pair of " horses " ( with Bergman ) that Tracy is riding . And there is that " leering " sequence where Tracy as Hyde frightens her . Turner did nicely in the role , although Bergman's part was more interesting . The supporting parts are equally good , with Donald Crisp as the doomed father of Turner , Aubrey Smith as the righteous Bishop Manners ( who is thrown momentarily by a noisy Barton MacLane in his congregation , jeering at the Bishop's homilies about Christian goodness ) , and MacLane himself in the brief sequence as the insane man with no compunction about doing evil . I like Tracy's version - on most points it is better acted than the 1931 version . But March's make-up , no matter how strange it looks , still is more acceptable than Tracy's dependence on light and shadows .
Lucy Trying to Find a Killer	For some reason LURED has not shown up on television very often . I don't know why , as it is well acted and directed . Possibly because of a flaw in the 1947 telling of the story that would be handled differently today . The villain is killing women because he cannot attract them like other men , and sees that they are at their most beautiful when they are dead ( which oddly enough would have been the viewpoint of Reginald Christie , the Rillington Place strangler who was alive in 1947 and killing ) . But today the character would probably be latently homosexual . There are signs of it in his intellectual interests and even his use of poetry , as opposed to the other males in the film ( especially the hero ) . I think that might have made the film a trifle more believable . LURED is based on a 1939 French movie that starred Maurice Chevalier , and possibly gave that great entertainer his meatiest dramatic role . The cast here is damned good one , with Lucille Ball as an American dancer in London who is searching for a missing friend . She is recruited by Charles Coburn ( as a Chief Inspector from Scotland Yard ) to assist him , Alan Napier , and Robert Coote in trying to find her friend and solve the disappearance ( in two years ) of eight other woman . She is supposed to be bait for the criminal - to lure him into a trap . Lucy is given the personal columns and is to answer all that pertain to some man seeking a woman as a companion . Ball is good - first as a tired American down on her luck ( she is now a taxi dancer ) . She is hard boiled , but she seeks to improve herself . She does get a chance by answering an invitation to work for a nightclub owned by George Sanders and Cedric Hardwicke . But then her friend vanishes , and she finds her sense of public duty overcoming ambition . Except for one thing . Fate keeps throwing her and Sanders together , and the latter ( from his phone call with Lucy earlier ) has been very interested in her . Slowly they are falling in love . But she is determined to help Coburn . And the screenplay allows Douglas Sirk to go to town here . Sirk was brilliant at using the riches of materialism to manipulate his audiences ( best shown in the 1950s in his color films ) . But in black and white he is just as effective , illustrating the situations Lucy finds herself in by his use of sets and costumes . First the meets Boris Karloff , a well dressed man who seems to be offering her a modeling job . He is . But ( in a switch for Karloff ) he is an insane couturier ( ruined years earlier by unscrupulous competitors ) , and he is putting on his greatest show ( with Lucy wearing a twenty year old ( 1920 style ) gown for a non-existent audience of blue-bloods ( the main seat supposedly for a Princess has a British bull dog growling in it ! ) . Next she answers an ad for a maid in a banker's house . Interestingly this involves Lucy with a gang run by Joseph Calleia and Alan Mowbray ( as a crooked butler - Topper's butler would not have approved ) . The gang is also causing young women to vanish , but for commercial reasons . Again the script is forced to change what is probably going on : the women , in the finished film are being shipped to become thieves working for Calliea in South America . In reality they would probably be turned into prostitutes in a white slavery ring down there . Again Sirk manages to translate a vision of the danger Lucy is in by the claustrophobic lower kitchen of the house where she is alone with a suspicious Calleia and a dumbfounded Mowbray . Finally Lucy agrees to marry George , and everything seems headed smoothly ahead , except for the mysterious criminal sending another poem to the Yard that seems to aim at Lucy . Then she finds disturbing items in Sanders ' desk . And the story takes us back to the serious elements we saw earlier when Lucy was trying to find her missing pal . The film is quite good , and bears good comparison to later Sirk masterpieces like MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION and IMITATION OF LIFE . I only wish to add what several have pointed out : the performance of George Zucco as a Scotland Yard Lieutenant who works with Lucy , and is brave , but is also a perfect comic partner for her . Watch his interest in crosswords , and how she unconsciously helps him on them .
The Great Composer as Anti - Hero	I will admit that this miniseries was almost too much - but the subject was such an incredible one that the viewer who gave it a chance really got to appreciate the production . My only regret is that I saw the abbreviated version - not the nine hour version . Also , to keep in mind , this was the last role in the career of Richard Burton , and as such it was certainly large enough to be a fitting monument to his own career . Richard Wagner was that rarity : a great composer who became a serious multi-cultural figure in his own lifetime . That was because , unlike any of his rivals in the field of opera composition ( including his only real rival , Giuseppi Verdi ) Wagner did more than write music . He wrote the librettos of his operas . You can say they were the closest to fully " organic " works of music by any opera composer of the 19th Century . Besides that , Wagner was ( at least up to 1848 ) a political revolutionary , getting involved in revolutionary activities in Munich ( then the capital of the Kingdom of Bavaria ) and Vienna ( then the capital of the Austrian Empire . He would write political pamphlets on German nationalism throughout his lifetime . He would also write ( and far less happily ) pamphlets attacking the Jews - which in time would be picked up by fellow German anti-Semites , such as Adolf Hitler . If you recall in the film HELLO DOLLY , when Vandergelder ( Walter Matthau ) is marching in the huge 14th Street Parade , there is a float in honor to Wagner from a German society . This was not usual with other prominent composers in the 19th or 20th Centuries ( even Beethoven or Brahams or Tschaikowski ) . [ Back in 1972 , I was in the rare book and map room at the old B . Altman Store on Fifth Avenue and E . 34th Street . I was shown a manuscript for Lohengrin that was being sold . It was the first published manuscript in Italian of that opera . Wagner's writing was on some of the pages - he was re-translating the Italian translation of his lyrics back into German ! ] This fellow , flaws and all , was a really fascinating one . He was more than just the average racist and bigot . He was a scoundrel , frequently spending huge sums of money that did not belong to him - and leaving some misguided arts patron footing a huge debt at the end ( this happens in the series when Wagner has to flee Vienna in the 1860s after his debtors threaten court action ) . He was over sexed , betraying his first wife many times ( even before he betrayed his best friend Von Bulow , the conductor , by wooing away the latter's wife Cosima ) . In the end even Cosima , who shared her husband's vitriolic hates and super-nationalism was betrayed by him . . . although she had the privilege of watching him die of a stroke . Burton played the role well , showing the mental strength and the character weaknesses of a man who , for better or worse , helped shape the culture ( or kultur ) of Europe for seventy years . It was not only dramatic moments , such as his confrontation with officialdom ( John Guilgud as one of several Munich government ministers who try to corral or deal with him ) but comic ones , such as his dealing with his firmest ally , the . . . err . . . eccentric King Ludwig II of Bavaria ( Lazlo Galfi ) . The scene when Ludwig arrives incognito to learn at the feet of his maestro in Switzerland is pure high comedy , with a perplexed Burton and a nervous Vanessa Redgrave ( Cosima ) wondering how to handle having this royal nut without hurting his feelings ( and even probing whether his desire to abdicate is worth pursuing - it turns out it isn't ! ) . In the end Ludwig did create the permanent Bayreuth festival center for Wagner's operas to be performed . Like his three mad castles in Bavaria , the Bayreuth center remains active . The series also strengthens our grasp on another cultural icon of the age who was briefly in tandem with Wagner : Friedrich Nietzche ( Ronald Pickup - who curiously portrayed Verdi in a mini-series a few years earlier ) . Nietzche gradually became disillusioned by the great Richard . The theory of the superman was a universal idea , not specifically for Germans ( as Wagner suggested ) . More interesting was the effect of Wagner's racism . Nietzche was anti-Semitic too , but after hearing the table talk at Richard and Cosima's parlor ( which suggested hideous mass murder ideas ) , Friedrich started realizing there was a limit to racism before it was too late - he repudiated Wagner before the latter's death in 1883 . But by then most of Wagner's friends had repudiated the man . As said before the super racists like Hitler picked up on Wagner's crack-brained racial ideas . Hitler would place his full seal of approval on Wagner in the 1930s and 1940s by attending performances at Bayreuth , acting like a member of the composer's family ( they referred to him as " Uncle Wolf " - a suitable nickname , unless you like wolves ) . However , one questions Hitler's actual admiration for Wagner's music , with it's use of leitmotifs and themes , and odd sexual habits ( incest among them ) . It is known that after the second act of the operas Hitler would leave . . . he is not known for sitting through an entire performance . Given that some of the operas run over five hours , this is understandable . For all the flaws of the great composer , the music remains to entice us into listening . Burton caught the genius and the flaws quite well . Redgrave , Pickup , Guilgud , Richardson , Olivier ( again using his " Bassermann " accent - see I WAS A CRIMINAL ) do well in the series . I recommend it - it does show much that is glossed over in music appreciations courses .
Guardians of Law and Order	Stan and Ollie usually were at great odds with the defenders of law and order . In their early feature film , PARDON US , they end up in prison when Stan sells their first batch of prohibition booze to a police officer . In THE HOOSEGOW they are on a chain gang , and manage to make a visit by the state governor ( Jimmy Finlayson ) a total disaster for their warden ( Tiny Stanford ) . In SCRAM they run afoul of a no-nonsenses judge as vagrants , and end up getting drunk in his home , wearing his pajamas and clothes , while apparently playing house with his wife . There are plenty of other examples - even the scene in BABES IN TOYLAND ( a fantasy mind you ) where the boys are found guilty of trying to burglarize Barnaby's ( Henry Kleinbach's ) home , and are dunked as a result . Therefore , THE MIDNIGHT PATROL is quite unique in that Stan and Ollie are now members of the town police force . And they are just as incompetent here as as when they sold that hooch in PARDON US . Driving around in their patrol car , they manage to get their tires stolen . They confront Charlie Hall in a jewelry store robbing it , and only belatedly realize he is not the owner . What follows is particularly amusing and surreal . The boys can't find the time to bring Hall in to the precinct for booking , and ask him to turn himself in the next day . The problem is that Hall ( checking his schedule in a pocket record book ) finds he can't do it , because he is planning a robbery on that date . They manage to find a date shortly afterward . They are sent to investigate an address where a person was seen by neighbors ( it is nighttime , after all ) who may be a burglar . In the course of checking this tip off , the boys manage to have a variety of mishaps reminiscent of their problems ( a year before ) in their Oscar winning short THE MUSIC BOX ( particularly Ollie's mishaps with a bench and a fountain ) . They do get the mysterious person - who turns out to be less mysterious then they expected - and far more dangerous than anyone expected . I won't say anymore than that . Despite a type of downer conclusion , the film is quite a funny one , and among the best of their talkie shorts .
" Do I Love You Do I " and " Friendship " remain in the film	It is a good musical , but it lacks . . . Cole Porter's score ? DU BARRY WAS A LADY was a successful Porter show , mostly due to the antics of it's stars Bert Lahr and Ethel Merman . Merman was pretty svelt in her early Broadway and Hollywood career , and she was able to play the role of May Daly as it really was written - a gold digger who did not like the attentions of Lahr's Louis Blore ( in the musical the attendant in the men's room of the nightclub in the modern portion of the story ) . When playing Du Barry , Merman's May is constantly keeping Louis at arm's length - and enjoying his discomfort . That is not the situation in the film . . . but the film varies in many ways . Besides the fact that squeamish MGM people changed Louis into a cloak room attendant , he faces two rivals for May . In the musical it was only Alec ( Gene Kelly here ) , but in the film there is also Willy , the nightclub owner ( Douglas Dumbrille ) who actually turns out to be quite a nasty customer towards his monarch in the 18th Century section . In the show Willy was a trifle more sleazy in both modern and 18th Century sections , and actually sells a half interest in the club to Louis when he is enriched by his Irish Sweepstakes winnings . There was no Swami character in the musical - but it's nice to see Zero Mostel in one of his earliest roles : he plays the Swami for all he can squeeze out of it , wild-eyed in his crystal gazing ( and managing to get a five dollar bill out of Andrew Toombs , as one of the customers ) . By the way , his name in the 18th Century section is not Taliostra , but Cagliostro - he is fitted into that section as the 18th Century charlatan who was dragged into the Affair of the Diamond Necklace . Mostel also does his imitation of Charles Boyer in the show , which was apparently from his own nightclub act ( according to Robert Osborne , on Turner Classic Movies tonight ) . There was also no Ginny ( Virginia O'Brien ) character to pair off with Louis at the end . But there is no reason to be critical of this - Louis does deserve something for his giving up on May . This film version does preserve two songs of Porter's score . " Do I Love You Do I ? " which Gene Kelly first sings and then dances to on stage is a good number . By the way , his dance routine here with the chorus girls may be the first time ( on film ) that he did that " push-up " positioned jump slide that he later repeated in THE PIRATE ) . There is also the conclusion of the musical with the principles ( including band leader Tommy Dorsey ) doing " Friendship " . Lucille Ball would later sing the same song with Vivian Vance on I LOVE LUCY , so she sings it here . Oddly enough in that number she uses her real voice . Earlier it was dubbed to sound more sultry . One may also catch in some background dance music a third number from the show , " What a Swell Party This Is ! " which was later to pop up and be sung in HIGH SOCIETY . But the most interesting song change ( due to it's risqué lyrics ) was " In the Morning No ! " That song , a duet in the 18th Century section of the film between King Louis and DuBarry , has lines like , " Do you like Pike's Peak my dear ? Kindly tell me so . Yes , I like Pike's Peak my dear . . . but in the morning no ! ! " In the film it is replaced by a duet in DuBarry's bedroom between the King and her , and here the double entrendres of the new song deal with food ( cheesecake , for example ) . Who was fooling who here ? Rags Ragland's character is a busboy in the original , and a pain in the neck to Louis Blore . But he does transform into the Dauphin ( future Louis XVI ) and does accidentally shoot an arrow into Louis's behind ( not his back as in the film ) . He too had a song dropped from the film - " Give Them the Ooh La La ! " which is better forgotten . Not one of Porter's best lyrics or songs . But then , I have an advantage . In the late 1960s I saw DU BARRY in a revival at the old Equity Library Theater on West 103rd Street in Manhattan . It was a good production , but I best remember it for the performance of the actor playing the Dauphin . Impish with a sinister grin , he was the charismatic figure in that production - even singing that awful tune with all the brio he'd bring to other roles . It was the only time I saw Danny DeVito in a stage production . He was wonderful .
Sex , the farm , and the I . R . S . tax code	I have always liked this comedy as one of the few ever seriously trying to deal with the U . S . Government's yearly demand for taxes . Ever read a tax code ? : it is quite a trial to follow it's multiple clauses that our congressmen and senators push in to help their financial backers and various interest groups . Despite claims that it is fair , the tax code has always laid the lion share of the burden on the middle and working classes rather than the rich and influential . Most of the various special clauses are meant for their use - go through the average 1040 or 1040A form and look at the variety of different investment and business ventures all of which have a different set of rules . Most people will never have any use for these . The story here is that a wealthy landowner ( Philip Ober ) uses his influence to tip off the IRS that his neighbors ( Paul Douglas and Una Merkle ) have not payed taxes in 20 years . The Baltimore office of the IRS is under Fred Clarke , and he is snapping to attention for Ober with his influence . He sends Tony Randall to check out the situation . Randall finds that Douglas , Merkle , and their three girls and two boys are pretty decent people , who rarely have need for cash ( they get along on their farm produce and barter with their neighbors ) . But Randall , trained in the clear ( to the IRS ) lines of the tax code tries to pin down the family to fundamentals . But gradually Douglas notes that Reynolds is fond of Randall , and he keeps sidetracking Randall from his chore , eventually getting him drunk . He also makes it difficult for Randall to leave by having the motor of his car removed " for repairs " by his two sons . The plot follows the growing attraction and frictions between urban , vaguely ambitious Randall , and countryside , life loving Reynolds . They make a cute couple actually . Eventually , after Ober complains , Randall is sent back in disgrace and Clarke ( a tougher cookie ) gets down to brass tacks . And comes up with a very large tax bill , that will possibly ruin Douglas's family . The film does not end there - it does end happily , but it does remind us that the power to tax is the power to destroy , and that the Government does , all too frequently , go in for destruction . A chance in a million reversal saves the family , but it is so rare that we know it is just a dramatic trick . More realistic is how Clarke's boss , ( Charles Lane ) cuts to the essence regarding Ober's " help " by suggesting that next year his taxes will be looked at more carefully . After that Ober is rather green .
Tom Seeks Love as a 1944 Hipster .	The " zoot - suit " era lasted roughly from 1939 to about 1946 . It's most permanent affect was to help spread " cool " lingo from extreme jazz lovers into the mainstream of the U . S . culture . But this probably would have happened anyway : the average person would have liked the music and picked up the various slang terms . Instead the zoot suit was to become an object of suspicion for ultra-conservative types ( who hated jazz anyway ) as being anti-social . And after awhile , it seemed just like a fad that had played out . With it's over-padded shoulders , attempts at streamlined and tight midriff section , and wild patterns ( frequently with crazy stripes ) , covered with a wide brimmed - low crowned hat , the " zoot suit " just struck an unnerving note with conservatives , and a reaffirmation of independence with jazz fans . Here Tom Cat is shown going to the home of a pretty female cat , with a present ( a disgusted Jerry Mouse in a blue box with a ribbon on it ) . Tom tries to make himself presentable , pomading his hair ( with lard , symbolically enough ) , and curlicuing his whiskers . When he gives her the gift , Tom also serenades the cat on his ukulele , and sounds so annoying that when he is accidentally hit in the face with a board from her veranda the audience feels cheered . The female cat tells Tom how square he seems , and shuts the door , after returning his gift ( Jerry thinks him square too , and shows it before he runs off ) . Tom decides to show he can be real cool - he constructs a costume of a zoot suit and hat from a hammock and a lamp shade . Then he returns and briefly captures the girl's affections . But I said briefly : Jerry sees to that . As pointed out this was one of the few Tom and Jerry cartoons that gave the two characters voices ( Jerry has the same voice used in ANCHORS AWEIGH ) . Oddly enough , at one point , when Tom seems about to consummate the relations with the female cat , he stops talking jive , and starts an imitation based on his idea of Charles Boyer ( hardly a zoot suit type ) . It is not a bad little cartoon . I am not usually a fan of Tom and Jerry or of Hanna-Barbera's work , but for it's capturing a moment of 20th Century American culture I think this was a pretty good cartoon .
What you see in Bette is what you get	It's my favorite Davis performance post-BABY JANE among her horror films . THE ANNIVERSARY , with Bette as the evil but grand Mrs . Taggert . From the moment the film begins she is constantly in control , even in those scenes where she is not physically appearing . It is her wedding anniversary , and her three sons and the wife of one and the current girlfriend of another are in attendance . And in the course of the ninety minutes of the film , no matter what attempts to put Mrs . Taggart into her place or at least into a more reasonable frame of mind , she comes up trumps in making them feel like garbage . To be fair Mrs . Taggart has some grounds to be so vile - her missing eye is due to the antics of her sons . But even so , she takes bad behavior to a new level . I have a sneaking suspicion , giving the devilish charm she brought to the role , Davis enjoyed this film . She was ( despite her denials ) a very difficult woman to get along with , and probably enjoyed how her character totally dominates this film . But it's done with such panache . Look at how she notes her youngest son's girlfriend ( a cute looking blonde ) has a secret physical defect that she uses her hair to hide . And she does so accidentally reveal it to the entire family . Nobody escapes her witchery . In the course of the film she is getting some tiresome phone calls from one of her tenants about the work she did in constructing his house . She is as sweet as molasses in calming him down , but once she has hung up she tells her oldest son that they use a third rate repairman to fix the tenant's problem . Indeed , the last sequence in the film , when Bette passes a fountain that is of a male figure who shoots out water in a " unique " manner shows Mrs . Taggert's view of how the world should be treated .
A Nice Farewell Pairing for Gleason and Carney .	For some reason , despite repeated reunions in their " Honeymooner " roles as Ralph Kramden and Ed Norton , Jackie Gleason and Art Carney never appeared together in a straight ( or close to straight ) film until a year or so before Gleason died . Then they appeared in this made-for-television film about Prohibition American , and two of it's forgotten heroes : Izzie Einstein and Moe Smith . As has been mentioned before this is not historically accurate by any standard . But it is nice as a record that the two stars ' chemistry could sustain a non - " Honeymooner " plot . Historically Izzie and Moe were Prohibition agents . That would actually set the public opinion of them at a low , as most people ( except died-in-the-wool prohibitionists ) disliked the rise in crime across the country due to the idiotic Volstead Amendment . Most of the Prohibition agents were a humorless , businesslike group . The only one who permanently raised himself above the bunch was Eliot Ness , by his memoirs THE UNTOUCHABLES , which became a hit television show . But Izzie and Moe almost did the same . From 1920 - 1926 their antics at swooping down on illegal gin mills and distilleries convulsed the nation . Izzie and Moe used a wide variety of disguises . They could come into a speakeasy as Harvard professors , or as doctors , or as actors , or as drunks . . . whatever , if they knew it would not raise suspicion they would try it . And when they did , the newspapers printed the stories . . . which delighted the public who otherwise might have supported the speakeasies and not the government . Finally , in 1926 , the Department of Justice fired them as agents : they claimed that their notoriety had rendered them useless as effective agents . In reality it was pure jealousy . They were the only two agents ( before the belated arrival of Ness ) who gained public liking . The actual story would be worth a serious retelling in movie form . That is not the case here , which does touch on their use of colorful disguises ( although I don't think either of them ever dressed up as a woman ) . It does show the failure of Prohibition due in part to corruption within the Department of Justice and it's agents . However , the story of Moe's ( Carney's ) so-called romance with a speakeasy hostess named Dallas ( based on Texas Guinan ) is totally false . Also the fight against one super mobster ( based on Dutch Schultz in the film ) is not true either - he was one of many targets for them . But with such defects the film is good to watch the two old pros having a ball in the gin-mills of the 1920s . Hopefully it will be released again sometime .
A Forgotten Filming of a Dickens ' novel	When Dickens wrote NICHOLAS NICKLEBY , his third novel , he was recognized as one of the leading writers of the age , but he was still learning his trade . PICKWICK was a comic masterpiece , but a picaresque novel . It had episodes that were actually short stories that could be taken out of the novel and published separately . He also tried to get some social criticism into the story , in the breach of promise suit and the debtor's prison sequences . But it remained comic ( the trial sequences are hysterically funny ) . OLIVER TWIST was totally reversed . Comedy was at a minimum ( Mr . Bumble and his commentary on the law is a nice touch ) , but mostly it is a tale of poverty and crime , culminating in the murder of Nancy , and the death of Sykes and Fagin's trial and execution . TWIST was a good crime novel , and it's discussion of poverty causing crime affected the public . NICHOLAS NICKLEBY was again tackling social issues : the existence of fourth rate " private schools " which were meant to hide the illegitimate offspring of wealthy men , or the legitimate offspring of remarried women whose new husbands didn't want them around . NICKLEBY , however , was Dickens attempt at a structured novel - something he never fully mastered . All of his novels had tangents and extra plots that were meant for public enjoyment in the magazines , but took away his creative concentration from the main plot . So at the start of NICKLEBY he puts in two extra stories that are told at an inn to entertain Nicholas and Mr . Squeers . Later he adds a storyline about Crummles and his theatrical troop . But he gradually concentrates on the main plot - Ralph against Nicholas regarding first Kate and then Madeleine Bray . Even here , however , extra plots are created and jettisoned . It doesn't hurt the whole novel . It is a good read , and there are bits and pieces about Vincent Crummles and his company , the Mantalinis , Madeleine Bray and her father and Arthur Gride , that are well worth reading . But he throws in so much that parts of the novel are never really developed well : Sir Mulberry Hawk plans to deflower Kate , but finds that Lord Verisopht takes a protectors interest in her . George Orwell ( in his essay on Dickens ) feels Lord Verisopht is a fool , and he does die a fool's death ( Kate never realizes his sacrifice ) . But he does sacrifice himself for her . This should have been explained better , and had Dickens written the novel ten or twenty years later it would have been better explained . Albert Cavalcanti is best recalled for his " Ventriloquist " segment of DEAD OF NIGHT , with Michael Redgrave . He directed this film . As pointed out by some of the comments on this thread , his fine work directing this version of NICKLEBY was overshadowed in the late 1940s by David Lean's twin successes of OLIVER TWIST and GREAT EXPECTATIONS . He holds his own well . He trims out plot threads ( such as Gride and the " romance " of Nicholas ' mother and a madman ) . He also gives that fine actor , Cedric Hardwicke , the one real central role in his career . He is wonderful as Ralph , a malevolent moneylender , who ruins his own life without realizing it . The one moment in the novel when he is sympathetic ( Ralph feels bad for Kate momentarily , when Hawk bothers her ) , is not in the film , which is a wise move . He should be totally hateful . The other performers are good . Bernard Miles , a forgotten journeyman actor of his period ( best recalled for the villain in the remake of THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ) does well as Noggs , the clerk of Ralph ( they mutually dislike each other - this is not Scrooge and Cratchit ) . He eventually unravels the secret that destroys Ralph . Stanley Holloway , about to make PASSPORT TO PIMLICO and THE LAVENDER HILL MOB as well as the station master in BRIEF ENCOUNTER , is the grandiloquent impresario , Vincent Crummles . He is good as Crummles , but Nathan Lane's performance in the role was funnier and sharper . James Hayter , who would be Samuel Pickwick a few years later plays the Cheeryble twins , but there is little for him to do but be generous . It is an entertaining film , held together by Hardwicke's portrayal and Cavalcati's direction . I would recommend it to the viewer .
What Did Cherry see in Monte Jarrad ?	THE OX-BOW INCIDENT was produced in 1943 to critical acclaim as a scathing look at vigilante justice , with well delineated characters . Two years later Gary Cooper produced ( for the only time in his career ) and starred in this film , ALONG CAME JONES , which dealt with some situations and themes that were remarkably similar to THE OX-BOW INCIDENT , albeit in a lighter mood . Instead of seeing how vigilante justice was not justice but widely organized murder , here we found ourselves looking at the various vigilantes and parties as frightened non-entities or short-sighted boobs . As in THE OX-BOW INCIDENT , we have two " saddle bums " riding into a town following a crime . There Henry Fonda and Harry Morgan , despite a brawl in Victor Killian's saloon , are accepted by the vigilantes as members of their posse ( Morgan volunteers them , as he figures Fonda and he may be suspected as the murderers if they don't go along ) . They do try what they can to stop the lynchings of Dana Andrews , Anthony Quinn , and Francis Ford , but fail because they are outnumbered ( and out-gunned ) . In ALONG CAME JONES , Melody Jones and George Fury ( Gary Cooper and William Demerest ) are two " saddle bums " riding into a town following a crime . But everyone reacts strangely to them ( the sharper Demerest realizes this when they constantly call him " Uncle Roscoe " , and when the townspeople keep swallowing downright insulting behavior from Cooper ) . It is only later that they learn from Cherry De Longpre ( Loretta Young ) that the initials on Melody's belongings " M . J . " are the same as the wanted man Monte Jarrad , who is a notoriously nasty customer and killer . The references to " Uncle Roscoe " is to a half-wit uncle who accompanies Jarrad ( whom the town folk think is Demerest - something that almost drives him up a wall ) . It doesn't help that both Jarrad and Jones are of similar heights and builds , and that the locals have not seen Jarrad for five years . The willingness of the locals to shoot first and ask questions later is shown by the number of times people get a bead on Cooper ( who , ironically , is not only pacifistic but relatively inept with a gun ) . But each time they do that somebody intervenes in some way that prevents them from completing their desired objective - ridding the world of the man they think is Monte Jarrad . This is not like the situation in THE OX-BOW INCIDENT , where ( unfortunately ) the lynch mob is well run by the local deputy and a former Confederate major . Here the conflicting reasons for people to go after Jarrad helps prevent them time after time from doing in Jones . We also are brought up short on one point that Walter Clarke's novel THE OX-BOW INCIDENT dismissed to heighten it's irony . There the victims of the vigilantes were innocent ( although one , Anthony Quinn , had a " colorful career including a knifing incident ) . In ALONG CAME JONES , Monte Jarrad ( Dan Duryea ) is being searched for by not one but four vigilante groups . He has killed men in a stagecoach robbery , so he is sought by the stagecoach company for its money , the sheriff for murder , and the federal Marshall ( some mail was stolen too ) . He has killed people from a large , powerful family in the territory too , so they are searching for him . As you can see Monte is not a nice guy . He's not like Dana Andrews in THE OX-BOW INCIDENT . In Duryea's superb performance , he is a nervous , suspicious , mean tempered s . o . b . That he was wounded in the robbery ( and cannot get to a doctor yet ) has increased his worst habits . But one senses that he was never far ( in his personality ) from his currently lousy personality . Which leads to the one flaw in the film . Cherry's character is connected to Monte . Her brother and dad are members of his gang . She is his girl . At one point she tells Melody that Monte and she grew up together . To an extent this explains how she might have some loyalty to her childhood companion , but Cherry can't help seeing Monte's basically rotten disposition and his murderous temper . Yet she is loyal enough to him to try to use an unaware Melody as a bait to draw away these various vigilante groups so that Monte can get away . She says ( later to Melody ) that she knew it was the only chance Monte would have . But why did she feel Monte deserved this chance ? In the end , as the number of dead increase ( mostly due to Monte's temper ) , and as she gets to know the sweet tempered Melody better , Cherry changes to be more critical of her old childhood acquaintance . In the end she has to resolve the crisis of the film over who will win out , Monte or Melody . But why it took her so long to realize the truth just is not settled . Nevertheless , the film is a funny horse opera . Melody and George are as funny as traveling companions as Jimmy Stewart and Henry Fonda in THE CHEYENNE SOCIAL CLUB . There , Fonda spends the first three and a half minutes chattering away while the two are just aimlessly riding their horses . At the end of that time , Stewart pointedly asks Fonda if he realizes that he has been talking for nearly 1000 miles ! Here Demerest ( clearly the wiser of the two in the film ) tries to talk sense to Cooper , only to find the latter dreaming of becoming a greater man by capturing the fearsome Duryea , or of doing all sorts of dangerous things for Young ( even though Young admits they are foolhardy and dangerous ) . And all Demerest gets in return are additional choruses of Cooper's favorite song , " Old Joe Clark " . But Cooper does show a real loyalty to his friend in the end . It is when Duryea ( for typically mean reasons ) critically wounds Demerest that Cooper decides to do what he can to bring the desperado down .
Bogie reaches film stardom .	People mistakenly think that the two films that made Humphrey Bogart a star were " The Maltese Falcon " and " Casablanca " . In fact it is this film , made the same year as " The Maltese Falcon " and directed by Raoul Walsh , not John Huston and Michael Curtiz . Based on a novel by W . R . Burnett ( author of " Little Caesar " and " The Asphalt Jungle " ) , it is quite well written . Roy Earle ( Bogie ) is a clone of Dillinger ( like Bogie's first notable role of " Duke Mantee " in " The Petrified Forrest " ) . He has been in prison , but he gets an early release ( by bribes ) engineered by an old friend ( Donald MacBride , in a good serious performance ) . MacBride is planning the robbery of a luxury resort , and needs Bogart to do it . But Bogart finds that MacBride's assistant ( an ex-cop played by Barton MacLane ) is untrustworthy . He also worries about the young men he has to work with - especially a too friendly inside man ( Cornell Wilde in one of his first roles ) . And on top of everything else there is the matter of a young girl with a club foot ( Joan Leslie ) that could be Bogart's daughter . He falls for her , and wants to help cure her . He can when he has the cash - he has a friendly doctor ( Henry Hull ) to assist him . But he is so hung up about the girl that he ignores the signs of another , tougher woman ( Ida Lupino ) who does show an interest in him . Also , he tries to ignore the stories of demons and doom regarding an adorable little dog that a caretaker ( Willie Best ) tells him . The film is a first rate one , just a smidge less impressive than " The Maltese Falcon " and " Casablanca " because of the strength of the script . " High Sierra " is well written , but it has no memorable quotes , like , " Of all the gin joints . . . . " or " I enjoy talking to a man . . . . " Willie Best's details about the ill-luck pursuing the dog is the best stretch of real dialogue in the film , and today ( due to feelings about racial stereotyping concerning Best ) many people tend to overlook how it sets the stage for later levels of the tragedy in the film . The only problem I have regarding it is Jerome Cowan . He is given one of the lead positions in the credits , but his role ( a reporter who appears in the last ten minutes of the film ) doesn't merit it . He also has dialogue directed to Ida Lupino suggesting they met or know each other somehow . There appears to have been cut scenes in the film . Was Cowan in those cut scenes ?
Edward as the Evil One	A nice little short subject , sometimes rerun on TURNER CLASSICS , it gives Edward Arnold his one chance at playing Satan . Coming only a year after Arnold faced Satan ( Walter Huston ) in ALL THAT MONEY CAN BUY , here Arnold had his chance to be compared to Huston , Laird Cregar ( HEAVEN CAN WAIT ) , Claude Rains ( ANGEL ON MY SHOULDER ) , and others . It's also his only chance to be seen wearing a full beard on camera ( pointed at the tip , and with eyebrows reminiscent of Eric Campbell's opposite Chaplin , but subtler ) . We see Arnold in an office behind a large desk , not quite as fashionable as Cregar's but ( under the circumstances ) respectable . He rises from his desk and introduces himself as the Devil , and explains how he can help people with all sorts of goodies like armaments , propaganda machines , goose stepping soldiers . Soon there is a phone call and he answers , and it is his good chum Adolf , asking for more assistance to defeat the Allies . And Arnold soon is explaining that he can help by encouraging economic suicide - inflation . The idea ( seen dramatized in the short ) is how by hoarding or buying to much and encouraging manufacturers to continue doing " business as usual " , the public undercuts the war effort . It is an interesting theory , and has some validity . Presented here , with Esther Williams in her first role as a housewife caught in the realities of wartime economics , it is thoroughly understandable . Today , of course , it is Arnold's wonderful chuckly Devil that makes us like the short . As has been said on several of the other reviews , it is an interesting time piece of our own propaganda machine at wartime at work . Curiously , although Hollywood did not know it , the issue of " guns or butter " ( as it was referred to by Herman Goering ) was playing an odd role in of all places Germany . While the U . S . and England were sacrificing much to help their armed forces ( and Japan even more ) , Germany acted as if nothing was happening until late in 1944 ! Albert Speer mentioned in his memoirs that the German economy was still producing luxury items until late that year - apparently it was in an effort to keep the German population under the assumption everything was going well ( despite the heavy bombardments ? - Hitler and his advisers had blinders on much of what they were observing ) . It was only when France ( not Italy but France ) was lost , and Hitler nearly killed in an assassination plot , that the Nazis started a belt-tightening policy that really was tight .
Preston's Farewell Performance and an interesting look at the justice system	As I mentioned in FINNEGAN BEGIN AGAIN , OUTRAGE ! was Robert Preston's last performance on film . He plays Dennis Riordan , a man of quiet determination . His daughter was raped and murdered , and as a result his wife died of the horror and strain of the tragedy . But what made it worse was one of those legal technicalities came up regarding the even handedness of the " fair trial " theory of our law . As a result the perpetrator is released . So Preston , a few months later , tracks him down and kills him . Preston , of course , is arrested , and would have a perfect defense of temporary insanity . He refuses the suggestion of his lawyer Beau Bridges to use this defense . He knew what he was doing - killing a mad dog who destroyed his family . Of course , in our legal system , that is not a viable defense . . . or is it ? OUTRAGE ! picks at the defects of the judicial system . The perpetrator was not stopped and seized by the police properly . He was grabbed because of a racially chosen reason ( he did not racially fit into the neighborhood the police grabbed him in ) . Had the court not thrown the arrest and the evidence collected out , the perpetrator would have ended up in prison . But it is one of those " fruit of the poisonous tree " legal no-nos , because it is not based on a reasonable , non-biased reason to have suspected the perpetrator . That this view is actually ridiculous under the circumstances does not matter . As Ambrose Bierce points out , in one of his FANTASTIC FABLES , when a Supreme Court Judge allows a man the right to use a boat on a river that sinks and drowns him - the state of the boat was not brought to the Judge's attention ! This , unfortunately , is a problem we all share ( even , by the way , the criminals - I wish somebody would one day do a film showing a " successful " criminal tied up in knots by the legal system that has previously helped him ) . Bridges wants to find out why the perpetrator got out , and slowly finds it was a decision by Judge Mel Ferrer ( a fine performance of a man who hates having to do such things ) . Bridges shows that this legal nit-picking is responsible for real loss of respect for the law . SPOILER COMING UP : Bridges in his summation turns the situation around on it's head . He points out to the jury that what it all came down to was a legal decision for philosophical reasons to throw out important evidence against the rapist killer because it did not seem fair . So , Bridges says , he wishes that if it was up to him , the jury would consider the actual physical and eyewitness testimony against Preston as so much evidence that can be discarded for the same reason . The jury takes the hint , and releases Preston . Preston's health must have been beginning to deteriorate ( he died in 1987 ) . His character has some good moments in the script , chatting with Bridges about the idiocies of a legal system he really can't understand . But he is not as central in the film as Bridges or Ferrer are . Still the film was thoughtful enough to make it a good final film for Preston's career to end with .
Who killed the therapist ?	It was not that Stephen Boyd was a second stringer performer . He did do splendidly in those films that were written well , such as " Messala " in " Ben-Hur " , or as the Irish agent for the Nazis in " The Man Who Never Was " . He is an admirable foil for Tyrone Power in " Abandon Ship ! " But much of his work was in second rate films . His last movie was called " Graf Dracula " , and he played the Count . But in 1964 he turned in what may have been his saddest , most poignant performance as " Alex Stedman " . He is one of several patients being treated by a psychiatrist named Dr . Whitset . He is roused by the police one day - his psychiatrist was murdered . The patients of Dr . Whitset are the ones who are the suspects , because in his private files Whitset mentions one of them as having a dangerous twist of their personality . The ill-fated Doctor felt he could control this twist and save the patient . The problem is that the patient remains unnamed , so the Doctor's patients are all under suspicion . They are a mixed bag and Stedman begins his own investigation . He does this because he discovers the Doctor had a daughter named Catherine ( Pamela Franklin ) who is apparently upset but not letting out her emotions . They form a close attachment , and Stedman discusses his investigations with her . He sees ( among others ) a high court justice ( Jack Hawkins ) ; a woman's clothing dealer ( Richard Attenborough ) ; and Diane Cilento . In the end he gradually finds out who was the killer - and it destroys the stability he has been creating by his investigation . A little knowledge proves dangerous to Boyd in more than one way . The conclusion of this , his best movie role , is unforgettably sad and bleak .
Palance plays his " Jack " card	In 1944 Laird Cregar had appeared in the film version of THE LODGER which has generally been considered the best version of that film of the three versions ( although Hitchcock's silent version has it's admirers ) . Cregar's performance led to a follow-up film HANGOVER SQUARE , which proved to be his final performance due to a crash diet he put himself on that killed him . Nine years later 20th Century Fox decided to remake THE LODGER , and the current version starred Jack Palance . It was retitled MAN IN THE ATTIC - perhaps because the 1944 film had gained classic status . The story remains the same . It is based on a legend of the Ripper that keeps cropping up , most recently in the discussions of the connection of the painter Walter Sickert with the Whitechapel Murders . Sickert loved to discuss crimes , and he told the story about having rented rooms at a lodging house , and being told the former tenant of the rooms was suspected by the landlady of being Jack the Ripper . The prior tenant had only gone out at night , and came back disheveled , and would pounce on all the newspapers on those days that followed the next Ripper murder . However , this tenant had left the room when his health failed , and the landlady learned that he had died two months later . Sickert did tell this story to several people : Osbert Sitwell ( who wrote of it in his book NOBLE ESSENCES ) , Max Beerbohm , and Sir William Rothenstein being three of them . But no name was ever passed down on this suspect ( Rothenstein apparently wrote it down , but the writing was destroyed ) . The story became known to novelist Marie Belloc Lowndes ( possibly she heard it from Sickert or some common acquaintance ) , and she wrote a short story " The Lodger " which was subsequently expanded into a small novel or novella of the same name . Mr . Slade ( Palance ) is a pathologist at a London Hospital , who rents rooms in the lodging house of the Harleys ( Rhys Williams and Frances Bavier - " Aunt Bea " on THE ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW " ) . Slade is very silent and mysterious , and slowly Mrs . Harley begins to suspect if Slade is the Ripper . However Mr . Harley keeps contesting her proof ( by the fact that he would act the same way as Slade would ) . The situation worsens when the Harley's niece Lily Bonner ( Constance Smith ) returns from a successful tour of Paris , to perform at the Picadilly Music Hall . Bavier is increasingly worried about her niece , who is the only person who can somehow make Slade relax and be friendly . In the novel / novella the actual guilt of Slade as the Ripper is left unsolved by his suicide before the police can act ( his death by drowning is also based on a rumor that the Ripper drowned himself - a matter as contentious as any other in the mystery ) . In this version Palance makes one suspicious for most of the film , but we feel he is capable of better actions ( and he is disgusted by some of his rival's , Detective Inspector Warwick - Byron Palmer - patterns of behavior , such as predicting he understands the Ripper or taking Lily for a tour , with Slade , through the Black Museum of Scotland Yard ) . The conclusion of the film actually is far more exciting than in the 1944 version ( complete with a horse and carriage chase ) . But the ambiguity of Slade's guilt remains here , unlike the 1944 version . When he does threaten - SPOILER HERE - Lily he can't bring himself to kill her , as he loves her . Palance brings this off well , unlike Cregar whose interest in Merle Oberon in 1944 was not as potentially romantic , but simply part of a religious mania . I still like Cregar's version of the central role better , but Palance's performance is well worth watching - as are Bavier , Williams , Palmer and Smith in support . I also note that this version is good in capturing some of the actual story . Sir Charles Warren , the Commissioner of Scotland Yard is mentioned , as is his resignation under fire in November 1888 . Another character is named as Chief Inspector Melville , an actual Chief Inspector of the Yard . Maybe not quite as atmospheric as the 1944 version , but not one to be casually dismissed out of hand either .
Robert as a false " Iron Guardist " on a British Secret Mission	Robert Donat is one of my favorite actors of the 1930s to 1950s . Despite a relatively small film output ( roughly 25 movies I believe ) Donat showed a wide variety of different parts , including comedy , historical , character studies , spy films ( including THE 39 STEPS for Hitchcock ) , and straight drama . He never gave a bad performance even if the film left some problems . And all was accomplished despite being a serious asthmatic . To top it off , he pulled off the all time miracle " Oscar " for best actor . He beat Clarke Gable in 1939 , when Gable's " Rhett Butler " was the odds favorite for best role . Donat trumped it with the schoolmaster , " Mr . Chipping " , in GOODBYE MR . CHIPS . Fans of GONE WITH THE WIND may have cause to grumble ( forgetting Gable already won the Oscar as " Peter Warne " in IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT ) but fans of Donat ( and they included Walter Matthau , who said he was his favorite actor ) have never complained . SABOTAGE AGENT is known in the U . S . as THE ADVENTURES OF TARTU . The title change is understandable . There are so many films with " sabotage " in the title ( Hitchcock had " SABOTAGE " in 1936 and " SABOTEUR " in 1943 ) . But the name is misleading accidentally . " Jan Tartu " is the false identity name given to Donat's character Captain Terence Stevenson when he is sent on a mission into Czechoslovakia during World War II . The ADVENTURES OF STEVENSON would have been less misleading on this point , but people might have thought that it referred to the author of TREASURE ISLAND . Stevenson , a linguist , has been on home watch duty , but is selected for the mission due to his grasp on central European languages , specifically , Czech , Roumanian , and German ( a neat trick , by the way , as these are from three separate language groups : Slavic , Latin , and Germanic - Stevenson must have been like my father , a real super expert on foreign tongues ) . The real Tartu ( who has conveniently been killed ) was a member of Roumania's native Fascist group , " The Iron Guard " . The Roumanians joined the Axis in 1941 , having seen what happened to the most pro-Western Balkan state ( Yugoslavia ) which was invaded and bombed ( as was Greece ) . Roumania and Bulgaria ( the latter reluctantly ) joined the Nazis ( Roumania did it willingly in expectation of expanding its borders , Bulgaria to protect itself from the Russians under Stalin ) . It's instructive to follow what happened in both countries . From the King on down in Bulgaria there was a general refusal to cooperate in sending Jews to their deaths in German camps , so that 90 % of Bulgaria's Jews ( the largest number of ANY country in Europe ) survived World War II . Roumania handed the bulk of them over . Donat goes to Prague as Tartu , and plays him as a flamboyant nitwit . The Nazis have little real use for him in Prague ( he is there on some trivial diplomatic excuse ) and find him more of a nuisance than anything else . Donat decides to allow the Nazis to find just useless he is - in one sequence he manages to insist on " helping " them capture an anti-Nazi partisan . Of course the partisan escapes while the Nazis are forced to see " Tartu " pounding on a wall as though he is doing something remarkably clever . The mission is to find the secret factory where a deadly new gas is being manufactured ( this is a running theme in many films of the 1930s and 1940s - a secret poison gas that some country is manufacturing to use on the battlefield : memories of the battles of World War I prevented people from considering poison gas used on civilian prisoners for " ethnic cleansing " purposes ) . With the assistance of Glynis Johns and Valerie Hobson Donat does find the factory , cleverly hidden within a mountain . Now the problem is to destroy it , which leads to an exciting conclusion within the factory within the mountain . Unusual for most Donat films ( only KNIGHT WITHOUT ARMOUR has as much daring-do involving Donat and co-star Marlene Dietrich fleeing the Bolsheviks in 1919 ) THE ADVENTURES OF TARTU is a good escapist film . Although the references in it put it firmly in 1943 when it was made it is still an entertaining film for today . The performances are good , with Johns quite moving as she sacrifices herself for Donat's mission , and Hobson being forced to descend to murder to help as well . I recommend it for those performances , as well as Donat's over-the-top one as the eccentric " Iron Guardist " .
A Nice Experience for only one season	This show never got the audience it deserved . With a bunch of talented character actors led by Avery Schrieber , Bob Dishy , Gabriel Dell ( whose name is not on the list on this thread ) , Valerie Harper , Hamilton Camp , Richard Libertini , and Alan Alda it lasted all of one big season on Saturday evenings around seven thirty for half an hour episodes . It was simple - dramatize various legends and fairy tales allowing the cast to act out their relatively simple parts but playing them with a subtext for the grown-ups to appreciate . And it worked . In one episode , for example , Dishy plays a younger brother of two older and apparently wiser brothers ( one is Peter Bonnerz ) who are crippled in tangling with an ogre played by Dell . Dishy decides to even the situation and confronts the ogre , but pretends he is a simpleton who is there to serve him . Dell is willing to accept this ( he is an egotist ) , but every time he gives an order Dishy somehow gums it up so that Dell is humiliated or hurt ( but given that Dishy is supposed to be a simpleton , Dell can't retaliate ! ) . In the end he traps Dell in front of his town , and Dell is forced to pay reparation for crippling the older two brothers . It actually worked out pretty nicely , especially with a crew of professional actors who knew how to do the most with such material . But at 7 : 30 P . M . for half an hour on Saturday , it was in a slot that really did not invite an audience . I'm glad to see it has been saved on video .
The Franco - Irish Invasion of 1798	This film is a semi-comical adventure film starring Douglas Fairbanks Jr . as a charming , impoverished Irish aristocrat . Fairbanks Jr . has always been sidelined in most critics views . His father was one of the superstars of Hollywood in the high silent period from 1915 to 1929 , and even essayed a few interesting sound films . As the heir of the family name , Fairbanks Jr . had to make his own way . He did , but most people still think of his father first when " Fairbanks " and " movies " are mentioned . Fairbanks Jr . did have some significantly good roles in variety : he was the insane Tsar Peter III in CATHERINE THE GREAT , he graced a number of comedies like THE YOUNG AT HEART , and he could play villains ( Rupert of Henzau in THE PRISONER OF ZENDA ) as well as heroes ( THE CORSICAN BROTHERS ) . But his competition was the ever available Errol Flynn , Tyrone Power , and David Niven . Two superstars and a up-and-coming actor ( later Oscar winner ) . Fairbanks kept competing and making films ( and later television ) but he gradually got more involved with diplomatic affairs between the United States and Great Britain , which became his final home . It was his choice , and he did well there too - but it's a pity . He was a better than average actor . To me his best performance ( aside from Rupert ) is the doctor trying to flee an iron curtain country in STATE SECRET . He is at his charming best here , stumbling onto a conspiracy led by Richard Greene's Lord Sedgemonth to help a French invasion fleet get settled in Ireland and succeed in resting that country from British control . He also is trying to romance Helena Carter ( a stiff aristocrat ) , and avoid the traps of Greene and his mistress Patricia Medina . All while keeping his charming , easy going manners . Witness the scene where he confronts the French general Otto Waldis , who catches him on a lie , but still continues drinking with him . The background of the film is true , but forgotten . In 1797 Wolfe Tone , the great Irish patriot , was in Paris trying to plot an invasion by the French revolutionary forces to free all of Ireland ( Protestant and Catholic ) of Britain . He was working with General Lazare Hoche and the great mutiny of the British fleet in that year would have been the best opportunity . But while France's government debated the plan , Hoche died suddenly . Within a year Napoleon Bonaparte was the leading general , and he was using resources to invade Egypt . Still a small force was sent to Ireland , but got bogged down there and were forced out by the British . Tone tried to start the timed revolt , but it was snuffed out . He was arrested but committed suicide . His leading aristocratic ally , Lord Edward Fitzgerald ( the model for Greene's Lord Sedgemonth ) was killed when he was being arrested . The revolt still went on , but was put down by the then Viceroy of Ireland , Charles , Marquis Cornwallis ( yes , Cornwallis was far more successful in Ireland and India as a soldier and administrator than in the United States ) . It is this background that is behind the story of THE FIGHTING O'FLYNN .
Hayakawa's Film Entrance	Sessue Hayakawa will always have a place in the hearts of film lovers for his role of the humiliated Col . Saito in THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI , who initially has that prisoner of war camp under control , only to lose it ( and face ) because his actual enemy , Col . Nicholson , takes over the building of the bridge for the Japanese Empire . His moment of absolute agony , when he is crying in silent horror on his cot after Nicholson and the British and Japanese Officers leave to discuss the construction can't ever be forgotten . It was a wonderful performance . But except for RIVER KWAI and the earlier Claudette Colbert film THREE CAME HOME ( where he is again a Japanese military man - Col . Suga ) Hayakawa's work is basically forgotten . His real heyday was the period of silent movies , when he literally was the best regarded Japanese actor in film . Beginning in 1915 and going through the 1920s he had a wide variety of parts as a leading man , sometimes as the hero . But unless one sees the surviving films on television or through a film society most people don't know of them . Tonight the Turner Classic Movie network showed THE CHEAT . It was the film that introduced Hayakawa to audiences , and luckily for him his director was a great one : Cecil Blount DeMille . Made in 1915 THE CHEAT is the story of a Asian millionaire ( the " Ivory " King ) who has moved to Long Island and attached himself to the social set there . Hayakawa at the start is shown branding his new statuary with a heated iron . That will play a role in the movie later on , when he decides to brand something else he thinks he owns . One of the friends he makes is a wealthy socialite Fanny Ward . Her husband is a stockbroker ( Jack Dean ) who is so into making a killing in a stock he has studied carefully ( " D & O " - no type of company is given for this stock ) that he has neglected his wife . Except , that is , to chide her for not paying bills ( like the salary of the servants ) or for clothing extravagance . But she has an answer for that too - her role as treasurer of the Red Cross in Long Island requires she dress well ( yes , that is her argument - mentally she is an idiot ) . Ward is talked into investing $10 , 000 . 00 ( about $100 , 000 . 00 in today's money ) in another stock . She uses the Red Cross money , but is horrified to learn that her investment is lost . She now has to cover the stolen $10 , 000 . 00 and Hayakawa offers to cover it . She takes his check knowing he expects sex for it . But the next day Dean comes home to say his stock coup worked , and they are set for life . So she asks him for $10 , 000 . 00 to pay for a bridge gambling debt ( he chides her for this ) . She stands up Hayakawa for an afternoon appointment , and that night shows up to offer him the money back . But he has enough character to refuse to be bought : a bargain was a bargain . But she is not ready for a miscegenation sexual dalliance . In the end he brands her on her shoulder as his property . She shoots him in retaliation , and flees . Unfortunately Dean gets suspicious and follows her . When he realizes that she shot Hayakawa he figures it was to protect herself from rape ( which in part it was ) . But the police arrive , and Dean says he shot Hayakawa . Hayakawa remains silent . The film ends in a near lynching at the courthouse . It certainly is one of the most overwrought courtroom sequences I ever saw - but then DeMille would later have a bunch of kids force a gangster to confess by putting his face in a cage with a rat . Apparently he did not think highly of the American legal system . Overwrought is a good term for this film - particularly Ward . She must have suited DeMille's taste in acting in 1915 - he had been brought up on acting and directing with melodramas . So Ward's over-emoting ( fair enough in 1915 , but soon to be too much for the silent films of the day ) is now comical . Dean is a trifle better , but too static ( until he faces a wounded Hayakawa whom he'd like to pound for trying to rape Ward ) . But Hayakawa is wonderful - totally understated in his performance , and using his eyes ever so subtly to express what he really is thinking at every moment . It's understandable why he became the movie star , not the other two leads . By the way , the title " THE CHEAT " refers to Ward , who cheats several people in the course of the film : besides Hayakawa , she doesn't pay her maid her salary , she steals from the RED CROSS , and she keeps lying to Dean , until the end . She does redeem herself in the courtroom .
What benefits a man who gains the world , but loses his soul ?	Preston Sturgis ' THE POWER AND THE GLORY was unseen by the public for nearly twenty or thirty years until the late 1990s when it resurfaced and even showed up on television . In the meantime it had gained in notoriety because Pauline Kael's THE CITIZEN KANE BOOK had suggested that the Herman Mankiewicz - Orson Welles screenplay for KANE was based on Sturgis ' screenplay here . As is mentioned in the beginning of this thread for the film on the IMDb web site , Kael overstated her case . There are about six narrators who take turns dealing with the life of Charles Foster Kane : the newsreel ( representing Ralston - the Henry Luce clone ) , Thatcher's memoirs , Bernstein , Jed Leland , Susan Alexander Kane , and Raymond the butler . Each has his or her different slant on Kane , reflecting their faith or disappointment or hatred of the man . And of course each also reveals his or her own failings when they are telling their version of Kane's story . This method also leads to frequent overlapping re-tellings of the same incident . This is not the situation in THE POWER AND THE GLORY . Yes , like KANE it is about a legendary business leader - here it is Tom Garner ( Spencer Tracy ) , a man who rose from the bottom to being head of the most successful railroad system in the country . But there are only two narrators - they are Garner's right hand man Henry ( Ralph Morgan ) and his wife ( Sarah Padden ) . This restricts the nearly three dimensional view we get at times of Kane in Garner . Henry , when he narrates , is talking about his boss and friend , whom he respected and loved . His wife is like the voice of the skeptical public - she sees only the flaws in Henry . Typical example : Although he worked his way up , Tom becomes more and more anti-labor in his later years . Unions are troublemakers , and he does not care to be slowed down by their shenanigans . Henry describes Tom's confrontation with the Union in a major walk-out , and how it preoccupied him to the detriment of his home life . But Henry's wife reminds him how Tom used scabs and violence to end the strike ( apparently blowing up the Union's headquarters - killing many people ) . So we have two views of the man but one is pure white and one is pure black . I'm not really knocking THE POWER AND THE GLORY for not duplicating KANE's success ( few films do - including all of Orson Welles ' other films ) , but I am aware that the story is presented well enough to hold one's interest to the end . And thanks to the performances of Tracy and Colleen Moore as his wife Sally , the tragedy of the worldly success of the pair is fully brought home . When they marry , Tom wants to do well ( in part ) to give his wife and their family the benefits he never had . But in America great business success comes at a cost . Tom gets deeply involved with running the railroad empire ( he expands it and improves it constantly ) . But it takes him away from home too much , and he loses touch with Sally . And he also notices Eve ( Helen Vinson ) , the younger woman who becomes his mistress . When Sally learns of his unfaithful behavior it destroys her . Similarly Tom too gets a full shock ( which makes him a martyr in the eyes of Henry ) . Eve marries Tom , and presents him with a son - but it turns out to be Eve's son by Tom's son Tom Jr . ( Philip Trent ) . The discovery of this incestuous cuckolding causes Tom to shoot himself . The film is not a total success - the action jumps at times unconvincingly . Yet it does make the business seem real ( note the scene when Tom tells his Board of Directors about his plans to purchase a small rival train line , and he discusses the use of debentures for financing the plans ) . Sturgis came from a wealthy background , so he could bring in this type of detail . So on the whole it is a first rate film . No CITIZEN KANE perhaps , but of interest to movie lovers as an attempt at business realism with social commentary in Depression America .
Frank's Love Song to Roebling's Bridge , and his duet with Jimmy	It's a friendly film from MGM - I can't say it is the best of the early MGM Sinatra musicals ( ON THE TOWN is a good competitor ) , but it certainly gave Frank Sinatra his best part of the musicals . He was dominated in ON THE TOWN , ANCHORS AWAY , and TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALLGAME by co-star partner Gene Kelly ( in fact Kelly has the center of the story lines in several of these ) . Here Sinatra is at center stage for a change , supported by Durante , Grayson , and Peter Lawford . His character is not as annoying naive here as in ANCHORS AWAY , and has opportunities to stretch . The only thing that is missing is that the screenplay shows he has a potential love partner at the end - but sees fit not to have her available for the finale . IT HAPPENED IN BROOKLYN is about a returning soldier ( Sinatra ) . Stationed in England , he is going home and he is taken to task by a nurse ( Gloria Grahame ) for not socializing with his fellow soldiers , or the women at a final dance , or the English people . When she hears he is from Brooklyn ( where she's from too ) she has a fit because ( as she puts it ) Brooklyn people are supposed to be friendly . Prodded , Sinatra fitfully does mingle , and actually makes the acquaintance of a British Duke ( Aubrey Mather ) and his grandson ( Peter Lawford ) . The Duke's mother was from Brooklyn , and he wishes his grandson would stop being so withdrawn and more like the Brooklyn people that Mather has in his blood . Sinatra has already gotten to know that Lawford is a fine pianist and composer , and says that if Lawford ever comes to Brooklyn he should look Sinatra up and Sinatra will do what he could to open Lawford's personality up . [ Aubrey's title is Duke of Dunstable . If so , it shows that the screenwriter was acquainted with Gilbert and Sullivan : the Duke of Dunstable is one of the " Heavy Dragoons " who turn aesthetic in the opera PATIENCE . Either that , or that Duke of Dunstable ( from 1881 ) is Aubrey's grandfather - and Lady Jane is his grandmother , and the mother-in-law of the lady from Brooklyn . What would Reginald Bunthorne have said ? ] When Sinatra returns to Brooklyn he meets a music teacher ( Kathrine Grayson ) at his old high school ( New Utrecht High - which is a real high school , by the way ) . He also is reunited with the janitor at the high school ( Durante ) . Jimmy invites Frank to room with him while he tries to find work . Soon his pep talks and support allow Sinatra to get a better job in a music store , and encourage Sinatra to date Grayson . But then Lawford shows up , and he and Grayson soon find themselves left on their own while Sinatra gets involved in his career , Lawford's potential musical career ( as songwriter ) , and helping Grayson push the potentially great career of a local piano prodigy ( William Roy ) who desperate needs a scholarship to continue studies . As Grayson and Lawford are together more and more ( with only Durante noticing what's happening ) the inevitable occurs as they start falling for each other . And we'll leave the conclusion for the viewer to find . It has a nice score , including the standard TIME AFTER TIME . But most movie buffs recall the film's music for two sequences with Frank . In one he just lands in Brooklyn , and he takes a cab to his favorite landmark : the Brooklyn Bridge . And he sings to it . Later , when he has to audition for a promotion at the music store , Durante accompanies him , and they sing the duet " You Got To Sing From The Heart " . The latter sequence was shown in the movie THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT - but part was cut , wherein both singers tackle foreign language lyrics ( from " Oy Tchochonya " among other tunes ) . But it ends with Frank going into his imitation of Jimmy's style , down to Jimmy's leg movements . He does a nice imitation - and would do it again in later television shows , wherein Jimmy would show up again unannounced . Grayson does her opera aria - the " Bell Song " from Delibes ' LAKME . It is a lovely number - but too static . Lawford also sings ( a " boogy-woogy " number ) in the music shop , to show he too is loosening up . On the whole it is an entertaining film - not one of the great musicals of all time , but worthy of it's stars and pleasant to watch . I only wish they had just thought better of not bringing Sinatra's future choice of girlfriend back . But you can't have everything .
David v . Goliath in Sloughsborough	For people who think only of Bill Travers and Virginia McKenna as the " parents " of Elsa the Lioness in BORN FREE , watching them in this film shows they were more versatile than the better known movie suggested . Both were trained actors , and could handle comedy ( they could also handle the classics : try to find a kine-scope of their television version of James Barrie's THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON ) . Here they have inherited a flea bag of an old movie house , which they would gladly sell if they could get a decent amount for it . But the town of Sloughsborough has a nicer , more modern movie house owned by Francis De Wolfe , and while he would buy out the flea bag it seems to him to be a buyer's market : so his offer for the flea bag is ( at best ) modest . There is a staff to the flea bag : Margaret Rutherford , Bernard Miles , and Peter Sellers . They are all made up to look like they are about sixty to seventy . Sellers at this time was showing that ( as Alec Guiness had done a little earlier ) he was a master not so much of disguise but of finding the different personalities that went along with those disguises . Every film he showed up in from 1955 to 1964 in England showed a different person involved . Altogether they gave him a film following that has not dissipated a quarter century after his death . Sellers nervous little Mr . Quill , with his " Crippen " style mustache and glasses , has one major weakness - one that De Wolfe uses to almost destroy the flea bag movie house . But even better is Miles ' quietly cagey " Old Tom " ( no last name given ) . He seems to be an elderly relic , but he does show surprising enterprise at the end - with somewhat shocking results . His physical appearance , with shaggy mustache and bald head , bears comparison and amazement to his physical appearance in say THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ( 1956 ) or NICHOLAS NICKLEBY . It's hard to believe it's the same actor . Of the three Rutherford looks the least changed by the make-up . Her performance is also the least colorful , but she adds a quiet grace to the running of the flea bag movie house - a reminder of earlier days . The best moments of the film are when Travers and Co . slowly find ways of making the flea bag pay : they discover the power of heat and the movies they show , emphasizing deserts . Then - intermission - and the sale of drinks and snacks . It does allow them to make a slight profit - but in their conflict with " Goliath " De Wolfe , any profit is a major victory .
A Nice Seasonal Comedy , and Sidney Greenstreet finally gets a good comic role	Given the acting roles he played in the 1940s ( Casper Gutman , Signior Ferrari , Mr . Peters , Jerome K . Arbutny , Ex-Superintendent Grodman , Count Fosco , Titus Semple ) it surprises many of his fans to learn that originally Sidney Greenstreet made a name for himself in comedies in the West End and Broadway . He was usually such a total villain , or serious actor to the public that his comic talents were ignored . In fact he actually did make four comedy appearances ( one a spoof of his villainous portrayals with his villainy partner Peter Lorre in a cameo appearance ) . His best total film appearance in a comedy was probably that of magazine publisher Alexander Yardley in " Christmas In Connecticut " ( although his autocratic , half-mad soap tycoon in " The Hucksters " is a close second ) . Despite some problems with the screenplay , it is a good film , and usually revived in the Christmas season . Elizabeth Lane ( Barbara Stanwyck ) writes a column in " American Housekeeping " magazine for Yardley , where she gives household tips and cooking recipes . She is the 1945 version of Martha Steward , except that Ms Steward is a cook and house-owner , and can vouch for trying out and testing what she advocates . Stanwyck can't . Her cooking recipes are those of her friend Felix ( S . Z . Sakall ) , a gourmet chef and restaurateur . The house she describes as her home ( a model farmhouse in Connecticut ) belongs to her unofficial boyfriend , architect John Sloan ( Reginald Gardiner ) . Gardiner really would not mind marrying Stanwyck , but she is not fully ready to consider a final commitment to him . As the film begins , an American is shipwrecked by the Nazis . This is Jefferson Jones ( Dennis Morgan ) , a sailor . He spends two weeks in a raft before being rescued . Sensing publicity value , Greenstreet decides to grant Morgan's wish to have a genuine old fashioned Christmas in Connecticut . He basically tells Stanwyck that she will entertain Morgan and himself at her farm for the holidays . Stanwyck is unable to explain that the columns image of herself ( complete with her ability to flip flap-jacks , and raise a baby she supposedly had with her husband ) is a lie - if she does she will be fired , as will her immediate boss Dudley Beecham ( Robert Shayne ) . In a moment of depression she accepts Gardiner's proposal of marriage , and then Gardiner finds his Connecticut home is dragooned into becoming the " actual " home of Stanwyck and himself and " their baby " . Of course , aside from putting off Greenstreet's meddling curiosity , Stanwyck and Morgan find that they are falling in love ( much to the annoyance of Gardiner - he does actually expect that Stanwyck will still marry him ) . Complication following complication occurs , as lies piles on lies , and as neighbor's babies succeeds neighbor's babies , before Greenstreet begins to wonder if he is missing something . But it is a comedy , so everything works out well . Even Greenstreet , at the conclusion , is amused by the entire madness - his celebrated hearty chortle mirroring that of Santa Clause for a change . This is not a classic comedy , certainly not a great one , but amusing enough for the season to be worth watching in December .
It's Pure Fluff . . . But What Delectable Fluff	Noel Coward created at least four comic plays that have staying power : " Private Lives " , " Design For Living " , " Hay Fever " , and " Blythe Spirit " . Three of them were turned into films , but the results are mixed . " Design For Living " was seriously bowdlerized by Hollywood , with a " bi-sexual " element eliminated . " Blythe Spirit " ( which has a funny twist on how marriages always seem to sour as individuality is smashed ) was done better , but it lacks a resolution that showed how the " so-called " tragedy of the plot actually benefits the hero , Charles Condimine . And " Private Lives " , while having a degree of elegance from it's stars , is not brittle enough . Coward was a master of developing attitude through his dialog . He seems to have modeled his handling of his characters on William S . Gilbert ( of Gilbert & Sullivan fame ) . Gilbert had always insisted when directing his own plays that the characters retained the seriousness of their own characters and points of view . This worked in the Savoy Operas quite well , and Coward ( who wrote musicals as well as comedies ) picked up on it . When Elyot and Amanda flow from their sexual cosiness into their inane arguments , both of them are firmly sure that they are in the right . But being in the right is not enough : they have to be above it all by their social snobbery in the same dialog . If you don't insist on this in producing " Private Lives " the play may remain amusing but it's snap is lost . Example : Amanda : " I heard you went to Asia " Elyot : " Yes " Amanda : " How was China ? " Elyot : " Very large . " Amanda : " How was Japan ? " Elyot : " Very small . " Brittle and short and to the point - and it does give an impression of what Elyot noticed ( very little really ) of two major Asiatic cultures . It is also quite dismissive - the teaming millions of Asia are reduced to four meaningless words . This dialog appears in the film version of PRIVATE LIVES , but the sharpness required for " Very large " and " Very small " is not quite there . So the effect of the dialog is diminished . Robert Montgomery usually played in MGM films at this time as weaklings ( like in " The Big House " ) or as upper crust cads ( like in " The Divorcée " ) . He demonstrated an agreeably sophisticated cynicism in his films , and was slowly building up an acting ability that would turn into strong dramatic performances in " Night Must Fall " and films like " They Were Espendable " later on . Montgomery came from a wealthy family , so his polished elegance was real . But he was an American , and Elyot's brittle snobbery is more likely to be found in English acting . The role of Elyot was played by Noel Coward originally . MGM either never thought of asking him to play the role , or could not get him for some reason . Norma Shearer was a better than average actress , and she had played upper class Americans ( like her betrayed wife in " The Women " ) , but she too is not English ( she was Canadian ) . She too can't quite match the flash of snobbishness in Amanda's role that was brought to it by the original player , Gertrude Lawrence . As Lawrence and Coward were close friends in real life , they brought even more to the roles than Montgomery and Shearer could have brought . The result is that the film is very amusing - otherwise I would not give it an " 8 " . But it could not reach the divine heights that Coward and Lawrence brought to it . As for the supporting couple , Reginald Denny and Una Merkle , they are adequate for their hapless roles as the newlywed partners of Elyot and Amanda . But Una Merkle as Sybil is too middle American a personality , and only is able to hint at Sybil's " fade - in - the - shade " fate when compared to spitfire Amanda . Denny was a workmanlike Victor , and ( as the only English person in the cast's leads ) a touch of reality to the film . But Victor's smoldering anger is barely touched on in his performance ( he's too much of a gentleman ) . Oddly enough , MGM never thought of using the actor who originated Victor's character on stage - another friend of Noel . His name was Laurence Olivier .
Our first visit to the Kingdom of Sylvania	It was really the film that established Maurice Chevalier and Jeanette MacDonald as a musical comedy team - the first one of the American talkie period . They would make four films in the end ( THE LOVE PARADE , ONE HOUR WITH YOU , LOVE ME TONIGHT , and THE MERRY WIDOW ) . Four first rate early musicals . . . and they did not like each other ! Jeanette rebuffed Chevalier's attempts at a closer relationship ( she only liked Gene Raymond , whom she later married ) . He considered her a prude and hypocrite as a result . So , despite their stunning screen chemistry and string of successes their partnership faded . Nelson Eddy was waiting in the wings for her to find the proper partner . Chevalier is a Count who has been returned from a diplomatic post for a sexual scandal . The country is ruled by Queen Jeanette , and when she meets the charming Maurice she falls for him . They marry , but he finds that ( under the guidance of her Prime Minister - Lionel Belmore - and his cabinet ) she puts him aside on matters of ruling the state . Chevalier , normally the aggressor in sexual matters and in putting his own ideas out , does not like the self-image of being the boy-toy husband of the ruler of his native country . His idea would be more like that of Prince Albert , Queen Victoria's husband , who became her chief adviser on political matters after their marriage . Here , however , while everyone is polite to him , they make it clear that constitutionally he is not to be involved in running the government . The film is a charming one - full of those " Lubitsch touches " . For example , Chevalier's growing anger and impatience at his political uselessness is first shown when he asks one of the courtiers ( who has just politely put him in his place ) , " Do you understand French ? " " No , I'm afraid I don't . " , says the courtier . Chevalier , with perfect timing , shoots out a long , furious diatribe of French , which one can tell is gutter language , to show his fury at his position - much to the dismay of the courtier . Later on , when the Prime Minister also puts down Chevalier's attempts at advice , he smiles and asks the Prime Minister , " Excuse me , but do you speak French ? " Belmore looks at him puzzled , " Yes I do speak French . " With an eat dirt smile , Chevalier says , " What a pity ! " In the end , it is a financial crisis ( which with typical Lubitsch humor can only depend on the foreign investors in Sylvanian securities , all of whom have to observe the reactions of the Afghan Ambassador - bearded Russ Powell - to a court function ) that gives Chevalier his chance . Chevalier will only show his true love for his wife if she and the cabinet give him a voice in public affairs like Prince Albert had . And they give in . It would not be the last visit Hollywood paid to Sylvania . Unlike other Balkan pseudo-states , it actually reappeared four years later , though under more " sinister " circumstances . In 1933 the Sylvanian Ambassador to a neighboring country tried to use underhanded means to bring about it's annexation by his homeland . However , Ambassador Trentino ( Louis Calhern ) did not count upon the Dictator of Freedonia ( Rufus T . Firefly - Groucho Marx ) and his three brothers to force him to surrender in a barrage of vegetables and fruit in DUCK SOUP .
Our First Great Composer ?	John Philip Sousa's position in American ( and World ) music is set in stone by now . Others have composed great marches ( the English composer Edward Elgar with his four " Pomp and Circumstance Marches " for instance , two of which are memorable ) , and such major composers like Wagner and Mendelsohn . But Sousa remains the " March King " . Like Johann Strauss the Younger , Alexander Scarlatti , and Scott Joplin , he is recalled for his domination of a single area of music : marches in this case , rather than waltzes , sonatas , or " rags " . But this really does not explain why he remains the " March King " . There is a sense of fun and spirit in Sousa's marches that transcend what a march is usually supposed to do . Marches were originally meant for troops to walk in step either on a training field or on the battlefield ( music was used until the end of the 19th Century to keep up the spirits of the soldiers , and even to help orchestrate the speed they were to fight at when running across the battlefield ) . Sousa came from a musical family ( his father was a musician in the Marine Corps band ) . Sousa followed in his father's footsteps , but played several instruments and rose to be the bandmaster . He began composing pieces for the Marine Corps Band , such as " Semper Fidelis " , " The Washington Post March " , " Manhattan Beach " , and he tried to expand his abilities into other fields . When he left the Marine Corps , he formed his own band , which he developed with a perfect balance of brass , stings , percussion , and woodwinds . His band would go around the world performing , not only his own pieces , but also other composers as well . The movie does touch , once or twice , on Sousa's attempts to broaden his musical ability by doing Broadway shows ( operettas ) . At the start Clifton Webb , as Sousa , does play the melody of " Semper Fidelis " for his wife Jenny ( Ruth Hussey ) as a tune to be sung . It doesn't quite work . He would do a successful operetta ( which is still revived ) called EL CAPITAN , which starred DeWolf Hopper ( we hear an actor as Hopper singing a tune at a rehearsal during the movie ) . However , EL CAPITAN had a book by Charles Klein , a major dramatist of the 1890s - 1915 ( he drowned in the Lusitania disaster ) . Klein was not a W . S . Gilbert , but his libretto was serviceable . Unfortunately Sousa never had another librettist / lyricist like Klein , and spent the rest of his career seeking his " Gilbert " . As a result the leading operetta composer from the U . S . in Sousa's lifetime ( and since ) was Victor Herbert . Sousa was talented in other ways too . He sometimes wrote clever lyrics to comic songs , such as " A Typical Song of Zanzibar " . He wrote about five comic novels too . He designed the special marching tuba , the " Sousaphone " ( which is shown in the film being designed by Webb and Robert Wagner ) . But it is the string of great marches that he left which are his great donation to our culture . The reason is more than just his gift for melodious music . He was a genius at composition and orchestration - probably the best orchestrator among the major American composers . His best remembered march is the title march for this film : THE STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER . The film mentions how Sousa , on a trip for his health , was walking the deck of the liner at night and thought of the beat of the music . We hear Webb describing the moment ( quoting a passage from Sousa's memoirs , MARCHING ALONG ) , and the film ends with the playing of the great march . The film does not mention that that Sousa also composed words to be sung to it ( which occasionally still are sung ) . A few years ago , the U . S . Congress formally adopted THE STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER as the national march . I have gone into a great deal of detail regarding Sousa and his career , for the movie ( for a biography ) skims a lot . His literary efforts are not dealt with , and the film ends ( really ) with the playing of THE STARS AND STRIPE FOREVER . That was in 1899 . Sousa would live until 1932 , and would be a public figure until then . He was still composing until the 1920s . Webb had an extensive musical comedy career in the 1920s and 1930s ( he was one of the stars in Irving Berlin's AS THOUSANDS CHEER , for example ) . But aside from an occasional tune he sings like " When I wore a Tulip " or a dance he does with Jeanne Craig in CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN , he never did a musical . STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER is his one " musical film " . He is credible as Sousa , but the film never really goes deeply into the great man . The dramatic portions are handled by Robert Wagner and Deborah Paget as friends and lovers , whose love affair is twisted for awhile by the Spanish American War . The film is certainly watchable ( the cast is game , and the music is first rate ) but it is not a showcase for Webb's talents in musicals . Ironically he could have been in Vincent Minelli's THE BANDWAGON with Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse , but opted for the lead as Sousa . Probably a bad decision - but it is hard to say . Every July 4th STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER is shown for it's great holiday music . What we lost in not seeing Webb opposite Astaire is not enough to prevent our still seeing Webb as the great maestro composer .
A Woolley . . . repeat . . . Woolley movie , not a Monroe flick	Monty Woolley's film career has not had as much discussion as it deserves . The one time head of Yale University's Drama Department , and close personal friend ( possibly lover ) of Cole Porter , had been involved in Broadway for many years . He was , for example , in the original cast of the Rodgers and Hart Musical ON YOUR TOES , as the Russian Ballet impresario who sings TOO GOOD FOR THE AVERAGE MAN . He also made many film appearances in the 1930s , including the irascible , but eventually dumbfounded French judge in Mitchell Leisin's MIDNIGHT . But his fame would come when he was starred in the original production of THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER , and subsequently was lucky enough to repeat his performance in the film version . Other film starring parts were his as well , such as THE PIED PIPER , and his pair of films co-starring Gracie Fields , HOLY MATRIMONY and MOLLY AND ME . But more frequently he ended up in supporting parts ( even in THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER it was Bette Davis who was given the starring position in the credits ! ) . More typical of his later films was MISS TATLOCK'S MILLIONS , where he and Dan Tobin were two greedy uncles of " Schuyler Tatlock " ( John Lund ) . A better ( deeper ) part was the Latin Scholar in THE BISHOP'S WIFE , who is going to write the greatest history of Rome since Edward Gibbon . The problem , for Woolley , was age . To an extent , in the early 1940s , he was able to still play grouchy sorts who were not too old ( say about 50 ) . But as the 1940s went forward , Woolley's age became a handicap . It was harder and harder to find material for him where he was the star . Without a doubt his last starring role was as John Hodges , the 65 year old printer who is forced by a company policy to retire while he is still mentally and physically vigorous . Few films from Hollywood had tackled the issue of aging . The best known one was Leo McCarey's MAKE WAY FOR TOMORROW , with Victor Moore and Beulah Bondi , which remains a heartbreakingly sad film . But that was made in 1935 . Except for an occasional comment about aging in a film ( like Berton Churchill's comment to John Carridine not to heed his white hairs if he is hesitant to challenge Churchill to a fight in STAGECOACH ) , most of the movies ignored aging . Even before the 1960s and President Kennedy's pushing a cult of youth and vigor , Hollywood was pretty much doing the same thing . So this is why AS YOUNG AS YOU FEEL is such an unusual film . Besides Woolley getting one of the best parts of his career , it tackled a relatively taboo subject . Why talk about the inevitable that nobody likes to think about - aging and weakening . . . and eventually death . It's a downer in terms of a theme for a film ( as McCarey's movie had brilliantly shown ) . But in point of fact AS YOUNG AS YOU FEEL is the reverse side of the coin . Woolley is forced to retire from his firm , and is angry about it . Then , by chance , he is able to temporarily take over the media and town's attention when he is mistaken for the multi-millionaire ( Minor Watson ) who has taken over the factory that retired Wooley . Being an intelligent man , his opinions get huge publicity and sweep the nation . Woolley stresses that the chronicle age of the individual does not mean that he or she is to be put out to pasture , if he or she is capable of functioning and contributing to society . Soon Woolley finds he is in demand everywhere due to his spunky philosophy . Watson , of course , is amazed at the error , but does not stop it - he finds that it is enhancing his own public image ( after all , the media and the public think Woolley is Watson ) . At the same time , Woolley finds the masquerade is getting out of hand in many ways . It is playing havoc with his grandson ( David Wayne's ) career . It is also playing havoc with the family life of the manager of the factory ( Albert Dekker and his wife Constance Bennett ) . So caught up in the American dream of making a success of himself for his family , Dekker has distanced himself from his wife and son . Then Woolley shows up , and Bennett decides she wants to divorce her stodgy husband Decker for that lively old wire Woolley ! It was a nicely written role ( by Paddy Chayefsky ) and Woolley did very well in it . Ironically , despite the philosophical point of view in the film , the studio system ignored the message . Woolley never had another great lead part after this film . His last memorable part was as an elderly adviser to the young Persian Monarch in the musical KISMET - not a really big part that . Ironically too , the film was one of a long string of early films that Marilyn Monroe appeared in from 1949 ( from LOVE HAPPY ) to 1952 ( the Cary Grant - Ginger Rogers MONKEY BUSINESS ) . Monroe did well in most of these roles , and they gave her exposure , but even in the meatiest ones ( CLASH BY NIGHT ) she did not " star " in them . Yet Marilyn's name means so much to this day in film lore to the public , these early films are usually sold in " Marilyn Monroe " collections . The ever youthful , ever too fragile Marilyn remains a Hollywood icon forty - four years after her death in 1962 . Monty Wooley died in 1963 , but I doubt that a hundredth of the people who adore the memory of Marilyn ever think seriously about Monty and his best performances .
A Comic Who Was Almost Forgotten	I think the curtain of oblivion fell onto Charlie Chase for two reasons . One is noted by Walter Kerr in his THE SILENT COMEDIANS , where he points out that Chase always is too nattily dressed ( unlike Chaplin's Tramp , Keaton , Langdon , Fields , Laurel and Hardy ) . The other is the similarity of his film name to Chaplin's . In the pantheon of Silent Comics , there was room for only one " Charlie " , not two . If so it was a stupid reason . So Chase was recalled ( if at all ) for being a brother to the director James Parott , who directed many L & H comedies , and he played Ollie's brother-in-law in THE SONS OF THE DESERT . Chase was a clever and inventive comedian , who deserved better response from posterity . It is coming now , some six decades ( ! ) after his death . . . but it is coming . May I recommend for those who would like to see Chase in a good comedy , turn to YOU-TUBE and see " A ONE MAMA MAN " . In this half hour short , Charlie plays an American ( his real name , is of all things , Willie Shoemaker - but there is nothing prescient involving horses here ) , who turned out to be the heir to a European title ( Count Tosky ) . He is returning to the U . S . by steamship , and he is deluged by invitations from socialites . He chooses one from the wife of Burr McIntosh , a millionaire meat packer . McIntosh is against European royalty , and hires thugs to make sure the Count does not show up . But Charlie manages to get away from the thugs , and McIntosh ( needing to present someone to his guests ) hires Charlie to pretend to be the Count . Charlie comes to the party , and even ( at McIntosh's insistence ) puts on aristocratic airs he does not normally have . But he soon finds himself involved with the daughter of his host ( Eugenia Gilbert ) and her oafish suitor ( Vernon Dent ) . Dent is the sort who tells jokes like , " What is it that elephants have , but no one else has ? " ( Answer : Baby elephants ! ) . The film shows how Charlie manages to win the girl from Dent , discredit the latter , and avoid being revealed as the genuine Count by a young woman who photographed him on the ship ( Gale Henry ) . Henry has an interesting psychological / physical problem : she falls into a trance every time she hears a bell ring due to a traumatic accident she was in . The film uses this for comic effect frequently ) . It is actually a very good short film comedy , and well worth watching . It is also a good way to rediscover Chase's comic skills .
The European Scene From 1939 To The End of June 1940	This film is pretty good but oddly uneven . The script ( which Charles Brackett and Billy Wilder both worked on ) is about the adventures and experiences of soldier-of-fortune Ray Milland and reporter Claudette Colbert across western Europe from Spain to Germany and then to England . Colbert is working for an American syndicate out of Paris that is headed by Walter Abel . She goes to Spain , where the Spanish Civil War is ending with a Fascist victory . Milland is going to be executed ( he's been fighting for the Republic ) , and Colbert tells the prison governor ( George Zucco ) that she is married to Milland . She is allowed to see Milland , and helps spirit him out of the prison for the sake of the interview and scoop . They get to France , and Milland proceeds to romance and slowly win Colbert . The rest of the film is done against the background of the worsening international crisis , seen first hand by our hero and heroine . Colbert does not like the Nazis , but she is slower on the realization that they are not limited in their goals but determined to spread control over as many peoples as possible . Milland ( when not trying to break down Colbert's " friends only " point of view ) is showing her the ropes of the real German led threat to Europe and the globe . The unevenness ( despite having Wilder and Brackett working on the screenplay ) is due to the nature of the light banter between the romantic leads , and the growing threat they observe . It is not a glaring weakness , but it seems to split the film in half at times . Sometimes it has a belated effectiveness in carrying out the warning of the movie . Abel is all business and hectic confusion ( Esther Dale , as his secretary , helps keep him directed to his purposes ) in sending Colbert to her jobs and getting her stories back to the U . S . At one point we find Milland and Colbert in Paris , with the latter doing his best to get Colbert to loosen up - taking her to Maxim's and other romantic nightspots in that city . It does eventually wear down her resistance to him . But late in the film it is June 1940 , and Abel is on hand to see the entrance of the victorious Nazis into Paris . He has a very good moment when his business viewpoint dissipates in shock as he realizes the " city of lights " is in the hands of these modern barbarians . His comments at that moment make us think back to the brighter Paris we saw earlier in the sequences at Maxim's . ( A curious sidelight : Although from different studios , the events of that June day play a role in Paramount's ARISE , MY LOVE , and Warner's CASABLANCA : Bogart and Dooley Wilson flee Paris ( to avoid arrest from the Germans ) by train , and Bergman deserts Bogart ( to return to the wounded Paul Henreid ) at the same time that Abel is watching the arrival of the same German troops . ) Despite the unevenness the film is worth seeing . It has many good moments in it ( including an unexpectedly bumbling Zucco - his usual evil control of events thwarted by his act of kindness to the pretty Colbert ) . It is also , as far as I know , the only movie to mention a forgotten war crime of the opening of the war : the torpedoing and sinking of the steamer Athenia off Ireland with loss of life . The incident ( in September 1939 ) is not as recalled as the similar Lusitania incident of 1915 in the same waters because the losses were not as huge ( fortunately ) . Oddly enough the Nazis were quick to be aware of the similarity , and the Goebbels propaganda machine cranked up a story that the British were responsible , not the Germans . Nobody believed it then or since . Despite it's somewhat split personality the film gets an " 8 " out of " 10 " .
" Poketa Poketa Poketa Poketa "	It is generally known that this , the best known film made from a purely James Thurber story ( THE MALE ANIMAL was a collaborated play ) was not liked by Thurber . One can understand why . The actual short story is not at all like the film , except that the central figure ( Mr . Mitty ) keeps having extremely odd day dreams where he does all kinds of heroic things that are totally at odd with his humdrum life . He is married , and obviously is hen-pecked . Every incident of the story sets off one of his day dreams , and ( in the conclusion ) he is heroically facing a firing squad . A sort of perfect conclusion as his fantasy life mirrors the deadly control of his real life by his wife . The movie's Walter Mitty ( Danny Kaye ) is not married , but he lives with his bossy mother , works for an overbearing boss who steals his ideas ( Thurston Hall - he publishes Mitty's dime store adventure stories ) , has an overbearing girlfriend with an overbearing mother , and has a male " friend " ( Gordon Jones - " Mike the Cop " on Abbott & Costello's television show ) who is a loud mouth and overbearing . Mitty tunes them all out to make his life bearable . He sees himself as a great surgeon , a captain of a ship rounding Cape Horn in a typhoon ( and steering with a broken arm ) , as a Mississippi gambler , and as the great Parisian couturier " Anatol of Paris " . Then one day he runs into a blonde woman ( Virginia Mayo ) who is trying to flee from a gang of desperate men , including Boris Karloff ( as the head of an asylum ) . They are trying to get her to reveal a valuable secret that will net them all millions . Mitty is dragged into this , and finds himself being pursued by the gang , and trying to fend off the interference or criticism of his mother , boss , girl friend , etc . One can understand Thurber's anguish , as the Goldwyn film mangles the mood conciseness of the original story . It is really a comic mood piece , commenting on the living hell Mitty has that only his imagination can free him from . The movie altered this into an adventure film dealing with a milquetoast who finds his level of real bravery . As a real artist , Thurber could only regret the changes in the story . But the film was first rate entertainment , and is among the best movies in Kaye's comedy career . To find out how Walter finds his guts at the end , and what the " poketa , poketa " machine and sound is all about , watch this delightful comedy . Then reach for the Library of America volume on Thurber , and read the original , to see how the material was originally put down on paper .
Leon Ames ' turn at bat	William Powell was such a great actor that to attempt to do one of his roles as well was highly difficult . His Nick Charles is light years more interesting ( in a handful of movies ) than the entire television series with Peter Lawford playing the same role . Occasionally an actor could duplicate his part as well as he - his doomed murderer lover in ONE WAY PASSAGE was done as well by George Brent in ' TIL WE MEET AGAIN . But Brent was an exception to this . Another example is the " snitch " character in BEAU GESTE . Powell's character in the 1926 silent film was really a total knave ( he was a sneak thief , a coward , and a snitch ) but J . Carroll Naish's reprise of the same character ( but with a different name ) in the 1939 sound version was equally memorable ( mostly due to Naish's hyena-like laughter ) . In 1947 Powell had one of his finest performances as Clarence Day Sr . in Michael Curtiz's LIFE WITH FATHER . Pompous and domineering and no nonsense , he is the perfect representation of the high Victorian " Pater Familias " of 1885 . His word is the law of the house ( theoretically ) , and ( as he says with unconscious self-mockery ) his is " the character " of his home . But he never realizes that , without trying to , his wife Vinnie ( Irene Dunne ) constantly undercuts his authority and control on household spending by confusing his questions on accounts by her logical illogic ( remember the exchange of the pug-dog for the " free suit " at the department store ? ) . Powell had only another decade of films left to him , and he never showed interest in television . He had nothing to prove with the public , and would leave the acting scene on a high note as " Doc " in MR . ROBERTS . But he may have been curious about the slight success ( from 1953 to 1955 ) of a television version of LIFE WITH FATHER starring ( for it's first two seasons ) a fine character actor Leon Ames . Ames had been in movies since the 1930s ( his first notable role as " C . Auguste Dupin " in MURDERS IN THE RUE MORGUE with Bela Lugosi - but under his real name of " Leon Waycoff " ) . Since then , while never achieving leading man status like Powell , he was in some juicy supporting roles , such as the clever District Attorney in the 1946 THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE , and as the head of the family ( who learns a lesson in what is important from watching his crying youngest daughter ) in MEET ME IN ST . LOUIS . Capable of good characters ( the angel in YOLANDA AND THE THIEF ) and villains ( twice against Powell in " THE THIN MAN " Series ) Ames was a good choice to play Mr . Day . I was too young to see episodes of television's LIFE WITH FATHER in the period it was on the air - but in the 1960s episodes reappeared on some of the " lesser channels " in the New York Metropolitan area such as channel 9 and channel 11 . It was a fairly interesting series , with attempts to show the Day family in their time period . Given the half hour episodes , more time could be spent on different areas of the culture , social mores , and even politics of the time . For example , Ames played Mr . Day like Powell did , being very outspoken and opinionated . In one episode he dislikes door to door salesman , and gets so upset at the junk his family buys ( in this case a defective egg " sheller " which destroys an egg when it's suppose to remove the shell ) that he writes a letter to the New York Times protesting door to door salesmen . The joke of the episode's plot is that Day finds his letter categorized as an attack on " free enterprise " . Since he is a stock broker his fellows on Wall Street are amazed at his views on the American economy ( then in the heyday of " laissez faire " ) . Ames , abetted by Lurleen Tuttle as Vinnie , did nicely as Mr . Day , but the writing of the episodes faltered . They tended to build up to his discomforting at the end of each one . Yet my memories of the best moments of the show are surprisingly warm . I don't recall the third season ( when Ames left the show and the role ) , and I wonder if any of those were ever re-aired . But when he was on he kept the show lively , and certainly did not fail to maintain the high standards that Powell set in the film version of six years earlier .
The First American Film to discuss the American Revolution in the South	As a follow-up to his wonderful FOUR SEASONS , Alan Alda wrote , directed , and starred in SWEET LIBERTY - a film that explores the way movies unmake books and historical accuracy , and film productions on location upset local populations . It's a good follow-up film , but not as good as FOUR SEASONS because that film had some serious underpinnings about friendship and aging at it's center . In SWEET LIBERTY Alda plays Michael Burgess , who lives is a southern college town with his mother Cecilia ( Lillian Gish ) . He is a professor of history , who has just written a carefully researched best seller about the events in the region from 1779 to 1781 when the British under Cornwallis invaded Georgia and the Carolinas in the American Revolution . I have mentioned this somewhat forgotten aspect of the Revolution in other reviews on this board , and how Cornwallis ' actually had a clever scheme that could have worked ( there were far more loyal Tories among the population there than further North ) , but how through the jealousy and foot dragging of Sir Henry Clinton ( Cornwallis ' superior ) the scheme slowly unraveled . Forced by the Americans under Nathaniel Greene into a series of " phyrric " victories , wherein he lost more men than the battles were worth , Cornwallis decided to fight his way to Virginia and to have Clinton pick up his men there . This led to his defeat at Yorktown . Burgess's book deals with the diary of a local woman who witnesses these events . It also deals with her having a love affair with Cornwallis ' " Green Dragoon " , the notoriously deadly Sir Banastre Tarleton . Tarleton has appeared under a different name in Mel Gibson's controversial THE PATRIOT , as the cavalry leader who did not mince words with the rebels . He exterminated them . The most notorious incident was when he ordered the massacre of rebels who had been captured at the Wraxhall River . But this was 1780 so war crimes trials were never heard of , and General Tarleton lived to die in his bed in 1833 . By the way - Tarleton never ordered burning alive civilians in a church to set an example ( that was a Gibson invention ) . Particularly an Anglican Church . King George III , as head of the Anglican Church ( and a serious believer in the religious rights of his flock ) would probably have ordered Tarleton's arrest and execution for such an act . Burgess sells the rights to his book to a film company , and soon realizes the hurricane he has released on his sleepy community . Burgess finds that he is working on the screenplay with Mr . Stanley Gould ( Bob Hoskins ) , who loves the book - but is constantly changing it to fit film consumers attention spans . The director of the film is little better than a presumptive kid named Bo Hodges ( Saul Rubinek ) , who has a ludicrous theory of what people want to see ( it includes mayhem , buildings being blown up , and people who are naked ) . Burgess has a close understanding with a fellow teacher named Gretchen Calsen ( Lisa Hilboldt ) , which may lead to marriage . But both find themselves enthralled by the film leads , Elliot James ( Michael Caine ) and Faith Healy ( Michelle Phifer ) . Both are temperamental egotists , but they can lay on the charm to improve their roles or enjoy themselves . Soon Burgess finds himself approving changes in the script that benefit Healy ( which leads to counter improvements for the insistent James ) . On top of all this Burgess has problems with his mother , a kindly woman who is partly insane . This also leads to him trying to resolve an issue regarding her past and a love affair she claims she had . The changes range from the ludicrous to the insulting . Remember that Tarleton was known as the " Green Dragoon " . A wealthy man , he dressed his crack cavalry regiment in green outfits , not in red . Hodges has James wear the traditional red uniform - American audiences expect " red coats " . The culmination of the film is the so-called turning point in the war in the south , the American victory over Tarleton at the battle of the Cowpens ( a bit of farmland - the victor was General Daniel Morgan , and it has been called the best tactical victory of the war ) . But Hodges wants to make it comic , with the Americans running around stupidly as the British bombard them . This , and a nasty confrontation between the film extras and the locals sets Alda up for leading his own revolution , and showing the film people just where to get off . SWEET LIBERTY works as a comedy , and is worth viewing . Besides Alda's growing frustration at the extremes of movie making , Hoskins friendly but ruthless script reworking , and Gish's comic insanity , and the obnoxious Rubinek , Caine does wonders showing ego and charm in it's turn ( see his rendition of " Knees Up Father Brown " when going out ) , and Michelle Phyfer's twisting Alda around her finger . It is certainly a fine film comedy .
Interesting Fragments - But the Von Stroheim Problem does show through	There is no denying that Erich Von Stroheim was one of Hollywood's greatest directors , and not only for the silent film period that he worked in . His best films transcend that . But in watching what is left of QUEEN KELLY one understands why he drove producers crazy and destroyed his directorial career . I had seen parts of the film before tonight . In SUNSET BOULEVARD Gloria Swanson is watching one of " Norma Desmond's " old films with William Holden , and it is the convent chapel sequence from this film . Then , in the 1980s , the series about Hollywood in the silent period narrated by James Mason showed ( in an episode about Von Stroheim ) the sequence when Queen Regina ( Seena Owen ) whips Kelly through her palace as punishment for romancing ( possibly sleeping with ) Prince Wolfram ( Walter Byron ) . The most memorable bits of that sequence are the laughing faces of some of the palace guards enjoying the " catfight " . But now I saw the film as it now survives ( thanks to the restoration firm KINO ) , and while I marvel at the flow of the activities in his scenes , I am fully aware why Von Stroheim destroyed himself . Every sequence goes on too long . Yes they are marvels to watch , and if the film were say five or six films of twenty minutes to half an hour each they'd be perfect . But no matter how the actions flow into each other , the viewer accustomed to the telescoping of events in most films soon tires of it . Take the fire in the convent . Byron and his adjutant climb a ladder at night to get into the convent , but they realize that they don't know Swanson's room . Seeing a fire alarm , Byron shows his adjutant they can start a small , smoky fire and force everyone out ( and then catch Swanson ) . This ought to take about one or two minutes of the film . Instead it takes fully five or six . There is no reason for this . The tryst at the palace of Wolfram and Kelly takes nearly twenty five minutes - and that does not count the business of Queen Regina discovering them and taking revenge on both . In the course of the tryst sequence , we learn of how the wine tastes to Kelly ( not bad , considering this is a silent film ) , we learn that she has two postcards with Wolfram's likeness on them , and that most girls in the country have his image under their pillows , that she belatedly discovers how she is not wearing her dress but her nightgown ( Wolfram has put her dress away ) . She and Byron work well together , and she does have a kind of naive charm ( note her looking for the missing dress behind the couch , with her tilting herself over the couch's back to do it ) . The couple do discover they love each other - partly in the room in the palace , and partly on the palace's balcony ( oddly enough the moon in the background looks fake - possibly Joe Kennedy managed to put his foot down on expenses there ) . They end up in his bedroom . This whole sequence could have been squeezed into eight minutes tops - it's half an hour ! Another defect is the second half , where Kelly goes to Dar es Salaam as the heiress of a successful brothel owner . Fascinating in the characters of the dying aunt , Jan Vryheid ( Tully Marshall in a colorful degenerate type - Tully's enjoying himself , but playing it well ) , and the prostitutes and black clergyman . But the sequences leading to her marriage to Marshall last for forty minutes . They could have been done in fifteen . Moreover , the connection is weak - suddenly a humiliated and suicidal Kelly gets a second chance by going to Africa . That's hardly realistic . Von Stroheim was building to a change in Kelly in the portion of the film that was never shot - she was to harden into a smart businesswoman like her aunt , and to be able to rejoin Byron as an equal . But the plot devices are so odd they just don't work too well . In short - a curious , and truthfully fun film to watch , but not the classic that Von Stroheim thought it would be . It's an eight for it's individual strengths , not for the entire overshot , incomplete picture that it is .
Lost opportunities amidst a comedy from O'Neill with a bitter aftertaste	Eugene O'Neill remains , some fifty two years after his death and some eighty seven since his first plays appeared on stage , America's greatest dramatist . This is not hard to understand - no one ever dissected our personal miseries as well by laying bare his own tragedies . It is understandable that he rarely touched on comedy ( it does crop up in some forms in his plays - in HUGHIE look at the way the hotel night man has some twisted hero-worship of the gambler crime kingpin Arnold Rothstein ) . Twice ( actually ) O'Neill tried comedy . First a spoof , MARCO MILLIONS about Marco Polo . The other was AH , WILDERNESS ! , which was his only successful Broadway play in the 1930s - 1955 . It is a lovable look at middle class , small town American family life in 1905 ( about the same time that that far more horrifying version of family life , A LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT , occurs ) . And because we know what O'Neill was going through , seeing this version is not reassuring at all . The play will amuse , but in our cynical souls we know that it is what O'Neill really needed and never got . One thing the audience never got ( unfortunately ) was the star of the original production . In his penultimate Broadway performance , George M . Cohan played the father , Nat Miller . The critics of 1932 raved for Cohan's meaningful and wonderful performance , but we can only read of it - he was never in the running for the movie role . He was extremely difficult to work with under other directors , and would have been hard to control . It's too bad . The original choice for the role at MGM was Will Rogers , but Rogers wanted to make a round the world plane trip with Wiley Post , and went to their joint death in a crash at Point Barrow instead . Still Lionel Barrymore is good as substitute for either Cohan or Rogers . The cast on the whole is first rate , from Barrymore and Spring Byington as the parents ( note the business about the problems Barrymore has eating certain types of fish ) to Wallace Beery as the inebriate uncle and Aline MacMahon as the spinster aunt . The business of the three sons , Arthur ( Frank Albertson ) , Dick ( Eric Lindon ) , and Tommy ( Mickey Rooney ) , and the daughter Mildred ( Bonita Granville ) all helps paint a picture that is close to Norman Rockwell ( although the apparently alcoholism of the uncle is troubling ) . But it has some terrific moments , as towards the end when Nat warns Dick about fallen women / prostitutes as " sepulchres " . But with a knowledgeable audience of O'Neill fans they can put in the dead older brother who wasted his talents on booze and women , and the baby brother who died prematurely . Suddenly the glitz and glare of the 1905 small town America on the 4th of July weekend turns into the shadow world of four dead souls pursuing an endless mutual fight in a New England summer house . It is a finely made movie of MGM near it's height , but the source for all the pleasant humor of the piece has a long dark shadow that is unsettling .
What is the Penalty For Murder in China ?	In the lyrics of one of their myriad show tunes , Richard Rogers put these words by Lorenz Hart poking fun at two prominent " golddiggers " of the 1920s - 1930s ; " Peggy Joyce has a hobby . All her husbands have gold . Lilyan Tashman won't go out with the ash man . . . . " Both Joyce and Tashman were Broadway personalities , Joyce a pretty face in choruses ( in the Ziegfeld Follies , for example ) and Tashman in actually important acting parts . Joyce made several silent films , and this talkie ( her only talkie ) . Tashman was in several talkies , but died prematurely - she actually had it in her to make a good career in film . If you look at Peggy Hopkins Joyce's biographic thread on this web site you will see the five wealthy men she married and divorced in her career . The lady had one great asset - her body . In the age of ballyhoo of the 1920s and even in the early days of Depression people were really impressed by her , and she was even listed once among the most admired women in the world ( with Amelia Earhart and Madame Curie , who actually did things ) . But her heyday faded as she entered middle age , and younger ladies took over her audience . By the time she died in the 1950s , she was a has-been . The real stars of this film are the following : W . C . Fields , Burns and Allan , Franklin Pangborn , Bela Lugosi , Cab Callaway , Rudy Vallee , and the then " Baby " Rose Marie . The last three do musical numbers of interest ( Callaway's being about a musician who is high on reefers , of all things ! ) . The real humor is done by Fields , Burns and Allan , and Pangborn , including an immortal moment when the fey Franklin is momentarily unsettling to Fields who thinks Pangborn is trying to signal that he is interested in him . There is also some assists from Stu Erwin , but although a better performer than some of the reviewers here think he is not in the same class as " Uncle Claude " , George and Gracie , and Franklin . As for the comics and entertainers outside of Callaway , Vallee , and Rose Marie , Stulpnagel and Budd is a real let-down . The pair had a crazily popular radio show at the time , but it has faded from memory ( as did their idiot contemporary Joe Penner ) . Fields ' Professor Henry R . Quail is trying to reach Kansas City in his auto-gyro THE SPIRIT OF SOUTH BROOKLYN , but gets lost and ends in Wu-Hu China , at the famous International House hotel ( run by Pangborn , where the resident doctor and nurse are Burns and Alice ) . A Chinese inventor has designed a prototype of television , and various bidders from around the world are at the hotel ( Lugosi as General Petronovich is apparently trying to get the rights for himself , and then sell it to the highest bidder ; Lumsdale Hare represents Britain ; Erwin is from the U . S . ) . Joyce has gone there because she is looking for another rich husband , first glancing at Erwin , then trying to avoid jealous , ex-husband Lugosi , and then ending up with Fields . The musical acts are mostly shown on the television . Fields is unimpressed by the invention - he fires a gun at the screen at one point when the U . S . fleet is shown , and one of the battleships sinks . This is one of those films ( there were plenty of them among Depression comedies ) where the plot line was so weak that barely anything funny is connected to it . The best plot line running joke is how the Chinese inventor is looking forward to catching the six day bicycle race in New York , and while it is mildly amusing it is really dull . But Burns and Allan do several of their classic routines , one of which is even funnier when Pangborn joins them , and breaks character by taking turns with George Burns in trying to handle Gracie Allan's twisted , marvelous ill-logic . Fields is more straightforward with Gracie . After hearing her comments for a few moments , he turns to another party and asks about the death penalty in China . Lugosi is really something else . A capable actor - even ( in the right hands ) a strong and vibrant one - he never played comedy well . His funniest line of dialog in film is in the 1934 BLACK CAT , when he overly pronounces the word " baloney " in all seriousness . Yet here and in NINOTCHKA he appeared in popular comedies . Both times his humor is basically reaction humor . Bad tempered and jealous here , and a serious commissar in NINOTCHKA , his reaction to the antics of others becomes funny ( going insane watching Fields and Joyce supposedly having a tryst across the street , and being unable to open the window of his room to get out and climb into their room - his highpoint here ) . He also has a nice moment having lost his nice rooms at International House by a trick that backfired , and being stuck in a dive of a hotel across the street . So he is a plus here among the humorists . The film is not great Fields , but it is popular Fields . I give it an 8 for the better humorists in the film , despite being stuck with Stulpnagel and Budd and Ms Joyce .
A relative of Maxwell Freer perhaps ?	The episodes of ALFRED HITCHCOCK PRESENTS were among the fondest memories of television fans from the 1950s , and since Hitch was involved in the production of the series ( and actually directed twenty or so episodes himself ) they were preserved more than most of the drama series of the 1950s . Only THE TWILIGHT ZONE and some of the westerns remain as available today for watching . This episode happens also to be one of the ones currently on this web site . So I was watching it this evening , and comparing it to the two movies and one television show that I recall having similar plots . The first was DEAD OF NIGHT , wherein a neurotic ventriloquist gets jealous of another ventriloquist regarding his dummy . That particular sequence is possibly the best recalled movie performance of Sir Michael Redgrave as Maxwell Freer the said ventriloquist . The second is a kind of comic turn on it , in the film KNOCK ON WOOD , wherein Danny Kaye has problems keeping his Id quiet : the Id keeps putting in its two cents through the mouth of Kaye's dummy . The third is a Twilight Zone episode with Cliff Robinson about a dummy who not only takes over the life of his owner , but changes places with said owner . As you can see , surprisingly , there are variations on this story line . The present show is another version ( from a story by Ray Bradbury ) . A murder is discovered in a variety act theater and it is being investigated by a police detective played by Charles Bronson . The murdered man turns out to have been asking about the lead on the theater's program , a ventriloquist played by Claude Rains who has a female dummy called Riabouchinska . Rains is married to Alice Fabian , but she has long since been disillusioned by him and his extra-marital affair . She is currently having one with the manager of the act ( Lowell Gilmore ) . Since the dead man was down on his luck he may have come on a blackmail expedition that ended badly , and there are two possibilities . Only gradually does Bronson figure out who was the lover of Rains : it's the dummy . Unlike the connotations in DEAD OF NIGHT of Redgrave's feelings to his dummy " Hugo " , this time it's a weird heterosexual relationship . And Bronson has to figure out how this odd situation may have played a role in the death of the blackmailer . These episodes were interesting because they have several familiar faces ( Iris Adrian has a bit part as a woman who discovers the frightening results of a coin toss ) . The director is Robert Stevenson , usually found directing films for Walt Disney . Bronson's performance is vigorous as a determined policeman who ends up somewhat regretting what he unleashes . But acting honors remain with the great Rains - here a sad little man , incapable of successful relations with female humans , who briefly snatches happiness and just as quickly loses it .
A nice little comedy with a murder mystery background	There is a comment about the title of this addition to the Abbott & Costello films that is a little unfair - but only a little . Entitled ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET THE KILLER , BORIS KARLOFF , some purists sniff that as Karloff is not the killer in the film , the title is as misleading as the later ABBOTT & COSTELLO GO TO MARS ( wherein they actually go to Venus ) . But the difference is that Karloff is a killer . Not only does he attempt to hypnotize Lou into committing suicide ( which would enable the police to drop an investigation at a hotel where Karloff is stuck in ) , but he is also a former homicide case defendant who was acquitted thanks to his lawyer Amos Strickland ( Nicholas Joy ) . No , Karloff is not the murderer of Joy , but he is a suspected murderer ( the police feel that Karloff's acquittal was due to his lawyer , not to his not being the murderer ) . So the title is actually not a cheat . Like WHO DONE IT ? it is a murder mystery comedy , but here the suspicion against Lou ( an incompetent bellhop ) is more realistic than in the earlier film . Lou and Bud work at a resort hotel . Bud is the house detective . Lou is involved in an incident where he bungles badly while handling the luggage of lawyer Joy . The latter complains vociferously to the hotel manager ( Alan Mowbray ) , who fires Costello . Lou , realizing what has caused his dismissal , actually makes a threatening statement to Joy . So when the latter is murdered , Lou is the leading suspect . But it seems that Joy was on the verge of writing his memoirs , in which he might set the record straight about those acquittals he won . This would not be what Karloff , Roland Winters , and a few others would like - they are beginning to live down their murder trials . All of them happen to be at the resort too , so they are also suspects . The film has some nice set pieces in it , mostly handled adroitly by Costello - such as a drag sequence where he attracts an admirer , and has to play cards with a corpse . He also , towards the conclusion , gives Abbott an unexpected scare suggesting Bud is the killer . But my two favorite pieces are when Karloff tries to hypnotize Lou , and almost gets knifed in the process , and when Lou discovers the benefits of being the chief suspect - being under house arrest in a luxury hotel has unexpected benefits through room service . After all , the state pays the bill !
When the greatest painting in the world vanished . . .	It is funny to see the name of William Conrad as director of this episode of G . E . TRUE . Conrad is best recalled as the original " Matt Dillon " on radio , or the television detective series hero " Cannon " , or the narrator on the " Rocky " and " Bullwinkle " cartoons , or in movies like THE KILLERS , BODY AND SOUL , and JOHNNY CONCHO . Yet Conrad had a sizable number of credits as a director . When I saw this program in the 1960s I was not aware of his work ( it was well produced and directed and acted ) , but I was aware of it being one of the few times that the " theft of century " was subject of a dramatic presentation . Most people consider that Leonardo da Vinci's La Gioconda or The Mona Lisa is the most famous painting of all time . I was lucky enough to see it at the Louvre in 1993 , and it is a moving experience to be able to look at that lady with the interesting smile . It has been suggested that the smile is that of a woman after a happy sexual encounter , but that is just an opinion I have read . The painting has been in France since 1519 . This surprises most people , who would have thought it was ( or should have been ) in Italy - after all , da Vinci was an Italian ( Florentine ) painter . However , Leonardo was invited to live in France by King Francois I as a guest and as resident artist - engineer . He died there in 1519 . Among his belongings that he left to King Francois was the painting ( which he had been continuously improving while he was active ) . So it ended up in the royal collection . However , just like the Elgin Marbles are a bone of contention between Greece and Britain to this day , many Italians would like the French to give the Mona Lisa back to them . It's unlikely this would happen . But it nearly did happen in 1911 . The episode deals with the theft of the painting by Vincenzio Perugia , a poor art restorer and painter , who was hired to steal the picture and kept it for two years , much to the mystery of the general public . Perugia was able ( because he was working as an art restorer ) to have access to the Louvre , and to remove the painting in a cylindrical container without any attention . The picture was not even noticed to be missing for a few days - incredible as that may seem . In the show Vito Scotti is Perugia ( interestingly enough , he had played the same role on an episode of YOU ARE THERE about six or seven years earlier ) . He is hired to do this by Leon Askin , a conman who is arranging the sale of about nine copies of the Mona Lisa to various private collectors - all of whom would keep the " original " in their separate vaults ! . Scotti , who needs the money , agrees to do so . But after the theft , Askin proposes that Scotti return the original - and Scotti refuses to do so . He seems fixated on the painting , which he looks at constantly . Askin gives up on him after awhile - he has sold the fakes , so he really does not care what happens to the painting . The French investigation is headed by their most famous detective , Alphonse Bertillion ( Marcel Hillaire ) . He is shown to be on top of the search , but in reality Bertillion had few details to work with . Since the painting was missing for a few days there was no way of figuring out who was the last person to have access to it - although it was missing because it was supposed to get a cleaning ( which required a restorer - hence Perugia's access to it ) . For two years Bertillion searched for it . The episode really concentrated on Scotti , and his eventual motives . Historically , Bertillion was " at sea " - a specialist in the measurement and identification system called anthropomage that he used successfully against criminals from the 1880s to about 1906 ( when . . . bitterly . . . he added a little fingerprinting ) he was frequently given assignments he had no concept about . In 1894 he would give a windy and impossible handwriting analysis of the " bordereau " document in the Dreyfus treason trial - insisting Dreyfus had written it . Dreyfus didn't ( it was the work of a Major Waldin Esterhazy , the actual traitor ) , but the military tribunal and it's supporters " believed " Bertillion . In this case ( although he rarely examined crime scenes or searched for stolen property ) he was given the job of finding the world's greatest painting . [ In his blundering , Bertillion would arrest two " suspects " among others : a Spanish art student named Pablo Picasso , and a poet of Greek and French ancestry , Guillaume Apollonaire ! ] It simplified matters , in the end , that Perugia confessed . He did so in Genoa in 1913 . He turned the painting over to the authorities . The episode explains that Perugia's fascination with the painting was due to it's reminding him of a young woman he was going to marry who died . Perhaps it did , but he also mentioned that it seemed fitting that the painting should stay in it's native Italy and not France . France and Italy , while not hostile to each other , were members of rival defense systems in 1911 - 1913 , so there were small areas of friction . But the Italian Government decided to return the picture to France . On the other hand , they decided to try Perugia . He was convicted of theft , but given one year in prison . Popular opinion in Italy thought him a hero for briefly returning the painting to it's native country . For Bertillion , it was like a last success to end his odd career on . He died in 1914 . About two weeks after his death the Surete formally ended it's reliance on " anthropomage " and gave most of it's identification efforts over to fingerprinting !
Shatner Before Captain Kirk	People tend to forget that William Shatner was fully active as a performer before he was Captain Kirk of the U . S . S . " Starship " Enterprise in STAR TREK . He was a military aide to Judge Spencer Tracy in JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG , and was the troubled preacher in the American version of RASHOMON , THE OUTRAGE , opposite Edward G . Robinson and Howard da Silva , and Paul Newman and Lawrence Harvey . He was also in this episode ( his only one ) of ONE STEP BEYOND . THE PROMISE has an interesting storyline . Shatner is Carl Bremer , a German soldier who has been taken prisoner in England , and sees the destruction caused by the V-2 rockets on London in 1944-45 . Unlike other German prisoners , Shatner is shocked and offers to help the British in disarming these bombs . For frequently the V-2s did not explode immediately , but would crash into the city , and lay dormant until a ticking mechanism would set them off when nobody expected ( thus increasing the destruction and death caused by them ) . He proceeds to do the delicate work of manipulating the timers so that he can disarm their mechanisms , and allow the bombs to be removed safely . Bremer becomes a familiar site in the London streets , as he really understands how to do this . He has met an English woman , and gets permission to marry her . She is soon pregnant , and she is going to give birth in a short time ( in the telescoped time of the episode ) . But she wants Carl to promise not to continue with his bomb dismantling work . Carl hesitates , and finally says that he will be there when their child is born . While his wife is giving birth , Carl is asked to help with one last bomb . We watch Shatner try to remove the timer without setting off the explosive . But this time , for a second before it happens , Carl is aware that the bomb is not going to be deactivated . It blows up killing him . Nobody is willing to tell his wife what occurred . She keeps talking about how happy he will be to see his son . Finally , to her shock , she is told he's dead . Then , at the end of the episode , a nurse comes in and asks if Mr . Bremer has come to see his wife . Dead silence and disbelief as everyone wonders what she is talking about . She explains that Mr . Bremer was just watching his son from behind the glass wall in front of the incubators , and waving at the baby , and told the nurse he would see his wife in a moment ! Shatner gave a nice performance , as a man who one could guess would be doomed , but who ( according to the show's theme ) returned briefly from the dead to see his son . It was an interesting episode , even if hard to swallow . And typical of the work Shatner went through ( like his Twilight Zone episode ) on the way to his own television stardom .
Did one of the Nazis Victims Strike Back ?	Years ago I was privileged to see Werner Klemperer on stage and after the same play . He was portraying the Russian composer Prokofief , in a play with Philip Bosco ( as Andre Zhdanov ) and Austin Pendleton ( as Shostakovitch ) and George Hearn ( as Joseph Stalin ) . The play dealt with Stalin trying to rebuild a shattered Russia in the wake of World War II . They have won the war , but have suffered horrible losses . Yet while trying to rebuild , Stalin's own monstrous personality and defects are harming any chance of true repair work . The play was actually a work in progress , so there was a question and answer period after it was over that I stayed for . The actors were discussing the roles , and seeking responses from the audience about their reaction to the play . Klemperer was quite good , portraying the composer of " Peter and the Wolf " as an ailing man , struggling to recover from a stroke , but aware that he and his younger rival Shostakovitch are suspect by Stalin and Zhdanov ( Stalin's deputy at the time ) of " revisionism " in their music ( they are too original in their work - too much " western / capitalistic " influences ; Stalin wants Russian folk music used instead - like Amran Khatchaturian's melodies ) . One watched Klemperer looking physically frail , but trying to retain his dignity ( although in one scene he left the room , and vomited in the bathroom due to his fear of the Russian monster he just left ) . Werner Klemperer came from a musical background . His father was a great conductor , Otto Klemperer . But the family had to flee Germany in the 1930s , as they were Jewish . Here Werner became an actor ( like his older contemporary Walter Slezak , son of the opera star Leo Slezak ) . In his career as an actor , he would sometimes play people involved in music ( in the movie HOUSE BOAT , he is the agent for conductor Eduardo Cianelli ) . But , like Slezak , he frequently was cast as Germans , especially Nazis . His best recalled performance was in JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG , where he is an unrepentant Nazi judge ( his high point in the film is when he confronts Burt Lancaster's self-condemning judge with cries of " Traitor . . . TRAITOR ! ! " ) . Later on Klemperer would play Adolf Eichman in a film . He played one of the anti-Semitic crew of a German liner in SHIP OF FOOLS . But , of course , he became a television immortal ( and Emmy winner ) for being Colonel Wilhelm Klink on HOGAN'S HEROES . How , after being so negative in his portrayals of Nazis ( including one of the arch murderers of the bunch - Eichman ) could Klemperer play Klink ? He explained it on a television talk-show once that he only agreed to play Klink when he told the producers that he did not want those guys ( the Nazis ) to be portrayed as good guys . Certainly the Nazis on the show are the heavies , but enough humanizing elements are thrown in to make us realize that Klink and Sgt . Schultz ( and . . . maybe . . . General Buchalter ) are not always villainous , if only villainous in hoping to aid their side to victory . The only really unlikeable Nazi in the show was Howard Caine , as Major Hochstadter , the S . S . man . This episode of ONE STEP BEYOND allowed Klemperer to portray a totally unrepentant Nazi . It is April 1945 , and Klemperer is an S . S . man who is being sent to Argentina by U - Boat . His mission is to help set up ( with the aid of the Peron regime , no doubt ) that country to welcome Nazi refugees from their destroyed Fatherland . The U - Boat starts it's cruise , but the crew begins hearing a metallic pounding inside the hull every day . It only stops when the sub goes to the surface , but as the war is still going on it is dangerous for the sub to do that . It can be spotted by the Allied air-forces or naval crafts . The pounding is driving the crew to distraction , but really taking a toll on Klemperer . He acts like he is being pursued by some demons . When it is not pounding he is quite arrogant and a totally committed zealot . But as soon as the sub is underwater again , the pounding begins , and he is a trembling sufferer . Some allied craft show up while it is underwater . The pounding begins again , louder and louder , and it is attracting sonar in the allied boats . They start using depth charges . Finally , despite Klemperer's threats , the boat surfaces - the Captain would prefer surrender to being sunk . As soon as they surface ( and surrender ) the pounding ends . At the tail end , John Newland points out that when the u - boat was scrapped a year or two later , a skeleton was found within the skin of the boat . The u - boats were frequently built with slave labor , and it may have been a slave who had been accidentally caught within the ship's skin and it may have been his / her spirit that was pounding on the hull . An interesting idea - a similar story ( apparently true ) is connected to the great 19th Century ocean liner , THE GREAT EASTERN , where two skeletons were found when that ship was finally scrapped in 1888 . Klemperer's performance is properly despicable , and the episode was pretty good .
" No That is Communism "	This film reappeared on channel 13 in the 1990s when they did a series of comedies from Hollywood in the 1930s and 1940s . In fact , to the tune of " The Jolly Fat Policeman " , they had a montage of scenes from the films to introduce the series of people laughing , including one of Gary Cooper chortling when watching a film in a movie house - a sequence from this film . It all begins innocently enough when Cooper , a millionaire , goes into a fancy department store in France to buy pajamas . But he only likes to sleep in the tops . The clerk ( Tyler Brooke ) insists that he cannot sell half a pair of pajamas as Cooper wants . Claudette Colbert hears the argument and offers to help - she only likes to sleep in pajama bottoms . What if Brooke sells them each half ? Brooke has never had such an offer before , so he goes to the floor walker ( Rolfe Sedan ) and asks him if this can be done . He is disturbed too - the request is quite unconventional . Eventually they contact the store's owner ( Charles Halton ) . Halton is in bed , and gets out - his skinny frame supporting only a pajama top ( if a suitably long one for the sake of censorship ) . Can they sell the two customers one set of pajamas ( half for each ) ? Properly horrified , Halton answers , " No , of course not ! That is Communism ! ! " . So the sale is not allowed . Apparently nobody thinks that Cooper can buy the total pair and sell half to Colbert . Lubitsch's BLUEBEARD'S EIGHTH WIFE has had a reputation of falling flat , most viewers not liking it because of a misreading of Colbert's character . She is seen as quite mercenary towards Cooper - selling herself to him on her terms . Actually Cooper's character is the nastier , as he is rich and figures that everything has a price . He is correct most of the time . Look at the way Colbert's aristocratic pauper of a father , Edward Everett Horton , sees his new son-in-law as a golden goose he can use . Cooper's willingness to marry Colbert somehow includes an agreement that if he is hesitant or chooses to not marry her he has to pay damages . Horton , when he realizes this , takes out a watch , and ( in a most reassuring voice ) says to Cooper - " Take your time my boy ! " , to come to a decision . Later we see Horton's wardrobe has gotten more modern and fancier . The film , script by Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett , compares well with their script for Mitchell Leisin's MIDNIGHT ( also with Colbert , but with Don Ameche and John Barrymore ) . There Colbert is willing to sell herself for a money marriage to ( to Francis Lederer ) , but it is complicated by a fictitious marriage to Ameche . She really loves Ameche ( a taxi driver ) but she explains to him in an unexpectedly realistic moment that her parents married " for love " but poverty made them grow to hate each other . This is not found in BLUEBEARD'S EIGHTH WIFE , where Colbert does not have a background like that ( she is , after all , the daughter of a Marquis ) . Her mercenary plotting is to teach Cooper a lesson about his standards . The film has some nice work by the supporting staff , including Herman Bing as a private eye who turns out to be hiding things that Colbert learns about , and a young David Niven , who has a set of choice moments as a stand in punching bag and as a willing ear to Cooper . Coop tells Niven about his problems with Colbert , and how she is so infuriating . Niven listens respectfully . At the end , Cooper is touched by his willingness to hear what he had to say . " Albert , how much do I pay you ? " , Cooper asks him . Niven thinks and says , " Thirty five francs a week sir . " . Cooper looks deeply into his soul , and says ( shaking his head ) , " That's fair ! "
A & C return to that other popular entertainment medium of the 1940s	We think of Abbott and Costello as burlesque comics , but the medium that gave them the national exposure allowing them to go into film was radio . It was on radio that the sharpness of such routines as " Who's On First " was demonstrated to millions , laying the groundwork for the film audience that Universal benefited by . And it was WHO DONE IT ? that was their film about radio . They are soda jerks in a restaurant in the building that a radio station is headquartered in . They both want to break into radio . But when they are finally on the premises of the station , they are among the witnesses ( and suspects ) at the murder of the station's owner ( Thomas Gomez ) . Due to Costello's continuous ability to make errors , they are suspected of the murder by the two detectives ( William Gargan and William Bendix ) who are assigned to the case . They are determined to try to solve the case and clear themselves . Gargan and Bendix were ideal foils for A & C , especially Bendix who meets Costello's dumb with dumber . The nadir for both cops is when they are guarding the front of the office building from Abbott and Costello entering it while the investigation is continuing . Bud and Lou , determined to enter the building , walk in backwards , so the cops think they are seeing them walk out ( at least momentarily ) . Rumor has it that Costello determined never to make another film with Bendix - he was jealous of the latter's getting more laughs than him . It may be true , but then Lou was doing pretty well on his own here . As it is a war picture , the mystery also deals with a spy ring . The actual perpetrator is a surprise of sorts at the end . A good comedy , I give it .
Our First Visit to Warbisha , Minnesota	There is a strange graft regarding the Matthau - Lemmon or Lemmon - Matthau " buddy " comedies . They start out on high notes with THE FORTUNE COOKIE and THE ODD COUPLE and then make a couple of comedies again with Billy Wilder together ( one is Wilder's version of THE FRONT PAGE ) which are not well received . They also do a film KOTCH , where Matthau stars in a straight role as a lively octogenarian , and Lemmon directs him ( for his only time as a film director ) . But while they remained close friends Lemmon and Matthau did not seem to consider making any further films together without Billy Wilder . Fans of Crosby and Hope always mourned the failure ( before Bing Crosby's death ) that plans for a film THE ROAD TO TOMORROW were never completed . Fans of Martin and Lewis always hoped that the supposedly ill feelings between the men would settle and they would do one more film together . This was not the case with Matthau and Lemmon . Both men were such highly capable actors and comedians the public did not need them to resume another joint venture . Then , in the 1990s , they did a large spurt of films together . Two of these , GRUMPY OLD MEN and GRUMPIER OLD MEN , were excellent comedies . Another , THE GRASS HARP , was a straight film in which they shared only one scene together , but was generally well received . Then came OUT TO SEA and THE ODD COUPLE II . The former was a funny film , but lacked the strength of the GRUMPY movies , and the latter was a film with some good moments in it , but it can't stand good comparison with the original THE ODD COUPLE . This is , therefore , the only film comedy partnership which might have faded without any real notice . The revival of it was one that amazed the public in the early 1990s , and helped push the remaining three films into some form of box office success . I think the reason is that , although with Crosby and Hope their individual films in their heyday of the 1930s to 1950s were highly popular , there was a definite different element to their joint ventures : two friends not taking plot , characters , or even Dorothy Lamour too seriously , but just trying to top each others zingers and turn a movie upside . With Lemmon and Matthau , their screen chemistry was quite good , and ( judging from the outtakes in GRUMPY OLD MEN ) they did not take their films that seriously either , but the stories had to make enough sense for their acting skills to carry scenes where they weren't reacting together . In GRUMPY OLD MEN , look at the scenes with Arial ( Ann-Margaret ) , where there is one on one with John ( Lemmon ) or Max ( Matthau ) . They are all acting very natural and well together . They behave like regular people interacting . The same with the scenes with Darryl Hannah , or with Kevin Pollak , Ossie Davis , Buck Henry , and Burgess Meredith . There is no false notes among them . In one scene , Ossie Davis ( Chuck ) has heard what a free spirit Arial is from Lemmon and Matthau . He goes , on Thanksgiving , to visit her - suddenly the two grumps have a rival . They confront him the next day . Davis is not a wooden stick but a very lively actor , and he gives as good as he gets from the two stars . He announces that the experience was like an awakening of youth . Suddenly one feels the presence of Davis ' " Purley Victorious " just for a moment , but you see it is a natural reaction . Now compare that with Hope and Crosby confronting anyone else in their Road pictures . Or Martin and Lewis in their films ( with Laurel & Hardy one hesitates , as Jimmy Finleyson or Charlie Hall or Mae Busch would react naturally ) . Hope and Crosby / or Martin and Lewis would confront wooden characters who were stooges or villains . Shortly afterward Davis ' character dies . Matthau learns of it from Lemmon , and has an argument with Lemmon about not showing proper respect to the dead . Matthau returns to his home , and picks up a cap from Chuck's bait shop . And he starts crying for his dead friend . Nothing like that ever occurs in Hope and Crosby films , or Martin and Lewis films , or the other pure comedy teams . The film is basically about the long standing hurts that mar what is actually a friendship between Lemmon and Matthau going back to their childhoods . The final blow is basically the arrival of Ann-Margaret , and who will she favor as the future second wife of ( or in Matthau's case , third wife of ) . She has an interesting character too , a California free spirit of artistic interests , who teaches literature . Given the stodgy middle age qualities of the two leads ( well mirrored in the winter world of snow around the town of Warbisha ) , she is like fresh breezes of ozone . The other performers are good too , including Darryl Hannah and Kevin Pollak as the children of Lemmon and Matthau who their fathers ( for all their mock-feuding ) would like to see together , Davis ( the first of two films he did with Matthau - the other is I'M NOT RAPPAPORT ) , Buck Henry as the obnoxious IRS man Snyder , and best of all , the late Burgess Meredith as a sensible , horny 90 year plus father to Lemmon . Meredith was the first of the leads of this film to die , but ( fortunately ) he lived long enough to help in the sequel , GRUMPIER OLD MEN ) .
Do we ever escape the truth ?	This episode of ONE STEP BEYOND dealt with a serious miscarriage of British justice , and the events that drove the man responsible to lose his mind . Donald Pleasance is a gifted barrister named Harvey Lawrence . He has been prosecuting a man for the murder of the man's unknown girlfriend , whose body or remains have never been found . In short , a strong circumstantial case has been built up around the defendant , and Pleasance has been finding it easy to construct a wall of guilty about the poor man . Pleasance is alone in his chambers when a woman comes in at the end of the day . There was nobody on Pleasance staff who has seen the woman come in ( they've all gone home ) . The woman ( actress Adrienne Corri ) informs Pleasance that she is the missing girlfriend , named " Sarah " . He dismisses this at first - anyone can come to see him and claim they are a missing person . This lady may just be a friend of the defendant , trying to confuse Pleasance . He is about to show her out , when she insists she is the missing woman . Okay , says Pleasance to Corri . If you are the victim , why not show up in court and just prove it ? She hesitates . You know what he ( the defendant ) is like , she says to Pleasance . He has a terrible temper . If I show up like that , he'll jump out of the defendant's box and kill me . And even if he doesn't then , he'll search me out to kill me later on . So Corri explains that she plans to leave England within the day , going to the continent and then elsewhere , so the defendant will never find her . Well , says a cynical Pleasance , how do I know this is true ? Corri asks if Pleasance has any samples of her writing in the evidence . Pleasance says he does . She goes to his desk , and writes a note signing it . She gives it to Pleasance , and asks him to compare it with one of the pieces of her writing . Pleasance does that - and his jaw drops . Her signature is identical . Corri IS the missing unnamed woman ! Smiling , she tells him she expects him to do his proper duty , and she leaves . For awhile Pleasance looks at the writing she has just given him . He knows it means the defendant , no matter how vile a temper he has , is an innocent man . It means that Pleasance's huge activities in proving the man guilty were totally worthless . He will be the laughing stock of his profession . After a moment , Pleasance burns the freshly signed letter from Corri . And he proceeds to prepare for driving the final nails into the defendants coffin . And he does . We learn that case made his reputation , and he has been getting bigger and bigger over the years in the law and even politics . He's even spoken up on some social issues for the poor ( one wonders if it was to assuage his guilt ) . He is about to get an even greater honor - a judgeship . It is now twenty years later , and Pleasance is alone trying on his new robes , when he is told that there was a phone call for him . Some woman named Sarah . Pleasance naturally panics , and tries to dismiss it . But when he gets home he finds among his mail a copy of the same note that he destroyed twenty years earlier - in fact , he thinks it is the same note ! He is informed that a woman has been asking for him at his home . Pleasance flees the house . He ends up at the courtroom ( " the Old Bailey " , one wonders ) . It is deserted except for the voices of the past - the ghost of the judge , the jury , the defendant and his counsel , and Pleasance as prosecutor . He confronts the voices , especially his own , condemning him for failing to live up to the true spirit of the law . But he hears the inevitable condemnation speech again , and the screams from the defendant claiming his innocence . And Pleasance collapses on the witness chair . This was the main body of the story , and it was framed by John Newland showing up to watch an older , wilder looking Pleasance ( whom most consider insane ) giving a daily speech condemning himself for his killing of the defendant by a judicial murder ( the speech being given in Hyde Park ) . As the episode ends , like all of them , Newland discusses the odd circumstances of Pleasance's confession , and whether it was true or not . He does mention , in passing , that when the defendant was hanged , his last word was " Sarah " . Was it true ? I haven't found such a crime in my reading of British crime . But Pleasance was very good , first with Corri testing her out as a potential phony , and then realizing she has blown his case and reputation sky high . Secondly he was very good in the scene at the empty courtroom . Given he was only sharing the scene with unseen voices it was a nice piece of acting . Again , the story line carried the viewer even if one did not believe the story's essential truth or not .
San Francisco's Experiment With Vigilantes ( 1851 - 1856 )	In 1848 the Treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo ended the Mexican - American War , with the secession of territory from Mexico to the U . S . of most of the current southwestern U . S . ( California , Arizona , New Mexico , any claims to Texas - as well as parts of Colorado , Utah , and Nevada ) . This was a war of conquest by the U . S . , but to assuage American consciences fifteen million dollars was paid to Mexico for this territory . Only a subsequent bit of southern Arizona and New Mexico ( known as the " Gadsden Purchase " ) was made as an addition in 1853 by the Pierce Administration , giving us the current southwestern border . While the territory of Northern California ( as opposed to the territory of Baja or Southern California - still part of Mexico ) had always been a bit too far from Mexico City for proper control over local government , the change to Washington , D . C . - more than twice the distance and across a continent - further seemed to weaken national control of the territory . Moreover the population , being mostly Latino , was hostile to the non-Latino U . S . Government . It is in the next few years that California's so-called answer to Robin Hood , Joachin Murrieta , is continuing the Mexican War by his guerrilla / bandit attacks . Under normal circumstances , it would have taken a generation for the U . S . to be really bothered by this . But in 1849 gold was discovered in California , and the world rushed in . Suddenly the territory had nearly one million population within a year , and demanded statehood . This would lead to the controversy about admitting California to the Union as an free state , and unbalancing the balance of the U . S . Senate . This in turn led to the Compromise of 1850 which enabled California to enter the Union as a free state , but guaranteed a fugitive slave act as a sop to the South . It put off the Civil War ( or ignited the path to the Civil War ) ten years later . But for a big state , with wealth and population and size , California had a bad reputation . The towns of San Francisco and Los Angeles boomed in population - in particular San Francisco with it's immense harbor . But their governments were pitifully unable to maintain public order . Fires ( arson caused ) were frequent . So were killings , usually tied to robberies of the prospectors with more gold than sense . Judges and police were frequently paid off by gamblers and crime gang leaders . Finally , in 1851 , the better elements of San Francisco put their foot down and formed a vigilante committee . They arrested several dubious characters , held stream-lined trials ( where many legal niceties were ditched ) and if the parties were found guilty ( which usually happened ) they were hanged in public . It sort of calmed things down , but then the continued prosperity of the state caused the same problems to reappear . In 1856 two incidents reignited the Vigilante Committee . First a local outspoken newspaper editor , James King of William , was shot and killed by a corrupt local political alderman named James Carey . Then a gambler named Charles Cora shot and killed a police official . Both men were arrested , given the drum-head trial , convicted , and hanged . The Vigilantes retained control of San Francisco for the rest of the next year before disbanding . They never had to make a third appearance . Were they real heroes or a lynch mob ? It still is debated . James King of William was right about the corruption and crime , but he was a " Nativist " , and his attacks were also against Catholics , such as Carey ( an Irish American ) and Cora ( an Italian American ) . Many of his fellows were also Protestants , and some may have had pecuniary interests in attacking the businesses controlled by the Catholics . So the real situation is not black and white , like this film suggests . Edward G . Robinson's Luis Chamalis was based on Charles Cora , although the triangle with Miriam Hopkins and Joel McCrae is from whole cloth . Col . Marcus Cobb ( Frank Craven ) is based on James King of William ( although King of William was never reduced to such stunning superficiality as Cobb is for nearly a year ) . Robinson's grip on the whole of San Francisco is fictitious ( Cora never had that much power ) . The leadership of the Vigilantes ( Harry Carey ) reflect the moral center of the Vigilantes movement that was unquestioned in American History books of the 1935 . It is a good film , with fine performances by Robinson , Hopkins , Craven , Brian Donleavy ( who's physical appearance makes him look like the corrupt contemporary Mayor of New York City , Fernando Wood ) , and Brennan . McCrae is sturdy and acts well , but his role seems terribly naive . It is fun trying to locate David Niven as a drunken cockney sailor tossed out of Robinson's saloon ( he recalled it fondly in THE MOON'S A BALLOON ) . Robinson's recollections of the film were downers in ALL MY YESTERDAYS : he had political disputes about the on-coming World War II with isolationists Hopkins , Carey , Craven , Brennan , McCrae , and director Hawks . Hopkins kept trying to upstage him and the others , until he let her have it before the cast and crew ( who applauded him for it ) . He also felt the end was a let down . Quietly told by Carey and his associates it is time to accompany them to his neck stretching party , he quietly joins them , as though they have come to take him to deliver a political speech ! Still the film merits an " 8 " out of " 10 " .
The Fourth Survivor out of 1 , 800 + men ?	This episode is another of the interference of the supernatural in the lives of people involved in tragic events that appear fairly regularly on ONE STEP BEYOND . It actually rivals the stories about Lincoln's Assassination , Krackatoa , the San Francisco Earthquake , and the Titanic . People recall the voyage of Hitler's mightiest battleship , SMS BISMARCK , in May 1941 , in the most famous and fatal maiden / final voyages in the history of naval warfare . Hitler never had a really good grasp on naval strategy , and wasted a truly remarkable battleship on a cruise to see if Bismarck would be a good commerce raider . With the strength of her hull and plating , her firepower , and her speed , Bismarck should have been at the center of a might fleet of battleships and cruisers like the Tirpitz ( wasted for most of the war in Norway's fjords ) , the Schleswig-Holstein , and whatever other large scale craft he could have gotten together . Then the Royal Navy might have had substantial problems . Instead it was accompanied for only two thirds of it's cruise by the battle cruiser Prinz Eugen . Still it did do one notable piece of damage : it sank H . M . S . Hood , Britain's largest and most famous battleship , off the coast of Iceland . Of the crew of 1 , 800 , only three men survived that icy water ( more lives were lost on the Hood and on the Bismarck when it was sunk than on the Titanic and Lusitania combined ) . The story here is about how the crew of the Hood are given partial liberty just before the Bismarck leaves on it's cruise . We concentrate on three men : Johnny Watson ( Mark Eden ) , Breed ( Terry Palmer ) , and Robin Hughes ( Richard Gale ) . These three men are seamen on Hood , and go to their homes for their leave . But when they are all at home , Watson and Breed and their families hear the news on the radio that the Hood has been sunk with all hands . Naturally they both check into this , and find it is still in port at Scapa Flow . Hughes does not hear this news , but receives better information about his future . Apparently he is going to live to be very old . Then news comes that leaves have been canceled because of the Bismarck leaving port . All three men go back to their ship , Watson and Breed both nervous about the peculiar false radio report of the disaster . They mention it to Hughes , who is surprised . They reach the gangplank to board Hood , when a naval officer approaches and tells Hughes that he is being reassigned to a land office . He turns to his two mates , and they look like they've seen the angel of death just stamp their documents . Never-the-less they board the doomed vessel . Here comes the surprise : At the end of the episode we are told that only three sailors survived the icy waters off Iceland when Hood was sunk . But John Newland introduces us to the real Robin Hughes . Hughes , an actor by profession , verifies that in reality he was an unofficial fourth survivor of the Hood's crew , as he was not supposed to be on board at the last moment before it left port on it's fatal cruise . How true this is I can't vouch for it . I have looked over Philip's career , and he was in several nautical films ( including A NIGHT TO REMEMBER ) . But whether or not he actually was a member of the Hood's crew , and was luckily chosen to avoid that final cruise at the last minute is something I cannot answer . Good story though .
The End of the Line , Harry and Archie	The 1980s was a period of transition as many great film legends died . Cary Grant , Bette Davis , Lawrence Olivier , Fred Astaire , Jimmy Cagney were just a few of those who left the scene . But there were attempts ( before the end ) to bring some of the great figures together . Bette Davis and Jimmy Steward made there only film together . Henry Fonda and Katherine Hepburn did ON GOLDEN POND . Cagney appeared with pal Pat O'Brien , as well as Donald O'Connor , in RAGTIME . Davis appeared with Lillian Gish , Anne Southern , and Vincent Price in THE WHALES OF AUGUST . And Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas appeared in this film . In the Oscar ceremonies of 1985 , Lancaster and Douglas had come in together to deliver an award , and everyone noted how healthy both men still were . It was over two decades since they appeared in a film as co-stars ( SEVEN DAYS IN MAY ) , and some of the news items in the wake of their appearance suggested it was too bad there was no property that they could develop together . Shortly afterward this comedy was produced . It had a great build-up , and I was fortunate to see it in a movie house . But it did not have a massive audience box-office , and was gone within six weeks . It was too bad , because it was a funny film , and would turn out to be the best comedy buddy film of the films that they did together . Harry and Archie ( Lancaster and Douglas ) pulled off one of the smoothest and most impressive railway train robberies in American history back in 1947 . They almost got away with it , except for the persistence of a police officer ( played by Charles Durning ) who broke the case and managed to bring them to jail . They have served nearly forty years in jail , and when released they are in for time shocks . After all , they were used to the world of . While both are physically fit , both can't get out of their mental views from their youth . On top of that , they have to deal with Durning , whose police career - after it's brilliant start - petered out leaving him embittered , and desperate to prove himself to the young pups who count the days until his enforced retirement . They have to deal with parole officer Dana Carvey , who has all the typical problems of a nice , naive parole officer . They have to deal with hostility around them from all peoples - mostly the young , but the middle aged are not much better . They resemble Reggie Kray , one time kingpin of London's largest criminal empire , who in his later years when interviewed pointed out to reporters that ( while he did not dismiss his own use of violence against opponents in other gangs ) he did dislike the lack of respect he observed towards older citizens . He and his brother Ronnie never stood for that kind of thing . Neither do Harry and Archie here . When threatened as easy , elderly targets by a gang of punks , they beat up the punks quite effectively . To add to their woes is the most ridiculous , but scrupulous , hit-man in modern cinema : Leon B . Little ( Eli Wallach - who almost walks off with the picture ) . Hired on a contract against the boys back in their heyday , their being in prison prevented the ever ready Little from completing their executions . Even the death of the idiot who hired him means nothing - he was paid already , and he has a code of honor with his clients . That in the end , the battle of youth and old age unites Lancaster , Douglas , Wallach , and even Durning should not surprise anyone . All four manage to demonstrate that it is street smarts and brains , not youthful idealism ( paging Carvey ) that will win out in the end . The film has some nice moments , such as Douglas almost going in for dirty dancing with a young chippy , and Lancaster protesting the slop he has to eat in an old age home , and memorably showing his teeth to advantage for a purpose ( for a change ) . It was a good conclusion to the long road of movies these two cinema giants made together - and a funny one too .
Bringing a Nation at War Together	Today was the anniversary of Fay Bainter's birthday , so that Turner Classic Movies were showing a number of her films - many of which are rarely available for viewing . Earlier I reviewed THE SHINING HOUR , in which Bainter played a repressed spinster , older sister - with possible incestuous thoughts about her two brothers ( Melvin Douglas and Robert Young ) . I also watched most of this film in which Bainter plays an upper class Washington socialite who feels that the Second World War was a personal attack on herself and her way of life . This may seem to be a ridiculous point of view , but I am aware of one celebrity ( I won't say who ) who arrived at the same rather stupid point of view in his memoirs . Bainter's Mrs . Stella Hadley could be ( in her point of view ) a relative of Ms . Emily Hawkins ( Agnes Moorehead ) in SINCE YOU WENT AWAY . In that film Moorehead keeps claiming that her selfish actions ( she will be willing to throw a large party - because it gives her a chance for social exposure - but she is hoarding and using black market ) is " to maintain appearances " , as she puts it . Mrs . Hadley is not so despicable , but she resents the inconveniences to herself and her lifestyle by the war ( which she tends to blame on the policies of Franklin Roosevelt ) . In the films of the 1940s there were occasional comments about the Washington social scene in some of the films . For example , Lucille Watson is a prominent Washington hostess ( the widow of a Supreme Court Justice ) in WATCH ON THE RHINE . But the social elite did not always support the administration . In fact many members of the nation's upper crust were Republicans , and many were reactionaries to the New Deal and other policies . Mrs . Hadley is the widow of a prominent Washington D . C . newspaper owner who was a Republican . It sounds like the character is based on Evelyn Walsh McClean , whose husband Ned owned the Washington Post in the 1920s ( and actually was an intimate of the Harding Administration ) . But Mrs . McClean was fully supportive of the war effort . The changes she sees is that her friends ( mostly Republican like herself ) will not share her views . Edward Arnold is Eliot Fulton , a family friend who has been trying to marry Mrs . Hadley , but he is committed to his work in the F . D . R . war effort . Roosevelt , unlike his predecessor Woodrow Wilson , was smart enough to make the war effort a coalition type , including Republican figures like Frank Knox and Henry Stimson in his cabinet in important jobs ( Secretary of the Navy and Secretary of War ) . Arnold's Fulton , and Spring Byington and Isobel Elsom as her two closest friends , all are spurned by her as they adopt a support the war effort point of view . It's like they forgot their criticism of FDR's peacetime social and political views ( which they willingly have ) . Only Miles Mander , as a chilly physician who is also romantically interested in Bainter , stays close to her socially and politically . She soon alienates her children , her daughter ( Jean Rogers ) running off ( against Bainter's wishes ) to marry Van Johnson , a young man in the armed forces from the lower classes . Sarah Allgood ( Johnson's mother ) tries to undue the resulting split , but Bainter won't hear of it . And Arnold helps Bainter's son Richard Ney enlist in the army ( again against Bainter's wishes ) . The conclusion of the film shows how a tragic incident brings Bainter to her senses . The film is fascinating showing an moment of importance that lasted five years . FDR had been under tremendous criticism from 1933 to 1941 for the New Deal and then the third term election . His foreign policy would be criticized by isolationists too , and the court packing plan made many Democrats into enemies . But Pearl Harbor changed it all , and his wisdom on bi-partisan-ism helped . This film showed how the bulk of the country did drop partisan differences because of national shame and peril . The eventual success of our war effort is still another monument to FDR's leadership .
If Married Couples Had a Second Chance . . . .	In the early 1950s there were several episodic movies that came out of 20th Century Fox , two of which had early performances of Marilyn Monroe . The two were O'HENRY'S FULL HOUSE and this film , WE'RE NOT MARRIED ! The O'Henry anthology had stories that were funny ( " The Ransom of Red Chief " ) and stories that were moving ( " The Gift of the Magi " ) , and stories that were tragic ( " The Last Leaf " ) . But WE'RE NOT MARRIED ! was pure comedy , and as such worked quite well . It is based on an old plot ploy that turns up in other films , like Hitchcock's MR . AND MRS . SMITH . What happens to a married couple , after a couple of years of marriage , when they discover that there is a flaw in their marriage that invalidates it ? Like MR . AND MRS . SMITH , the flaw here is the legality of the license . . . of the justice of the peace . And in WE'RE NOT MARRIED , the nice but bumbling justice of the peace is Victor Moore . Moore had gotten word that he was appointed to the job , and began marrying as soon as he got the letter . He did not notice that he was not to marry anyone until a particular date . As a result there are at least six couples that he married who are technically living in sin . How do they handle the problem ? In MR . AND MRS . SMITH , Robert Montgomery's attempt to dismiss it as a minor problem almost destroyed his marriage ( as Carole Lombard wonders what kind of man he really is ) . Here the stories are able to look at the situation carefully . The results are far more cynical in three cases . Louis Calhern , a millionaire , marries Zsa Zsa Gabor ( a gold digger ) who arranges to frame him so she can divorce him and get a bundle . Calhern , confused and not knowing what to do , gets the letter from Moore and suddenly realizes Gabor has no legal standing to do anything ( this was long before the concept of " palimony " ) . Suddenly , to the consternation of her attorney ( Paul Stewart ) and Gabor , not only is Calhern cooperative , but he's positively full of information about hidden assets . At the very conclusion he drops the shoe on Zsa Zsa by giving her the letter as a personal message of a deep feeling for her . As he leaves the room we hear her faint . Walter Brennan ( in a section of the film that was cut originally but has been restored ) is a backwoods Lothario who loves to charm Hope Emerson . Emerson is married with several kids ( which Brennan knows about ) but he keeps saying how he'd love to marry her if only she were free ( Brennan does this because he really loves Emerson's cooking - charmed by him she is feeding his lying face ) . Then she gets the letter from Moore , and asks Brennan to read it ( Hope can't read ) . Brennan realizes what it's about , and hastily lies about the contents , and says it is junk mail . Then he destroys it . Little does he realize , after that sequence ends , that Moore and his wife ( Jane Darwell ) are discussing the rural address and problems of delivery there , and decide to send a second copy just to be certain . Paul Douglas is married to Eve Arden , but their marriage is in one of those rut periods . When he gets the letter , he starts imagining his new freedom , dating another good looking woman each night . Only at the end of this dream does he suddenly envision the cost of such a lifestyle ( an expensive cost for 1952 ) . At the end he decides to forget about the gorgeous women and look at how nice , peaceful , and stable that rut he's in really is . There are also stories involving Mitzi Gaynor and Eddie Bracken , Marilyn Monroe and David Wayne , and ( possibly best ) Fred Allan and Ginger Rogers as a bickering couple who are like Dorothy Kilgallen and her husband Dick Kalmar on radio's " Breakfast With Dorothy and Dick " . While not the greatest of film comedies , it's pretty consistently amusing in getting as much mileage out of the central plot ploy . Certainly worth watching and enjoying when it turns up on television .
Jerome's Three Men . . . and Jack ?	The first novel of Peter Lovesey that I read was SWING , SWING TOGETHER , but when I read it in the late 1970s , I had not yet read THREE MEN IN A BOAT . If I had , a clever literary trick he used in that " Sgt . Cribb " Mystery , but one that ( unfortunately ) could not be used in this version for television , would have been appreciated by me . In the 19th Century , many times a novelist would begin each chapter of his or her novel with cryptic summation or summary words describing the events or main points of the coming chapter . This was done in THREE MEN IN A BOAT by Jerome K . Jerome , keeping the words at a neutral , but comic key ( as they ironically mirrored the inane behavior of Jerome , Harris , and George ( as well as the dog Montmorency ) on their boating trip ) . Lovesey , as a kind of homage to Jerome , did the same thing at the start of his chapters . If only I had been aware earlier it would have added to my enjoyment of Lovesey's novel . One has to keep in mind that the key to the plot for SWING , SWING TOGETHER is the date of publication and outside events . . . in the East End of London . Cribb and Thackeray are called into a case where a woman's body ( badly mutilated ) has been found in the Thames around Oxford . This is in the spring of 1889 , shortly after the publication of the THREE MEN IN A BOAT ( which the public is highly enthused about ) and after the most horrendous of the murders of Jack the Ripper in London . Cribb is asked to look into the killing ( Fred Abberline is mentioned in the novel , but that Detective is busy elsewhere , so he cannot take what should be his case - as he was in charge of the Ripper investigation ) . The suspects involved include three Londoners , who were charmed by Jerome's novel , and decided to do a similar vacation tour down the Thames by boat . Cribb and Thackeray are working undercover , so they too are boating ( which Thackeray is not too happy about - he keeps falling into the Thames ) . Eventually they find that while the three Londoners are certainly suspicious , there is one other person who is equally suspicious . An Oxford professor ( who , it turns out , Abberline questioned on suspicion during the Whitechapel Investigations ) may have been one of the last men seen with the dead woman . Soon another dead woman turns up , and the pressure is on Cribb to find out what is going on . Is our professor simply an attractive lady's man , or is he actually Jack ? To add to the confusion , the professor is the nephew of a well-known prison governor at a nearby prison , and Cribb spots two former convicts he remembers who are now at large and in the area . So instead of decreasing the number of suspects , they are growing ( like the nightmare that was the Whitechapel Murders ) . SWING , SWING TOGETHER takes it's name from a boating song ( about oarsman moving together in proper rhythm ) . It is a " pun " title , as it also suggests several homicide perpetrators " swinging " together as they are being hanged on the same gallows . The novel had a wonderful conclusion - hinted at in this version , but not followed . At sixty minutes to an episode the conclusion had to be hastened . But for most of the hour the episode was both amusing and even thrilling .
Well made movie soap opera story	The Turner Classic Network showed this film this evening , and it is well acted if a bit pat . Lionel Barrymore plays a company director who has been co-signing a series of checks that Edwin Maxwell ( one of his partners ) has been pushing on him as part of a scheme to save the firm during the depression . But he announces that the scheme is not working , and that it is a matter of time that the auditors ( who are coming in a day ) will uncover the defalcation that has occurred . Barrymore goes home worrying about the future . His home-life is usually a happy one , but he is aware of changes threatening his family's unity . His son ( Tom Brown ) is going to college , and trying to get into a prestigious fraternity . His younger daughter is also beginning a college career , but has fallen for one of the son's friends . His older daughter has two competing boyfriends , a reporter ( Onslow Stevens ) and an accountant ( Edward Nugent ) , and has just announced the engagement to the accountant . And his wife ( Fay Bainter ) has written a novel that a Hollywood studio has optioned . Barrymore decides to commit suicide , after making certain that everything is set up for his family to continue . The defalcation is discovered by his potential son-in-law , who warns him and " gives him a chance " to flee before it is revealed ( Maxwell has fled ) . In the meantime his younger daughter has almost gotten married , but stopped when she finds a cryptic note from Barrymore , and the son suffers a social disappointment and an automobile accident . But Barrymore returns home to commit suicide . Will he succeed or will he pull himself together to save his family . In some ways his performance here as Martin Turner , the businessman facing ruin and disgrace , is similar to his shipping tycoon in DINNER AT EIGHT , also facing business reverses . But Oliver , the shipping tycoon , never planned to kill himself ( he had a serious heart condition that the pressures of his situation was worsening ) . His family is smaller ( just the socially pretentious Billie Burke and his daughter ) . Martin Turner has a larger family with more individual problems that pull them apart . But in both films , when his physical situation and his social position are threatened , his family does reunite to save him . But while circumstances in DINNER AT EIGHT help force Oliver's wife and daughter to come back to their senses , it is the seriousness of Martin's problems that cause the Turners to circle their wagons around their family head . Barrymore was a fine actor , but he frequently had a tendency to hamminess ( as did his brother John ) , but here he shows great restraint due to the circumstances of the story . As a result his performance here is pretty solid - one of his best . As for Bainter and the others they give good support . A soap opera tale , but it is a first rate production well worth watching .
Hoist By His Own Petard	As mentioned when reviewing THE LAST TRUMPET , not all of the Sgt . Cribb episodes on " Mystery " were based on the actual novels by Peter Lovesey . Several like that one , THE CHOIR THAT WOULD NOT SING , and this one , THE HORIZONTAL WITNESS , were written by Lovesey for the television series . They usually kept up the interests of the viewers in forgotten by-ways of the Victorian world , and by our amusement at the travails of poor Cribb and his even more put-upon assistant Constable Thackeray . This one actually put Thackeray ( William Simons ) at center stage for reasons of the plot . Cribb ( Alan Dobie ) is assigned to another ticklish murder case by Inspector Jowett ( David Waller ) . It seems that a notorious malefactor has been killed , and while even Jowett feels that the man is no real loss to society his death can't be ignored . The man was like a 19th Century Kray Brother , in that he was the head of the most powerful gang in London . But like the Krays , he also was smart enough to cover his risks by buying large amounts of property and businesses . So he owned half of the East End of London . This makes him ( despite being generally disliked and disdained ) important enough to have to solve his murder . There was only one witness : an unsavory little worm ( Charles Vokins ) who saw a gang of roughs attack the victim , and ( before he got knocked out ) claimed he saw who gave the fatal wound to the Victim . But he himself is suspect ( he had been mistreated by the deceased in several ways ) , so he won't talk unless a deal is arranged . Cribb in the meantime has been looking over other suspects - but without his sidekick Thackeray . Thackeray has hemorrhoids , and has gone to a hospital ( much against his own will - in the late 19th Century most people only went to hospitals if their illnesses were such as to be inevitably fatal ) to have an operation . The Constable is not happy there , and is constantly having problems with the head nurse , ( Elizabeth Bennett ) . Cribb narrows down the list of suspects to two , the deceased's brother and heir ( Norman Jones ) and a leading surgeon ( John Ringham ) who has a gambling habit . The Sergeant is dismayed to find that Ringham is also the surgeon scheduled to operate on Thackeray , and has a close romance with Bennett . But duty calls and Cribb keeps up his own form of polite pressure to figure out who did in the Victim , while Thackeray makes himself a general nuisance to the hospital staff . And leave us not forget our witness , who is still offering his final identification of the perpetrator but only if he gets guarantees . This episode turned out to have one of the simplest solutions of the entire series , and one of the most logical . It also made a final , hysterical use of a semi-conscious Thackeray in the conclusion of the case .
The Problems of Warning About Impending Disaster	This was one of the episodes of ONE STEP BEYOND that dealt with a famous tragedy or disaster ( Lincoln's Assassination , Krackatoa , the Titanic Disaster ) . This one was about April 18 , 1906 , the day the St . Andreas Fault shook and San Francisco collapsed . David Opatashu is a bellboy at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco on that date . He has a dream about the city having a major earthquake and fire . And he tries to warn everyone about it . Most people dismiss him ( including his son , whom he accidentally runs into ) as a drunk who is always making waves and trouble . So few if any seem to believe him , and he is locked up in a straight jacket in a cell when the earthquake strikes . We last see him helplessly tied up on bed , knowing that his warning won't even save himself . Only one couple , who had been staying at the hotel , listen to him - and they are in a safe spot outside the city watching it burn as the episode ends . Newland points out , as he did on the Lincoln and Titanic episodes , other odd instances that occurred - the most bizarre being a telegram that apparently reached Kansas or Missouri five hours before the earthquake warning that the city of San Francisco had a dreadful earthquake , and needed help . It was fortunate it arrived - the telegraph lines from California were subsequently broken by the earthquake so word of the disaster and the need for aid and supplies could not get out later on . Newland could have gone on like this . John Barrymore was in San Francisco ( as was Eugene Sandow , the famous strongman , and Enrico Caruso ) on the night of the earthquake . Barrymore's father Maurice was in an asylum for a few years before the earthquake , but two years before Lionel was talking to Maurice and mentioned that John was on tour in San Francisco . Maurice shook his head - " How can you say that Lionel ? Everyone knows that San Francisco was destroyed by an earthquake and fire ! " Also odd was a religious curse that was put on the city . Joshua Crefeld , a controversial " religious " charlatan who founded a religious community in Oregon , gave a sermon in which he castigated the sinful city of San Francisco , and said that God would destroy it . This was said a month or so before the earthquake . Crefeld would later boast that his prediction of God's actions had come true . The episode was really quite good , with Opatashu finding that having foreknowledge of an event did not mean he would be believed . It was a good entry for the series .
A Resurrected Lost Work	It is by sheer luck sometimes that an artist's work survives . For centuries the works of the Greek dramatist Menander did not exist except for occasional quotes ( including " whom the Gods love die young " ) . But since 1905 one complete play , one nearly complete play , and five huge fragments exist to be studied by drama students . They were found on various papyri that managed to survive in the dry climate of Egypt . With Orson Welles there are several films which are seriously missing scenes he shot that were cut . THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS is the best known ( cut and a new ending attached ) , but there is also THE STRANGER , THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI , CONFIDENTIAL REPORT , MACBETH , and IT'S ALL TRUE to ponder . Welles had a way of making enemies due to his ego , but he was a brilliant film maker , and to see the damage these pygmies did to his work makes one angry . The fate of Konrad Meinike in THE STRANGER was to be the culmination of half an hour of activity in the film showing his escape from prison in Europe and his traveling to Latin America to locate the man he worked with - who would kill him . The famous crazy house sequence in THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI is only a small segment now of what Welles shot ( that segment is still great , but the missing footage probably was superb ) . Restoration on CONFIDENTIAL REPORT makes it coherent now , and MACBETH now has it's original length and soundtrack . TOUCH OF EVIL too has been somewhat repaired based on the memos Welles left of his intentions for the film . IT'S ALL TRUE , unlike the other films , was never completed enough in any form to be shown to the public . Welles went to Latin America , having finished shooting AMBERSONS , and was to do a " good neighbor policy " documentary for the Roosevelt administration under the auspices of Nelson Rockefeller . He had to also cut AMBERSONS , and his finished cut version was butchered by his enemies at RKO who had it's end re-shot . Political differences with the Brazilian strongman , Getulio Vargas , helped doom IT'S ALL TRUE , and caused the footage to be left on a shelf to rot rather than to be released . Over the years film historians noted it's existence , until finally in 1990 or so some began preserving and editing the best surviving footage . Unfortunately much of the sections on " MY FRIEND BONITO " and of " The STORY OF SAMBA " was lost , but enough lasts to show Welles ' eye for film was working brilliantly . Fortunately the last section , " FOUR MEN ON A RAFT " survived , and could be put into coherent form . It told the story of four poor fishermen from the north - east corner of the country with grievances , who sailed a raft ( with one or two stops ) all the way to Rio , in order to see President Vargas . They managed to do it . But Vargas did not really help these fisherman ( one of whom was killed apparently when Welles was filming the sequence ) . The sequence is not only moving , but also extremely beautiful to look at . One gets the impression that Welles ' Latin American documentary would have been a gorgeous one . The version of IT'S ALL TRUE is the closest we will ever have to what Welles meant to show . I recommend watching it , with the commentary sequences showing Welles at work , and his explaining the way things went wrong . Enjoy what is left . It is worth seeing .
Eddie Robinson and Comedy	It is generally conceded that Edward G . Robinson ( his memoirs tell us that the " G " was for " Gould " , but it was a made-up name , so he just left it a " G " ) was one of the finest actors in Hollywood history , who repeatedly missed out on deserved " Oscar " recognition , although he did get a career " Oscar " shortly before his death in 1971 . But most of the performances he is best recalled for ( " Little Caesar " , " Double Indemnity " , " The Ten Commandments " , " Dr . Ehrlich's Magic Bullet " , " The Sea Wolf " , " Key Largo " , " The Woman In The Window " , " All My Sons " ) were dramatic parts . In fact , many were outright villains . He did play comedy , and when the film was intelligent it was usually with good results . In particular his gangster comedies , " A Slight Case of Murder " , " Larceny , Inc . " , and " The Whole Town is Talking " , show him to best effect . And there is this early comedy ( I believe it was Robinson's first comic turn ) . Bugs Ahearn is like Remy Marko in " A Slight Case of Murder " . Both are beer baron racketeers from the 1920s and early 1930s , who have made a pile , but face the end of " prohibition " by trying to turn legit - or as close to legit as possible . Remy ( sticking to the New York Metropolitan area ) decided to continue his brewery as a competitor with now other legitimate beer companies , not realizing ( until it's almost too late ) how dreadful his swill tastes . Bugs decides he's made enough , pulls up stakes and heads for the West Coast . He will now try to join the " beautiful people " in high society . But while Remy has his loyal gang members and his wife and daughter to support him , Bugs goes it alone . And is taken to the cleaners . I don't think that the view of the rich that appear in these films ( and other gangster films of the 1930s ) would be as dark again until the last ten years . Although some of the film noir movies showed a seedy side to the wealthy and prominent ( notably in those films based on Raymond Chandler and Dashiel Hammett novels ) , the films of the last decade made in the wake of scandals like EXXON , certainly made the bulk of the public question the rich . In 1933 the same serious questioning was going on . Economic heroes of the 1920s like Michael Meehan , Jesse Livermore , William C . Durant , Samuel Insull , and Richard Whitney became criminals or pariahs in the 1930s as investigations revealed their thefts or skirting of the laws . Even J . P . Morgan 2nd ( an uncle of Whitney by marriage ) was shown to have made a " mistake " in underestimating his income tax in the early 1930s . Comparatively speaking , gangsters like Remy or Bugs were more openly criminal than their white collar counterparts - who stole millions from small investors , and did not break laws to service a need for mild alcoholic beverages . So it was easy to side with Bugs or Remy when they face these secret villains - like the rest of the population did . Except for former wealthy woman Mary Astor , who finds she likes Bugs , all of the wealthy people in this film are parasites who see Bugs as dirt to use to get rid of worthless stock before they are left holding the bag . The choice of Burton Churchill as the head of the Cass family , as unctuous a villain in the 1930s as you could find , was perfect . His respectable demeanor hiding a wolf-like passion for money at the expense of the gullible - here Bugs , who is smitten by Churchill's equally villainous daughter Helen Vinson . At the end of " A Slight Case Of Murder " Remy found out the error of his beastly beer brew , and snookered the white collared villains ( bankers ) into giving his loan an extension while he found a new beer formula that worked . Here the ending is more satisfactory , with Bugs asking his pals from Chicago to assist him , and forcing Churchill and his confederates to buy back the worthless stock . The scenes of this were very satisfying to depression America audiences .
An enjoyable little short	Only about three minutes long , NIGHTWALKING is an exercise in mutual social fears that are groundless . A young woman is walking home late at night , and uses a short cut . A young man is walking home late at night along the same route in back of her . Both are strangers , but both might conceivably ( if they were introduced in normal circumstances ) be friends of each other . But here they have never met - they are only aware of each other in the circumstances that are popularly considered potentially dangerous for the woman and criminal for the man ( that is , if the man is a rapist ) . There is no shared dialog in the entire short - only the thoughts of both characters are heard , with the woman getting first comments out . Her fears are understandable . In fact , the young man can comprehend them to the point that he starts thinking of counter-actions to prove he is not a rapist ( until he realizes he doesn't have to do that ) . The final events of the incident are shown twice , so that we don't quite grasp them the first time , and then we see the total picture at the end . Ironically the young lady is left wondering if it was all her imagination - while staring at an object that is the center of modern communication : the key to the characters ' failure to connect to each other . Director Daniel Cormac is a young and rising talent in British film and ( I believe ) has only made a handful ( three or four ) movies of various lengths . He is not afraid to experiment or make a film that is short even for a short subject , as long as he gets his effect across . He does so very well here . His two leads are perfectly paired by their ironic appearances : the woman ( Raquel Cassidy ) - who is full of mental dread at a potential physical attack - actually looks more formidable than Lloyd Woolf , who looks pleasant and sweet and actually is more considerate than the woman would believe . In fact , the final " catastrophe " is due to his considering contacting his mother . A wonderful brief use of irony to puncture the walls we build around ourselves daily .
Bogie's Society Film	" Tennis , anyone ? " That trite statement actually comes from a play . It was spoken by a young , struggling actor of some rugged handsome looks , sometime in the 1920s . He said it with a now - famous trademark lisp . Yes Humphrey Bogart said that line . You see , when he started out in Broadway productions he was a juvenile actor . He played young social butterfly types ( hard to believe , isn't it ? ) . But there was a rational reason to think this , among the producers on Broadway - young man Bogart came from a prominent upper middle class family in Manhattan . His father was Dr . Bogart , a physician to wealthy people . His mother was an magazine artist . So yes . . . one could easily see that young Mr . Bogart would be used to saying things like " Tennis anyone " now and then . . . and so could play the young friend of the hero or the caddish social butterfly false lover or . . . well you can picture it ! It is with great respect to Humphrey Bogart's determination to be a real actor . . . to play real people . . . that he broke out of this cul-de-sac of juveniles and ended up in the roles he is loved for : Rick Blaine , Sam Spade , Charlie Allnut , Fred C . Dobbs , Philip Marlowe , Captain Phillip Francis Queeg , Duke Mantee , Baby Face Martin . . . characters we know are real for better or worse . Not light hearted society types we will never meet in a million years . Yet Bogie did return to this arena once in his later career - after his only Oscar . In 1954 he played Linus Larribee , older of a pair of brothers ( his younger brother is William Holden as David Larribee ) who are the heirs to an industrial and shipping empire headed by their father Oliver Larribee ( Walter Hampden ) . Into their upper class lives descends Sabrina ( Audrey Hepburn ) , the daughter of the family chauffeur Fairchild ( John Williams ) . She has long had a crush on David , a real playboy , and once even tried to commit suicide ( to be saved by Linus , without his realizing it was a planned suicide ) . She goes to Paris to study cooking , and returns after two years a sophisticated , attractive woman . And she turns the world of the Larribees upside down . There is a merger in the works between Larribee Industries and the largest sugar cane plantation owner in Puerto Rico ( Francis X . Bushman ) , whose daughter ( Martha Hyer ) has always liked David . David is not crazy about this , and when he is reintroduced to the new Sabrina he is knocked off his feet . This jeopardizes the entire business plan ( which involves using the sugar to manufacture a new type of all-purpose plastic that the Larribees have the patent rights to ) . Linus , who is the " ant " to David's " grasshopper " , is determined to undue the effect of Sabrina on his brother , and ( if necessary ) romance her himself . He does . . . only to find that she is quite intoxicating , and that he is falling in love with her . It has been suggested that Bogart was wrong in this film ( like Gary Cooper was in Billy Wilder's other Hepburn comedy , LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON ) , because he was too old and his image didn't fit . Well , it is true that we have another May - September relationship here , and that Bogart's personae after his string of memorable performances was not as a financial type . Cary Grant , the original choice for the role , might have seemed better . But Grant is as much a misfire here as Bogart appears to be . The problem is Holden . One can see Bogart as a hard working type and Holden's older brother quite easily , but Grant ( with his English accent ) would have made Holden seem out-of-place . They would have had to change the Larribees into a transplanted English family in America to make Grant fit in perfectly . That might have worked - but it would have strained belief . Bogart rarely played comic roles after 1940 , but in his late 1950s films he did do comedy a bit more ( here , in BEAT THE DEVIL , and in WE'RE NO ANGEL ) . He demonstrates a natural gift for delivering comic lines ( after David has an accident with a pair of drinking glasses he sat on , he is recovering and wants to write a poem to Sabrina about the accident - when he asks Linus / Bogart for a rhyme with glass , with a slight pause Linus / Bogart suggests " alas " ) . His performance is enhanced with his film partners Holden , Hepburn , and Williams and ( best of all ) Hampden . Williams is quite upset at the idea of his daughter marrying any of the Larribees . He is quite class conscious ( and admits it ) , and in one of Bogart's best moments he tells Williams he is a snob ! As for Hampden , one can only bless Wilder for casting him . Walter Hampden was one of Broadway's leading stars ( especially in Shakespearean roles ) between the teens and the 1930s . His production of HAMLET was considered one of the best ever on the American stage . But he arrived late in Hollywood , and although an impressive character actor rarely got any impressive role . His performance as Oliver Larribee , the last vestige of robber baron elitism in American society is wonderful . This includes his hiding his huge cigars from his wife ( he is caught smoking in Linus ' clothes closet at one point ) to his sputtering about a young débutante with an Adlai Stevenson button . He and Bogart share some nice give and take scenes , courtesy of Wilder's directing , here - just in time for Hampden , who died a year after this film was produced .
A Hollow Earth : Such a Curiosity	In the 1820s Captain John Symmes was writing pamphlets , and lobbying in Washington for a scheme for a major exploration expedition he wished to lead . A citizen of Ohio , Captain Symmes wanted the federal government to organize an expedition to go into the Pacific , then head for the south pole . And once there , Captain Symmes believed they would find a huge hole - and once you entered it you would find that the interior of the entire earth was hollow from pole to pole . The inside would be quite temperate , even tropical . Possibly it could be settled by Americans . In the late days of the second administration of President Andrew Jackson , Symmes got his wish . The U . S . Exploration Expedition was commissioned to do an in depth survey of the whole Pacific ( and go as far south as possible ) . But Symmes was not chosen to lead it - it was lead by Captain Charles Wilkes , a temperamental career naval officer . In the end Wilkes was at sea for four years ( 1838 - 1842 : it began officially in the Van Buren administration , and ended in the Tyler administration ) . It's outstanding accomplishment was Wilkes discovery of the continent of Antarctica . Wilkes had some problems ( he was given a court martial for some error in judgment ) , but he survived , to commit a diplomatic disaster in 1861 called " the Trent Affair " , and ending up a rear admiral before being retired by Lincoln during the Civil War . Symmes did not see any of this . His daughter Anne married a young army hero and political would-be named William Henry Harrison . In 1840 Symmes ' son-in-law was elected President of the United States . He only served a month ( March 4 - April 4 , 1841 ) before becoming the first President to die in office . Nobody has ever found proof that Symmes theoretical hollow earth theory was remotely possible . We certainly have never found any connecting temperate world between the two poles . But the theory was discussed seriously in American and Europe . And one of those who latched unto it was Jules Verne , who uses it in his novel JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH . The novel and the film are not the same . First of all the name of the professor is not Lindenbrook ( a Scottsman ) but Liedenbrock ( a German ) . Some editions give his name as Professor Von Hardwigg . Secondly , except for Arne Saknassum , no member of his family is in the novel . There is no pet duck named Gertrude . There is no romantic pair of ladies to pair off with James Mason and Pat Boone . All those were added to the script by other writers than Verne . Still despite it's false premise with " the Hollow Earth " , and all of these changes , it is a fun film . Mason and Arlene Dahl make an interesting paring , Diane Baker and Pat Boone a reasonably good junior couple . Thayer David , a familiar and welcome performer in his day , finally had a decent lead role in this film . So I do recommend watching the movie , for all it's " flaws " .
Everything but the kitchen sink !	It's a pity that some of the one time classic works of popular culture are now dusty and distant to most of us . This is particularly true of that remarkable medium of radio . Radio had an impact from 1920 to 1960 , when it was replaced by television . Television assaulted radio with it's versions of talk shows and game shows . It was one thing to hear that Mr . X won a new car , but quite more effective to see Mr . X looking at a new Buick or Rambler or Oldsmobile . It was more interesting watching Edward R . Murrow on Person to Person with a celebrity than just listening to them talk ( in one case Murrow did one interview that was impossible on radio - he interviewed Harpo Marx ) . There was just one area that radio beat out television . By relying on voices only , radio stimulated the imagination of the audience . It was very effective in comedy shows . Jack Benny would say he had to get some money , and the sound effects would create ( in the listener's minds ) the fabled Benny vault , which was further down than Fort Knox's and guarded by a Civil War veteran . Fred Allen would go outside down Allen's Ally , and interview a cross section of the American public every week , including a relic of New England , a voice of the deep south , and a Jewish lady who constantly mangled English and managed to make her family's triumphs and travails part of the issue . Allen is sadly forgotten today - you can get recordings of his show on tape , but the references deal with the political / social world of the 1940s and 1950s . This is the fate of all topical humor . Just wait four decades and play that hysterical list joke by David Letterman or opening monologue by Jay Leno to some teenagers . See how quickly they get bored and ask you " Did you really find this funny ? " Allen was sharp in his comments - the most remembered is his reference to the size of a heart of a Hollywood agent ( which was smaller than an olive pit ) . He would be able to skirt censors pretty well . In one sketch he talked of a new sponsor - a watch manufacturer named Fuller Bullova . With his normal group of second bananas Allen would satirize the politics of the period , or the social figures of the day ( Dawson Bells , a prominent actor / producer , describing his latest movie says , " The street is a symbol , the music is a symbol , the drums are a symbol , the cymbal is a symbol ! " ) . Allen wrote his own material , and wrote very well . If he is remembered it is for the fake feud he had with his friend Jack Benny . Apparently it began when he pretended that Benny had not been funny at all . Benny laughed , called Allen up and asked if he could zing some back at him . Allen was smart enough to say yes - and the feud became famous in radio lore . It also got into their films , where Allen and Benny would confront each other ( most notably in the whole film LOVE THY NEIGHBOR ) . In this film , there is only one scene of Benny with Allen and it is a different type of joke . Whereas the two are clashing in LOVE THY NEIGHBOR , in IT'S IN THE BAG it is a scene where a desperate Allen goes to try to re-buy a chair from Benny , who is all to happy to sell it back - he sells everything as either a souvenir of your visit or a refreshment ( including water ) . Allen , to see Benny , has to pretend he's a fan , and asks him the secret of his success , and Benny explains that the basis is his timing - he is constantly delaying audience reaction ( which should be hostile ) by slowly reacting as he thinks about what he said and wonders what it means . IT'S IN THE BAG shows Allen at his best , because it is not shared with Benny as LOVE THY NEIGHBOR , or shared with Jimmy Durante in SALLY , IRENE , AND MARY . He is in the center , trying to reclaim a stolen or missing fortune ( hidden in a chair ) . To do this requires him dealing with his wife Binnie Barnes , with his daughter's potential father-in-law Robert Benchley , with crooked lawyers John Carridine and John Miljan , and with hostile police detective Sidney Toler ( his second best comic performance after THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT ) . He also crosses paths with an insane ( and insatiably hungry ) psychiatrist ( Jerry Colonna ) , and a gang boss who would like to go straight , but inherited his gang from his mother , Machine Gun Molly . The gang boss is William Bendix . Allen's humor is in his sharp reactions to everyone around him . My favorite moment is when he and Binnie go out to a nightclub , to hear the doorman say , " Plenty of room folks ! Always plenty of room ! " There is no more room . Later that same night thy go to the movies only to find the same idiot using the same spiel to bring more people into the theater . They do find seats in something like the twelfth level of balconies . In disgust at his poor seats ( they can barely see a screen ) , Allen goes out to find the manager ( Emory Parnell ) . He complains about the witless idiot bringing people in when there are no decent seats . Parnell is upset , until he hears who was responsible . " Oh that's Joe , " he says while he laughing , " Good old Joe , ever the optimist ! " This is his sole explanation of what happened . The film is resolved happily , with most of the people involved showing up at a party at the Floogles . As he watches them arriving , Allan shakes his head and says , " Everything but the kitchen sink . " A moment later one of them lowers a kitchen sink . Perfect ending to a laugh fest .
Let's Hear It For Dudley !	Remember - before there was Sidney , there was Dudley . Dudley Digges is barely recalled today - because his heyday as a fixture in sound movies was the late 1920s and through the 1930s . Except for one major performance : the ship's good natured , if tipsy doctor in the 1935 MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY , most of his films are barely revived . More's the pity because he was a wonderful actor . In 1931 he played Casper Gutman ( the original actor to play that villain ) opposite Ricardo Cortez's Sam Spade in the first THE MALTESE FALCON . Similarly , about the same time , he played the recording angel in Leslie Howard's version of OUTWARD BOUND - the same role that Sidney Greenstreet tackled in BETWEEN TWO WORLDS a decade later . Digges could be likable and lovable ( that ship's doctor again ) , or detestable ( in CHINA SEAS , as the judgmental First Mate sneering at poor Lewis Stone but then proving he's as big a coward in a moment of crisis ) . He held his own against Paul Robeson in THE EMPEROR JONES . He is the Chinese freedom fighter working with Gary Cooper in THE GENERAL DIED AT DAWN . Digges could do anything . Here , he is Mr . Thompson , the hypocritical and thieving warden of a reform school that Frankie Darro and his friends are sent to for committing a robbery and injuring a Greek-American store owner ( it is the latest incident for most of them ) . Digges is as bad here as in CHINA SEAS , but it is a close thing to totally dislike him . He's able to somehow transcend his roles . . . more later about that . Darro has a gang of urban delinquents ( including a Jewish boy and " Farina " from " OUR GANG " ) . As pointed out in another review , it is a prototype of the Bowery Boys . We see them shake down car owners to pay them to " watch and protect " their autos . When one guy won't do it , they calmly wreck his car . The snatch and grab robbery at the store of the Greek-American is also rather graphically shown - his skull getting fractured when pushed . The boys are rounded up and brought before stern but decent judge Arthur Byron , who realizes that he can't leave the kids with their parents : the parents are unable to watch them , or are incompetent . Unfortunately there are three racial stereotypes in this sequence : a Jewish father who is more concerned with his business than with his son , Farina's stereotype " Yassum " father , and the an Italian father whose willingness to cooperate gets his son out of going to the reform school . Once there the boys find the regime oppressive . Occasionally one of the guards or the nurse ( Madge Evans ) tries to speak up for them . But Digges has no time for coddling . His is a regime determined to break the boys so they behave themselves . Unfortunately , Digges and his bookkeeper partner are greedy . They have been serving inferior food to the boys and pocketing the profit . One day a new official comes from the state to look at the reform school . It's Jimmy Cagney , who is a hack ward heeler whose gang got the vote out for Edward Maxwell . As a reward ( he could not get the Park Commissioner post ) Cagney was made an Assistant school inspector . He is supported by his hanger-on pal and factotum Allan Jenkins ( in his first Warner Brother film ) . The irony is that if Digges were a bit more careful , Cagney would probably have let him continue running things . But Cagney arrives to see Darro brought to Digges for fighting . The Warden and Darrow have had problems about respect earlier , and Digges now intends to punish Darro who flees - but get seriously injured by Digges ' barbed wire fences and his free use of a whip . Cagney stops Digges and lets Evans treat Darro's injuries . And she explains the reality of the situation to Cagney , and her own idea of real reformatory reform of the boys by building up trust in them with responsibility . The film follows this to the end , showing that Cagney and Evans are on the right path , turning the reformatory as a " republic " for the boys to run properly . This leads to conflict with Digges , whose profiteering is reduced as he is no longer getting supplies . But the scheme is derailed when Cagney himself finds he may be in serious trouble with the law . Digges sees his opportunity and fully takes it . But then he goes too far . . . far more than he ever bargained for . The 1930s had many films showing kids taking steps to right wrongs and change things . Darro appeared in such as WILD BOYS OF THE ROAD . Cecil B . De Mille did THIS DAY AND AGE , where the kids teach a lesson to a gangster played by Charles Bickford that scares the hell out of him . So it went in the 1930s . THE MAYOR OF HELL reaches a similar intensity of vengeance and juvenile justice seeking . But that's the one problem of the film . Digges ' character is a knave and hypocrite , so we never really cheer for him , yet if he wasn't a thief we might go along with his view ( even if it is counter-productive ) . The scenes at the start of Darro and his gang preying on people actually make the harshness Digges would follow seem fairly understandable ( even if his thieving ways are not ) . Also he has one moment when he's justifiably angry at Cagney - at that point in hiding from his own clash with the law - giving orders over a phone from long distance to a befuddled Digges . When Digges learns what's actually happened he is justifiably furious at Cagney lecturing him about proper behavior . It is the closest thing to making Mr . Thompson sympathetic in this fine movie .
Palmestry and Climbing the Corporate Ladder	This was an amusing episode of the series ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? that concentrated on the possibility of promotion in Grace Brothers Department Store , the class system , sexism , and reading palms . Mr . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) has heard that there will be an opening in the Board Room , and Rumbold may be up for that promotion . He tells this in confidence to Captain Peacock ( Frank Thornton ) , who will probably be named to Rumbold's middle management position as floor head . Peacock's position as floor walker will be up too , and soon both Mr . Grainger ( Arthur Borough ) and Mrs . Slocombe ( Mollie Sugden ) are vying for that position , only both are crestfallen to discover that Peacock does not favor either of them : Grainger is too old , and Slocum is a woman ( two points of view that are irritating to the two candidates ) . Peacock is also approached by Mr . Humphreys ( John Inman ) for the post . In the meantime Mr . Humphrey mentions at lunchtime that he can read palms and is pretty accurate . Peacock lets him read his palm , and he sees him climbing a ladder , but also sees him at Mrs . Slocum's feet . Later he reads Rumbold's palm and does find that his career will be effected by a " t " . Subsequently , these predictions do come true , though not in the way anyone can guess . The episode has some nice touches . For example , everyone in the store knows the reason why a member of the Board is leaving - it has to do with a three bottle a day problem . Also , the conclusion shows that trusting in fortune telling may be fine , but one should always remember there are many ways to foretell the future , and that the predictions one gets from any medium can be quite murky at best .
Hey , " Joly " could act , and Tyrone's first real heel	It's a good film , but FUNNY GIRL is far better ( and with it's sequel FUNNY LADY , more on target ) . At least Streisand plays the role of Fanny Brice as Fanny Brice - not like Alice Faye who plays her as Rose Sergent - the " Rose of Washington Square . " This must have been a trend at 20th Century Fox when doing Faye - Power musicals . In ALEXANDER'S RAGTIME BAND , Power was the great ragtime conductor , " Mr . Alexander " . I'm sure though Irving Berlin did not mind about that one way or the other . Everyone knows that ROSE OF WASHINGTON SQUARE was a fictionalized account of the career of Fanny Brice ( concentrating more on Brice's singing , rather than her gifts as a comedian ) . And Tyrone Power was ( as Bart Clinton ) playing her gambler husband Nicky Arnstein . But while the performance of Omar Shariff in FUNNY GIRL was well built up ( his involvement in a stock fraud a desperate last attempt at retaking his self - respect as an independent bread winner , and not Fanny's leech-like husband ) , the performance of Power is far different . He does love Faye , but he is a rat from the start . Which is curious for fans of Power's career . Up to 1939 Power was always good , decent , heroic - he was Darryl Zanuck's " fair haired " ( if dark haired ) boy . Zanuck cast him only as great heroes . If he showed anger , it was directed against worst villains ( even when he played Jessie James or a pirate ) . Zanuck must have been willing to allow this distinctly less likable part to Power , as he was opposite his usual screen lover ( Faye ) and he could really the role . And don't forget , at the end of the film Rose will remain faithful and wait for him to come back from prison . Power's first heel part is only one interesting aspect of the film . Faye's singing is on top , especially when she does I'm Always Chasing Rainbows . But the reappearance ( after a few years on the nightclub circuit ) of Al Jolson is quite intriguing . Several of his standards ( April Showers , California Here I Come , and Avalon ) are sung in the film by Jolson , but he plays it straight and ( given his tendency to grab the entire film frame in earlier films ) with considerable restraint . It is like he finally realized that he was part of an ensemble , not the whole show . So he gives yeoman work as Ted Cotter , the man who loves Rose but can't compete in her eyes with Bart . But he does force Bart to consider what his behavior is doing to Rose . In some ways , while THE JAZZ SINGER is the film he's recalled for , and his best starring movie was HALLELUJAH , I'M A BUM , Joly's best performance on film is as strong , good natured Ted . One final thing I like about this film . After their successful stealing of part of LILIAN RUSSELL from Faye , Edward Arnold , and Henry Fonda , it is nice that here again Weber and Fields showed up to give us a taste of their comic routines . A perfect cherry to the rest of this film sundae .
This Was The Episode Where We Wondered About Mr . Humphreys	In the 8th Season of ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? there were a number of cast changes , such as two actors taking over the senior salesman slot in haberdashery , a new junior salesman ( Kenneth Berry ) and a new Mr . Grace ( Kenneth Waller ) . Into this flux there were occasions when the episodes of the long - running comedy hit seemed to be flaying . One of the flaying episodes was this unexpected little beauty . For the key to this episode was the conclusion that opened the issue : Wilberforce Clayborne Humphries - was he gay or straight or what ? The late John Inman is possibly the comic performer most people recall from ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? This is not to knock Mollie Sugden's " Mrs . Slocombe " , Frank Thornton's " Captain Stephen Peacock " , Wendy Richards ' " Ms Shirley Braham " , Nicholas Smith's " Mr . Cuthbert Rumbolt " , or Arthur English's " Beverley Harman " . The ensemble was always first rate ( as were the previous actors like Trevor Bannister and Arthur Borough who were on it as well ) . But Inman's friendly and fey Mr . Humphries was like a hose of light laughing gas every time he spoke or moved . He certainly is missed since his passing last year . ( Again , the performer's name is misspelled on this website's thread . It is spelled as " B " , " R " , " O " , " U " , " G " , " H " . Why it keeps popping up as " Borough " is anyone's guess . ) It is generally assumed , due to his description of his social life ( frequently in situations like playing strip poker with sailors ) that Humphries is a happy homosexual man . It is only in THE EROTIC DREAMS OF MRS . SLOCOMBE that we finally question this issue . Mrs . Slocombe has been hitting the bottle more frequently than ever . She confides to Ms Brahms that she's been having a series of erotic dreams about Humphries . When Captain Peacock presses Brahms about Slocombe's behavior she tells him . In the haberdashery counter Humphries , " Bert Spooner " ( Mr . Berry ) , and " Mr . Klein " ( Benny Lee ) , are aware of her interest too ( she has been purchasing items like gloves for him there ) . Humphries has tried to ignore it , but finds that by force of her personality he can't . The floor was in a store-wide raffle for some tickets to the ballet at Covent Garden . The floor has won , and with the consultation of Mr . Grace and Mr . Rumbolt the members of the two departments and Captain Peacock go to the ballet . But secretly , having read a psychiatrist report on Mrs . Slocombe , they find that the only way to possibly end her persecution of Mr . Humphries is for Mrs . Humphries to take the initiative and show a wild sexual urge to Mrs . Slocombe . It may shock her into normality . There are many good moments in the show , dealing with the secret drinking of Mrs . Slocombe ( that is not very secret ) . If Ray Milland hid bottles in chandeliers , Mrs . Slocombe hides gin in manikin sections . A drinking test she is asked to take takes to the air , so to speak . And the final ballet sequence is very funny . SPOILER COMING UP : It is this episode that Humphries ' homosexual reputation is finally questioned a bit . He had ( two years earlier ) pretended to be a groom for Mrs . Slocombe at a Greek wedding , but it was not a real Greek wedding . Here he is at sea about how to play sex games with Mrs . Slocombe ( who is progressively getting sleepier and sleepier ) , and has to ask Ms Brahms . And Ms Brahms , in showing how to manipulate a man into a sexual mood unleashes a hitherto unexpected tiger . So again , was he or wasn't he ? Maybe he was bi-sexual .
As one's time at work runs out . . . .	There is an element in this episode of real tragedy . Arthur Borough's characterization of Mr . Ernest Grainger was always a subject of laughter because the poor man is so old and feeble . It looks like he can be knocked down by a tossed tape measure that Mr . Lucas throws to him , or even a piece of tailor's chalk . Yet he is more than that . In one episode he is momentarily promoted to replace Rumbold for a few days ( solely to help boost his pension ) and turns out to be far more able and devilishly hard-nosed than the bumbling Rumbold ever was . Also , he is far more aware of his rights ( he is willing to contact factory inspectors when he knows he has been mistreated ) . On the other hand he frequently finds himself deserted by the others after they promise to support his complaints . In this particular episode , Grainger has reached 35 years at the Grace Brothers store . It is a nice achievement , but it suggests that he has to face retirement soon . The fact is Grainger is not ready to retire . A dinner is being planed for him , and that's fine . But Grainger is fully aware that frequently a " cuckoo clock " is given to the dinner honoree on these occasions , and when it is it is a sign that the firm no longer wants him to work there - they are politely canning him . The episode has this melancholy atmosphere in it's background , and one feels for Grainger ( and by extension all of the lower level workers at Grace Brothers , for they all face this kind of treatment ) . Yet it has funny moments in it . Besides the normal joking about the level of dealing with the clientèle of the store , there is also the problems of choosing what to serve , of Mr . Mash's dismal performance at the dinner as maitre'd ; of Mrs . Slocombe's getting smashed on wine that is served from cans ( yes , really ! ) ; and of poor Grainger dealing with a mendacious Rumbold ( who is trying to hide the clock from Grainger ) . The latter is particularly choice , as Grainger fondly remembers when he joined the firm in 1937 , the very day that Stanley Baldwin left the Prime Ministership to his chosen successor Neville Chamberlain . The dim Rumbold gets his information so fouled up that he ends up believing Chamberlain was an employee working in the china department of the store , and for some reason visited Hitler in Munich ! The episode is also interesting as being the only one I recall that showed us Mrs . Grainger ( Pearl Hackney ) . The two make a sweetly affectionate couple ( which is a nice change from Mr . Lucas and his constant womanizing , or Captain Peacock's frequent problems with his shrewish wife , or the dirty old man with money image of Young Mr . Grace . It too adds to the melancholy of the episode . In real life , Arthur Borough left the series in 1978 shortly after the death of his real life wife , and died a few weeks afterward . There is a spelling problem with the system on this web site regarding the correct spelling of this last name . It is not " B " " O " " R " " O " " U " " G " " H " , but " B " " R " " O " " U " " G " " H " . but the system insists on the former spelling - not the latter .
Mrs . Slocombe's brief rise in the world	In many of the episodes of ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? the issue of sexism comes up . Usually Mrs . Slocombe ( Mollie Sugden ) and Miss Brahams ( Wendy Richards ) find that the men bind together in a kind of chauvinist club against them when they present fairly reasonable requests . In this episode Mr . Mash ( Larry Martyn ) brings some supplies to the ladies ' department , including ladies ' panties that have sexually suggestive phrases or illustrations ( like shadows of hands on the parts over the behind ) on them . Mrs . Slocombe and Miss Brahams both feel these are demeaning and Slocombe tells Captain Peacock ( Frank Thornton ) that she has no intention of selling them . Peacock reminds her that she is obliged to sell what the purchase department has bought for her department as merchandise . Slocombe still refuses and does so again when Mr . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) also confronts her . She has no intention to resign ( although she says to Miss Brahams she came close to doing so ) , but attempts to defend her position . She finds not only Peacock and Rumbold hostile , but so are Mr . Grainger ( Arthur Borough ) , who feels that she has been a pest ever since she was moved to what had been his floor , and with Mr . Humphrey ( John Inman ) and Mr . Lucas ( Trevor Bannister ) agreeing that if they removed Slocombe's ladies ' department the men's wear department could expand back to what it was . So except for Miss Brahams nobody is supporting Mrs . Slocombe . But suddenly Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett ) appears and requests that Mrs . Slocombe see him later in the afternoon . He announces that he is planning on remarrying . Naturally the men on the floor now see Mrs . Slocombe as about to be married to the owner of the department store , and thus their boss . Everyone who had previously been harshly rejecting her ideas suddenly does a 180 degree reversal , insisting that she is right about everything . They bend over backwards in helping her get ready for her meeting with Mr . Grace . Grainger even allows her to use his department's dressing room , although when she does use it she finds it being occupied by a man being fitted for a new pair of pants . Other events are going on in the episode , including how Mr . Lucas and Mr . Humphrey sell a sweater to a customer ( John Clegg ) who manages to get his wig lost in pulling off the sweater . In the end Mrs . Slocombe's bubble of success and social position is burst as a false dream . But in the closing moments of the show she is able to use her failure to gain a bit of satisfaction and success at the expense of the boot-licking males on the floor . And she also gives advise to Mr . Grace regarding his plans as well .
And now the actual novel . . . .	No , it is not as great as the 1939 version . There was some spark in the 1939 version that captivates the audience to this day . It is sadly missing here - not that this film is dull . Far from it . The French have a habit ( a good one ) of producing movies based on their literary classics that generally show the actual stories quite well . But that means the spirit of the story has to be kept . Victor Hugo was a brilliant 19th Century novelist . Although " Les Miserables " has a strong coterie of fans as his best novel , and it is panoramic in scope , most critics feel his tragedy ( yes tragedy ) of " Notre Dame De Paris " is his finest novel . He wrote it in 1832 , and ( reputedly ) used up a whole bottle of ink writing it - so that he felt it should be called " What's Inside A Bottle Of Ink " . Fortunately he changed his mind . It is a splendid historic view of Paris in the year 1470 . It is a Paris ruled by a brilliant tyrant , who does not mind using torture to accomplish his ends . It is a Paris where the bulk of the population is poor , is uneducated , is bigoted , and is superstitious . It is a Paris dominated , when not by King Louis XI , by the Christian Church ( today the Roman Catholic Church , but this is some forty seven years before Martin Luther comes on the scene , so there is no Protestantism - except possibly for the Hussites in Bohemia ) . This film version adheres to the novel far more than the 1939 version did . Frollo is as villainous as ever , but his intellectual pursuits are shown . Opposed to spreading learning , he privately is an alchemist and student of science . He does use his position as brother of the archbishop to manipulate and influence , so the central issues of his interest in Esmeralda , and the conflict with his celibacy , are still there . But he also is an isolated figure here that was not really the case in the 1939 version . Frollo's power is due to his brother . He knows if the archbishop dies , so does Claude's power . I mentioned how in the 1939 film , Harry Davenport's Louis was a lovable codger - hardly the real " Spider King " . Jean Tissier's Louis is far closet to the mark - without a trace of emotion he plays cat and mouse with a political prisoner to get the advice on a clerical question . The question , brought to him by a wounded ( not killed - he was only wounded ) Captain Phoebus about saving Esmeralda from the church trial ( and probable execution ) that Frollo has manipulated her into is not what Louis feels ( even he were inclined ) that he should get involved in . He has enough problems keeping his state in tact from that cousin of his Charles the Bold of Burgundy , to want to get involved in a church controversy . So , he visits his old adviser ( now in a cage for fouling up an important mission ) and pretending to show concern gets the desired affirmation about his hand's off opinion without promising anything . That's the real Louis XI we know and respect ! Gina Lolabrigida is closer to the sultry Esmeralda than Maureen O'Hara was , but her performance is not as strong . Still the gypsy victim is a reactor character , her strongest point of action being pursing Phoebus ( who would really just wish to sleep with her - not marry her ) . She barely comprehends the behavior of Frollo , and why he is so infatuated with her . And she only gradually understands the affectionate nature ( and true love ) of Anthony Quinn's Quasimodo . Quinn is not as made up as Laughton was , but he is not handsome here . He is deformed , and at a great disadvantage against the other suitors . The title of the novel in French emphasizes the cathedral itself . Hugo knows what was vigorous and alive in 1470 Europe and France that survived - the spirit in it's art . The cathedral becomes part of the players of the plot . This is true in all the versions , but especially here . Not only when Quasimodo saves Esmeralda temporarily by carrying her off to the towers , or when he uses the molten iron for the bells to pour on the mob . But also at the end , when he avenges the woman he loves . SPOILER COMING UP : Frollo , in the novel and this film , does kill Esmerelda - he arranges to have her hanged in the Cathedral ( thus actually revealing his hypocrisy about Catholicism - he does not care that he is defiling a holy place by such an act ) . Quasimodo is in an agony when he sees the dead body of his beloved taken away , and Frollo dismisses him curtly . But Frollo is looking intently at the dead girl , and obviously relishing it . Without a moment's thought , Quinn , as Quasimodo , pushes Frollo off the tower . Now in the novel , symbolically , the falling Frollo has a slim chance of regaining the tower if he grabs a ledge and holds on . He nearly does , but it proves too slippery , so he falls to his death . The building rejects saving him - he's not worth it . Not as good as the 1939 version , but still worth watching as it is closer to the original novel . Try to get a look at it some time .
A Nice Heaping Helping at Presidential Living in the White House ( 1911 - 1961 )	This was a very good series , based on the memoirs of an employee at the White House from the Taft Administration through President Eisenhower's . It's obvious too that besides the book by Lillian Rogers Parks , there are also bits from other White House books that are frequently used by historians ( Leslie Nielson plays White House usher Ike Hoover , who wrote an important volume that is frequently used as a source book ) . Leslie Uggams plays Lillian , and the film begins with Lillian's mother Maggie ( Olivia Cole ) starting there in 1911 when William and Nellie Taft are in the White House ( or as the unhappy Taft called it , " the great White Jail " ) . Maggie's daughter Lillian eventually overcomes a physical disability to become a useful member of the staff . But the most interesting thing in the series was the glimpse into the eight first families who inhabited the building from 1909 to 1961 . Interestingly the families preceding and following the framing administrations ( Theodore Roosevelt's and John Kennedy's ) are better known to most people than some of those in the eight ( the Tafts , Hardings , Coolidges , and Hoovers are not all that well known today - although Warren Harding's scandal filled administration is recalled to some extent ) . Each administration and the way they handled the White House is different . Taft ( Victor Buono , in a rare nice-guy role ) is concerned with the health of wife Nellie ( Julie Harris ) who had a stroke and had to learn how to speak again . He is also upset at how his old friend Teddy Roosevelt has turned against him ( in one moment he shows how a reconciliation is impossible , as he is depending on Major Archibald Butt to bring Teddy and him back together - and Butt's returning from Europe on the Titanic ) . Wilson ( Robert Vaughan ) has two wives , and the first one ( Ellen - Kim Hunter ) was better liked than the second ( Edith - Claire Bloom ) . Later it is Wilson's health collapse in the fight for the League of Nations that is followed , with Edith taking over his office quietly . Warren and Florence Harding ( George Kennedy and Celeste Holms ) are stuck with a dimwitted husband ( and a corrupt one ) learning that his administration has more holes in it than a swiss cheese . His infidelities are revealed ( before Kennedy and Clinton Harding was our most priapic President ) . Also shown is Mrs . Harding playing Warren's favorite song ( Carrie Jacob Bond's " The End of a Perfect Day . " ) on the piano . But George Kennedy and the script writer has one moment giving some dignity to our 29th President . During the 1920 campaign a nasty smear was thrown at Harding based on rumors that his family was not originally white but African - American ( see Francis Russell's THE SHADOW OF BLOOMING GROVE for an account of this ) . Maggie sees a furious Harding ripping up a " book " about his ancestry by one " Professor " William Estabrook Chancellor that the Justice Department confiscated . Harding sees Maggie , turns to her , and heartily apologizes for the racist piece of garbage directed at all African-Americans . After he leaves , Maggie sees the book and tells another servant to let the book burn . Ed Flanders shows Coolidge as a businesslike , honest man - a welcome change in terms of abilities to Harding , who is in love with his wife Grace ( Lee Grant ) , and broken - hearted about the death of his younger son Calvin from blood poisoning in a freak accident . Flanders has a great moment telling off ( in ironic manner ) Cloris Leachman as the snooty head of the staff ( leading to her resignation ) . The Hoovers ( Larry Gates and Jan Sterling ) are done too quickly , and one gets the impression they were too aloof from the staff . F . D . R . ( John Anderson ) and Eleanor ( Eileen Heckart ) are shown to be sympathetic to the minority groups due to the President's physical condition . The Trumans ( Harry Morgan and Estelle Parsons ) show that President's feistiness ( and Bess's love of mystery novels ) . And then President and Mrs . Eisenhower ( Andrew Duggan and Barbra Barrie ) raps things up as we reach fairly modern times . It was a welcome view of Presidential private lives rarely done before or since on television ( except for individual Presidents or events in their administrations ) . It has not been revived on television since 1979 , but now is on video and well worth catching .
Where to catch this unknown work	THE PROFESSOR was supposed to be an attempt to make a short that broke from the character of the Tramp . He played Professor Bosco , who is the owner of a flea circus , and ( although dressed as an old tramp ) he has a large whip , which he flashes to keep his fleas in line . He has gone to a flop house to sleep , and we watch several incidents during the night from the other tramps and from a dog , and how they interrupt his fleas which are kept in a cardboard box . At the end of the surviving short he has rounded up his fleas and finds it is time to move on . It was supposed to be part of a longer short - but instead it was only ten minutes . There may have been more than that ten minutes but this is all that has been recovered in Chaplin's private film vaults . It is one of numerous cut sequences and hitherto unknown films shot by Chaplin that were shown in the three part series UNKNOWN CHAPLIN on Channel 13 ( which is available on video ) . Whether or not Professor Bosco would have been a successful series or not we'll never know ( Chaplin , apparently , decided it would not work ) . But this sequence did end up ( as pointed out in another review on this thread ) as the model for the later version that appeared in LIMELIGHT .
Charming documentary on television twenty five years ago	TOY BOATS - An odd sort of subject for a television documentary , but this was a little more than that . It was a look at a piece of social history , and how it reflected it's period . Between 1870 and 1920 or so there was a " golden age " of toys made mostly in Germany and England , particularly of models of ocean liners . These boats mirrored the expanding merchant marines of Great Britain , France , Germany , Italy , Holland , Denmark , the United States , Japan and Russia . They were originally made with sails and masts , but slowly they were to show smokestacks and screws ( the changes in the model boats mirroring such developments as turbine engines and diesel engines ) . Many of these models were capable of motion in the water , due to spring - " clockwork " movements . So the little boys who got the toys could play with them in the bathtub ( hence the title of this documentary ) . Similarly models of the latest battleships were soon also appearing on the shelves , mirroring the nationalistic rivalries of the day . In fact one anecdote that was mentioned on the show was how , in 1912 , Kaiser Wilhelm visited a large Berlin toy shop , and noted approvingly of the model boats - until he noticed something missing . " Where are the toy submarines ? " , he demanded . The owner explained that no German toy maker made toy submarines . " That has to change . " , Wilhelm said . It did . Soon toy model submarines were on the shelves . The comparisons between the latest model toys and the technological developments in their contemporary full size vessels is well handled , with a side comment to the disasters of the day ( a drawing of the sinking of the TITANIC , and the sinking , by a model " U-boat " of a full model of the LUSITANIA ) . But aside from these glances at tragedy and the military naval race , the bulk of the show was a glance at the beauty and craftsmanship of the toy boats . It was a very good program . One final point , surprisingly not mentioned in the production notes : the narration was by Rex Harrison , at his most calm and normal . No trace of Professor Higgins here .
Mr . Milland's Longevity	Ray Milland managed to do something that few critics were ever willing to admire him for . He was a good looking man of Welsh ( not English ) ancestry , who could play members of the English upper class . But he was always willing to stretch a bit more than other similar actors . For one thing , he could play villains . Even in his early career he was frequently cast as a weakling or a gigolo ( as in " We're Not Dressing " ) . He was willing to experiment with comic roles as well as straight drama . The result was that from 1942 to 1951 or so Milland was a Hollywood star . He played the leads in films as various as " Reap the Wild Wind " , " The Major and the Minor " , " The Ministry of Fear " , " The Big Clock " , " The Lost Weekend " , " Golden Earings " , and " Alias Nick Beal " . While some of his films were comedies ( such as " The Major and the Minor " and " Skylark " ) quite a number were dramas or even melodramas . And some of his characters skirt the edge of acceptable behavior . He is a man who has just been released for committing a mercy killing of his wife in " The Ministry of Fear " . Although he is basically innocent , he is a flirtatious type in " The Big Clock " . Even in Wilder's " The Major and The Minor " there is a moment when Milland , smiling at the thought of what a real " knockout " " Sue-sue Applegate " ( actually grown-up Ginger Rogers ) is , suddenly gets a really pained look in his face - he does not like that he's thinking lascivious thoughts about a child . His deserved " Oscar " for " The Lost Weekend " is another example of this dark side - he is supposed to be a writer , but he is a poseur with a serious drinking problem . In fact , he contemplates suicide at the conclusion of the film , only to be stopped by Jane Wyman . In " Alias Nick Beal " he played his most sinister part ( except possibly Tony Wendice in " Dial " M " For Murder " ) . Here he played Satan , and he is in total control of the game throughout of the movie - the game being politics and power over people . On one level , if one forgets the supernatural elements , " Alias Nick Beal " is as good an abject lesson in the back room deals of American politics as the comedies " The Senator Was Indiscreet " or Preston Sturges ' " The Great McGinty " . Only here , with violent death thrown in , the seediness of it all becomes more apparent . Possibly the best moment is when the honest , and mostly honorable , Thomas Mitchell is forced to shake hands with Fred Clark , the most notorious political boss in the state . On the other level is the serious attempt to keep some religious allegory in , with people like George Macready ( here in a rare good guy part ) noting that Beal resembles an ancient picture of the Devil , and that " Los islas de las almas perditas " where Beal comes from means , " The Island of Lost Souls " . Religion does play a crucial role in the film , including it's completion . Leslie Halliwell made the observation that after this film none of the stars ever did as well again . This is not true . Milland did play the evil Tony Wendice , and Macready went on to the mad French general in " Paths of Glory " . But more important , Milland kept showing his ability to stretch in the remaining decades of his life . Besides writing his interesting autobiography " Wide Eyed in Babylon " , he directed several films , he appeared in several televisions series ( one of the few stars who did not fear the new medium - and he was rewarded here too , for in the 1970s and 1980s he was still appearing while many contemporaries retired ) . Finally he capped his career as the snobbish father in " Love Story " . Actually his career is an example of just what can be accomplished if a person is not ashamed to jettison useless or outdated personalities for new ones .
No One Can , But the Drummer Man !	The argument is always going to pursue Hitchcock's students and fans . Were the films he made in England from 1934 to 1939 his best films ( specifically THE 39 STEPS and THE LADY VANISHES ) or were the films he made in Hollywood from STRANGERS ON A TRAIN through THE BIRDS his masterworks . I think most Americans favor the latter group , and Englishmen favor the former . Certainly he had huge budgets to play with in the 1940s to 1970s , whereas his budgets in England were terribly puny . But his basic themes got developed in his English films , and he managed to achieve some great effects on those puny budgets . YOUNG AND INNOCENT is probably frequently confused with RICH AND STRANGE , a really weird film Hitch made about four years earlier . That was about how a marriage survives an inheritance and trip around the world . This one deals with a mystery by Josephine Tey . In the 1930s to 1960s Ms Tey was the equal as a British mystery novelist of Agatha Christie , Margery Allingham , and Dorothy Sayers . This is based on A SHILLING FOR CANDLES , but most people who remember Ms Tey recall her for two novels based on historical mysteries . One , reset in modern times , is THE FRANCHISE AFFAIR ( based on the 1753 mystery of the disappearance and reappearance of Elizabeth Canning in London - a case that literally split English society as equal numbers of witnesses placed her either in a farmhouse as a prisoner , while others insisted she was living with a lover ) . The second ( and better recalled ) is THE DAUGHTER OF TIME , which tackles the question of the guilt of King Richard III in the various crimes ascribed to him by Sir Thomas More and William Shakespeare - including the murder of his two nephews . Tey's usual hero , Inspector Adam Grant , concludes history lies ( the victors determine what is " true " ) and Richard is innocent . Although it's research value is dated in 2005 , it is still a good place to start looking over Richard's reputation and case . Here the hero ( Derrick De Marney ) is suspected ( rather flimsily , actually ) of having killed a young woman on a beach . He after all helped discover the body . From the beginning we are aware of another person who is more likely to be the killer , but after a sinister opening we don't see him again . De Marney flees , and his path leads him into that of Nova Pilbeam . She was an up and coming performer of that period in England , appearing as the kidnap victim in the original THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH in 1934 , and then as the ill-fated Lady Jane Gray in TUDOR ROSE in 1936 . Here she is the daughter of the local police head ( Percy Marmont - he had been an accidental murder victim of Peter Lorre's in 1936's THE SECRET AGENT ) . She is convinced of De Marney's innocence , and keeps helping him flee ( including a comic interlude at the home of her uncle , Basil Radford , during a birthday party . They keep looking up potentially innocent-proving evidence , and find one more ally : Edward Rigby as a helplessly entangled hobo named Will . And they do find the killer ( as does Marmont and his police ) in the conclusion , when they track him down to the drummer man - in the first really memorable use of a tracking shot by Hitch . He would next use it again in NOTORIOUS in the party scene . The man is in black face ( a racist element that was acceptable in 1937 unfortunately ) , but we know the key to his identity - his twitching eyes ( possibly nervousness , but also possibly by drugs ) . His eyes do twitch for the audience before they do for the others . And his nerves suffer the torments of the damned when he sees the police in the room and De Marney . Then he goes into a really wild drumming turn ( which his boss acidly comments on afterward ) - it is like a wild animal at bay , symbolically . It is not THE LADY VANISHES or THE 39 STEPS , but it an effective film for all that . Definitely worth watching .
The Problems of Dealing with Blackmail	This film solidified Peter Sellers ' stardom as a comic actor of the first rank . He had appeared in other films prior to it , but THE LADYKILLERS was the only one prior to this that showed him to any advantage , as an inept " teddy boy " type . Here he is " Wee Sonny MacGregor " a popular young entertainer on television , whose variety show has mostly elderly viewers who think of Sonny as the son or grandson they always dreamed about . Unfortunately for Sonny , one Nigel Dennis ( Dennis Price ) publishes " THE NAKED TRUTH " , a tell all scandal sheet like " Confidential " or ( despite their disclaimers ) " The Enquirer " . Mr Dennis has a nice , somewhat legal , offer . If you will help defray the expenses of his magazine , he will refrain from publishing details of what you don't want known . In his best , intelligent scoundrel style , Price reveals to dear " Wee Sonny " that he knows about the large amounts of rent money " Wee Sonny " has been making with some rotting tenements in London . The audience for " Wee Sonny " would not feel very comfortable with his image knowing about this . Price has similar pieces of information regarding Peggy Blount , playing an " Agatha Christie " novelist - apparently one of her plots may not have been so original . Also Terry-Thomas , as Lord Mayley , is not as respectable as he lets on - he seems to have had several affairs his wife does not know of ( although Georgina Cookson - Lady Mayley - has her occasional suspicions ) . Soon all three are considering the last resort for dealing with blackmail - doing in the blackmailer . Their problems are more than dealing with a brainy adversary . Blount tries to commit a murder ( after all she's an expert in killing as a creative writer ) , only to come a cropper ( all I'll say is Price ups his demands for payment as a result ) . Terry-Thomas seems to keep stumbling into the schemes of Blount and Sellers , to his own discomfort . Best is Sellers though - he is certain he can commit the perfect murder because he is a " master of disguise " . His assistant Kenneth Griffith keeps warning him that he has a tendency to overact , but " Wee Sonny " dismisses this . He tries to spy out Price playing an elderly dock expert , and only annoys the latter and makes Terry-Thomas suspicious . He flusters a gun shop owner by appearing as an Edwardian style country squire ordering enough ammunition for a regiment , not for a hunt . My favorite moment is when he tries to impress possible IRA members by speaking to them ( as a fellow member ) in perfect Welsh . How they finally get rid of Price and his demands is as funny as one can expect , given the rest of the film . It is a comedy that will pay handsome dividends of laughter .
When the Law Avenges the Dead	Last night they showed this short from the " CRIME DOES NOT PAY " series on Turner Classic Movies , just before STRANGERS WHEN WE MEET . So I was able to watch it before the feature ( which would have been what I would have experienced when going to the movies in the 1940s or 1960s , of watching the short subject before the feature ) . The " CRIME DOES NOT PAY " series was both instructive and simplistic . The purpose was to warn the public of all kinds of frauds perpetrated on them by the criminal classes . Other films in the series dealt with mail frauds or with psychics who were fakes . On the other hand they tried to push the official view that all criminals are caught and punished . This was what the police across the country wanted to indoctrinate into the general population ( for reasonable goals - of convincing people not to be criminals ! ) . It was also in line with the Breen Office and the Hays Code not to glorify criminals by showing them succeed . But they do frequently succeed . For all the gangster films like LITTLE CAESAR or SCARFACE where the crime boss dies in the gutter or frightened at being alone at the end , most crime bosses died like Frank Costello or Meyer Lanski quite well-to-do and respected . The best part of this particular short dealt with the growing number of criminal enterprises dealing with selling used or defective cars , and the way various tricks were used ( such as putting strips of asbestos around breaks to replace real break linings , or putting sand into carburetors to reduce noises showing the motor was shot ) . One interesting trick here that I never saw before was how they take the time to create a fake tire tread on an old tire to make it look new again . ( In this same period , Chester Gould's Dick Tracy fought an illegal stolen tire ring during wartime - rubber was heavily rationed during the war . The ring is run by the criminal Beebee Eyes . In the end of that series of stories , Beebee Eyes hides on a barge being towed out to see , which has a lot of garbage on it . When he is accidentally dumped with the garbage ( how symbolic ) into the Atlantic , he falls into a set of three or four truck tires that entrap his body in their centers . As a result he can't swim and drowns . ) Cy Kendall ( fat with that fedora on his head and the cigar parked in the side of his mouth ) heads a used car lot . His two assistants are the sleazy salesman ( John Gallaudet ) and the mechanic . We see two victims of his sales - Tommy Baker as Tommy Phillips , who buys a jalopy from them , and Walter Baldwin , who buys a car he needs for his business . Baker ( due to social position ) is able to get Kendall to agree to repair work on his jalopy's breaks ( and this leads to some shoddy work by the mechanic ) . Baldwin is less successful , and goes to the police . Although Baldwin learns how he was rooked into buying the lemon he can't bring suit against Kendall as he signed a " contract " that had a waiver in it ( Baldwin did not read the contract ) . Baker is going to football practice , and takes his younger brother Billy with him . Except for Kendal and Baldwin , Billy is played by the best known actor in this film - Daryl Hickman . There is an accident due to the failure of the breaks , and a fatality results . And we last see Kendall and his two partners getting long , long prison sentences for their crimes . Would it have happened in real life ? I don't know , but I hope it would . In any event this short film does give a satisfaction to the viewer . . . so maybe the fiction of " Crime does not Pay " does not matter if one is entertained by it at the end .
Above Average Comedy of People Finding Each Other	This is not the greatest comedy of it's period , but it is not one that fails to amuse the audience . In fact parts of it , by their sweetness , remind one of a better film of the future . But more of that later . COME LIVE WITH ME deals with a man with a " modern " view of marriage . Mr . Barton Kendrick ( Ian Hunter ) is a wealthy in New York , whose wife is his chief friend and critic and assistant in the firm . The wife Diane ( Veree Teasdale ) , goes out at night with a family friend admirer . But that's okay , as she allows Barton to likewise enjoy himself . Barton girlfriend is Johnnie Jones ( Hedy Lamarr ) , and their relationship is fine , but soon an immigration officer ( Barton MacLane , playing a rare nice guy role ) comes to inform her that she has to go to the Immigration Office in New York City because her visa has run out - and she is facing deportation . But MacLane learns from Hunter that Lamarr will be killed if deported back to Austria as her father was an opponent of Hitler and the Nazis who was killed for his opposition . MacLane tells Lamarr to go and find someone to marry within one week , and the deportation problem will disappear . Of course , MacLane figures that Hunter will be the one to marry her . After MacLane leaves Hunter explains he can't divorce Teasdale in a week to marry Lamarr . So Hedy goes out for a walk to think things through clearly . ( It is funny to recall that this film was made a year after Mitchell Leisin's film HOLD BACK THE DAWN , about immigrants trying to enter our country from Mexico within our impossible post 1924 immigration quotas . Walter Abel unsuccessfully tries to prevent Olivia De Haviland and Charles Boyer from marrying . Ironically , the marriage accept ion is not as easy anymore - you have to prove it is a marriage of love and affection and not of convenience now . See the modern Gerald Depardieu comedy GREEN CARD to see the change in the rule . ) Lamarr , in walking past Central Park , runs across a man named Bill Smith ( Jimmy Steward ) that she thinks is a bum . But she ends up rescuing him from a fight , and takes him back to his apartment in lower Manhattan after she hears that he is poor , facing bankruptcy , and not married . She offers him a marriage arrangement wherein she will marry him but it is only for formality - no sex or closeness involved . He accepts the deal , though he insists he will reimburse her when he can sell one of the novels or short stories he writes . As a result of the odd situation , Steward starts writing a novel based on it . Interestingly he calls the novel WITHOUT LOVE ( a title that would one day be that of an MGM film with Tracy and Hepburn having another of convenience ) . He sends out manuscripts to several publishers , and one ends up with Hunter . Teasdale reads it and finds it damn well written ( even if the plot seems odd ) . When she describes the plot to Hunter , he realizes it is his relationship with Lamarr that is at the basis of the novel . He confronts an unaware Steward at his own office supposedly to discuss publishing the novel . Steward ends up the winner , as Teasdale convinces a reluctant Hunter to pay Steward an advance of $500 . 00 . Teasdale also notices that Hunter's protests of the novel's plot are too deep to be sheer literary criticism , and realizes that it must be about her husband . Steward uses the money to reimburse Lamarr for her weekly payment of his use as a make-shift husband . Then he forces her ( politely ) to accompany him to his country home ( she wants him to sign the divorce papers , and he won't unless she accompanies him ) , and slowly wins her over by the beauties of the countryside , and his grandmother's ( Adeline De Walt Reynolds ) lovable and strong character . We watch Lamarr gradually note Steward's strong points , and even hear him recite Christopher Marlowe's poem " Come Live With Me and Be My Bride . . . . " which is the basis of the film . But Hunter is aware of where they have gone , and is after them . Will Hedy stick with Ian or go with Jimmy . The film is certainly quite charming , but what I find most interesting at the end is the business of the Grandmother . The visit of Steward with Lamarr to meet the grandmother in the countryside , and her firm but gentle personality resembles that of Catherine Nesbit as Cary Grant's grandmother in the film AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER . One wonders if Leo McCarey had seen this Clarence Brown film and remembered it in 1955 . It would not be impossible if that was the case . But if so or not COME LIVE WITH ME is good enough to be liked on it's own merits as an entertaining movie .
Hans ' greatest acting role , and Dr . Seuss's politics	Hans Conried was a marvelous character actor , usually in comedy parts . He was possibly the first non-regular to appear on a popular television series ( " Make Room For Daddy " - later " The Danny Thomas Show " ) whose appearances were so welcomed that he became a leading regular to the extent that he stayed for the entire run of the show . But he was tall , had a nasal voice , and while striking looking could not be called handsome . So when he appeared in films it was ( for most of the 1940s ) in bit parts , although he usually was very effective in them . Take a look at his ill-fated magician in " Journey Into Fear " or his possibly communist agent / waiter in " The Senator Was Indiscreet " . Only in 1953 did he get a clear shot at stardom in this film , which fortunately survives and flourishes . His Dr . Terwilliger , the demonic piano teacher , is the center of this fantasy . He will prove his method of piano teaching is foolproof , even if he breaks the spirits of all the little boys in the world to do so . Conried relished the role ( just like he would relish Snidely Whipflash on the Dudley Do-Right cartoons , and later his Professor Waldo Wigglesworth in the lesser remembered Hoppity Hooper cartoons ) . He also has a real chance to strut his singing abilities in the number " Dress Me Up " . One wonders if that number , where Dr . T . sings and dances while he puts on his music conductor / leader's costume , influenced a spoof on " The Simpsons " , where Mr . Burns sings a song ( to the music of " Be Our Guest " ) in which he revels in all the clothing he has made from endangered species . The rest of the cast ( Peter Lind Hayes and Mary Healy and Tommy Retig ) are better than competent , but it is definitely Conried's show . Interestingly enough Peter Lind Hayes had a role in " The Senator Was Indiscreet " , and one wonders if his and Conried's casting together here has anything to do with that ( they really did not interact together in the other film ) . Theodore Seuss Geisel ( a . k . a . " Dr . Seuss " ) has not been greatly served in the movies . Only this film , " The Cat In The Hat " , and " How The Grinch Stole Christmas " , have appeared on film . The last film was pretty well done , but there was a lot of complaints about " The Cat In The Hat " . On the other hand television specials based on his works are more frequent . What many people don't know is that Geisel / Seuss was a life long liberal and he questioned many establishment views ( which may explain his continued popularity ) . He was also a complete opponent of fascism , Nazism , and Communism , which he fought with political cartoons up to 1944 , and which colored his early works . His book , " Yertl The Turtle " , about a turtle who forces his fellow turtles to form a pyramid throne for him on their backs , which finally collapses at the end , was actually an attack on Hitler ( in the original cartoon Yertl has a small mustache under his " nose " ) . My guess is that when he wrote " The 5 , 000 Fingers " Geisel / Seuss was likewise attacking totalitarianism . It was 1953 , and the Nazi and Fascist Italian and Japanese regimes were gone , but Stalin's Russia was still around . It certainly looks like the use of labor / concentration camps and torture were on his mind when looking at " Dr . T's " establishment .
What did she think she really saw ?	Deanna Durbin had one of the best singing voices in movies in the 1940s , and a pleasing personality . She did make some good films like " It Started With Eve " and " Can't Help Singing " , but most of her films have gone into a kind of eclipse which is hard to understand . Her one time film partner Judy Garland ( in the short " Every Sunday " ) is recalled by her myriads of fans to this day for her records , her concerts , and her films . So is Mario Lanza , and he made far less movies than Durbin . But she got married , retired from movies as a regular profession ( occasionally doing a voice over or a song ) , and became very contented . A far better fate , perhaps , than Garland's or Lanza's . The problem was the choice of vehicles for her . She did luck out on a few films , but most did not have the care that Garland's best work at MGM had . This 1945 film was really unique , as it was a murder mystery that tried to keep you guessing until the end who was the murderer . Dearbin is returning by train to Grand Central Station , and while passing through the lofts of the upper East West Side of the Manhattan of the middle 1940s she sees the apparent murder of an elderly gentleman by a person whose back is towards her . She tries to get the train to stop so others can see what she saw , but the people who come in don't see a life and death struggle going on . Yet two days later Durbin is reading the newspaper and sees an item about the death of a major businessman ( Thurston Hall ) . She starts investigating this death , and finds that his two nephews are his heirs . The nephews ( Dan Duryea and Ralph Bellamy ) start being questioned by Durbin , but she is not sure which of them ( if either ) is the guilty party . Duryea acts like his typical untrustworthy hedonist , and Bellamy acts like someone who would just like to be of assistance . There are some moments for singing , of course . One funny one is when Durbin is alone in her apartment except for Allan Jenkins , one of the villain's henchmen . Jenkins just has to pick up some piece of evidence in Durbin's bedroom , to get rid of it . He has managed to get inside , but she is on the telephone . He starts thinking seriously of killing her , but hears her singing a very sentimental ballad over the telephone . From time to time we see it does affect him as he listens carefully . Finally Durbin hangs up , and leaves the room ( so that Jenkins can leave the house unobserved ) . He does , but not before blowing nose quite hard . It's rare to see Jenkins so moved . It is a cute little thriller - comedy . Nothing spectacular , but it was a change of pace for Durbin , trying to be Nora Charles .
A Corrupt Attorney's Mind At Work	Although it seems a little confusing this film ( by " Columbo " Creators Levinson and Link ) is extremely clever at watching the activities - for most of the film - of the active mind of the protagonist . I've explained in reviewing one of the " Columbo " movies that the genesis of that type of mystery plot goes back to English writer R . Austin Freeman . His first " Dr . Thorndyke " novel , THE RED THUMB MARK ( 1905 ) is an inverted detective story wherein we see the crime committed first and then wait to find the hidden flaw or flaws revealed by the detective . GUILTY CONSCIENCE ( which I saw again on the FOX MOVIE CHANNEL yesterday ) is the same type of plot taken one step further : no detective involved here , but rather a corrupt and cynical lawyer thinking of how to get rid of his wife . All of us have had evil thoughts at one time or another , and most of us never really carry them out because in thinking seriously about them we realize how they might be traced back to us and give us really major problems . Arthur Jamison ( Anthony Hopkins ) is a great criminal trial lawyer , who sees nothing amiss in misappropriating client's property or breaking professional ethical standards and court rules to win cases . His marriage to his wife Louise ( Blythe Danner ) is crumbling because of manifest infidelities . She has long wanted a divorce , but she signed ( upon marriage ) an unfair Pre-nuptial agreement that prevents her from getting any of Jamison's substantial estate . Then she uncovers several criminal acts by her husband that ( if she reveals to the district attorney ) will result in disbarment and criminal prosecution . She tells him she will reveal this by mail if he does not give her half his property in the divorce settlement . He blackens her eye ( we never see this but we see the resulting shiner ) , and then goes to Houston for a trial he is working on . Hopkins has a break in the trial and returns to his home in San Francisco . He is aware now ( Louise has told him this ) that her letter is in a sealed envelope addressed to the District Attorney in a safety deposit box . She will either mail it , or she has left instructions for it to be given to the D . A . if she dies suddenly or violently . So Hopkins is thinking of two things : 1 ) Getting that letter back unread by anyone else in legal or police authority . 2 ) Killing Louise . But he's a clever man , and we watch him go through several scenarios of how to kill her while giving himself an alibi or making it seem like robbers , or making it an accident . Each time he does he confronts himself , his super-ego taking on the personality of Jamison the expert trial lawyer reviewing the crime and ( " Columbo " or " Thorndyke " like ) revealing all the little flaws that Jamison's imagination and id did not see clearly . Little things like recommending the location of an alibi-establishing dinner to the committee person choosing the place for it ( it is fifteen minutes from Jamison's house ) . We soon learn that Jamison has a mistress , Jackie Willis ( Swoozie Kurtz ) , an office temp . whom he met when she had to be hired while his secretary was ill . They have been having their affair for nearly a year . She starts intruding into these scenarios when he starts seeing problems in his relation with her , both as motive for killing Louise and on it's own . It seems that Jamison has met another woman ( we know her as Gail , but we never see her ) , so he is two timing his wife and mistress . Soon his scenario plays out in the nightmare situation of both the jilted ladies making peace with each other to get him . The wonders of this television film ( which has enough twists and turnabouts until the conclusion ) keeps our attention . Hopkins is properly detestable as a heel , but his mental agility ( captured by his wonderfully pinpoint pupil-ed eyes ) and the joy of his skulduggery makes us like him . Danner is properly lady-like , with her veneer slowly cracking under the strains of hating this heel she is stuck with . Kurtz varies between comic bits ( she seems scatterbrained , especially with her business finding things in her pocketbook ) with a serious - deadly serious - side to her nature that Hopkins can't control . It is a film that works pretty well . Oddly enough , one scenario is never tried by Hopkins . It is probably because it would leave his personal reputation in tatters . He never imagines Louise and Jackie having a confrontation and killing each other . But if ( as the film illustrates ) there are manifold difficulties in committing one perfect crime , one has to cube it to commit two perfect crimes .
The best of the fuller versions of Les Miserables .	In the middle 1950s two film versions of Hugo's best remembered novels appeared and disappeared very quickly in movie houses . This French version of " Les Miserables " was one . The other was a French / Italian version of " Notre-Dame De Paris / The Hunchback of Notre-Dame " . That one starred Anthony Quinn as Quasimodo and Gina Lollabrigida as Esmarelda . Both films were actually quite good , and were the best straight versions of the novels to try to get most of the stories onto the screen . However , both were too long for most audiences , especially this version of Les Miserables . This ran over three hours . As pointed out in the other review that I wrote about the 1935 version of Les Miserables , that film version is the best normal screen length film version . But the performance of Jean Gabin as Jean Valjean in this film is superior to the performance of Fredric March in the same role . I would also note that the performance of Bourvil as Thenardier is the best I've seen ( even better than Ian Holm's in the 1978 version ) . Thenardier is an even slimier villain than Javert is , but Javert's single minded pursuit of Valjean in the novel makes the antics of Thenardier look secondary , and they are usually dismissed in the filmed versions ( though not in the musical version ) . Check out the scene where Thenardier and his goons kidnap Valjean for ransom , and the latter demonstrates how tough he is effectively thwarting the plan . It does not appear in the 1935 version .
A Little Bear Learns To Heed Warnings	This little cartoon is basically very charming . It is about a small bear who is enjoying the last days of summer , when he and the other animals are made aware by the arrival of Jack Frost that winter is on the way . Frost , when not painting the autumnal colors , warns everyone that they should prepare for the total change in the weather ( i . e . , prepare to hibernate ) . But the little bear doesn't believe the cold weather will effect him - he has a nice fur coat . His mother puts him to bed , but he tries to get away , and she spanks him . When she and her husband fall asleep he sneaks away , sniffling that his mother would be sorry . Naturally , he soon finds he has made a dreadful mistake . He is freezing , especially when confronted and chased by old man winter . He tries to find another shelter , but only one ( with a skunk in it ) is willing to let him in . In the conclusion he is helped back home by Jack Frost . The colors of the cartoon are rich , particularly in scenes where Jack Frost is painting the various leaves autumnal colors . In one nice sequence he is painting pumpkins , turning them into jack-o-lanterns . They end up doing a spooky dance that scares the little bear . He is also present when a scarecrow begins dancing ( this five years before Ray Bolger made a dancing and singing scarecrow his first career role ) . As a charming little cartoon for children about six or seven or eight years old this is fine , and grown-ups will appreciate the art work .
A Final Farewell	It was shown in 1959 , and at that time all of them seemed reasonably healthy , but there was an atmosphere ( at least from the point of view of the public ) that this was it . THE INCREDIBLE JEWEL ROBBERY can be seen as the first " short subject " Marx Brother film made since the 1930s , or as their last get together . For it is their last get together . And while it could have been better , it was far from their worst . Except for a small piece of dialog at the tail end , it was a silent Marx Brother movie - the only one except for the still missing HUMORISK . Chico and Harpo are planning a jewel robbery , in which they are disguised as policemen . Some of the humor at the beginning is when they are getting their disguise police uniforms and when they are making their car look like a police car ( I recall a bit dealing with a rather pragmatic use of a salami to draw a perfect circle that was cute ) . They eventually rob Benny Rubin's jewelry shop wearing masks that look like Groucho . But in the getaway , Chico's mask falls off and Rubin is able ( later on ) to recognize him . They are making a getaway , when a young woman in distress flags down the police car to get to a hospital . Subsequently they are caught by the police due to an error in their disguise . They are brought into the station , and put into a line-up . Chico is identified by Rubin , but Harpo is not identified . Suddenly Groucho is brought in , and Rubin identifies him . Groucho , united with his brothers says , " We won't say a word until we speak to our lawyer . " The " Groucho-looking " bird from YOU BET YOUR LIFE descends , and the episode ends . Because it is so trite , the episode is dismissed by Marx fans as trivial , but as the last piece of celluloid that the boys did together ( except for a failed television pilot , " Deputy Seraph " ) that was widely shown on television it is important . They were still popular enough to merit a reunion show , and one on GENERAL ELECTRIC THEATER . It meant they still had potential clout . But aside from the failed pilot , and the plan by Billy Wilder to use them in a film about U . N . diplomacy , nothing else came out . It was an amusing half hour - but as I said there was that intangible feeling that this was their farewell . Certainly no DUCK SOUP , but better than say LOVE HAPPY .
Baseball and that Treasurer's Report	Robert Benchley had been a critic for the old Life Magazine ( not the one published by Henry Luce , but an earlier humor magazine ) of the New York Theatre scene . He was a good critic , sometimes showing his real dismay with a play by giving capsule descriptions ( of the long running comedy " ABIE'S IRISH ROSE " , Benchley , who hated the play , wrote " Closing soon ( Only Foolin ' ) " ) . He gradually began writing essays about his various thoughts concerning life or literature or whatever , and his humorous pieces soon were being published in magazines as well as in books like MY TEN YEARS IN A QUANDARY . Somewhere about 1928 Benchley was at a meeting of a club , and had to deliver a report on the treasury of the club . However he was ill prepared , and he gradually tried to cover up about it . The result was a moment of comic discovery - the people in the room were so taken in with his double-talk that they were amused , and advised him to write up what he had just done and use it for some up-coming evening of entertainment . Hence was born his first acting piece , " The Treasurer's Report " . He would return to it on several occasions , including an early talkie short . This 1938 short is about how the town of Sneeverport has just built a new baseball park , and it is to be dedicated on opening day . The Mayor was supposed to throw out the first baseball , but he is on a trip abroad ( he's gone to Paris , not Italy as on the blurb on this thread ) . So the ball is to be thrown out by town treasurer Benchley . I keep suspecting this is a dig at one particular Mayor of that period , James J . Walker ( " Beau James " ) of New York City , who frequently took vacation trips to Europe , particularly Paris , while he was Mayor . The problem is that , like most Benchley figures , they are embarrassed at sudden notoriety or importance . Treasurer Benchley would be able to handle a town meeting on finance , but he is not into throwing baseballs on opening day . He proceeds to try to tell an anecdote of his youth involved in sports , and manages to show that he thinks " touchdowns " are part of baseball . He is handed the ball by the long suffering head of the festivities ( Harlan Briggs ) who is shown every now and then wishing Benchley would shut up and throw the ball . Instead Benchley insists on talking about the history of the town , and the Indians in it ( one of whom was as short as a doctor sitting near Benchley ) . He also starts delving into fiscal matters involving what benefits accrue to townspeople from their taxes . In the meantime we see the bored baseball players exercising in the field ( two are playing a hand game that is still played by students in Junior High School cafeterias ) . All of this is quite amusing . Finally , after Briggs persistent prodding Benchley throws the ball - and leaves the part in a moment of astonishment at how his simple act was so unexpected in outcome .
Another sample of Bonanza Humor at it's best .	They were repeating this 1964 episode of Bonanza yesterday , wherein the comedy is again centered on Hoss with Adam and Little Joe just entering in on the sidelines . In an earlier episode , Arthur Hunnicutt portrayed Obie , a sometime mountain man and sometime prospector who got into an adventure with Hoss . Like all of Hunnicutt's best characters he is a slow going type who is never at a loss for accepting his lot in the world , and making one realize that the Calvin Coolidge piece of wisdom has a bit or reality to it : if you see ten pieces of trouble coming down the road at you , stand still and at least eight will peter out and stop before they hit you . Unlike Hoss , who if he confronts a situation starts looking for ways to confront and conquer it , Obie realizes that most problems solve or stymie themselves . He takes comfort in this type of rationale , and finds his pet hound dog Walter ( who rarely if ever moves - unless he thinks it's worthwhile to look up ) quite comforting in sharing that type of philosophy . In this case , Hoss stumbles upon Obie's shack near an old , abandoned mine that Obie is still working . The shack is under siege by three desperadoes . Although Steve Brodie is their leader , and appears to have some brains , he is saddled with two less than intelligent associates - especially the youngest one . They do pin down Hoss with Obie , because they figure that Hoss might try to get the prospector some more help in fighting them off . The shack , unfortunately , is right next to the mountain that the mine shaft was sunk into . There is only one escape route - the front door . On the other hand , the desperadoes can't sneak around to surprise Obie and Hoss . They have to concentrate on frontal assaults , which usually give an advantage to the people being attacked . Hoss soon discovers that Obie , who never imagined he'd be under siege by three thieves , has nothing in the way of ammunition . He also finds that there is little in the way of food ( Obie cooks beans badly ) . He does have some liquor available . Also he has his checker set - at which he is a real whiz ( he keeps beating the preoccupied Hoss with a series of rapid checker jumps around the board ) . In the meantime , disturbed that Hoss has not returned home , Adam and Little Joe go searching for him , finding that his date for the upcoming dance ( a fitting amazon type for Hoss's height and size ) has not seen him , and thinks he is two-timing her . She is not the sort you want to two time ( without intending it she almost knocks out both Adam and Joe while carrying a large wooden rail twice ) . The ease with which BONANZA switched gears to do these comic episodes never ceases to amaze and amuse . I may add that a final donnybrook at the conclusion is a fitting climax to this particular episode .
Goldie's Oscar , and Ingrid's second look at an " Indiscreet " plot	Goldie Hawn , in 1969 , was best known for playing in television comedy shows - in particular ROWAN AND MARTIN'S LAUGH IN , where she was the giggly cookie young blond . She did make movies before CACTUS FLOWER , the most notable being a Walt Disney feature , THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE , ORIGINAL FAMILY BAND . But CACTUS FLOWER picked up on her character from LAUGH-IN , and ( due to a good script by I . A . L . Diamond - Billy Wilder's second partner - based on an Abe Burrows play ) she was able to develop the television character so that a real performance was fleshed out . As a result Ms Hawn won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in 1969 , and her career took off to such future hits as PRIVATE BENJAMIN and THE FIRST WIVES CLUB . Although other stars of LAUGH-IN did well on television ( Henry Gibson has a recurring role as a judge on BOSTON LEGAL ) only Goldie was able to have a career as a bonifide movie star . On LAUGH-IN Goldie's personality would show a naiveté that would be embarrassing . Occasionally she realized it , and would laugh loud to cover , but sometimes she just did not see her error ( example : Goldie is introduced to the 1950s variety show host Gary Moore , and is told , " Goldie , this is Mr . Gary Moore . " She shakes his hand and says ( much to his confusion ) , " I've always wanted to meet Mr . John Gary Moore ! " ) . But as Toni Simmons it is quite different . She is desperately in love with Dr . Julian Winston ( Walter Matthau ) , a successful dentist , who can never marry her . Julian has told her that his wife ( with whom he has had two sons and a daughter ) will never give him a divorce . So at the start of the film Toni tries to commit suicide by the gas of her stove . But she is rescued by her neighbor , Igor Sullivan ( Rick Lenz ) , a struggling dramatist , who breaks into her apartment and turns off the gas . Toni is resigned to live , but she has sent a suicide note to Julian . Igor tries to deliver a message to ignore the note but Julian's receptionist / nurse / assistant , Stephanie Dickinson ( Ingrid Bergman ) won't stop Julian's work schedule to pass him the phone when Igor calls . Instead Julian finds the letter and races to Toni's apartment , only to find her alive . When Igor supports her story that she tried to kill herself , Julian realizes the depth of her love , and decides he must marry such a woman . Unfortunately Toni has swallowed Julian's lies , and believes in his wife and children . You see , Julian has no wife and children . Since Toni is a firm believer that she can't marry a man who would lie to her Julian is stuck on a weakening tree branch . Julian comes to solve it by getting Stephanie to pretend she is Mrs . Winston . Stephanie is opposed to it at first , but on her own , on her first free Saturday , she confronts Toni at the record shop Toni is at . They talk , and Toni notices all the fine strengths of character and personality of Stephanie ( and since Stephanie has her two nephews with her , Toni thinks they are Julian's kids ) . Toni tells Julian they have to see who is the man that Stephanie is supposedly going to marry . So the lie starts spiraling for Julian , Stephanie , and Toni . Soon a lover is given to Stephanie in the form of Julian's friend and freeloading patient Harvey Greenfield ( Jack Weston ) . Greenfield is so sleazy ( Stephanie loathes him ) that Toni feels that he is unworthy of Stephanie . And so it goes , with one complication ( most caused by the well-intentioned , misinformed Toni ) following another until the conclusion . The script is full of first rate situations and one-liners ( example : Julian to reward Stephanie for lying about their marriage , buys two record albums from Toni's store . He has given a mink stole to Toni , but she decides to send it to Stephanie with Julian's card . Stephanie is quite happy at getting the mink , but she does not say a word about the nature of the gift she got - when she profusely thanks Matthau , he says the thought she'd like Horowitz - meaning Vladomir Horowitz . But Stephanie thinks Horowitz is the name of the furrier ! ) . Bergman must have enjoyed the filming , as several scenes shows that earthy radiance that was a trademark for her in the later 1940s films . But there was also the resemblance to her 1958 film comedy smash hit , INDISCREET . There Cary Grant lied to make sure the pair would concentrate on the romance of their affair without having to think about marriage . When Grant's lie is revealed to Bergman she decides on a lie of her own to convince Grant that she was making him a cuckold . Here , instead of being the passive lover believing Matthau is telling the truth , Bergman gingerly tries to get Matthau out of his mess by little white lies , only to find one leads to another to complicate everyone's lives . Bergman is seen as a nice woman who becomes part of the problem , despite trying to be part of the solution . All the leads perform well , in particular Bergman , all business thoroughness at first but gradually reclaiming her sexuality . Matthau is delightful as a man who finds a useful lie is an impediment that just can't be kicked aside . The supporting cast , especially Weston as the mooching and sexually slimy Harvey , and Vito Scotti as the U . N . ambassador who actually has the hots for Bergman . It was a clever comedy , and a really good way for Goldie Hawn's movie career to push forward .
An adult film with comic edges	This movie is going to enter the area of Hollywood Legend because of the background circumstances that mirror it's theme . I am referring to how Jennifer Aniston's marriage to Brad Pitt collapsed ( apparently ) after the latter made the film MR . AND MRS . SMITH with Angelina Jolie , and Pitt and Jolie's subsequent romance blossomed into a marriage with children both conceived and adopted by the parents . Ms Aniston subsequently made this film with Vince Vaughan , with whom she too would have a relationship ( that now seems to be over ) . Since this film is about how relationships between couples fail through non-chemistry or miscalculation or misunderstanding , the film seems to mirror the Aniston - Pitt - Jolie triangle . Oddly enough , that is the one element of such dissolutions that does not appear in this film . Although all sorts of escalating confrontations occur ( including a couple of dates Aniston goes on ) there was no real triangle for either of the two principles . THE BREAK-UP begins with Vaughan at a baseball game with his closest friend ( Jon Favrreau - a man who if there is any possibility that a person is doing something for a good reason or a hurtful reason , will always figure out it is for the hurtful reason ) . He sees Aniston at the game , and is really struck by her - in fact he gives her one of six hot-dogs he buys so that he can talk to her . Eventually he coaxes her into going out with him for a drink . Soon a series of still photos show how they seem to be on the right wavelength for being married eventually . But it's all surface unity . While Aniston is into some sports ( baseball and bowling ) she is also rather artistic . Her family happens to be from academia , and she works in an art gallery . Her favorite sibling ( her brother ) is a member of an all male chorus of harmonizers . It turns out that Vaughan does not think well of her family ( which he probably thinks looks down on him ) . In particular he considers Aniston's brother ( John Michael Higgins ) a closet gay man - something Aniston keeps denying . Vaughan and his two brothers run a tourist bus company , and are planning expansion for a tourist boat , and hopefully a helicopter as well . Vaughan is the guide , and is usually exhausted when he gets home - too exhausted to follow simple requests , like the purchase of a specific number of lemons for a dinner party . The dinner party is the point where the schism between Aniston and Vaughan begins to widen . Aniston feels Vaughan lacks any true feeling for her efforts - he rarely volunteers to assist her . Vaughan feels that Aniston does not appreciate his hard working schedule ( although he keeps ignoring her hard work at the art gallery owned by Judy Davis ) . So we watch as Aniston refuses to have anything to do with Vaughan ( hoping , in his loneliness he will return with contrition ) , and Vaughan escalates to undoing various things about the apartment that Aniston was opposed to ( watch the business about the pool table ) , and then the division of the apartment into his and her sections , and a no-man's land for helpless guests . Soon it also involves their friends on the bowling team and on game night . . . well you can see the threads of the relationship just split apart like a fat man putting on an old army uniform . It is actually a sad story of two people , who for all their anger do still care for each other , but who through mistiming and intentional explosions of anger wreck the possible reunification of their lives together . Yet , at the end they are both aware of what their stupidity has caused - so that there is no hard feelings at the conclusion . It was a pretty good look at people fumbling at a lasting relationship , but growing up in the end . If the Aniston - Pitt - Jolie business helped to create this project , something worthwhile came out of that love triangle .
Bette as she ages	As less and less opportunities arose for Bette Davis to make motion pictures in the 1970s and 1980s in lead roles , she appeared on more and more television films . A PIANO FOR MRS . CIMINO was one of these . The film was about a widow who was considered too old to run her husband's music store by her family . Davis gave considerable dignity to the occasionally frail Mrs . Cimino . While she was occasionally on the edge of disaster ( we see her almost cheated by a con artist at one point ) , she usually shows she can handle most of the crisis she faces . It also turns out that the music store , which a conservator turns over to an acquaintance ( Graham Jarvis ) to run , is almost run into the ground by Jarvis and an inept nephew . Before the film ends , Davis meets a new man of her own age whom she starts living with . Interestingly enough it is Keenan Wynn , who had appeared once before in a film with Davis - PHONE CALL FROM A STRANGER , made three decades earlier . There he was a happy-go-lucky salesman who could get on one's nerves due to his sense of humor , but who turned out to be a steady and reliable husband to Davis ' unfaithful wife - after she gets crippled . Here Wynn is a decent fellow who plays the piano while Mrs . Cimino sings . They turn out to be a good couple together . It was a good film for Davis to appear in - giving her a proper aging role that was meaningful . While her last great part , the blind sister in THE WHALES OF AUGUST , was still to come , had she stopped with A PIANO FOR MRS . CIMINO it would have been a lesser but respectable conclusion to her career .
" Who Had It ? . . . . "	Although it seems a little long , at times , SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH is one of the best of the modern Holmes stories starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce . The plot for a change actually is twisty enough for one to wonder who is the killer . The revelation is a bit more of a surprise than many of the other stories . The basis for this film is " THE MUSGRAVE RITUAL " , which is similar in some details but has been expanded . The story , actually one of two that Holmes has to relate to Watson because it occurred before they met , is how Holmes is visiting the home of a school chum , Reginald Musgrave , and how the family butler , one Brunton , disappears after he is caught in the act of apparently looking over old family documents . Musgrave discharged Brunton , but then the butler vanished . It is believed he has fled because he has become entangled with a local girl , who has also disappeared . The story was properly filmed ( although with some slight changes ) in the BBC " Mystery " series of Holmes stories with Jeremy Brett . I will not tell the clever ending , but it deals with the titled " Ritual " which the Musgrave family has been reciting since the middle of the 17th Century , which begins : " Who had it ? He who is gone . Who shall have it ? He who will come . " If one thinks about the ritual wording one can help figure out the mystery of the story . Interestingly , the wording attracted a literary figure of higher importance than Conan Doyle in modern times - T . S . Elliot . Always having a fine ear for English speech and diction , Elliot was so impressed with the first four lines of the Ritual , he transposed them into a section of his verse drama about Thomas a'Beckett , MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL . Elliot was very fond of Conan Doyle's stories , and one of his poems in OLD POSSUM'S BOOK OF PRACTICAL CATS ( the source of the musical CATS ) is " MACAVITY THE MYSTERY CAT " which is based on details about Professor Moriarty . The actual ritual is used in the film , although it is expanded into a type of chess game . The story is changed ( modernized to fit the war effort ) . Watson is working at a rest home for soldiers suffering stress and battle fatigue . The home is the estate house of Geoffrey Musgrave , his brother Philip , and his sister Sally ( Frederick Warlock , Gavin Muir , and Hillary Brooke ) . One day Watson's assistant Dr . Bob Sexton ( Arthur Margetson ) stumbles in wounded and says he was attacked from behind and stabbed in the neck . The perpetrator is assumed to be one of the serviceman . Watson tells Holmes about it , so Holmes comes down to take a look . Then a murder occurs , and Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey , as good as ever ) pops up . The chief suspect is the American officer Captain Vickery ( Milburn Stone - not given too much to do in this film , unfortunately ) , who has been romancing Brooke . I will leave it at that , except to say that the secret of the Ritual is expanded from a piece of jewelry to something of considerable more value . Despite some slightly long stretches , it is a good , twisty plot and well worth the watching .
You Gotta Have Heart !	This musical , when revived about a decade ago with Jerry Lewis as Applegate , was referred to as a fable for the Eisenhower Years . It is set in a faintly comfortable period ( once the McCarthyite Persecutions were finished ) , because the concept of this musical was the preoccupation of the American public with the national pastime of baseball , and it's singular domination ( between 1947 and 1962 ) by the New York Yankees . Although the Yankees had had other periods of greatness , with Ruth , Gehrig , " Murderers Row " in the late 1920s and early 1930s , they had to share the domination of the World Series with other teams in that period ( the Philadelphia Athletics , the Detroit Tigers , and the St . Louis Cardinals , to name three ) . But the Yankees in this period started with Joe DiMaggio , entered into the period dominated by Mickey Mantel , Whitey Ford , Billy Martin , Yogi Berra , Phil Rizzuto , Don Larsen , Roger Maris , and presided over by Casey Stengel . They did not always win ( one memorable defeat was by their perennial enemy the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1955 ) , but they won so often that to non-baseball fans it was monotonous to follow the sports news : you knew what should finally happen . So the background of this baseball era is important to understand the musical ( one of the few times the actual historical background of the time the musical was created becomes that important ) . Joe Boyd ( Robert Shafer ) is a fanatical baseball lover and fan of the woebegone Washington Senators ( the saying for many years about the Senators was , " First in war , first in peace , and last in their league . " ) . The team had only one great moment : in 1924 they won the World Series when the team had one of baseball's greatest players on it - Walter Johnson . But it never really was in competition again after that . But Boyd is a fan , and he makes the mistake of being willing to sell his soul to allow the Senators a chance to win the series again . Enter Mr . Applegate ( a . k . a . the Devil ) played fiendishly well by Ray Walston . He offers Joe a contract that will make Joe the greatest baseball player of all time - and lead to the world series - in return for his soul . Hesitant at first , Joe agrees . He is transformed into Joe Hardy ( Tab Hunter ) , and proceeds to try to join the Senators ( with Applegate as his agent ) . The Devil can never be trusted in any agreement . Applegate hopes to cause a wave of hope and hysteria by the anti-Yankee baseball public , letting Joe lead his team to the World Series . He plans to pull the rug from underneath the team at the final moment . Unfortunately Joe is a good salesman on his own , and has insisted on an escape clause for himself . Applegate has to accept it for the sake of his own plans . The escape clause is there because Joe loves his wife Meg ( Sharon Bolin ) and does not want her to be hurt . So Applegate decides to recruit his best female agent , Lola ( Gwen Vernon ) to vamp Joe and make him forget Meg . But Joe is too faithful , and succeeds in overcoming Lola's " irrisistable " personality ( as she sings , " Whatever Lola wants , Lola gets " - except here ) . Lola , shaken by the experience , becomes a type of groupie for Joe - and eventually starts a mini-revolt on her own against Applegate . The score of the show is memorable . Besides the key song " Heart " ( sung by the Washington team players ) , and Lola's " Whatever " number , there is also " Two Lost Souls " , " Goodbye Old Girl " and Walston's wonderful " Those were the good old days ! " ( when he fondly recalls all the tragedies he created in the history of mankind - including the day Jack the Ripper was born ) . Walston was not nominated for any awards for the movie performance , but his Applegate is one of his best film performances , with his Gillis in SOUTH PACIFIC . He had played both on Broadway first , so we are lucky to have his film performances here . ( But won the Tony Award for the role on stage . ) Stanley Donan co-directed this film with George Abbott . Abbott was usually a stage director ( he had done the musical on Broadway ) . There is a moment when it is apparent that he is directing . There is a small dance done by one of the three ball players in the " Heart " number , and the close-up of the player as he smiles shyly and steps forward is out of place in the film - but would have worked on stage .
Dangerous Train Ride	This is one of those " B-feature " film gems that are frequently more lasting and popular than " A-features " that were overproduced . It is about a woman , a witness to the murder of her husband ( a gangster ) , by several more important gangsters . She has been found in Chicago , and she has to be brought back to Los Angelas . Two Police Detectives are sent , but meet danger along the way ( one of them is killed ) . The other manages to get the witness to the train , but it is two days before they reach Los Angeles , and anything can happen . It's unlike most of the other classic train mystery films . THE LADY VANISHES deals with proving that a woman who has disappeared on a train actually existed , and how it endangers a carload of British travelers . NIGHT TRAIN ( a . k . a . NIGHT TRAIN TO MUNICH ) deals with rescuing a kidnapped scientist back from Germany just before the start of World War II . SLEEPING CAR TO TRIESTE deals with two agents tracking down a double-crossing partner and the stolen diary they sought for their political cause . MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS deals with a great detective ( Hercule Poirot ) trying to figure out who among the passengers on the train murdered a singularly unpleasant man . Here it is just getting a government witness ( an unpleasant one , by the way ) past criminal agents . The cast of THE NARROW MARGIN has no major stars in it ( Marie Windsor , as the witness , is probably the best known name , although Charles McGraw appeared in many B-features as either a cop or a hood ) . The variety of characters , in particular a young boy who may be too sharp for his own good , is interesting . But best is Paul Maxey . Mr . Maxey may have been the fattest looking man in movies . He normally was a businessman or a politico or anyone in the background of the films he appeared in . He is the producer of Dolores Grey's television show in IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER , who has to calm her down when she is reminded she can't have the huge meals she wants to eat because it will ruin her people-popular figure . " Well , why can you eat what you want to ? ! " , she asks Maxey . " Well they don't want to watch me ! " , he explains . Here he actually had a . . . . err , " meaty " role . He is one of the film surprises . At first he is just a seemingly funny , fat guy , then he seems like a potential assistant for the criminals . It turns out quite differently at the end . In many ways , it was Paul Maxey's best role in movies . A good twisty plot , a top-notch cast and direction , and a decent set of production values . The original THE NARROW MARGIN is first rate entertainment which I recommend if you can see it .
Good dramatization of one of the great political rivalries of the 19th Century	When Abraham Lincoln won the 1860 Republican Nomination for the Presidency , most Americans must have been surprised . Lincoln had served in the Illinois State Assembly in the 1830s and 1840s , but had only served one term in a national level job . From 1847 to 1849 Lincoln held the job of Congressman from his town of Springfield in Illinois . His main achievements were ( ironically , given his later fame ) questioning the purpose of the Mexican War , and demanding the impeachment and removal from the Presidency of War making President James Knox Polk . It was one of the first serious attempts to impeach a sitting President . But nothing further was heard of him on the national scene . He had become a leading corporate attorney in Illinois , ironically being attorney for the Illinois Central Railroad when it's President was his future commander George Brinton McClellan . In 1856 , at the first Republican Presidential Convention , Lincoln had been mentioned for the Vice Presidency - to run with the " Pathfinder " Explorer of the West , Senator John Charles Fremont of California . Instead , William Dayton of New Jersey ran with Fremont , and lost to James Buchanan and John Breckenridge . Yet Lincoln was known as an eloquent spokesman for national unity and for the abolition of slavery . This was due to his 1858 campaign to wrest the seat of U . S . Senator Stephen Douglas of Illinois . The Lincoln - Douglas debates helped crystallize the issues of Free and Slave States for the nation . Yet , when the votes were counted , Judge Douglas ( he had been a state jurist once ) beat Lincoln . Charles Durning plays the clever Douglas , who had won his national following for his support of " Popular " or " Squatter Sovereignty " . Basically he felt that the population determined if states should be free or slave , by moving into the new territories in such numbers that the better organized segments would end up in the majority and determine the support or rejection of slavery . It seems like a sensible point of view , but Douglas was aware that the South just did not have the population to match Northern settlers in the new territories . Douglas chose not to speak much about slavery , but to concentrate on our growth and foreign interests . Lincoln kept returning to the topic . The results were that Douglas beat Lincoln in the election , but that Lincoln's brilliance as an orator became widely known . Douglas was fully aware that he had not destroyed his opponent but given him massive publicity . He and Lincoln went back to the 1830s , as rival attorneys , as rivals in the Assembly , and now as Senatorial candidates confronting each other . They had also both been rivals over Mary Todd , who eventually married Lincoln . Yet they both liked each other , for even with their differences they appreciated each other's strengths . Douglas may have not cared about the fate of the African American in his society , but he was a passionate believer in democracy and in the development of the western territories . Lincoln may have felt " Squatter Sovereignty " a secondary issue to Slavery , but he appreciated that it did push for government in the hands of the common ( if white skinned ) man . In the end , Lincoln faced Douglas in 1860 , with the Senator as the official Democratic Candidate for the Presidency . But 1860s was a bad Presidential Election Year . The Democrats were split , the Southerners supporting John Breckenridge . Their was also a fragment of the Whig Party called the Constitution Party , who supported John Bell of Tennessee . We know that Lincoln won the election , but he won with a plurality because the vote was split . Had the Democrats supported Douglas's candidacy he would have won . As it was he got more popular votes than Breckenridge , but less electoral votes than the Vice President or Lincoln . But we don't realize today that Douglas , when he saw the Sothern delegates walk out of his convention and create a new party , did one of the bravest acts in American political history . Instead of contacting Breckenridge and his supporters , and publicly reassuring them of his willingness to work with them and accept their platform , Douglas stumped the country begging the South not to secede and cause a Civil War . He did this at considerable risk to his own safety . It did not work , but it was the most constructive attempt to ward off the disaster of any of the candidates in the campaign ( the great historian , Allan Nevins felt that he liked Stephen Douglas more than Lincoln when he read what Douglas did that Lincoln didn't try to do ) . In the end , on Inauguration Day March 4 , 1861 , Stephen Douglas sat next to Lincoln on the central stand in front of the Capital Building , and held his friend's hat while Lincoln took the oath of office . He was fully supporting the President's efforts to keep the country together - and after Fort Sumter was attacked he supported the war . Douglas died in June 1861 ( Lincoln knew his friend was dying ) , but had he lived he would have been deeply involved in governmental planning to restore the Union . Charles Durning did a very fine job as Douglas , growing from a slightly patronizing view of his friend and rival to a man who understood better than most what Lincoln was about . And as Lincoln , Arthur Hill showed the man of vision who cut to the basic issue that was splitting our society , yet could see his rival was ( if slightly short sighted ) fully as committed to that society as he ( Lincoln ) was .
A Good Adaptation	Although he wrote " Sketches By Boz " ( hence his lifelong nickname ) before this novel , " Pickwick Papers " was the work which grounded Dickens reputation . His third book " Oliver Twist " cemented it - by showing him a perceptive social critic and serious ( rather than comic ) novelist . George Orwell , in his essay on Charles Dickens , says that many people regretted he never could have continued writing the pure comic novels like " Pickwick " , but Orwell pointed out that no serious novelist can do that if they wish to show growth . It's true , although some ( P . G . Wodehouse , for example ) could continue to turn out successfully funny books all the time . But we would have missed " David Copperfield " , " A Tale of Two Cities " , and " Great Expectations " if Dickens just remained a funny writer . " Pickwick " is about 850 pages long , and has a shaggy dog construction . Dickens wrote a picaresque novel here , with the Pickwick Club members exploring England , and falling into many misadventures . They are supposed to be sending papers back to their club about their adventures , for they are a learned society . In one great moment in the novel ( but not in the movie , unfortunately ) , they think they find a curiosity - a stone with the words " Bilst umpshi mark + ) . Their paper on this gains them immense public adulation for their scholarship , but one critic ( who is kicked out of the Pickwick Club ) investigates and says it should say " Bill Stumps , his mark " + " . Nobody cares about the nay-sayer . One aspect of the novel that is not in the film was Dickens addition of about seven or eight short stories the group hears or reads while on their tours . Dickens wanted to vary his novel , and he would do this again in " Nicholas Nickleby " briefly at the start of that novel . In 1841 Dickens began a large scale literary project called " Master Humphrey's Clock " in which Master Humphrey and his friends ( including Samuel Pickwick , Sam Weller , and Tony Weller ) tell stories , but two of the stories expanded into full scale novels : " The Old Curiosity Shop " and " Barnaby Rudge " . After " Master Humphrey's Clock " Dickens never again wrote a book of just short stories ( his " Christmas Novels " were not written and published together but over the years ) . An occasional short story like " Hunted Down " was published on its own . The film is a nice distillation of the best sequences in the novel , such as the great lawsuit of " Bardell v . Pickwick " ( Dickens first magnificent swipe at British law ) . Of particular notice in the film is the performances of Nigel Patrick as the trouble making scamp Jingle , and James Hayter as Pickwick ( his only real starring role ) . Jingle ( who's dialog looks like a telegram in the novel ) is played as a charming rogue by Patrick . When he nearly gets Mr . Winkle ( James Douglas ) into a duel with two dyspeptic military doctors ( with the immortal names of " Dr . Payne " and " Dr . Slammer " ) , after one diatribe from them Patrick riffles a deck of cards like a " Bronx Cheer " . Hayter , a popular character actor in British film and television , had a smooth and warm sounding voice , and ( in observing prison conditions ) makes the phrase " How pitiable " actually sound correct for the first time . It is not the complete novel - which you should read and enjoy - but it is a nice introduction to it .
Hitch , History , Laughton , and Du Maurier	In the early 1930s Alfred Hitchcock did a historic costume movie called WALTZES FROM VIENNA about the Strauss Family . He obviously never enjoyed such films ( he never tried musicals or pseudo-biographies again ) . But it was the first of three attempts he made to do a historic film . While none were total disasters , none is usually counted among his best films . One can't deny this is fair with WALTZES FROM VIENNA but JAMAICA INN should not be totally denied as being a good Hitchcock film . It was his first attempt to do a story from novelist Daphne Du Maurier . This would also be part of the reason for JAMAICA INN's low rating - the following year Hitch would do Du Maurier's REBECCA , as his first Hollywood film , his first film with David Selznick , and it would be his only film to win the Oscar as best picture . Without trying to rip down REBECCA , it's higher production standards outclass JAMAICA INN . JAMAICA INN would also be the first of two films that Hitch made with Charles Laughton . Given that the other was THE PARADINE CASE , neither of them are in his top films . Hitchcock would always say that he always found Laughton a very difficult actor to direct , and claim that Laughton insisted on trying to base the character of Sir Humphrey on the walk he had . Supposedly his mincing little walk was that of a public school boy who had peed in his pants . Yet his regency baronet and his corrupt Old Bailey Judge were both excellent performances , and are among Laughton's best characters . The film is about wrecking during the Regency period ( roughly 1810 to 1837 ) . As such one can see it as a kind of continuation of George Arliss ' DR . SYN ( later remade with Patrick MacGoohan as THE SCARECROW OF ROMNEY MARSH ) . That was set in the 1770s - 1780s . But the issue of the wreckers is handled differently . The Arliss and MacGoohan films stress the economic unfairness of the revenue anti-smuggling laws , and how they impact on the locals who support the smuggling ring . Arliss , in his trial scene , reminds the jury how he helped his neighbors . MacGoohan's followers insist on chanting a sardonic mantra , " THE KING'S LAW , THE KING'S LAW " , when discussing the revenue laws . But Hitch follows a pro-law and order point of view . The wreckers have murdered people and are targeted by the government for destruction . Robert Newton is sent as their leading agent to find out the smuggler's secret . Newton ( here young , vigorous , and not the slave to alcohol he became a decade later ) learns that the key is at Jamaica Inn , a desolate , ill-famed hostelry , run by Leslie Banks ( this would be Banks ' second film with Hitchcock - he'd been in the original THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ) . Banks does not like strangers too much , but he has his hands full - his niece Maureen O'Hara has shown up in need of a home and job . O'Hara notices the comings and goings of certain locals at the inn , and so does Newton . Eventually they join forces to solve the riddle . They find only one ally : the local magistrate and baronet , Sir Humphrey . Laughton's regency buck is far better than the mincing step story suggests . He is a cultivated type surrounded by boobs , and he lets us know what he is up against . His performance , supported by Newton , O'Hara , and Banks , makes the film . But the best dramatic moment in the film is by Stephen Haggard , the youngest of the smugglers . When told he will be hanged , he gets hysterical , screaming about he's too young to die . Even the last scene with Sir Humphrey is not quite as effective as that moment . A scene like that should have guaranteed a lasting career for Haggard in film . Sadly , if you look up his filmography on this board , you will find he was ( like Leslie Howard ) a war casualty in 1943 .
" Higher . . . HIGHER . . . . No lower . . . . LOWER . "	THE NAUGHTY NINETIES is one of those films of Abbott & Costello that is a favorite with their fans for the skits that are in them : the plot about the trio of gamblers plotting to take the showboat away from good old Captain Sam ( Henry Travers ) is tolerable , because it can be ignored . We like the old Captain , but we await the sketches involving the boys . In the end they help save the Captain , so they do become his pair of guardian angels - his " Clarences " , if you will . But the sketches are priceless , in particular the rehearsal sketch and the immortal WHO'S ON FIRST . In another review I compared Bud and Lou with Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy . Bud Abbott's persona is not like Oliver Hardy's , although both try to dominate ( Bud , with more success ) Lou and Stan . Ollie is quite self-important , but is ( actually ) as stupid as Stan is . His self-delusion is just added on the cake . But Bud normally is street smarter , and bullies Lou . He barks orders left and right to him , orders that Lou thinks he understands . The orders are in abbreviated form , using slang or short form descriptions that most people will understand , and that is doomed to confuse Lou . In the rehearsal sketch , Lou is studying a song he wants to sing in the showboat show , and if he does it well Captain Sam will let him sing it . Bud is on stage helping direct the putting up of varying scenery . He is asked for help by Lou to help him , and to shut the little guy up , he half-heartedly agrees to do so . But he is concentrating on that scenery . So we hear Lou start singing " MY BONNIE LIES OVER THE OCEAN " , and after awhile he hears Bud yelling " Higher " , " HIGHER " , " LOWER , etc . Of course Lou is not watching Bud directing the men with the scenery , and Lou raises and lowers his voice accordingly . The vast alterations eventually is too much for Lou , who falls into the orchestra pit while an oblivious Bud walks off stage . The other sequence is even greater . If you say " Abbott & Costello " to anyone today , the phrase " Who's on First " comes up immediately . No other dialog of theirs is as memorable ( not even that delectable skit about Niagara Falls ) . Indeed , due to the popularity of Baseball , the skit is honored in Cooperstown's Baseball Hall of Fame , and Bud and Lou are members of the Hall of Fame too ( without being baseball players ) . No other comedy team approached such a signature dialog - for instance Groucho and Chico Marx did several fractured English discussions , such as " Why a Duck " in COCONUTS , but the dialog is not central to their reputations . Similarly Laurel & Hardy's use of " two peas in a pod " in THE SONS OF THE DESERT is classic , but not central to their reputation . " Who's On First " works on the same principle as the rehearsal skit - Lou cannot follow the statements fed him by Bud , and yet Bud is not being intentionally difficult . He starts by explaining the crazy nicknames of the baseball players these days , and Lou never makes the logical connection that the nicknames can be terms like " who " , " what " , " I don't know " , and " I don't care " . Once I saw someone rewrite Abbott's description as " Mr . Who is on First base ; Mr . What is on Second Base . . . etc . " Actually the effect on Lou would probably be minimal : How many people have surnames like " Who " ( this was years before the British Doctor in the futuristic tardis showed up ) . Moreover , they are nicknames , not proper names like " Unconditional Surrender " Grant , or " Old Hickory " Jackson . So it can't be " Mr . Who " or " Mr . I Don't Care " . Interestingly few people seem to be noting that the nicknames don't say much for these players . " Who " , " What " , " I Don't Know " , " I Don't Care " , " Today " , " Tomorrow " suggests that each of the players has a failing , like " Who " suggests he is confused at the strategy of the team ( who is going to be targeted by his team's pitcher on the opposite team ) , " What " suggests a lack of understanding orders from the team coach or captain , " I Don't Know " suggests confusion , and " I Don't care ( the short stop ) doesn't give a damn to be on the scene of where the ball falls when he is needed . Lou's willingness to play on the team , which we accept as his fondness of the game ( and his constant image of being childlike ) may actually have some merit - he may be a better player than these others . The highpoint ( to me ) of the dialog is when , giving up momentarily , trying to comprehend Bud's apparent double-talk , Lou shows he can repeat the line-up's name , and describe a baseball play perfectly . Bud shows his approval of this rational approach - only to hear Lou scream out he doesn't understand what he himself has been talking about . To me that was the perfect conclusion of the great confusion known as " Who's on First " . In recent years stores have offered mechanical representations of political and entertainment figures reciting comments they are supposed to be famous for . There was one pair together : of Bud and Lou in costume from THE NAUGHTY NINETIES ( Bud wearing the baseball outfit of non-existent St . Louis Wolves ) , reciting Who's On First . That is immortality folks .
The Beginning of the End of the Image of German Military Efficiency	As pointed out on the other comments on this thread , I WAS A CRIMINAL ( a . k . a . PASSPORT TO HEAVEN and CAPTAIN FROM KOEPENICK ) used to be shown fairly frequently on television . But that was in the 1950s and 1960s . By 2006 it has vanished from the face of television and movie screens . This is a pity , as not only is the story an interesting comic tale ( based on truth ) , but it is important as a record of one of Middle Europe's best actors of the first half of the 20th Century : Albert Basserman . I suppose that most of us think of two names in movies from Middle Europe ( i . e . Germany and the countries surrounding it ) from 1920 - 1945 in American / English films : Emil Jannings ( in the silent period ) and Conrad Veidt . But in the aftermath of Hitler's rise to power , Albert Bassermann joined Veidt in exile . He was Jewish , and found it definitely unhealthy to stay in Nazi Germany ( where he had been a leading stage star ) . Unlike Veidt ( but like Jannings ) Basserman could not speak English . But there were ways around that . In 1940 Alfred Hitchcock was casting the role of Van Meer , the " strong man " from Holland , who's kidnapping is at the center of events in FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT . Hitchcock was aware that Bassermann was available for the role , and decided to cast him . Problem was he still did not know English . Like John Barrymore in MIDNIGHT , Basserman's lines were written out of sight on a blackboard . But Bassermann's performance was extraordinarily good . He is the spokesman for the common people in the film , talking about people who feed the pigeons . He refuses to give up the secret clause to the Nazi agents in the film , but they proceed to torture him a bit , and he starts giving the clause in the treaty when the police show up to rescue him . Joseph Goebbels was to later reveal he liked the film , especially since the Dutch statesman did cave in . Bassermann , despite the language problem , was nominated for the best supporting actor Oscar in 1940 , only to lose . But he was now established as a good character actor . In the next decade he would appear in many films - and imprint himself on his contemporary actors : Laurence Olivier would pattern his middle - European German accent on Bassermann's through his last films . Olivier even copied some of Bassermann's body language ( his little shrugs ) . I WAS A CRIMINAL is based on an incident that happened in the Second German Reich of Kaiser Wilhelm II in 1906 . Bassermann plays Wilhelm Voight , a small time ex-con , who wants to return to his old home ( in his German state ) . At the time the German Empire was made up of German petite kingdoms ( Prussia , Bavaria , Wurtemburg , Hanover ) , and principalities ( Hesse Cassel , Baden , etc . ) and you required special permission to travel back to your native state . But ex-convicts could not get it ( for obvious reasons concerning keeping track of them ) . Voight was determined . Sitting across from the municipal offices of the local city , he noticed the citizens blind ( really blind ) devotion to the military - and blind obedience to military orders . He came up with a plan . He went to the small nearby town of Koepenick , dressed in a military uniform of a Captain ( which he rented ) . Within 20 minutes he had the town dancing to his tune , as he tried to get the document he needed to get home . But though everyone was jumping to attention , running at his first rapid orders , none of them had the authority to give Voight the paper . They did give him a sizable amount of money that had to be taken to Berlin . He willingly took it - a mistake as it turned out . To all questions he said he and he alone would be responsible . Eventually the theft of the money led to the arrest of Voight , but it was not a triumph of German police or justice . For the story showed the worst side of Wilhelmine Germany - the slavish devotion to the army by the people . It held up the nation and the army to ridicule . Within a few months the town's name was briefly a verb , " to koepenick " ( meaning to replace authority figures and fool people ) , and was the subject of a short story by " Saki " ( H . H . Munro ) in THE CHRONICLES OF CLOVIS . Voight was tried and sentenced to a brief prison sentence , and then deported to his native state - the government had been embarrassed by the scandal . Although it did not end German militarism ( it would take two world wars to do that ) , it lessened the awe most of Europe felt for Germany's army and bureaucracy . This film follows the story closely , perhaps making Bassermann's character more comic than the real Voight was . But he gives a first rate performance , ably backed by a cast of good character actors . He never starred in another movie ( as far as I know ) made in Hollywood , so this one has to stand as his best work . One hopes it resurfaces soon .
Television tackling Verne	This is the 1989 miniseries with Pierce Brosnan and Eric Idle that retold the story of the 1872 Jules Verne novel that was the subject of the 1956 Mike Todd film that won the Oscar for Best Picture that year . The 1956 film is a little better than this because of Todd's showmanship and the work of Cantaflas and Robert Newton ( and David Niven and Shirley Maclaine ) . But the 1956 film is not as great as it seemed in 1956 - the cameo performances which helped bring many people to see that film now seem a curiosity to modern film audiences who may not know who A . E . Matthews or Col . Tim McCoy were . This version has it's weaknesses too . Although Brosnan and Idle are quite good , the best is Ustinov as a fat-headed Detective Fix ( even in his final moments in the film his last revelation of " genius " is like an annoying gift of a migraine headache ) . But the mini - series tried to up-date ( or back-date ) the film a little with dollops of reality . So Louis Pasteur , Sarah Bernhardt , Cornelius Vanderbilt , and Jessie and Frank James pop up in the film . Verne would not have liked that - he prided himself on his ability to invent characters ( as all novelists do ) . None of the changes were necessary . Still it has some rewarding aspects . Robert Morley ( who was in the 1956 film as an official of the Bank of England , and a member of the Reform Club ) reappears here as a more eccentric looking head of the Bank of England ( abetted by Roddy MacDowell as his assistant ) . In the novel's plot , Fogg is suspected of being a man who robbed the Bank of England . In the end Morley and MacDowell meet this gentleman ( he does not appear in the 1956 film ) and finds he is a very weird thief indeed . Also , there is a choice moment when ( while traveling across the U . S . by train ) Fogg / Brosnan starts giving his low opinion of America's treatment of it's Native American tribes as organized theft , degradation , and destruction . Unfortunately , in talking about the American Indians , he raises the interest of Princess Aouda , a genuine Indian from India . And she starts bringing up some pointed comments about another Anglo-Saxon country's treatment of Indians . This was not in the novel or in the 1956 film , but it was nice to see that Aouda for a change had a mind of her own - and could be critical and even a little icy toward Phileas ( Brosnan's embarrassment and apologizing is priceless ) . For all it's defects , the television version was well worth watching too .
Arthur Miller's First Stage Success	Most American theater lovers think that greatness descended upon Arthur Miller in 1947 with his great play THE DEATH OF A SALESMAN . It certainly is the play that people remember above all his work , even such later classics as THE CRUCIBLE and A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE . But as a matter of fact , just like THE GLASS MENAGERIE preceded Tennessee Williams ' A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE , ALL MY SONS preceded THE DEATH OF A SALESMAN . If Williams found a tragic poetry in the soul of his fallen aristocratic characters - his Amanda Wingfields and Blanche Dubois - Miller found a mine of power in the failures of the American cult of business success . In SALESMAN it is Willy Loman's gradual realization that a lifetime of hard struggle and strife serving his company did not result in his being shown any respect when he can no longer bring in any large business . In ALL MY SONS , Joe Keller ( Edward G . Robinson ) is not a small peg in the economy like Willy Loman . He is the owner of a factory - on his way to being a millionaire which ( in 1948 ) is the proof of success in America . But while Willy Loman has a dirty secret that cost him his son's respect for him as a father , Keller has a dirty secret that makes him a criminal . The film / play takes place in 1945 - 46 . Keller's oldest son has died in World War II , in an military aviation crash . His younger son Chris ( Burt Lancaster ) has returned too from military service upset - he is aware that something is wrong about the death of his brother , but he is not sure what . He is also aware that his father has a secretive side - one that he is sensitive about . It appears to be connected to the wartime trial of Keller's partner Herbert Deever ( Frank Conroy ) . It seems that Keller and Deever's plant got a big government contract that required the delivery of airplane motors at a particular date . It was a very lucrative contract : in fact , it built their company . But there was a defect in the motors - which did not prevent Deever from completing the delivery of the defective motors . As a result , twelve planes crashed in the South Pacific , killing their pilots and crews . Deever ended up going to prison , but the critical decision was made without Joe Keller being present ( he was ill that day ) and so Keller did not go to prison . Somehow , despite Chris's perplexity about his brother's death in the war , the Kellers would seem not to have any problems . Joe is an apparently successful manufacturer and seems well liked . His wife Kate ( Mady Christians ) is always ready to smooth over any little flurries of difficulties that may pop up . But Chris comes home with his girl friend Ann ( Louise Horton ) . This is upsetting to Joe and Kate , though they try to put their best face on it : Ann is the daughter of jailbird Herb Deever . And sometimes tagging along is angry , troubled George Deever ( Howard Duff ) , who has occasionally visited his dad - and has heard the story of the defective motors from a different perspective . And that perspective raises issues about " good old " Joe Keller . Up to 1945 the subject of government contracts and corrupt cost cutting rarely popped up on stage or screen . But during World War II it became a big issue because of the huge government contracts that Washington set up for the war effort . In fact , the U . S . Senator in charge of investigating waste and corruption in these contracts made a really big name for himself in the public eye . He was a Senator from Missouri named Harry S . Truman , and by 1944 he had become such a prominent figure that F . D . R . insisted he be his running mate for the Democratic National Ticket . They won , and within a year Truman had a higher office than Vice President . But the subject never really came up before in film . There was , oddly enough , a film in the 1930s about the Spanish American War " tainted meat " scandal that damaged the career of Secretary of War Russell Alger in McKinley's Administration . This was I LOVED A WOMAN . The meat packer profiteer involved in that film was played by Edward G . Robinson of all people . But that scandal was the only war profiteering one that came to the screen . So when Miller did this film it was , if you will , " virgin territory " . Miller , of course , turned the issue into a morality situation - as Joe Keller comes face to face to his sin against his partner , his country , the war effort , and his own sons . And he does , in the end , learn that the material gain was too costly - as he realizes , the dead pilots were all his sons .
A Blow For Civility and Co-existence	It is not the greatest satire of its time ( that would be DR . STRANGELOVE ) , but Peter Ustinov's ROMANOFF AND JULIET is a worthy film on its own right . It is based on a successful West End comedy by Ustinof . He plays the President of Concordia , a country in Europe like " the Grand Duchy of Fenwick " in the contemporary novel and movie THE MOUSE THAT ROARED . At the start of the film there is an important vote in the United Nations ' General Assembly that may decide which of the two Cold War blocs ( the West lead by the U . S . or the Communist bloc led by the Soviet Union ) will ultimately prevail in the world . You hear country by country called saying " Yes " or " No " in their own languages ( all the voices are Peter Ustinov's , using his great mimicking abilities ) . The vote is equally split and they reach Concordia . The President ( who is also their U . N . ambassador - he is like W . S . Gilbert's " Pooh Bah " holding many positions ) abstains from voting , the tying the vote and leaving the U . N . in an uproar . He does not care - he is not going to be forced into joining either side . That is the plot of the play : Ustinov is making Concordia personify the attempt by India , Yugoslavia , Egypt , and several other countries to create the so-called " Third World " movement that was supposed to avoid the two big camps . Historically the movement failed : there were too many holes in it tying countries closer to one side or another than they hoped ( India , for example , could have been the basis of such a movement succeeding , except it was poor at the time and it had serious problems with Pakistan and China - the Chinese were able to fool the Indian foreign minister for awhile and invade India , requiring American and British aid to get the Chinese out again ) . But Ustinof approved of the spirit of the attempt . The smaller countries had to be heard to save their own local powers , and possibly to teach the blocs to respect the better aspects of civilization . The President of Concordia has his work cut out for himself : he returns home to find that the American Ambassador Hooper Moulsworth ( British actor John Philips ) is ready to offer all kinds of financial and military aid to the President in return for his support . The same comes from Russian Ambassador Vadim Romanoff ( Akim Tamiroff ) . He has found the post in Concordia ( as has Moulsworth ) a diplomatic dead end until now , and both are pushing to make the most of their opportunity for a major diplomatic coup if they can get Concordia's support . Pushing Romanoff as well is the local KGB man who suspects the Ambassador's support for the Revolution ( Romanoff is able to turn on him by showing that he found the KGB man has a taste for magazines like PLAYBOY ) . Complicating all this is that Romanoff's son , Igor ( John Gavin ) and Moulsworth's daughter Juliet ( Sandra Dee ) have met and fallen in love . The President of Concordia learns of this , and makes the most of pushing this romance . He knows that if the children marry the activities of the fathers and their respective governments are seriously compromised . Ustinov's delicate humor has always been amusing . The national salute that he has to use when passing any Concordian official is like pulling down a toilet's lever . At one point he is planning an appearance before one of the ambassadors , and the capital's main clock chimes an hour . It happens to be four or five hours later than it should be . Shrugging his shoulders as he looks out of the window at the clock , Ustinov says it is the tragedy of Concordia that it has been conquered by every country in Europe except Switzerland ! Possibly the best sequence is when Ustinov is invited from one embassy to the other for cocktails , and is forced to imbibe American " Branch and Bourbon " followed by Russian Vodka . Becoming increasingly unsteady on his feet ( and somewhat silly in his smile ) he is still able to make both of the ambassadors nervous that he is already receiving military aid from the other side and that their opposite number knows all their plans and moves . A showdown is the conclusion of the film , as Ustinov manages to convince both America and its allies , and Russian and its allies , that the Concordians are prepared to confront both . While the thought of a military confrontation flummoxes Moulsworth and Romanoff the love affair of their children adds to their pressures . How will it all turn out ? Ustinov would serve in several international and U . N . groups in his career ( like many actors ) . He would be outspoken about his views on fair play and right and wrong . While decrying anti-Semitism , he was not afraid in his memoirs DEAR ME to chide the Israelis about the treatment of Palestinians . He was a believer that much in civilization deserved to be respected and spread on the nations - and his views never got clearer expression than in this , his play turned film .
A Forgotten , Bittersweet Love Story	This is a very nice little movie that showed Claudette Colbert and John Payne to great advantage as two young teachers who , in 1916 , meet in a small mid-western town , teaching at a high school . They fall in love , and we watch the romance blossom into a marriage - the entire effect helped by the nostalgia of a by-gone , simpler era . Parallelling the story we have the story of a young boy that goes to the school and is taught by both Colbert and Payne . The film is set up with it's heart ( the romance ) surrounded by a more recent story set in 1940 , at the Republican Presidential Convention ( a fictional version of the convention ) . Colbert is there to see the young boy student , who has now grown up . It is not until the film ends that we understand who she is visiting with . And it is not until the conclusion of the film that we get the bittersweet portion of the romance . The film is very simple , and it's final element for success is that Payne and Colbert had terrific chemistry together . Ironically enough it would be their only film together ( one wishes they had done a second film but that was not in the cards for some reason ) . Also ironically , it's total success should be compared with the comparative failure of TOMORROW IS FOREVER , wherein Orson Welles and Colbert both perform their roles well ( in characters very like Payne's and Colbert's here ) but lack the spark to make that trickier story more believable .
I liked the unseen aide that the hero tipped at the door	There is something pathetic about how World War II hurt the institution of monarchy throughout Europe ( and nearly Japan as well ) . In Western Europe most of the monarchs fled the onslaught of the Nazi Blitzkrieg , the most notable exceptions being the rulers of Denmark and Belgium . But it is instructive to remember what happened to them . The King of Denmarck remained defiant of the Nazis ( if basically powerless ) and even ( to his immortal glory ) purposely wore a Jewish star on his royal tunic when the Nazis began imposing their anti-Semitic policies on the Danish Jewish population . On the other hand , King Leopold III of Belgium did not show a finer spirit ( though he always insisted he did the right thing ) . Leopold willingly surrendered to the Germans and cooperated with them . His reason for this was to protect his people . This ( of course ) did not include the Jewish population in Belgium . After the war the Allies were not very happy with Leopold ( as they were with the Danish King ) . Neither were the Belgians , most of whom compared Leopold's cowardice ( their view ) with his father Albert's heroic defense of Belgium in World War I , that made King Albert one of the great heroes of his time . In 1951 , Leopold had to abdicate in favor of his son Bauduin I . Leopold died in 1973 , never recovering any popularity with his people . Eastern Europe was similar , some monarchs proving heroic even to the point of death . King Boris of Bulgaria had to make a devil's pact with the Nazis in the face of Soviet aggression . But he refused to agree with the transportation of Jews ( Bulgaria's population agreed with Boris - 90 percent of the Jewish population of Bulgaria survived World War II , the highest in all Europe among occupied countries ) . In 1943 he again refused , and died in some sudden , unexpected way while flying home from a meeting with Hitler . To this day poison or some other odd murder devise ( depressurizing the cabin of Boris's plane has been suggested ) may have killed him . The nation threw out the Coburg family as royal family when the Russians set up their puppet Communist regime . But when the Communists were finally overturned , the Coburgs were welcomed back . The monarchy wasn't restored , but the current head of the house was elected Prime Minister for awhile . Most of those monarchs who fled settled in England or the U . S . or Canada for the duration . The only one who was able to return to his throne during the war was Haile Selassie of Ethiopia , as the British kicked the Italians out of that country . After the war the luckiest of the monarchs was Hirohito of Japan . Although there is still controversy about how deeply involved in the aggressions of the 1930s and 1940s he was ( the title of one study , THE IMPERIAL CONSPIRACY , tells that suspicion ) , he was smart enough to know when to throw in the towel in the face of Hiroshima and Nagasaki . He was able to show to General Douglas MacArthur that he could be a damned good constitutional monarch . That's why Japan still has a royal family . Only a handful of movies deal with the flight of the royals to Allied ( but non-Communist ) lands . The most notable ones are WHERE'S THERE HOPE , wherein Bob Hope is an unknown heir to a Balkan throne who has to be protected by Signe Hasso , and this film , PRINCESS O'ROURKE . Written by Norman Krasna ( the screenplay won him an Oscar ) , it tells of how one of the heirs to the throne of an invaded kingdom ( Olivia De Haviland ) is mistaken for a maid by an American Air Force pilot ( Bob Cummings ) , and how he and she slowly fall in love . The comedy works here as the story is built to show the so-called superiority of the equality of Americans ( at least Caucasian , Christian Americans ) over old world aristocrats and out-of-date monarchies . There are some lovely bits in it . Charles Coburn plays De Haviland's uncle , a crusty old snob . But while initially opposed to the union , he begins changing his mind when he realizes that Cummings comes from a family of breeders ( he has five brothers , and his father had seven , or some such set of numbers ) . Smiling and acting like he is considering purchasing a brood mare for breeding purposes , he keeps repeating those figures like they are a mantra . It is only when Cummings refuses the idea of his kids losing their American character and citizenship that Coburn's harsher snobbery returns . The film is famous also for the appearance ( in his only movie role ) of F . D . R . ' s " little dog Fala " as himself . The final sequences in the film were filmed at the White House ( actually quite an achievement for any studio in wartime ) . The best moment is at the end , when Cummings upon leaving with his bride after a secret White House marriage tips an " aide " watching at the door . We never see the face of the aide in question , but I imagine afterward he roared with laughter while having a cigarette and possibly one of his own martinis .
A Charming Kid's Film from the 1960s .	In my neck of the woods in Queens is the facade of a building that once was quite important - the R . K . O . Keith in Flushing on Northern Blvd . , in New York . The theater was originally a vaudeville house where people like Judy Garland once performed . Then it was a movie house . And it was there that I saw this film in 1964 , when I was ten years old . I had liked watching Don Knotts on television , first with Steve Allan and then with Andy Griffith . When I saw he was in this fantasy movie , part of which was a cartoon , I asked to see it . My mother treated me to it around Christmas . It was shown with one or two Warner Brothers cartoons ( I recall one was with Wile E . Coyote and Road Runner ) . But MR . LIMPET was the highpoint of the afternoon for me . I thoroughly enjoyed it . Henry Limpet is a nice little man who is driving his wife Bessie ( Carole Cook ) crazy because of his non-stop interest in fish . Her brother George ( Jack Weston ) is a sailor , on home leave during World War II . He has little use for his weird brother-in-law , but he offers to take out his sister and Henry to the seaside . And while there , Henry goes out onto a pier and looks over the side . Earlier the audience heard him saying , " I wish I was a fish . " Now he turns into a fish when he falls into the sea ( the cartoon transmission of Limpert the man into Limpert the fish is done very nicely ) . Limpert soon discovers he can be of service to the nation - he can help track down Nazi submarines and enable the U . S . navy and coast guard to sink them . He manages to contact Bessie and George , and George brings in his superiors ( Andrew Duggan and Larry Keating ) . Soon a system is set up with Limpert making a loud sonar reaching sound when he sites a submarine . And the submarines are slowly sunk . This particular description is just the bare bones of the story . There are also the problems of Limpert's break-up with Bessie , and his romance with Ladyfish , not to mention his friendship with Crusty the lobster ( who thinks Limpert is a specie of fish called a " Flatbush " when Limpert tells him that he comes from there ) . It was a wonderful fantasy film for it's day , and I suspect it still would hold up quite well . Besides giving Knotts a role of some depth ( no pun intended ) as he is torn between human and fish lovers , but it had nice bits of business by Weston as George , who is stunned by the importance of his brother-in-law to the war effort . Therefore I give the film an . I'm sure you'd be pleasantly surprised too .
A Silent Patriotic Short - And the oldest film with Bushman I've Seen	I saw this short in the last year around July 4th . It is the type of film that is best seen at the time of the more patriotic holidays ( either Independence Day , Veteran's Day , Memorial Day , or even flag day - especially as Betsy Ross ( Enid Bennett ) is a central character . But to me my interest was finally seeing Francis X . Bushman in a silent film . Bushman ( in his high point ) was a major Hollywood star , but his highpoint was as the villain Messala in the silent classic BEN-HUR ( that starred Ramon Navarro ) . I have seen parts of the chariot race sequence from that film , but nothing else . Otherwise Bushman was a supporting actor who I last saw as a foolish businessman dealing with Frank Gorshin's " The Riddler " on a two part BATMAN episode in the 1960s . So when I watched this I was actually finally seeing Bushman when his name meant something to the film going public . BEN-HUR was made roughly about the same time as this film . It's a short subject - a reminder of emotional growth and change in our views of other nationalities . As such it actually has a better message than it's time of production would have allowed it - the 1920s ( with the rise of anti-Semitism , race riots , the rise of the K . K . K . in the south and mid-west ) was a leading period of bigotry in our history . It was in 1924 that the immigration quotas were finally set to prevent further influxes of Eastern and Southern immigrants ( read Jews , Russians - supposedly Communists , and Italians - supposedly gangsters ) into the country . These quotas were to have deadly effects on European Jews struggling to get away from the Nazis in the late 1930s . But they were very popular - even our labor leaders ( like Gompers and William Green ) were against unlimited " cheap " labor from Europe undercutting the incomes of American workers . This was also the period when Sacco and Vanzetti would become martyrs to American bigotry in a prejudiced filled criminal trial that people still debate . Here though the story suggests we can forgive and forget . Bushman is George Washington , and he visits Ross to ask her to sew an official American flag . She is helped by a young female friend ( Edith Brandon - played by Alice Calhoun ) . But Edith has a secret that her friend Betsy is aware of . She married Charles Brandon ( Johnny Walker ) who is a British soldier . Edith is pregnant and Charles is determined to return to Philadelphia and see his wife give birth . The story follows how Brandon comes and is hidden by Edith and Betsy . But General Washington notices some odd things at the Ross house , and gradually realizes someone is being hidden . Finally he confronts Betsy and the Brandons , but then he realizes why Brandon is there ( it is not a spying mission but a family matter ) . Washington decides , after listening to Betsy's special pleading , to allow Brandon a special permit to remain with his wife until the baby is born . The story sounds trite given this description , but it actually builds up from there . Bushman's performance is " overripe " by 2008 standards , but for 1927 it's quite restrained . It is rare to see Washington in a fury , and his confronting an unrepentant Brandon is a sight to see , but he does realize what is important here - and it is not the normal war matters . It helps that the film had early Technicolor ( which the creation of the flag requires ) , as it adds some reality to a story we can't hear the dialog to ( one wonders if whether the film would have been made as a talkie had it been shot in 1928 or 1929 ) . And it's conclusion reaffirms national growth of character . For in the conclusion the audience is reminded that in time the anti-British emotions of the American Revolution's period , and the British anti-French feelings in that same period , dissolved - and that in 1917-1918 the descendants of the three nations fought side by side against a common foe ( Wilhelmine Germany ) . Our last image in the short is of a " Tommy " a " Sammie " and a French Poilu marching in step , rifles at the ready , to face that enemy until they gained final victory together . Perhaps too militaristic today , but for 1927 ( with the bigotry I mentioned earlier ) it was light years ahead of the time about international friendship .
Lazslo's Film Becomes a Television version of a Broadway Musical	Sheldon Harnick and Jerry Bock composed the scores of a number of successful musical . In the 1970s they did this musical , based on Miklos Lazslo's PERFUMERIE , which Ernst Lubitsch turned into THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER , and which had been made into the musical film IN THE GOOD OLD SUMMERTIME . Called SHE LOVES ME , it returns the setting to the leather goods store of the 1940 film ( as opposed to the music shop of the 1949 film ) , and keeps the plot lines of the Lubitsch film as well . That is , we have the jealousy on the part of the store owner leading to his discharging the wrong man . We also have that same man discovering that the pen-pal he has come to admire , even adore , is the same woman he constantly fights with at work . SHE LOVES ME was a success on Broadway , and PBS did this television version in 1978 using a British cast . Robin Ellis was playing the James Stewart / Van Johnson role , and Gemma Craven had the Margaret Sullivan / Judy Garland role . Ellis was at the peak of his fame across the Atlantic in the U . S . due to playing Ross Poldark , the hero of the series POLDARK based on the Winston Graham novels about late 18th Century Cornwall . This televised production demonstrated that Ellis was more than capable to handle a singing and dancing role , especially in the best known number from the show ( the title song , " She Loves Me " . Ms Craven did well too , my favorite recollection being her singing " ICE CREAM " , the song that is the beginning of her realization that the fellow who has been a pain in her neck at the job is really quite a sweet guy . The most interesting thing I found in this version of the story is that the villain actually has a strong good-bye number . Like Schildkraut he gets his comeuppance from management , but unlike that gentleman he takes it well . He'll always be a sneak , and his song shows he is proud of his intelligent slyness , and that he realizes that even with this temporary set-back he'll eventually come out on top somewhere else . He probably did .
When Life Imitates Cartoon Art	This was the last of the three comedies that Jack Lemmon made in the middle 1960s that he hated . Like GOOD NEIGHBOR SAM ( and not like the abysmal UNDER THE YUM YUM TREE ) HOW TO MURDER YOUR WIFE had a clever script and good production . Lemmon played a successful cartoonist who carefully scripts and photos the scenes he will use in his detective adventure strip . He lives in a townhouse , complete with top rate valet ( Terry-Thomas ) and has a wonderful life as a bachelor . But while attending a stag party , he meets Verna Lisi , and takes her home . Apparently he has married her ( the groom at the stag party had broken up with his fiancé before the party , and throws the wedding ring out - and Lemmon uses it ) . As a result Lisi starts domesticating him , and Terry Thomas walks out . Lemmon uses the changes in his lifestyle in the comic strip , but finally he revolts and kills off the comic strip version of Lisi . When Lisi sees this she walks out , but everyone thinks that Lemmon killed her . So the scene is set for a murder trial . This is not a film for feminists . It takes a dim view at the effect of domestication on Lemmon ( and his lawyer , a hysterically funny Eddie Mayehoff ) . But I point out that before the end Lemmon does admit he misses the domestication . Even Terry-Thomas gives into it at the conclusion . It still a good comedy , a worthy minor work if not one of the high points in Lemmon's acting career .
Another visit to " Vulgaria " courtesy of Woody Allan	Woody Allan wrote DON'T DRINK THE WATER in the late 1960s , and it had a nice run on Broadway . It became the first of his plays to make it to the big screen , though the second ( PLAY IT AGAIN SAM ) was a better work . A later tragic-comic piece , THE FLOATING LIGHT BULB , has not made it as yet . The story is set in the mythical Eastern European country of " Vulgaria " . This is not the only film set in this land . The musical CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG was also set in " Vulgaria " , when it was a pre-World War I principality run by Gert Frobe . History swept little " Vulgaria " up with it's neighbors . In the late 1960s it is a communist state . A plane is hijacked to Vulgaria by a lone gunman , fleeing impending arrest after a Vulgarian spy known as " the Grey Fox " was arrested in the U . S . On the plane is the Hollander family from Newark , New Jersey : Walter ( Jackie Gleason ) , his wife Marion ( Estelle Parsons ) and their daughter Susan ( Joan Delaney ) . Walter is a very successful caterer , who really wanted to take his annual vacation in Miami , but was talked ( much against his will ) by Marion into a European trip to London , Paris , Barcelona , Rome , and Athens . It was to Athens that their plane was headed when hijacked . Parsons is the enthusiast in the couple , and when she hears that the passengers can stretch their legs outside the plane for about twenty minutes , she pushes a dubious Walter to take photos of the guards surrounding the plane , and of the surrounding buildings of the airport . Unfortunately , Walter has noted that there is barbed wire in the areas that Marion suggests he photographed , and figures it must be restricted . But the local secret police man Krojack ( Michael Constantine ) , sees Walter taking movies , jumps to the conclusion that Walter is a spy and orders his men to arrest the Hollanders . Fortunately for the Hollanders just before they had their adventure the American Ambassador McGee ( Howard St . John ) left for a conference in Washington . His son Axel ( Ted Bessell ) had driven him to the airport , and is on hand with the embassy's limousine to drive the Hollanders to the sanctuary of the embassy . The play follows the topsy turvy situation the Hollanders find themselves in , worsened by the well-intentioned , but somewhat stupid , Axel . Axel , confronting Krojack , makes a common-sensical comment that both countries are always spying on each other . Yes , it's common-sensical , but it is something no diplomat every mouths , and Krojack tape records the message to use when later talking with Ambassador McGee . Axel and Susan soon are falling in love , which does not meet with the approval of Walter . Nor is Walter ( who has to get back for a special catering job in four days ) happy to hear that the other political refugee in the embassy , Father Drobney ( Richard Libertini ) has been there for six years ! Nor is Walter really thrilled that Drobney has picked up a new hobby - he's a magician now . There are nice touches in the film , jabbing at both sides . Krojack is talking to Ambassador Magee on the phone , when one of his assistants asks to know how the Stock Market did ( he has some mutual shares ) . Krojack puts down the phone and orders someone to break the idiot's legs ( this is , after all , a communist " paradise " ) . Later it is the Americans who get the jab : the Ambassador is ferociously looking for a way of winning a governorship at home , and is willing to sell out anyone he can to get it . A good cast is aided by the director , Howard Morris ( WHO'S MINDING THE MINT ? ) and turns out a better than average comedy . Not as good as most of Woody's later films , but it was a promising start .
Great Archival Film Long Unseen - but propaganda to put it mildly	I have to give this series , broadcast in 1978 , an " 8 " - almost a " 9 " because of it's remarkable televising of long unseen Russian newsreel and movie photography of the war effort on the Eastern Front from 1941 through 1945 . In a sense the release of this material in 1978 was a kind of harbinger of the release of long secret Russian historical records and archives in the " Glastnost " period , until even today . The most notable effect of this tendency was the cooperation of the post 1985 governments to assist in finding and restoring the family remains of Tsar Nicholas II and his slaughtered wife Alexandra , and their children , to the Romanoff Family for proper burial . There are other examples , such as tracing the fates of millions of Stalin's purge victims . But the first feeble attempt at this was the photography released for this series on the Russian sacrifice ( 20 million dead ! ) in the Second World War . But the film was released at a heavy price : The Russian Government of Leonid Brezhnev insisted that they control the narrative . Now , while nobody in their right minds would deny the terrible losses and trauma Russians and other Soviet Peoples suffered at the hands of the Nazis ( example on a " small level , shown in the series : the destruction of the home of the composer Pyotr Ilyich Tschaikoswki by Nazi goons and the burning of original musical manuscripts to show their contempt for Slavic culture ) , the narrative went to the extent of almost denying the losses of Britain and Commonwealth , China ( Communist and Kuomintang ) , the United States , France , and others ( Jews , for example ) , as being on a large level too . The result was , at the least , annoying . In the opening episode the Western Viewer was told by the narrator ( Burt Lancaster , managing to give a good accounting of his delivery - even when speaking the worst nonsense ) that the so called " Winter War " of 1939 - 1944 between Finland under Marshall Mannerheim and Stalin's Russia was due to Finnish aggression . I don't think I ever heard before about this theory of " Greater Finland " or the hitherto under-discussed " Finnish Baltic Supremacy Theory " that shook up the globe . Somehow it escaped most of us . To be fair Mannerheim did get aid from Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy , but he was not a puppet of the former ( say like Vidkun Quistling of Norway ) nor a collaborator like Pierre Laval of France . In fact , Mannerheim threatened to make peace with Stalin , and even join forces with Russia against Germany , if any attempt was made to deport Finland's small Jewish population . It is instructive that in the general " clensing " of neo-Nazi stooges in Europe following 1945 , like Franco in Spain , Mannerheim was not bothered . But unlike Franco Mannerheim was honored as a great hero - even getting on an American postage stamp in the 1960s . Similar twisting of history distort the good of the series . Little is said of such off stage incidents as the blitz or the later V2 campaign against London . While aerial warfare is given good treatment ( particularly showing the loosening of sexual role playing in the war - like America's " Rosie the Riveter " , Russia's women played an active role in the war machine , even as pilots of the Russian air force ) , the Russian's willingness to sacrifice anything for victory is underplayed . Stalin is not shown as the monster he was - his Nonaggression Pact with Hitler is barely touched on . Nothing is said of the Gulags or the Purges , except to extol certain public works projects that were valuable ( that we now know were built by slave laborers from the Gulags . The series was not fully shown . Russia invaded Afghanistan , and the U . S . public lost interest . It has not been brought back with a fixed narrative , but it probably could be now . Russia did sacrifice on an unprecedented scale . But the story of that hard , terribly hard and bloody victory of the Russian People still needs to be told without propagandistic lies for the West and the rest of the World to know of , and appreciate . Those lies prevent this from being a " 10 " .
Brain Washing and It's Antidote	Whatever the American public thought ( if it thought at all ) about the Korean War , one aspect of it angered us : rumors of harsh treatment by North Korean officers of our officers and men with the intention of breaking them down to reveal military information in violation of the Geneva Convention . Of course , at the time , it rarely occurred to us that our men might do the same things as the North Koreans did , but we were still under a general belief that we were better than those foes . During the 1950s there were several shows on television and movies , culminating in THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE , dealing with brain washing . This episode of Lloyd Bridges ' short lived dramatic series in 1962 was one that I recall watching . Bridges was Bruce Pennington , an army officer captured in the Korean War , who has been put under a North Korean officer played by James Hong . Hong is determined to get some valuable information from Bridges that he will not reveal , and starts doing everything that he can to break him . This includes torture and brainwashing techniques , but for some reason he can't get far with them . The reason is that Bridges has his own antidote . Before he went off to fight in the war , Bridges and his wife ( Betty Garrett ) agree on the lot that they will build their future home together . They have even discussed styles and rooms they want . SPOILER COMING UP : Bridges concentrates in his cell on the design of the future home . He actually turns the wall of his cell into an imaginary drawing board , and starts shifting walls and floors and windows about . It concentrates his mind so thoroughly he can forget what the torture and brainwashing techniques are trying to do . In the end Bridges is not broken . As a high ranking officer he is to be turned over to the Americans in a prisoner exchange . Hong was aware of this but felt sure he would break him in time . Instead , as Bridges is led away , Hong is seized by his superiors who are furious at his failure ( we gather failure means death for him ) .
A Fictionalization of a Tragedy	This 1936 film was the only movie about the Anglo-Irish War of Liberation ( 1916 - 1922 ) that centered on a character based on Michael Collins prior to the 1996 movie called MICHAEL COLLINS . Why it took so long to outwardly make a major film about the Irish hero is a matter of mystery to me . The best reason is that Hollywood did not wish to jeopardize English and British Empire sales of their films by painting a positive image of the man who gave them such a stunning black eye and won independence ( or technically semi-independence ) for Eire in 1922 . Hollywood would be willing to show a great Irish leader destroyed by a sex scandal ( the abysmal 1939 film PARNELL ) , but that leader failed . This 1935 film , BELOVED ENEMY , follows the general outlines of the events of 1921-22 . Collins , directing intelligence against the British forces , destroyed the Black and Tans and managed to make mincemeat of British operations throughout the provinces of Ireland ( except for Belfast and it's norther neighbors ) . Prime Minister Lloyd George and his advisers ( including Winston Churchill ) decided to have a peace treaty - but the negotiations were extremely difficult for all concerned . Lloyd George wanted to get the British forces disengaged , because the nation's prestige was badly shaken by it's increased defeat . The Irish negotiators ( led by Arthur Griffiths and Michael Collins ) were to try to get full independence if they could . However , Collins was put in charge of the negotiation team only because his one rival , Eamon de Valera , refused to go . This has remained a matter of controversy to this day , as to whether de Valera did this out of distrust of the British or as a cynical way of shafting Collins who would be blamed for the resulting treaty . Gumming up the work further were the Northern Irish Protestants ( Ulstermen ) led by Edward Carson and James Craig . They too were split ( Carson wanted all of Ireland to remain in the United Kingdom , as Great Britain was officially known in 1922 ; Craig just wanted to protect the six northern Protestant provinces from being part of the Catholic Ireland envisioned by Collins and de Valera ) . The resulting treaty basically satisfied nobody - and still doesn't . Eire was created as a semi-Independent part of the United Kingdon ( in a sense it achieved Parnell's long dead " Home Rule " parliament system ) . Northern Ireland got it's independence as a semi-independent section with it's capital at Stormont near Belfast ( Craig would become it's first Prime Minister ; Carson was disgusted by the decision and never accepted it ) . Griffiths died of natural causes a few weeks after the treaty was signed . Collins had to face the anger of de Valera , who rejected the result . Within two months Collins was assassinated by anti-treaty Irish , and a Civil War began that lasted a year ( and was bloodier than the fight against the British ) . Eventually de Valera would be elected President of Eire . In 1949 he formally removed Eire from the United Kingdom . The southern Irish state has remained independent ever since . The story was changed in BELOVED ENEMY . Based on a story that during the long negotiations Collins met and romanced an English aristocratic lady , the Collins character Dennis Reardon ( Brian Ahearn ) meets and falls in love with aristocratic Helen Drummond ( Merle Oberon ) , whose father is involved on the English negotiation team . When the treaty is presented to the world , and does not give the full independence that the Southern Irish expected , Reardon is denounced as a traitor . His closest friend O'Roarke ( Jerome Cowan ) decides to punish him for his treason by shooting him when he is riding in an open car ( as Collins was killed ) . The only difference is that here Reardon ( although wounded ) lives to return to his aristocratic lover . The film was well produced and acted , so despite trivializing a true tragedy by giving it a happy ending I will give it an .
An Above Average " Mrs . Marple " Story , with a dash of Tennyson thrown in	It has been noted in several of the reviews on this thread , THE MIRROR CRACK'D is notable as the last film of real importance for Kim Novak , one of the last good films of Elizabeth Taylor , and an above-average retelling of one of Agatha Christie's mystery stories about Mrs . Marple of St . Mary's Mead . With a supporting cast including Taylor's GIANT co-star Rock Hudson , Tony Curtis , Edward Fox ( another tiptop performance there ) and Geraldine Chaplin , it is well done . By the way , I think one other performance should be noticed - a key one which is only mentioned once in these film reviews : Maureen Bennett as " Heather Babcock " . There is also another point I like , which is minor but quite interesting . Usually , when discussing the golden age of British mystery novelists it is Dorothy Sayers , with her " Lord Peter Wimsey " novels , who is seen as " the intellectual mystery novelist " . There is real erudition that pops up in her books as she was an Oxford graduate and teacher ( and a translator of Dante ) . But in truth , Christie could do the same thing - she was just not as open about it . Here , the title is based on the poem " The Lady of Shalott " by Lord Tennyson ( see the two films THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE ) . Describing a lady who lives near Camelot , who is respected and neglected by all , and realizes she will never find happiness and dies , the key passage for the film's purposes . Happiness is reflected in the Lady's mirror several times - and then , when watching the gallant Sir Lancelot head for the castle at Camelot , this is written : " She left the web , she left the loom , She made three paces thro ' the room , She saw the water-lily bloom , She saw the helmet and the plume , She look'ed down to Camelot . Out flew the web and floated wide ; The mirror crack'd from side to side ; ' The curse is come upon me , ' cried . The Lady of Shalott . " Angela Lansbury quotes the poem at the start , as Miss Marple , but to show her keen appreciation of Tennyson . The story that Christie tells us afterward , " mirrors " the tragedy of the poem . For happiness is the key to the tragedy - it's unexpected ( and undeserved ) loss due to a fool - and a fool who never realized she was one . Taylor and Novak are doing a film about two historic rivals ( Elizabeth I and Mary , Queen of Scotts ) . Taylor did not expect her old rival to be in the film ( which she hopes will be the turnabout to her declining career ) . Novak ( and her husband / agent Curtis ) have forced her into the film in order to enable the producers to get the financing of the movie . Taylor's husband Hudson was aware of this , but kept it from Taylor as long as possible . But as soon as she and Novak see each other the barbs pass back and forth . It is suggested in some reviews that this is the rivalry of Bette Davis and Joan Crawford in WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE ? , and there is some similarity . But Novak is younger than Taylor ( unlike Crawford who was Davis's contemporary ) . Instead it more like Davis ' later feuding with fellow Oscar winner ( and younger rival ) Susan Hayward on another film . The locals are quite excited about the movie and throw a party . Miss Marple ( Lansbury ) is attending , as is a local chatterbox named Heather Babcock ( Bennett ) . In a way the thin and nervously noisy Bennett reminds one of Joyce Grenville in the 1940s and 1950s in the Ealing comedies . She is always mentioning an event in her youth during her service in World War II , when a younger and more famous Taylor was visiting her base on a U . F . O . tour . Bennett goes to see Taylor , and manages to run backstage , before the performance and kiss her . Then , due to her own problems , Bennett leaves the stage and never sees the rest of the performance . Out of interest to the viewers I will not go deeper into this , except to say that Bennett is the victim at the party for Taylor , after she has a conversation with Taylor . Bennett is found poisoned , and it was apparently in a drink meant for Taylor . Who is after Taylor ? This leads Lansbury and her nephew ( Fox ) into investigating the movie people . It also gives Novak a marvelous moment trying to impress / vamp Fox , and losing her temper at the end . A second murder occurs , when Geraldine Chaplin ( who has been conducting her own investigation ) apparently learns too much . Chaplin's death scene has an interesting , unexpected effect . When she realizes something is wrong and she may be poisoned , her face takes on a surprised look that brings to mind her father Charlie Chaplin in some of his silent comedies . Blood will tell sometimes . It is a pretty enjoyable film , and the final moments of Lansbury and Hudson is one of Hudson's most moving scenes on film . Try to catch it .
Glory To The Strains of " Garryowen "	This is a wonderful film as a film - it gets an . As a filmed piece of accurate history . . . one wishes to be more loving , but it is a . And I think I am actually being very charitable . What was he like - that man of horse and saber who was the youngest " boy " general in the Union Army of the American Civil War , and ended dying with all his command in the greatest military victory of the North American Indian tribes ? Opinionated , militant , bumptious , bloody-handed , ambitious , clever , too-clever , Indian-foe , Indian-friend ( ? ) , and national hero . His death in 1876 was treated as a national tragedy and pushed him into a position of fame equal to Washington , Lincoln , Jackson , and Grant / Lee , and Sherman / Jackson . It is only with a growing awareness of the mistakes made in his career - the overly ambitious hot-spur , that his reputation declined . Yet to this day , George Armstrong Custer remains the best recalled figure in our history's military annals to lose his last battle ( I can't really think of a similar one - maybe General Jonathan Mayhew Wainwright , forced to stay with his men on the Bataan Death March - but Wainwright survived the March and the Second World War ) . Custer has appeared in more films than far better generals , due to the Western adventures and Little Big Horn . Pity that the details of the real career were never handled so lovingly as Raoul Walsh and Errol Flynn handled them in this film . But even in 1941 the legend was still potent . Olivia De Haviland portrayed Libby Custer , who was recently pointed out in another film review on this thread survived George until 1933 , so her effective handling of the story was still in place eight years later . Custer was seen as our wayward but brave knight errant , and with the shadow of World War II looming closer we had to keep the myth and bury the truth . John Ford would have fully understood this and approved it . So we get the view that he was a hot-spur , but he was patriotic . Although almost pushed out of West Point by demerits ( which was true ) , Custer was in the class of 1861 , and it would have been really stupid to be picky about such a fighter that year . You see , most of the so-called military talent from West Point ( from Robert E . Lee down ) was southern , and joined the Confederacy . The Union needed every northern " Point " man they could find . Custer's Civil War career should be given closer study - he was attached to the staff of General - In - Chief George B . McClellan , and distinguished himself in the Peninsula Campaign and other eastern front warfare . But he was a cavalryman - and he would rise under the watchful eyes of Grant and Sherman's buddy Phil Sheridan in the latter parts of the war . In particular he served with dash and distinction at the battle of Cedar Creek , which ended the threat of the Confederacy in the Shenandoah Valley . It also hit Custer hard on a personal level ( his close West Point friend , Stephen Ramseur , joined the Confederacy and rose to a position like Custer - mortally wounded , Custer sat with Ramseur all through the latter's last night alive ) . Following the war things fell apart . He wanted to make his brevet - Major Generalship permanent ( it wasn't , as it was a battlefield promotion ) . They only had a Lt . Colonelship to give him in the shrunken army along the frontier . He tried to play politics , making the error of supporting President Andrew Johnson on a political trip in 1866 , and finding most Northerners hated Johnson as an inept idiot . He supposedly admired the Indians ( he certainly was eloquent in writing of them and the West ) , but he caused a genuine military massacre in 1868 of Indian women and children that ended with a court martial . Later , during the 1870s he would support Indian claims against a ring of politicians ( that went up to the Secretary of War , William Belknap ) who bought and sold Indian trading posts for profit . It ruined Belknap , and left a black eye on the Grant Administration . It put him into the doghouse with Grant and Sherman ( who was Belknap's former commander ) , and Sheridan barely saved his career . Then he was sent on the final Big Horn Campaign . And immortality arrived . That career is worth a real film , but would it be too critical ? Should we hold a man of the 1850s - 1876 to the standards of 2007 ? Would we like that done to us in a hundred years ? Certainly it could happen , but I'm not sure we'd like it . Custer ( 1941 style ) fit Flynn like a glove , with his giving the closest to a " dance " performance in any of his major films . His final movie with Olivia De Haviland is underlined with a melancholy due to the fate of the hero's character . In support actors like Sidney Greenstreet , Stanley Ridges , Arthur Kennedy and Anthony Quinn did very nicely as friends , foes , or even treacherous sneaks ( Kennedy ) . As an entertaining piece of myth making it remains high - but as a study of a complex military hero it is not what it should be .
So Who Cares About Conventions ?	I like this film . It has gotten a bad reputation due to Hitchcock's daring to break another film convention about the truth of a flashback . Hitchcock had already broken other conventions over the years , some being of a technical variety ( the nine minute uncut takes on ROPE for instance ) . Here the film begins with Richard Todd describing what he claims happened to the murdered man to ex-girl friend Jane Wyman . Subsequently we learn that the explanation is not totally true . What I find interesting about this particular issue is that the same people who denounce Hitchcock for cheating on this probably have found other films acceptable despite similar " cheating " . Take Billy Wilder's WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION . We hear Tyrone Power give Leonard Vole's version of what happened to the rich elderly woman ( Norma Varden ) , about how they met , about what he was doing on the night she was murdered . We do not SEE the actual view of his activities for the night of the murder , but we accept his comments - until the end of the film shows what happened . Also check out Kurasawa's film classic RASHOMON , where we see flashbacks of five people who show " what happened " and at the conclusion we really don't know if we heard the truth or if everyone has lied . The same can be said of the American remake of RASHOMON , THE OUTRAGE . Even a musical comedy , LES GIRLS , leaves us all guessing at the end . Yet Hitchcock was condemned for his cheating . I think he should be praised for his daring , for this film ( of all Hitchcock's movies ) develops in a unique way . Wyman is determined to prove the truth of Richard Todd's story , and keeps meeting criticism and common sense from her father , Alistair Sim , and from the police led by Michael Wilding , who don't believe him . And as a matter of fact , at the conclusion , it turns out that some , if not all of Todd's flashback has elements of truth in it . Hitchcock told Francois Truffaud that he saw STAGE FRIGHT as an opportunity to work with some great British character actors ( Sim , Joyce Grenville , Sybil Thorndyke , Kay Walsh ) . The film was definitely lower budgeted than other films ( SPELLBOUND , even THE PARADINE CASE ) that he had recently made . The most expensive aspect was working with Dietrich which was costly for her salary and her designer clothing . But Hitchcock wanted a chance to work with Dietrich here ( just like he had made MR . AND MRS . SMITH to work with Carole Lombard in 1939 ) . The results were quite good . The British character actors did the most with their parts ( including Todd , who shows a nervousness and uncertainty in most of the film that is suggestive of possible insanity at the end ) . Dietrich also , in her closing moments on the screen , shows a bitterness and hatred that I don't think she ever showed in any other film role . Jane Wyman was criticized by Hitchcock for insisting on dressing up as the film progressed . However she does show a resourcefulness and pluck not usually seen in most of her movies . On the whole the film works pretty well to me .
Sam Clemens Looks At King Eddie VI	Mark Twain was a man who sometimes could not get a notion out of his head . He loved the issue of twins and switching births . It pervades much of his fiction , and few seem to comment on it . In one of his early sketches he tells an inquisitive reporter that the tragedy of his life was the strange death of his twin - the boy had one only one mark on his body that differs him from his brother - Twain shows it to the reporter on his own person , and says that was the boy who supposedly died mysteriously and was buried . The reporter leaves after that tidbit . Of course the novel ( which became the subject of this film and several others ) is the one that people think of as Twain's " twins switching " story . It isn't . He would write ( in the 1880s ) a piece called " Those Amazing Twins " about a pair of Italian Siamese twins . The piece ( which is not one of his best ) became part of the germination that led to his last great Mississippi novel " Pudd'nhead Wilson " . He separates the twin Italians into two twin brother Italian counts who turn up in the Mississippi town where the action goes . He also takes the " switched at birth " motif and uses it in the main story of Chambers the slave switched by his mother Roxey with young Tom Driscoll the wealthy heir . Twins pop up too in " Tom Sawyer Detective " - which was based on an old 17th Century Danish murder case involving twins . But it's " The Prince And The Pauper " ( 1876 ) that is recalled as Twain's " twin story " . I think it's because the other pieces are minor or ( like Wilson ) full of other interesting small matters - like the business of the use of fingerprints to settle the mysteries of the plot ( a first in 1894 ) . Here it is central to Twain's looking at an appalling , inequitable social system in Tudor England . Henry VIII is dying and his son Edward , Prince of Wales is aware that he is going to soon lose his wise father and take over the reins of government . Of course the truth is he is still too young ( in 1547 he is only 11 ) and he really can only rule in his own right when he reaches adult age ( presumably 21 ) . He will need a " Protector " and the Duke of Norfolk and the Earl of Herford are the leading contenders . In the film wise old Henry Stephenson is Norfolk and crafty , power-seeking Claude Rains is Hertford . Henry ( Montague Love ) appoints both to the governing counsel , but does not name Norfolk over Hertford ( or the reverse ) . So Rains starts jockeying for position in a confrontation with England's premier Duke . In reality it was more complicated . Norfolk was on the outs with Henry in 1547 ( he was facing execution - his son the Earl of Surrey was executed the year before - but Henry's own death saved Norfolk ) . The two contenders were the Duke of Somerset ( Edward Seymour ) , blood uncle to Edward VI through his mother , and John Dudley , Duke of Northumberland , who dreamed of placing the Dudley family and the Tudors permanently together by marrying the three Tudor heiresses , Princesses Mary and Elizabeth , and Lady Jane Grey , to his sons . One day this plan would blow up in his face ( see TUDOR ROSE ) . Somerset's doom was tied to a similar hair-brained scheme of his brother Admiral Sir Thomas Seymour regarding marrying Princess Elizabeth ( see YOUNG BESS ) . Edward , in Twain's story , while waiting for the sad news , meets Tom Canty , a boy who looks almost exactly like him ( here played - for a change - by the Mauch Twins ) . As a lark they change clothes so each can see how the other half live . Tom is soon over his head , causing his cousin Jane to question his sanity , and revealing enough to Hertford to realize that the false-King is his own key to power . Edward is unfortunately forced to endure the poverty of Tom's social class , but also the brutality of Tom's father John Canty ( Barton McLaine ) who is a professional thief . But Edward is soon helped by a young squire , Miles Herndon ( Errol Flynn ) who is trying to return to his ancestral home to regain his possessions from a greedy brother . The twisty plot did show much of the underside of English Tudor living that many of the other early Tudor history films barely touched on ( except to show the intrigues at court ) . It also had plenty of humor - look at the business about the usefulness of " the Great Seal of England " , which is typical Twain humor . I feel this version of the story is quite good - possibly the best of the different versions of the novel that have reached the screen .
A Funny Movie It's Star Never Liked	GOOD NEIGHBOR SAM was one of three films from the middle 1960s that Jack Lemmon detested . After making THE DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES and THE APARTMENT Lemmon felt he was finally being recognized as a fine dramatic actor , and suddenly he was in this film , UNDER THE YUM YUM TREE , and HOW TO MURDER YOUR WIFE . He felt that these were minor films , and always disliked making them . In the case of UNDER THE YUM YUM TREE , one can sympathize with Lemmon's feelings . He never played a more detestable character in any of his films than in YUM YUM TREE where he was a total letch . But he was in top comic form , supported by good casts and good scripts in SAM and WIFE . They were not great movies , but both were entertaining . The plot of GOOD NEIGHBOR SAM is an old one : a family friend is in a tight spot and needs to borrow the spouse of his / her closest friend to get out of it . Another example of this is GUEST WIFE , where Don Ameche borrows Dick Foran's wife ( Claudette Colbert ) . There the complication is that Ameche's boss ( Charles Dingle ) believes Ameche's wife is an amazing , supporting woman in her " husband's " remarkable career as a correspondent in Asia . Here Romy Schneider borrows Dorothy Provine's husband ( Lemmon ) to pretend that she is happily together with her husband to claim a $15 , 000 , 000 . 00 estate . But her husband ( Mike Connors ) shows up , and to save the situation pretends he is Provine's husband . This leads to complications of mutual jealousies between Connors and Lemmon , as well as problems concerning a multi-million dollar ad campaign Lemmon is handling on behalf of dairy farm millionaire ( and total prude ) Edward G . Robinson . The film has many nice spots in it , especially for Robert Q . Lewis , as a friend and fellow employee of Lemmon who is nearly driven nuts by watching the odd goings on between Lemmon - Provine - Schneider - Connors . Also the ultimate private detective , Louis Nye , who has some great ( and for 1964 really advanced ) devices for his business . My favorite bits are now a trifle dated - the running gag about the old Hertz Rent-A-Car ads ( " Let Hertz Put You In The Driver Seat " ) . A wonderful chase , involving painting and billboards , raps the film up very nicely . Lemmon was wrong - not in the same category as SAVE THE TIGER , GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS , or THE APARTMENT , but a worthy , entertaining film .
" If one hundred monkeys typed on one hundred typewriters for forty years . . . "	Basically this nice little comedy by Howard Hawks is based on the urban legend that I used in the summary line : If you put a certain number of monkeys in front of type writers , for a long period of time , eventually you are going to get the complete works of Shakespeare , the King James Bible , War and Peace , Little Women , etc . This urban legend is based on probabilities , but whether it is true or not is something nobody is really prepared to attempt ( it would be too difficult to monitor and too expensive and too long ) . Here the whole idea is that an overly observant chimpanzee in a laboratory might be able to mix the elixir that regains lost youth or zest . Howard Hawks had directed several comedies with Cary Grant , and Grant's Dr . Barnaby Fulton seems like a cousin of Dr . David Huxley , the hapless paleontologist in Hawks ' 1938 comedy " Bringing Up Baby " . Huxley is a child in handling the madcap heiress Susan who is pursuing him no matter what . Fulton is not as helpless as that , but he does have some similarities . He wears eyeglasses ( like Huxley ) , and he can seem somewhat absent minded like Huxley . Fulton has attracted the attention of Miss Laurel ( Marilyn Monroe ) , the secretary of Mr . Oxley ( Charles Coburn ) . When Fulton goes to see Oxley for a brief conference , Ms Laurel tries to lure his attention by showing him her lovely leg - supposedly demonstrating her new nylons using a process he's invented . Fulton looks at her leg closely , but clinically regarding the success of the unbreakable nylon process . Ginger Rogers too showed some fragments of her past screen career as Edwina Fulton . She constantly wants to go dancing , and when she drinks the rejuvenating formula she starts doing some nice dance steps ( reminding us of her days with Astaire , but even of her work in the Busby Berkeley musicals of the 1930s ) . At one point when she has taken too much of the formula she is suddenly 10-12 years old , and we see a repeat of her " Sue-Sue " Applegate in " The Major And The Minor " . Grant works for a corporation headed by Coburn and Larry Keating . They have been prospering from Grant's chemical inventions and patents , but Coburn is particularly interested in this rejuvenation formula . It is supposed to make a man feel decades younger and vigorous again . As Coburn has the beautiful Monroe as a secretary with indifferent skills ( he hands her a paper to have someone else type , and when she protests to get another chance to type it instead , he gently explains it is too important - " Anyone can type ! " , he says to Grant ) it is obvious that if the formula works he will be using it to pursue Monroe . Coburn is so desperate he wants to convert the entire factory to just produce the rejuvenation formula if it succeeds . Grant is not too happy - he's been working for two years on the formula and there has been no success yet . He leaves the monkey cage open , and a female chimpanzee ( who has been watching Grant mix the formula ) throws the chemicals together and hides it within the water cooler . And every time the formula that Grant makes is tried , the guinea pig ( Grant , Rogers , whoever ) takes a drink of water to help make it palatable . And , of course , it is the unknown concoction of the monkey that actually sets off the rejuvenation . The film follows the good and bad points of rejuvenation . Yes it does make a person more vigorous and able to do things that he hasn't been able to do for years ( Grant does a cartwheel at one point ) . But it makes the user unreasonable to others who are not similarly peppy - Rogers thinks that Grant is a drag , as he doesn't take the concoction when they go out back to the hotel they honeymooned in . She is ready to jitterbug , and he's collapsing . And if too much is taken you become emotionally immature , leading to Grant arranging the scalping of his former rival ( Hugh Marlowe ) by some real kids . The film has some nice little bits in it . An immature Grant is asked for the " secret ingredient " to his formula . How much , Coburn asks him , for the formula ? " I want a zillion dollars ! " , Grant says - which he claims is a trillion million . And when he is trying to arrange the scalping of Marlowe , one of the youths ( George Winslow ) keeps bringing him down to earth by reminding him they need a war dance if they are going to scalp anyone ! Probably not on par with " Bringing Up Baby " or " His Gal Friday " , but it was a good comedy for all that . However , later on , when he's taken the rejuvenating formula , Fulton does recognize Ms Laurel by her legs under a sign - suggesting that the attractiveness of her legs did make an impact on him .
As Bad As Jonathan Swift Suggested ?	This amusing film is based on a premise that we all toy with in our wish fulfillment moments : wouldn't it be wonderful if we lived forever , and retained our best youthful appearance through it all . Call it the " Dorian Gray " wish , from Wilde's novel . It sounds great , but writers have been toying with immortality since the ancients , and usually show it's shortcomings . Jonathan Swift's " strudblugs " in the third book of GULLIVER'S TRAVELS best show the main problem : if you live forever , you will inevitably lose all your faculties , and just wish to die . Wilde , of course took this apart by having Gray wish for immortality and youth at the expense of his soul . But the scriptwriters of this play mention that immortal youth is not enough . How do you guard yourself against unexpected physical injuries ? And is life worthwhile if you are a lonely , bitter , or nasty person ? Meryl Streep and Goldie Hawn are the main protagonists in the plot . They are rival Hollywood glamor stars of the 1960s - 1970s , who both detest each other ( sort of like the two young actresses in 2LDK ) . Both recall roles and boyfriends they lost due to the availability or machinations of the other . Neither notices they are both incredibly selfish bitches , and that most thinking people have as little to do with them as possible . They are aware of the age factor : After a certain number of years a glamor queen is no longer young enough ( in Hollywood terms ) to maintain her title . Each is already losing more and more parts that they both drool over to younger ( presumably more likable ) actresses . Also they both have need for a nip and tuck now and then . Soon they are trying to snare the services of Hollywood's leading plastic surgeon , Bruce Willis . Willis does his best for the ladies , but they are so shallow and insecure that they are ripe for the plucking . Along comes Isabella Rosallini ( in a nice change of pace evil role ) as a female Satan . Separately she offers an immortality potion to both women for their souls . They are not the first to take it ( we later see a sequence of all the lost souls who have taken it , including Elvis and Marilyn - both of whom faked their deaths ) . Soon the two women are aware of the one failure of the potion . Yes they stay young and can live forever , but both of them find that they need the continuous services of Willis in case some injury occurs that may not heal " beautifully " . Willis is going up the wall with these two demanding divas . Finally they suggest to Rosallini that she offer Willis the same immortality potion as a bribe to keep him happy . But Willis is one sensible dude . He recognizes the pitfall of life eternal , at the beck and call of Scylla and Charybdis . So he is determined to escape . The film ends quite satisfactorily with both the women in a permanent jail of their own selfish reasons ( they are forced to live together to try to care for each other , and both hate each other's guts ) . And Willis - he finds that the road to permanent happiness and mass respect has little time for immortality .
The Heather On the Hill	This Vincent Minelli musical is usually considered a flop , which is unfair . Gene Kelly wanted to shoot it on site in Scotland ( where Brigadoon is set ) , but it was vetoed as too expensive . So Minelli had to create a magical , 18th Century Scottish village on a studio set . He also was using cinema scope for the first time , and felt it lacked the compositional unity and beauty of the regular film he had been using . It is apparent it's a set , but the story and music is so superior ( despite the lack of two songs , including my favorite - " My Mother's Wedding Day " ) that one can actually forget the artificiality of the set . Moreover , the actual issue of artificial sets seems ridiculous when considering the story . If the set was actually realistic , the film would have had to be shot in one day , because the set would have vanished for a century at the end of the day ( as the village does in the story ) ! ! Except for one five minute sequence at the end of the film , set in a noisy New York City nightspot , most of the film is set in the Scottish highlands . Tommy ( Gene Kelly ) and Jeff ( Van Johnson ) are vacationing in Scotland , when they stumble into a village that is not on their maps . The village is Brigadoon . It is later explained by the village elder , Mr Lundie ( Barry Johns ) that the village was granted a special wish of it's very religious minister to preserve it forever by having it only reappear once a century , so the people in it would never be hurt . There is , however , another side to the deal : the citizens have to remain ( as well as their livestock ) within the boundaries of the town by sundown , because they go to bed early , and awake one hundred years later the next day . If any decides to leave the town's boundaries , that person will cause the wish and blessing to dissipate , and the town will be destroyed and it's citizens destroyed . BRIGADOON is a very colorful and tuneful show , and a nice blend of humor and tragedy . It also asks what people require for happiness : simplicity or sophisticated modern life . Jeff would opt for the latter ( and he does quite strenuously up to the conclusion of the movie ) , but he is a confirmed alcoholic - some advertisement for modern civilization and it's benefits ! Tommy is more inquisitive and easier - and he finds he is not so happy with modern life . But the search for happiness is not an easy one , and it takes a tragedy and much soul searching for Tommy to reach his conclusion . And there is the music , especially Learner and Lowe's " The Heather On the Hill " ( attractively sung and danced by Kelly and Charisse ) , and " It's Almost Like Being In Love . " A failure by Minelli ? Well it's not MEET ME IN ST . LOUIS , or GIGI , or THE PIRATE but it is far better than many other musicals .
Our Favorite " Native Born " American Emperor	Who was Joshua Norton ? If you are from San Francisco , California , you know the answer to this . He was the Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico , and the first citizen of the Golden Gate City from the 1860s to his death in 1880 . No , I am not crazy when I call him Emperor . Joshua Norton was a wealthy merchant and trader in San Francisco , who made a fortune in the Gold Rush . But in 1855 he came a cropper . He had a scheme to corner the rice market ( a big idea , given the size of San Francisco's Chinatown ) . He had some partners in this deal - something he had not tried before . It was a mistake - they double crossed him into thinking he had the market cornered , only to find that they had other supplies of rice coming in that they used to undercut his prices . Norton was ruined . He had a nervous breakdown as a result . But he was of unique temperament . Beginning in 1860 , Norton started putting announcements into newspapers that he had accepted the offer of the former U . S . Congress to take over the government of the U . S . and of Mexico as Emperor and Protector . It was obviously an extremely eccentric thing to claim , probably an act that would get Norton declared certifiable today . The thing with Norton was that behind every one of his eccentric comments , a shrewd and capable brain was operating . For example : Yes , he willingly accepted the title of Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico from Congress in 1860 . But he also announce that ( as he was in the official Western U . S . capital of San Francisco ) the nation should continue following the commands of his official surrogate in Washington , D . C . , President Abraham Lincoln . Californians were amused , but most of them were also in agreement . There had been a heavy attempt by Senator William Gwin and others to lead California to secede from the Union , and support the Confderacy . Norton opposed this - and helped keep most of the state amused and loyal to Lincoln ! That was how it went . Norton would do some crazy thing in San Francisco , but when people stopped chuckling , they realized Joshua was right about fundamentals : support the Union , end slavery , improve city agencies and departments . He was normally on the right side of all the issues . The city never stopped giving him their affection and loyalty . To the day he died he was always called " Your majesty " by the citizenry . His made-up financial notes were accepted like they were American currency . When he died in 1880 he was given the funeral of a city leader and statesman . Sam Jaffe played Norton in this episode , visiting his Nevada subjects and his old friend Ben Cartwright . The episode dealt with two examples of his clear-headedness ( hidden behind his eccentricity ) . He is involved in the aftermath of a mine explosion that has caused deaths and injuries . The mine owner ( Parley Baer ) dislikes this kook , who keeps demanding to know ( after he and Ben look over the mine ) , " Where were the canaries ? " Only at the conclusion does it turn out that in Latin American mines ( as merchant prince Norton would have known ) , canaries in cages are used to tip off miners of escaping gases that will cause explosions . The other thing is the construction of a bridge that is needed over an impassable gorge , which Norton pushes to be a suspension bridge ( something not too well known in ) . The episode was a joy , in reminding us that eccentricity is not a block to intelligence , and for bringing back a colorful American figure to our attention .
Were those two babies drinking Mai-tais ?	This film ( which I saw on Saturday ) has been trashed by the critics - including several on this thread . Why it has been is beyond me . The purpose of the film was to entertain the public during the summer , and it succeeds at that . But for some unknown reason it doesn't have the weight and gravity a lot of people expect from films these days . As this is summertime I can only wonder why we need more " solid " pictures . The news from the Mideast and the effects of global warming are serious enough to suit me . Robin Williams is Rev . Frank , a basically liberal and understanding minister who does try to keep his flock towing the ethics line given in the Bible . Among that flock is the Jones family , who have been ardent fans of his work ( and for his parish - one of them helped in the building of the church ) for three generations . The oldest daughter , Sadie ( Mandy Moore ) , has just gotten a proposal from her live-in lover Ben ( John Kasinski ) before the entire family at her parents ' ( Peter Strauss , Roxanne Hart ) thirtieth wedding anniversary party . She accepts , but they also have to see Rev . Frank . It seems Sadie wants to get married at the Reverend's church . The Reverend is willing to perform the wedding , but he insists that they have to go through a " course " in marriage and it's responsibilities and duties before he'll perform it . As the wedding is set for three weeks this means cramming a three month or more course into that small period of time . And the course is not as easy as Ben would hope . Rev . Frank believes in the sacredness and sanctity of marriage , which means the couple have got to be aware of just what they are about to entangle themselves and each other into . So first off - no sex until after the wedding from now on . The idea is to concentrate of the emotional / intellectual bonds of the couple , not their desire to play together . Secondly , they have to explore what each really fully thinks ( and accepts ) about the other . They both have failings ( Sadie has a high opinion of her organizational abilities , and Ben tends to let things slide a bit ) . They both have to see what child care will be like ( possibly the most interesting part of the film - Ben and Sadie are handed a pair of mechanical twin babies to care for . . . with less than successful results ) . Ben's opinion about Sadie's family and friends has to be revealed ( as their real feelings about him ) . The course takes a toll on both participants , to the point that Ben is frustrated , angry , and looking for a way out . It turns out that there was a bugging device installed by Rev . Frank and his juvenile assistant ( Josh Flitter in a nice performance as a minister-in-training ; One hopes that he appears in more films , and does another turn with Williams whom he works well with - they play off each other easily ) in Ben and Sadie's apartment . Ben tells his friend / best man Joel ( DeRay Davis ) about this , and Joel recommends finding out what they can on Rev . Frank for leverage purposes against him . And they do find out something - but will it be too much or not sufficient ? Williams does his shtick here - when he injures Kasinski's nose he starts trying to " cure it with prayer " first as a southern revivalist and then as a Catholic exorcism expert . But the film is meatier than it's critics are willing to admit . Because of the unseemly rough invasion of privacy by the Reverend into Ben and Sadie's lives many people over-sympathize with their plight . Nobody wants that sort of intrusion into their lives . But his goal is not to bust up a perfect couple . Rev . Frank is trying to make sure it is a perfect couple - if it wasn't they would pull apart after a few days of the pressure . As it is , despite their growing anger and weariness with each other's foibles , Ben and Sadie come back each time more determined to make it stick . That happens to be what the Reverend's course is trying to do . Does he succeed ? Do they succeed ? I recommend you see the movie to find out . And note the last sight of the two mechanical babies with their drinks . I'm certain they are sipping Mai-tais .
In Memoriam : H . K . - 1927 to 2008	How does one appreciate one of televisions best comedians who never succeeded in the lead role of a comedy series ? Harvey Korman was always a positive element in any comic ( and some dramatic ) shows and films he appeared in . From his days as " Gazoo " in " The Flintstones " to his first appearance in weekly variety on Danny Kaye's variety show to his glory days as part of the weekly ensemble on Carol Burnett's variety show ( who can forget him as Eunice's husband , or as " Rhett Butler " or in the Charles Dingle part in the spoof of " The Little Foxes " - using the word " chitlins " as a minced oath ) , to his long association with Mel Brooks . . . Korman carved a nice niche for himself , frequently as partner to Tim Conway . And he did prove he could play drama as well . Just recall his performance opposite Buddy Hackett in the television film about Abbott and Costello , " Bud And Lou " . The devils and turmoils that destroyed those comic giants came through with the two unexpected performances . With such a record I felt it necessary to try to recall some unexpected work done by Korman that was just as good as the rest , but overlooked . One work was Korman as " Baron Hinterstoise " on " The Wild West " , a Bismarckian German schemer planning to destroy America's reputation so as to open up the western hemisphere to European colonization . There was also his performance as " Von Zeppel " the fanatical aviation pioneer on " F-Troop " , who gets Corporal Agarn to wear a Prussian military outfit complete with pointed helmet . But I noted the current obituaries brought in the long work with Mel Brooks , in the films " Blazing Saddles " , " High Anxiety " , " History Of The World Part I " , and " Dracula : Dead And Loving It " . Interestingly enough the obituaries failed to note how Korman and fellow Brooks ' alumni Cloris Leachman were stars of this short lived comedy series , " The Nutt House " . Except for " Get Smart " Mel Brooks has not had great success on television ( or any further great success - " Get Smart " being in a class by itself ) . His 1970s series , " When Things Were Rotten " was his first attack on the Robin Hood myth ( later revisited in one of his movie spoofs ) , and despite some decent scripts did not succeed . Yet it lasted longer ( by about four months ) than " The Nutt House " . " The Nutt House " lasted a big month , and ( apparently ) was so poorly received by the public that the last two episodes never were aired . Yet it was better than the public and the critics gave it credit for . " The Nutt House " was a type of spoof on novels or stories or movies like " Hotel " or " Grand Hotel " or " Weekend At The Waldorf " or " Plaza Suite " . Set in a famous hostelry owned by Leachman , with Korman as her hotel manager , each week's episode dealt with some problem facing the hotel that threatened it's existence or had to be overcome . Korman , trying to follow the instructions of his employer ( who was also his would-be girlfriend - something Korman is constantly trying to avoid ) . It actually worked quite nicely , although sometimes it actually left comedy and again showed Korman's handling of drama . In one of the episodes a master jewel thief is at work in the hotel , and the staff from Korman down is aware of this . But Korman is also aware of pressures on himself because he is the manager that are beginning to make him doubt his abilities or his courage . But the conclusion of the episode was not funny but actually heroic . With the jewel thief holding several of the cast at bay with a pistol , Korman stumbles into the scene by chance to talk to a young woman who has been attracting him ( actually a frightened partner of the jewel thief ) . The situation suddenly brings out Korman's total frustration and anger at the jewel thief , whom he rightly calls a phony and coward who pretends to be clever and brilliant but actually is so frightened he needs a gun to force a poor woman to protect him . This flusters the jewel thief enough to make him lose his edge and get captured though he manages to fire his gun before being rushed . Korman starts leaving when he realizes what his indignation almost cause happen . He faints as a result , thus reminding us that it is a comedy show . The episodes had neat tricks in them . In one episode Leachman thinks she has manipulated events so that Korman will end up marrying her . But he gets knocked out before he can answer " I do ! " at the ceremony . Leachman looks at various cast members about whether Korman's body language said the critical words or not . They all just shake their heads " No " . At the end she looks at the camera beseechingly at the audience for their support . The camera shakes it's " head " " No ! " too . Korman and Leachman gave the show all they could as did Brooks , and it should have succeeded . Instead , it is in that select group of shows like " He And She " that were not successful , but ended being fondly remembered by those who caught them - and who now wish they were available on DVD or Video . And it represented another proof of Harvey Korman's best work . . . for which he'll be remembered by his myriads of fans .
I'm Still Awaiting Part II and " Hitler on Ice "	Mel Brooks did not invent the comedy spoof movie , but his best work ( " Blazing Saddles " , " Young Frankenstein " , " Dracula , Dead And Loving It " , and " High Anxiety " ) certainly make the most of it - even if some of it gets rather too dirty ( literally dirty - " caca " dirty ) . " History Of The World " is a funny film , but it is not one of his best films . It looks like it was based on bits and pieces of ideas that could have been built up into separate movies : a film about the stone age , a film about the Roman Empire , a film about the French Revolution . I am sure that Brooks was inventive enough to have created three film spoofs , but for some reason he decided to just concentrate on pasting these mini-spoofs together . It has wonderful moments in it - some are thrown away . The four desperate refugees from the Roman Empire , followed by centurions , pray for a miracle . Suddenly they see an old man - Brooks dressed like Moses ( from an earlier sequence in the film ) . A river is parted like the Red Sea with " Moses " arms in the air . The refugees flee thanking God and Moses . In a moment we see there is a robber in back of " Moses " holding him up ( hence his arms in the air ) , and when the robber leaves the old man starts cursing him . Similar stuff is throughout the film ( typical of Brooks ' inventiveness ) . After fleeing Rome , Brooks has reached Palestine and is the waiter serving the " Last Supper " . Besides having a problem when he keeps saying " JEEZUS " causing John Hurt ( who is Christ ) to ask , " Yes ? " , there is the problem of the painting being done by Da Vinci ( Art Metrano ) , and how Brooks manages to get into the background of the masterpiece - holding his tray like a halo behind Hurt ) . Brooks uses a number of his regulars in the film : Madeline Kahn as the Empress Nympho , Dom DeLuis as the Emperor ( one could call him " piggy " after one particular comment about his eating habits ) , Harvey Korman as the foppish Count du Monet , Sid Caesar as a caveman who is full of awe . He was also lucky to have Gregory Hines , usually a dancer but here a strikingly breezy comic , and Orson Welles doing the narration properly ( note his voice's confusion at the start when describing the first heterosexual marriage , followed by the first homosexual one ) . The disjointed style is a minor problem in enjoying the film . Judging from the final scenes from the sequel , Brooks could have done a Viking movie , a skating film about Nazism , and a space musical about the Jews . Alas , only those scenes were ever shot . A second part might not have been a great film either , but it would have been quite as amusing .
" My Lover's Overhead . . . . "	This film appeared more frequently on Channel 13 in the late 1980s than it does today . I'm glad it has been transferred to DVD , and I hope to find it one day . The film was based on a musical comedy of the same name that was composed by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart but produced in London . It starred the rising musical comedy star of the 1930s and early 1940s Jessie Matthews . Married to Sonny Hale ( who appears in the film as her producer ) the story was about how Matthews takes part in a mild swindle . She is the granddaughter of a turn-of-the-century stage star , a beauty of that day , and Matthews pretends she is the same woman who has retained her youthful looks ( but has grayish hair ) due to a " fountain of youth " concoction . Hence the title , EVERGREEN . The show had many R . & H . tunes in it , but the best one was " Dancing on the Ceiling " which is still a standard . In the movie , Jessie Matthews only pretends to be her mother , but the story is relatively the same . The complications involve her increasing romance with her publicist , her having to keep up the fiction of her reawakening an older romance with the aristocrat who romanced her mother , and her having to handle the blackmail of her actual father . It does eventually work out , even for the blackmailer ( Hartley Powers ) . Given the relative poverty in budgets of British musicals as opposed to Americans ones , this film is on par with the best American musicals of the period . As for Matthews , she went on to other musical film triumphs , including " FIRST A MAN " , a musical about a woman , pretending to be a female impersonator . It was based on a German film , and both were the basis for the Julie Andrews - Robert Preston - James Garner triumph VICTOR / VICTORIA .
Sweet Little Comedy About the Power of Babies	This was a remake of the Ginger Rogers ' comedy BACHELOR MOTHER and follows the same plot with the addition of music and dance numbers . Ironically Rogers could have handled those quite well , but after she stopped making films with Fred Astaire she wanted to do films emphasizing acting , not her musical abilities . It is therefore odd that this remake starred Debbie Reynolds and her then husband Eddie Fisher , both of whom could sing ( and Reynolds - like Rogers - could dance as well ) . Reynolds works in a department store owned by Adolphe Menjou and his son Eddie Fisher . Fisher is quite a playboy , although he does try to concentrate on his family business . Menjou is a rather stiff , tyrannical employer ( although he does not see himself that way ) . Reynolds was hired for the Christmas season and thinks she's been doing really well selling more than anyone else in the women's wear department . But she is fired when it is pointed out to her that most of her sales were returned the following day - which increases the store's expenditures . After being fired , the Manager of her floor wishes her a " Merry Christmas " . She goes out job hunting , but finds a baby on the doorstep of a orphanage , and does a decent thing of bringing the abandoned child into the building . But the head of the orphanage ( Howard McNair ) jumps to the wrong conclusion that Reynolds is the mother abandoning the child because she just lost her job . He goes back to the store and gets Fisher to reconsider the issue ( in light of this erroneous piece of information ) . Fisher rehires and gives Reynolds a raise too . Later that night Reynolds realizes why this happened when McNair deposits the baby with her ( despite her protests ) . She confronts Fisher , and tries to force him to take the baby . He chases her to a dance contest she and date / co-worker Tommy Noonan are attending . Fisher and his butler ( Melville Cooper ) get thrown out for causing a scene , but Fisher returns with the baby to Fisher's home , and gives her an ultimatum : either act like the mother he supposes her to be or lose her job permanently ! Rogers knuckles under . She begins to fall asleep at work , now having to take care of the little one ( with assistance from landlady Una Merkle ) . But Fisher maintains an interest in the baby's welfare . He also slowly finds himself falling for Reynolds ( much to the dismay of Noonan , although he thinks he got a promotion due to Reynolds ' influence ) . Fisher even takes her to a New Years Eve party where he introduces her as a Swedish débutante who does not speak much English . They carry off this quite well ( Debbie even uses words like " Sven " and " Smorgas " as typical Swedish words ) . The inevitable is the discovery of Fisher's interest in Reynold's and the the baby comes to Menjou's attention , and he takes a deep interest in this . Besides the idea that his son might settle down a bit , he likes the idea that he's a grandfather . This is a further complication . The characters are well played , with Reynolds honorable but not heeded by anyone from Fisher and Menjou and McNair on down . Fisher does act fairly well , and carries his songs nicely . He might have had a better career in films with a little practice . Menjou is at his self-righteous , garrulous best , but showing a lovely weakness to be a grandpa . Merkle is a good friend in need , and one who does not break down easily from pressure . Noonan is a would-be Lothario who has feet of clay when he thinks his reputation and job may go smash . Even Cooper has some great pieces of business . He's given a still lit cigar by a furious Menjou , who won't take it back yet , so that Cooper can't put it down or out ( he walks about the mansion holding this cigar not knowing what to do with it ) . The film is a very good comedy , but it has never been given much notice . My guess is that in Reynolds ' career it got sandwiched in between two more impressive films : THE CATERED AFFAIR with Bette Davis and Ernest Borgnine , and TAMMY AND THE DOCTOR ( giving Reynolds one of her best remembered film roles ) . As Fisher concentrated on his singing career ( his next big film was BUTTERFIELD 8 with second wife Elizabeth Taylor ) it did not count for much for him either . Menjou's career was slowing down , although he had a few more years before POLLYANA . So BUNDLE OF JOY was simply a successful example of the Hollywood film machine , ground out rapidly but equally forgotten rapidly too .
Can Paladin be fooled ever ?	In a dry period of his career ( we see Paladin - Richard Boone - talking to Hey Boy - Kam Tong - in the Palace Hotel in San Francisco asking if anything of interest for him occurred , and being told that there has been a major earthquake in China and a steamboat explosion on the Mississippi ) Paladin gets invited to accompany a Mexican official named Miguel Rojas ( Michael Pate ) , his wife Maria ( June Vincent ) and the hotel Doctor Mayhew ( Onslow Stevens ) to the opera . During the performance a man enters their box and stabs Rojas in the stomach , but Rojas shoots the man dead . Mayhew and the Rojas leave the theater , while Paladin prepares to tell the police what happened . Later he learns that there has been a blood feud involving Rojas family and a neighboring one , involving corpse mutilations as well as killings . He also learns from Dr . Mayhew that although the wound seemed trivial the patient has developed complications . Paladin visits Rojas and is asked to accompany his body for burial back in Mexico , for which he will be paid $1 , 000 . 00 . Paladin hopes this won't be necessary . The next week Hey Boy hands Paladin the newspaper , and the main item is about a huge payroll robbery . But the item Paladin concentrates on is the notice of the death of Rojas . He is soon contacted by the widow and goes to the undertakers establishment ( the undertaker is Ned Glass ) and sees the coffin is ready . All Paladin has to do is to get a stagecoach and transport it to Mexico . He hires one , but soon has troubles on the route . First with a know-it-all American border officer who doesn't like Paladin's face , and who insists that dead bodies can't be taken across the boarder ( Paladin comes ready with a legal volume showing they can ) . Second there is an attack on the stagecoach by Mexican bandits . Even after beating back the bandits , Paladin is uncertain about his situation . Is he still being followed , and by whom ? It is a cleverly done little episode , but the trick is too easy to guess , especially after one recalls movies like THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY . Still it is interesting to see Boone's Paladin in his native San Francisco high life , attending the opera and discussing Shakespeare's ROMEO AND JULIET with Rojas .
Bette Finds Stardom in a Slut	I happen to like Leslie Howard , in his better films . Yet , for some reason , his performance in OF HUMAN BONDAGE never has moved me tremendously . I first saw the film on my college campus in 1972 and the reviewer in the college newspaper made the comment that in the 1930s and 1940s Howard played the roles supposedly later picked up by Dirk Bogard as the man who was born to be betrayed . This is not usually the case ( off hand I think of Ashley Wilkes as a man who might be betrayed , if he and Scarlett O'Hara were meant to be an item by Margaret Mitchell - but Ashley loved Melonie , not Scarlett ) . Howard could play any type , and a role like R . J . Mitchell or Professor Henry Higgins is not one who is betrayed . ( One can make the case that Philip Armstrong Scott is betrayed by the two strangers he shows hospitality to in 49TH PARALLEL , but they are Nazis who consider him - a liberal , westerner , Canadian - fair game to double cross in wartime . It isn't the same as emotional betrayal , and Howard does not shrivel up as a result , but faces the Nazis and captures one after beating him up . ) I think what the reviewer meant was that Howard could be soulful - or try to be soulful . Witness his poet - dreamer - wanderer in THE PETRIFIED FORREST . But that character was not betrayed , except by history perhaps ( as he feels his type is as out of date as the gangster played by Humphrey Bogart ) . The character of Philip Carey in Somerset Maugham's OF HUMAN BONDAGE is soulful too . He is sensitive for several reasons . He has an interest in art and tries to become a painter - but unlike the artist Strickland in THE MOON AND SIXPENCE he has no real talent . So he decides to concentrate on medical studies , accentuated by a club foot condition he has . Here he is a man with low self-esteem who is set up to be betrayed . Philip finds that betrayal in the form of Mildred a Cockney waitress ( Bette Davis ) who is mercenary and as selfish as they come . Why Philip falls for her is not really addressed in the film , but he does find the woman fascinating . And she finds him an easy meal ticket . Ironically in being so captivated by this slut , Philip fails to notice two other women who are interested in him ( Kay Johnson and Frances Dee ) , and are more fit to be his mate . He also keeps finding himself forgiving Davis when she has affairs with other men ( Alan Hale and Reginald Denny - the latter a friend of Howard's ) . Although Howard's performance captures the doormat tendency of Philip towards Mildred , he really does not show enough passion ( until late in the movie , when he turns on her ) . That is why I find I never cared for his performance here - it lacks any reality . His later tortured insistence in GONE WITH THE WIND that he loves Olivia De Haviland , not Vivian Leigh , has more consistency with a man in love . But the performance of Davis as Mildred makes the film important . She had a wide variety of parts up to 1934 , like the girlfriend of the deaf pianist in THE MAN WHO PLAYED GOD or the spoiled heiress who gets murdered in FOG OVER FRISCO or the mouse-like secretary in THREE ON A MATCH . As Mildred she finally showed she could be a major actress by playing a selfish bitch . Curiously her performance was not all of one note . While she uses and abuses Howard for two thirds of the film , culminating in that famous scene where she shows how disgusted his kissing of her made her , her last scenes show she too could fall apart due to her health deteriorating , and her inability to keep any honest jobs . When Howard rejects her the viewers fail to note how equally vicious he becomes ( he asks what happened to her baby - she tells him the baby died and Howard says brusquely that he is glad , which is hardly the response she expects ) . In the end Howard does finally get his life in order , but Mildred ends a casualty ( ironically her death discovered by her old boyfriend Denny on a medical call ) . The Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences did fail to nominate Davis in 1934 ( leading to the largest write - in campaign in it's history , and a permanent change in it's rules ) , but Davis was established as a star . In one year she won the Oscar as Joyce Heth in DANGEROUS . And in two years she co-starred with Howard again ( as equal stars ) in THE PETRIFIED FORREST .
Clever Little Thriller - A " What Is Going On " Mystery	This film ( which was remade in 1986 ) is a very clever little crime drama that keeps the viewer unbalanced until the end . James Franciscus is a newlywed who is on vacation - and the situation seems normal , but he and his wife have an argument . The next day she is missing and Franciscus goes to the police ( Jack Klugman ) for assistance . But all of a sudden there is a knock at the door and Elizabeth Ashley enters their cabin and apologizes for being away calming down . Klugman figures that is the end of the problem , and leaves . . . despite Franciscus ' odd complaints : he insists Ashley is not his missing wife . But she insists he's just kidding , and Klugman , shrugging , just leaves . As soon as he does Ashley turns on Franciscus with demands for a huge sum of money for her silence - otherwise she will reveal to the cop that there is something criminal here . Franciscus insists he's the one who has grounds for recalling Klugman , as Ashley is a faker and a blackmailer . And so it goes . . . . the viewers are soon involved in this crazy mystery as we try to find out what Ashley's crazy extortion scheme is , whether Franciscus will be able to prove she's a fake and a criminal , and whether the bored and matter-of-fact Klugman will ever get it into his head that he has not found an open and shut case but a complicated mystery here . Or is Klugman aware of it . . . in fact , what is his game ? Rarely shown on television it is certainly worthwhile catching , with it's three leads keeping the level of suspense up until the unexpected conclusion . Certainly one television mystery that worked .
Gigi and the Rat Packers meet Cole Porter	After his greatest stage success ( KISS ME KATE ) Cole Porter entered the last decade and a half of his life with a track record of hit and miss musicals . It was not that he lost his abilities to compose great songs . It was that not everything he touched turned to gold . The " gold " of this decade was his music for SILK STOCKINGS ( his version of NINOTCHKA ) and his musical CAN-CAN . His misses included OUT OF THIS WORLD , his attempt at a modern retelling of the Amphitryon myth from Greece . OUT OF THIS WORLD has entered the history of Broadway as a potentially great musical that was too advanced for its period . Apparently much of the musical involved homosexual as well as heterosexual sex ( in keeping with ancient Greek culture both forms of love were acceptable ) . Unfortunately they were not acceptable in 1950 New York City ( and one may add in 2008 California and elsewhere ) . Only one number from OUT OF THIS WORLD survived : FROM THIS MOMENT ON . It got grafted into the film version of KISS ME KATE . It is a tradition that none of Porter's scores survived totally intact in Hollywood . Songs were dropped from films or pushed into others . So CAN-CAN has Let's Do It in the film score , although it was not in the musical ( it was over thirty years old by that time ) , and yet I LOVE Paris , Porter's greatest anthem to the foreign city he adored above all others , was dropped from the film . Still there is enough Porter in this film to appreciate his best work . And as was said in another review , Sinatra's singing " But It's All Right With Me " to Juliet Prowse happens to be quite the best moment for old " Blue Eyes " in the film . The film tried to capitalize on the success ( two years before ) of GIGI , by reuniting Maurice Chevalier and Louis Jourdan from that film with Sinatra , and fellow rat-packers Shirley MacLaine and Prowse . Set again in the France of the 1890s , here we are not watching a young girl blossom into womanhood and win the man of her dreams , but we are watching the sleazier theatrical world of the day in the Montmartre District . For MacLaine runs a dance hall / bar that has the town in a tizzy due to the dancing of the " forbidden " can-can by the dance hall girls . MacLaine's partner is her lawyer ( and lover ) Sinatra . When a bunch of reformers cause a raid on the dance hall , they just miss arresting Sinatra , MacLaine , and a corrupt ( or friendly ) jurist played by Chevalier . MacLaine has to appear in court , and the judge there is Jourdan , who is known to be incorruptible . He is , but he falls for MacLaine . It enables Sinatra to beat the legal attack temporarily , but it leaves MacLaine with a lovesick Jourdan to worry about . ( GIGI is not the only recent film that has an influence on CAN-CAN . The Montmartre area is where Toulouse - Lautrec and other painters of that period resided . The color of Huston's MOULIN ROUGE ( 1953 ) and the background of the cabarets Toulouse - Lautrec went to is evident in the film too . However , there even is a little joke ( no pun intended ) . While singing the opening song " Montmartre " , Sinatra is in the street , and passes Toulouse - Lautrec holding one of his canvasses . Toulouse - Lautrec shows it to Sinatra , who looks at it , and says , " It'll never sell ! " ) The film follows MacLaine trying to get a commitment from Sinatra that will make their sexual relationship permanent , but he is too independent . So she is slowly finding the interest of Jourdan a kind of refreshing alternative ( although she does suspect it just cannot work ) . Chevalier is pleased to see this troublesomely honest protégé of his somewhat corrupted so that he won't interfere with the business at the dance hall , but he realizes that Jourdan is serious enough to consider marrying MacLaine , and ruining his career . Their duet ( " Your Business is Your Business , and My Business is Mine . " ) is not one of the best recalled Porter tunes , but it is a bouncy enough one , and it certainly illustrates Chevalier's realization that what was previously a useful slip by Jourdan is now totally out of hand . The conclusion of the film is set in the dance hall , where the puritan critics are given a demonstration of the sinful dance , and discover it has a charm and excitement they had not expected . The dance sequence at the end was the only time that MacLaine ( a pretty affective dancer before she became an actress ) shared film dance time with Prowse . Juliet Prowse was a mediocre actress at best ( see my review of MONA MCCLUSKY , her attempt at a sit com ) , but she was a first rate dancer , and the production number of her and MacLaine leading the Can-Can is quite memorable . The number is a fine way to end the film , and also for it to enter diplomatic history . As pointed out elsewhere on this thread , Khrustchev was touring Hollywood when they were shooting Can-Can , and watched the dance number being shot . He did condemn the film as proof of the decadence of the west . However , that did not prevent him from having his photo taken with Sinatra and MacLaine . I guess there is decadence and there is decadence .
A Curiously Acceptable Anti - Soviet Short Subject	I caught this short film on the Turner Classic network on Wednesday , September 20 , 2006 from 7 : 30 - 8 : 00 P . M . Coming out in 1952 , I was figuring out that it would be far from positive about the Soviet Union or it's policies . This turned out to be quite true , but it's attack is a fair one . The opportunism of the Soviet Union in the 1920s and 1930s and 1940s into the 1950s is an open historical record . Each switch of policy ( mirrored in the Communist Parties of the United States and Europe and Asia as well ) is called a " round " ( like in a boxing match . Round four is pro-Western , as Stalin tries ( supposedly ) to link up with the United States , England , and France against Nazi aggression . Round five is the Soviet about face in their aligning with the Nazis in the Non-Aggression Pact of 1939 . Round six is when Russia is attacked by Germany and reaches out to Britain and America again . Round seven is when the Second World War ends , and Russia becomes a threat to Western democracy . It turned out that of the first 48 vetoes of the Security Council of the U . N . from 1945 to 1953 , 47 were from the Soviet Union . No doubt someone can make a case that British and French ( and to a lesser extent , American ) diplomatic blundering made Stalin and Molotov swallow their bile and sign that infamous 1939 non-aggression pact with Hitler and Von Ribbentrop . But the argument about safety and buying time to rearm , while plausible to an extent , does not explain the Soviet Union's willingness to grab the eastern portion of neighboring Poland while Germany grabbed the Western portion , nor using this to eventually attack the Baltic states of Latvia , Lithuania , and Esthonia , and Finland . What is curious about this is the even-handedness of the attack on enemies of democracy . The narration warns about believing " snake oil " salesmen of totalitarian ideas , of all stripes ( Fascist , Nazi , Communist ) . But this even goes against people spreading hate towards people who are " suspect " ( intellectuals , or foreign born types ) . This was made in 1952 , the height of the McCarthy period - and yet it makes a case that might almost be aimed at the Senator himself . It never hints at the Senator , mind you , but it is an odd point of view in an age of the Hollywood blacklist . Interestingly enough two of the narrators were Robert Taylor and George Murphy , both conservative types : Murphy eventually becoming a Republican U . S . Senator in the 1960s , and Taylor a " friendly witness " against Communist influences in the movie industry ( Taylor had been in a controversial film , THE NORTH STAR , which painted Soviet Union life too positively ) . But neither says anything that one can actually find really far right in political position . With narratives also by Walter Pigeon ( interestingly he deals with American foreign policy - under General George Marshall ( sort of anathema to McCarthyites in 1952 ) - and quite favorably ) , Barry Sullivan , Dore Schare , Howard Keel , and James Whitmore . I suspect that Schare may have been behind the project , but I really don't know . It was actually quite well worth watching
Made Without Calf's Foot Jelly	The recent death of John Raitt ( " Who that ? " ) reminds film watchers of how many terrific performances from Broadway or London's West End were permanently lost because of " brilliant " Hollywood casting decisions . Raitt , one of Broadway's best dramatic singers , was the original Billy Bigalow in " Carousel " , but lost the role in Hollywood to Frank Sinatra . Ironically Sinatra quit the film version , and instead of returning to Raitt the producer chose Gordon McCrae . The reason was that McCrae had made several Hollywood musicals , so he had box office recognition . That he did not hold a candle to Raitt in the role was secondary . Raitt remembered this , and when he made the hit musical " The Pajama Game " he had his agent purchase the rights to portray his role on the screen . So his performance is in " The Pajama Game " opposite Doris Day . At least one of his performances were saved ( and his performance as Bigalow is saved in television videos of various songs he did on shows like " Ed Sullivan " - so some of Bigalow is saved too ] . Before television gave an opportunity to save parts of performances , Hollywood gleefully recast great performances , frequently hurting the final work . Zero Mostel ( admittedly a difficult person to direct ) was not cast as Tevye in " Fiddler on the Roof " by Norman Jewison ( Topol was ) . Fortunately he did do Pseudolus in Richard Lester's " A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum " and he did " Rhinoceros " . " The Man Who Came to Dinner " is a happy example of the right person playing the movie part . Kaufman and Hart based Sheridan Whiteside on Alexander Woolcott , their friend from the Algonquin Roundtable ( with Heywood Broun , Dorothy Thompson , Robert Benchley , Edna Ferber , F . P . Adams , Marc Connally , and Harpo Marx ) . Their comedy is based on a fool-proof situation : a well known celebrity gets injured when invited to dinner by a fan . He is less lovable when one gets to know him . Besides not being patient with fools he is very tart tongued and he meddles when he thinks he is doing the right thing ( or when his selfish interest intrudes ) . The play runs on the complications of Whitesides antics and the various caricatures in the play ( Noel Coward and Harpo Marx , among others ) . It is , when the central role is played properly , excellent comedy . Wooley played the role originally ( and bitingly ) . It was played equally well by Nathan Lane in a superb revival ( fortunately it is on video ) . However the great Orson Welles badly let down the center of the play in 1972 on television . Wooley , the head of the drama department at Yale , and the friend of Cole Porter ( who composed the " Noel Coward " song that is sung in the play by the caricature Beverley Carleton ) , had been acting in films since the middle 1930s . But it was not until he got this plum part that he was recognized as the original talent he was . For the rest of his life Wooley was a star of stage and ( after this film ) screen . The main problem in the film is the references to events of the 1940s . For example references to William Beebe and Admiral Richard Byrd . To update the references is not helpful ( it was tried in the 1972 Welles version , and the jokes fell flat ) . In the Nathan Lane version the commercial interludes included newspaper headlines , reminding us of who Beebe and Byrd and the others were . The reference to calf's foot jelly is one of Wooley's put downs of the hapless Mrs . Stanley ( Billy Burke ) . She made some calf's foot jelly for Whiteside . " Made from your own foot , no doubt . " , Whiteside replies . This is not the only time that Alex Woolcott was the basis for a fictional character . In the novel that is the basis of " Laura " Waldo Lydecker is based on Woolcott ( who was interested in murder , but not murderous ) .
The odd mysteries of Wisteria Lodge	You will probably be able to answer these questions rather quickly . In the Conan Doyle " Holmes Canon " , what is the only story : a ) that is dated in the period when Holmes was supposedly dead in the Reichenbach Falls ? b ) that has a police detective who is actually Holmes equal ( for a change ) in figuring out what is going on without Holmes saving his investigation ? c ) that is actually written in two parts ( for magazine publication purposes apparently ) ? d ) that has a villain based on fact as well as some details suggestive of fact ? Answer : THE ADVENTURE OF WISTERIA LODGE , which is in the collection HIS LAST BOW ( 1917 ) . The story was written in 1908 or so . SPOILER COMING UP : It's not a bad story . Holmes and Watson are visited by a young man named Scott Eccles who needs their assistance . He was invited to the home of a reclusive neighbor named Garcia ( which is an isolated estate called Wisteria Lodge ) , and sees a hideous faced man at the window looking in . His host is pleasant , but seemingly preoccupied . ( in fact Mr . Eccles did not understand why he got the invite ) . But he is put up for the night . The next day he finds the house totally deserted except for the corpse of Garcia , who has been murdered . Holmes and Watson get into the case , but for a change they don't find Lestrade or Gregson involved . It is being handled by an Inspector Baynes , who actually is asking intelligent questions and making some astute observations ( until the last Holmes story , THE ADVENTURE OF THE RETIRED COLOURMAN no other similarly intelligent detective shows up in any Holmes ' tale ) . Gradually Holmes and Baynes go about their separate investigations , until they find themselves reaching the same conclusion . Scott Eccles is innocent . The villain is not the man at the window but a mysterious and secretive neighbor Henderson . He is Don Murillo , the " Tiger of San Pedro " . This man is a blood-stained Latin-American tyrant , who just managed to flee his country before he could be assassinated or executed . However , the families of his victims have been tracking him , found him hiding out in the middle of England's countryside , and tried to kill him . . . but the person who planned the trap , a young woman in the household , excited the suspicions of the secretary of Murillo , and they planned their counter trap and escape . Subsequently Holmes and Watson learn of the murders of Murillo and his secretary in a hotel in Madrid . The series ended the deaths of the two villains somewhat differently . To me the best part of the episode was Freddie Jones playing the wonderful Police Detective Inspector Baynes . This character , in the story , is following the methodical plodding associated with Lestrade , but he actually is smart . Why Conan Doyle never saw fit to make a story about Baynes alone is hard to fathom . The use of the mirrors is an interesting aspect of the teleplay , as it leads up to a cackling Don Murillo enjoying his sense of power over the woman who betrayed him and the unfortunate man sent to kill him . As he's laughing the mirror he is looking at is shown to be warped . However the actual story has one glaring error , which is that Watson sets it in March 1892 . This is the period that Holmes is hiding after killing Professor Moriarty at the Reichebach Falls . Holmes can't be solving crimes at that time . Actually , a bit of research I did over twenty years ago explains it all . Conan Doyle picked up bits and pieces from current sensational items in the news for his story . The original ends in a Madrid Hotel where Don Murillo and his secretary are killed . In 1889 ( in a Madrid Hotel ) the forger and perjurer Richard Pigott committed suicide when about to be returned to England for trial . And in a French hotel in 1891 the head of the Russian Secret Police was assassinated in a French Hotel by a political enemy . Doyle liked to blend events like that in his stories . The fall from power of Dom Pedro II of Brazil in 1889 may also be part of it . But so also is the ironic coda of the career of Don Juan Rosas of Argentina , who ruled that country in the 1840s until he fled in 1852 . Rosas had once been thought of as a reformer ( he impressed a youthful Charles Darwin , who writes of him in THE VOYAGE OF THE " BEAGLE " , but adds a postscript admitting he was subsequently disillusioned ) . Rosas ended up living on a small estate in England until he died peacefully in the 1870s .
Hidden by a glitzier classic film	Turner Classic Film network was showing several " before the Hays Code " films from the 1930s last night , and I was able to watch this 1931 version of the Robert Sherwood play WATERLOO BRIDGE . Actually this version is closer to the original , written with the background of World War I in mind , than the classic 1940 Robert Taylor - Vivian Leigh version . But the latter has gotten exactly that status - it is a " classic " film , because Leigh was the star of the horizon at that moment in 1940 . She just won the Oscar for Scarlett O'Hara in GONE WITH THE WIND , and this gave the studio the impetus to pull out the stops . Top notch cast and director , as well as better film productions assets . Ironically , looking at the cast for the 1931 film , it suffers . Yes it is by James Whale . . . but his best recalled films are FRANKENSTEIN , THE INVISIBLE MAN , and BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN - hardly love stories . He did do the 1936 SHOWBOAT , but that seems an accident to his career . Such is the damage a good reputation can sometimes do to fully appreciate everything that the person did to earn his or her reputation . The stars of this are Douglas Montgomery ( here named Kent Douglas ) and Mae Clarke . Mae is immortal for one moment on film . In the middle of an argument over breakfast with her bored boyfriend Jimmy Cagney ( in PUBLIC ENEMY ) he pushes a grapefruit into her face ! She was a fine actress , but hardly of star quality . As for Montgomery , he was an above capable performer too , but his smooth , blond , bland features did not go very far . I suppose his best known part was in Katherine Hepburn's LITTLE WOMEN as " Laurie " the boy in the house next door who falls for Jo . I feel his best performance is in the 1935 MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD . He also played Stephen Foster ( whom he resembled a little ) in the forgotten early biography MELODY LANE . Two other performers in the cast are worth noting . One is old Frederick Kerr , here playing Montgomery's step-father , a doctor and major in the British Army , who spends most of the film in the countryside , enjoying his fine old port and going through one of those " What . . . what " characters , which were supposed to represent the kindly old , eccentric British upper classes . He played a similar role ( albeit as a German ) as Baron Frankenstein ( Colin Clive's father ) in FRANKENSTEIN , so I take it Whale liked his screen personae . The other , ironically , is Bette Davis . She is Montgomery's sister , and ( aside from shouting into her deaf step-father's ear to repeat what he claims he did not hear ) she has little to do . It was her third film . Davis later said ( in her partial autobiography MOTHER GODDAMN ) that she would have loved to play Myra . She did - more memorably - as Mildred , the waitress turned prostitute in OF HUMAN BONDAGE . Actually Clarke is very appealing as Myra . At the start of the film she is shown on the closing night of a West End Musical ( she was in the chorus ) , and Whale is clever enough to show her yawning at one point ( it does add to the realism of that moment ) . In the remake , Leigh was a promising ballerina whose romance with young Taylor causes her teacher ( Maria Ouspenskaya ) to throw her out of the troupe . The idea of chorus girls apparently was not classy enough for Leigh's screen personae in 1940 . Myra can't find another show to get into ( it's wartime , and there have been cut-backs in productions ) . Ironically , she tells her friend Kitty ( Doris Lloyd ) she could have been in the chorus of CHIN CHIN CHOW but chose the other show . It's like having the chance to do HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS , but opting for MR . PRESIDENT . CHIN CHIN CHOW set a West End record in the late teens and early 1920s . Because she can't get back into a show Myra - facing financial necessity - turns to prostitution . She is at Waterloo Bridge when she meets Montgomery during a zeppelin air raid ( Waterloo Bridge is a favorite spot to pick up " Johns " ) . The two of them end up going to her apartment by taxicab ( shades of Eliza Doolittle there ) . And they fall into love over a dinner of fish and chips . But Myra can't bring herself to confess what she does for a living - Montgomery is a naive American whose mother married an English country doctor . He does not have any idea about whores . Myra is somewhat older , and she too is American ( her parents were two alcoholics in East St . Louis , which is also the area Barbara Stanwyck comes from in the next film BABY FACE ) . She's more aware of the uglier side of life . Myra's moment of realization that she can't marry Montgomery is when she visits his mother , step-father , and sister in the country . His mother ( Enid Bennett ) gently explains that she would not be fit for Montgomery . Bennett does not push Clarke away ( and she does apparently sympathize with her ) , but she brings Clarke back to that reality that she tried to avoid . Clarke flees back to London , but Montgomery follows . Myra can't bring telling him . Instead it is her landlady ( Ethel Griffes ) in a moment of self-interest who reveals the truth - and gets Montgomery's best moment of reaction in the film in her face as a result . There is an element of melancholy in this that Whale succeeded in maintaining to the end and then some . I won't ruin the end of the film , but suffice it to say the love is as doomed as a flowering plant that is transplanted to a desert . It is a worthy film - not up to the later film's production and star quality - but well worth seeing .
A Doctor Recovers His Nerve	A lot of first rate performers showed up on BONANZA in it's long television reign . One of the best was Michael Rennie , in this particular episode . He plays a man on a wagon train that Hoss ( Dan Blocker ) is attached to . Rennie's character goes by the name " Professor Poppy " , and is very nice but somewhat reticent about his background . He and Hoss become friendly , when another man joins the wagon train named Thomas Crippen ( Ashley Cowan ) . Like " Poppy " he is an Englishman , but of a lower class than Rennie . Crippen recognizes " Poppy " as a Dr . Mundy , who years before botched an operation causing the death of Crippen's wife ( highly ironic name and situation here , as historically Dr . Hawley Crippen murdered his wife in 1910 ) . Thomas Crippen proceeds to hound " Poppy " / " Dr . Mundy " for his past mistake . Hoss tries to stick up for his new friend . The crisis comes when the Cockney Crippen decides to even the score , and shoots a man he takes to be Dr . Mundy asleep in Mundy's wagon . Crippen , much to his chagrin , is told whom he has wounded , and is arrested by Sheriff Coffee ( Ray Teal ) , and has to worry if the wounded man can be saved . . . by Dr . Mundy , who has not practiced medicine since the mistake that cost the life of Mrs . Crippen ! The acting was quite good ( most of the time on BONANZA performances were damn good , probably in response to the scripts ) . Rennie is perfect trying to pull together to redeem his earlier abilities as a Doctor and save the wounded man . It remains a pretty vivid episode to me to this day .
The Case of the Curious Shared Plot line Movies	1950 was a great year for films , but for some reason two fine ones came out that had the same plot line ( with variations ) set in two different parts of the world . These were CRISIS and STATE SECRET . CRISIS was set in Latin America , in a country run by a dictator and his cronies , similar to the Perons in Argentina . The dictator ( Jose Ferrer ) has a brain tumor , and when an American brain surgeon ( Cary Grant ) and his wife come to the country on a vacation , the dictator puts pressure on the brain surgeon to perform secret surgery on him . Grant also has pressure on him by the local revolutionaries ( led by Gilbert Roland ) to botch the operation . STATE SECRET was a British film starring Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , Jack Hawkins , Glynnis Johns , and Herbert Lom . Vacationing in a Balkan state that is not totally Communist ( read Yugoslavia ) , Fairbanks is pressured by the head of the Secret Service ( Hawkins ) into operating on the Genreralisimo ( a type of elderly version of Tito ) who is gravely ill . When , after an initial period where the patient is responding well to the operation , the dictator dies , Fairbanks realizes that his life is in danger ( Hawkins can't have the death of the dictator revealed so early - there has to be a replacement ready in the wings ) . Fairbanks ' adventures in fleeing ( aided by Johns and Lom ) are the basis of the plot . I find the sociological background to Latin American politics in CRISIS better than the Balkan background to STATE SECRET , but there are nice touches . Hawkins is a dangerous foe , but he is a man with an astute political brain . Lom ( playing his normal villainous type : a blackmailing scoundrel ) turns in a superb comic performance when he unwittingly stumbles on a secret he'd prefer never knowing at all . Fairbanks Jr . was always underrated as an actor , because too many critics saw him as trying to carry on the tradition of swashbuckling films his father made famous in the silent period . But he was better than that , and shows real , growing concern for Johns and her safety as the film continues . If possible try to see this and CRISIS together , to see which one is better . I bet you will find that an impossible choice . Enjoy them both .
The Comedians Who Saved Universal	It's amazing to me that this film got such rough going-over by so many of the critics on the thread . While BUD AND LOU was not one of the classic films of all time , it was far better than its critics here make it out to be , including the unexpectedly good casting of Buddy Hackett and Harvey Korman as Lou Costello and Bud Abbott . Both comedians rarely got a chance to show their dramatic flair . Momentary flair ups in television or movie roles were the closest , such as an episode of THE NUTT HOUSE that Korman was in ( which I just wrote about ) or an appearance by Hackett on a western ( I think it was THE BIG VALLEY ) years ago . The latter is odd in another way : Costello did a dramatic turn on WAGON TRAIN which was also unexpected , and quite good too . Some comic teams fell together by sheer accident , the most notable being Laurel & Hardy , wherein the glue was Hal Roach . Others are born together or near each other ( the Marx Brothers , the Three Stooges - except for Larry ) . Some marry together ( Burns & Allan ) . Lou Costello and Bud Abbott fell into each other's paths in the course of the old vaudeville and burlesque theater circuits . Both were from New Jersey ( Lou . . . as he never stopped mentioning . . . from Patterson , N . J . ; Bud from Asbury Park ) , and both honed their person-as on stage until they met and found each other was the perfect fit as a partner . Bud was always the street smarter wise guy who knew how to fast talk his associate into the losing position , while Lou was the dumpy , seemingly stupider or the two . Actually if you watch Lou , his so-called stupidity is basically a questioning of what is going on around him : Lou is a comic everyman type . It worked and together they climbed up in show business . Proof of this is an old newsreel of them with one of their friends and fans : Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia of New York City . He's kidding with them , and ends up hitting Lou . LaGuardia was known for ( among other things ) driving burlesque theaters out of New York , but he always enjoyed clowning with Bud and Lou . That just shows how they transcended their background . Patterson , New Jerseyans has never forgotten his boosting their town : Lou has a statue there . But there were forces between them that , while not unique , eventually ruined the teamwork . Fortunately it was not for many years . Costello was the creative force - the " Stan Laurel " , if you will , of the team . At first this does not matter , as Bud was a straight man , but as their films continue Lou emphasized his role in the humor to the point that Abbott is rarely given much to do . In a film like ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET THE KILLER , BORIS KARLOFF , there are large sections of the film where Bud vanishes , and the villain is pursuing Lou . In fact , the film is one of the few where Lou momentarily turns the table on Bud , suggesting to an increasingly receptive crowd of people that Bud is the killer ( Abbott looks really panicky in this moment , though it is actually a ruse by Costello to smoke out the real killer ) . Bud Abbott probably did not appreciate this treatment . The later films shows the strains on their relationship . But to be fair other comic partners had strains . Paul McCullough is believed to have committed suicide due to mistreatment by Bobby Clark . Joe Weber and Lew Fields eventually split their act for several decades , until Hollywood reunited them a few times . This film ( based on a book by their manager Eddie Collins ( Arte Johnson ) ) describes how the team made it as a national phenomenon , particularly after they played their best remembered routine , " Who's On First " on national radio . Actually Korman and Hackett were not abysmal in performing that mental twisting skit . No they are not the real Abbott and Costello , but they don't have to be the real ones . The real ones performed it flawlessly again and again throughout their careers , while Korman and Hackett only had to do it for this one film . Similarly they had only to do the " Captain Jonah and the Whale " story joke only once . They had to do it in the context of the movie . The tragedy of Costello's infant son's tragic drowning is shown , and how it adds to the tensions in the partnership . So is Abbott's epilepsy ( I remember one scene where Korman is in a dressing room and feels a seizure coming and uses a pencil to prevent himself from swallowing his tongue ) . Tax problems caught up with both men ( somewhat unfairly - the IRS apparently targeted them , despite their having worked selling bonds during the war years ) . Universal Studios , growing tired with the bullying behavior of Lou , dumped them when they were in need of help with the IRS ( leading to Johnson's best moment in the film - telling off the owners of the studio that if it wasn't for Bud and Lou there wouldn't be a Universal Studio ) . Abbott's growing alcoholism leads to a fiasco in Las Vegas that ends the partnership . And soon after Costello dies of a heart attack . The film , by the way , shows the end correctly : Lou having a milk shake in his hospital bed ( thanks to Eddie ) and remarking it was the best he ever had , just before dying . It was a well acted film , only missing out on one ironic last point about Lou . He was going to play Mayor LaGuardia in the new musical FIORELLO when he died . Had he done so , his career would have zoomed off again .
The Boulevard of Broken Dreams	This is one of those movies that are somewhat better than they deserve to be - not great but reasonably entertaining . Franchot Tone is a composer of popular music working for impresario Tullio Carminati . Tone is married to Constance Bennett , who was once part of a singing duet that was very successful . He wants Connie to be a house frau , and she is burning to show her stuff again on stage ( only as a single this time ) . Now this situation sounds very familiar - it was a theme on I LOVE LUCY back in the 1950s where Desi Arnaz had his star crazed wife Lucille Ball try to get into his nightclub show repeatedly . But there Ball had no talent ( or rarely showed her talent ) when she auditioned . Here Bennett does have the talent ( as Carminati notes ) . ( Ironically , Ball is in this film , along with Barbara Pepper , as two of the chorus girls . By the way , the film is set in New York City , but the review is using " Raquel " , a singer from the Moulin Rouge - hence the title . ) Fed up with Tone's patronizing ( if loving ) refusal to have her perform , Bennett walks out on him . But she learns her old partner " Raquel " from Paris is coming to headline Carminati's new show . Bennett goes to see her and we see that Bennett is playing a dual role here - " Raquel " is Bennett in her normal blond hair , with a French accent ( rightly compared on another review on this thread to Fifi D'Orsay ) . Raquel and Bennett agree to switch places ( Raquel knows the tunes in the review already as does Bennett ) and the former goes off with a boyfriend ( Ivan Lebedeff ) to Atlantic City , while the latter takes on the role in the show with dyed hair . Of course the complications are that Bennett makes a sexual hit with Carminati and Tone as " Raquel " . In Carminati's case the surface situation is not unusual and might lead somewhere ( except for one secret he , Tone , and Bennett are not aware of - " Raquel " is married to a French man ( George Renevent ) who suddenly shows up to reclaim his wife ) . In Tone's case it is leading to adulterous passions that conflict with his real love for Bennett in her actual role as his wife . As for Bennett she is in conflict as the rival of herself for her husband's ( Tone's ) affection - much to the caustic disgust of Bennett's friend and assistant Helen Westley . The rather silly plot is like several other films . One thinks of the willing substitution of twins in dramas like THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER or THE PRISONER OF ZENDA or in comedies like ON THE RIVIERA , ON THE DOUBLE , and WONDER MAN ( all with Danny Kaye in dual roles ) . The fate of a character in disguise becoming his own rival was used again later in IRMA LA DOUCE by Jack Lemmon . The pretending to be a French performer and changing hair color is in the contemporary EVERY DAY'S A HOLIDAY with Mae West . Oddly enough a change in blond to brunette color would soon lead to a film career extension in a movie . Joan Bennett would have to change her hair to brunette in TRADE WINDS a few years later , discover she looked like Hedy Lamarr that way , and retain the brunette look for the rest of her career . Despite the silly plot , the script is good with much humor that the Breen Office and Hollywood Code would shortly do away with . Tone and Carminati chasing " Raquel " towards the end during the show walk into stagehands carrying scenery ( two out houses labeled " His " and " Hers " is an example ) . Some criticism of the sex comedy must have been noted in production - Lebedeff's scenes are mostly gone , and we see nothing of " Raquel " in Atlantic City with him . The best thing about the film is the Dubin and Warren tunes , particularly " Kisses in the Morning / Coffee in the Evening " and " The Boulevard of Broken Dreams " . The latter is a fifteen minute musical number ( the conclusion of the review ) in which we see how " Raquel's " character in the review scene ended up as a prostitute ) . The former was a duet with the ill-fated Russ Columbo which shows his voice in good form , and notes he was quite good looking and photogenic - he would have had a good film career had he lived . It too ends on a sexual joke that manages to get by censorship , showing what too much kissing in the evening can lead to . I also note a nice running gag in the film wherein Carminati is trying to catch up with Bennett as her real self or as the French " Raquel " , and ends up being confronted by perennially drunk and belligerent Hobart Cavanagh , until the conclusion when the normally good mannered Carminati has enough and decks Hobart . It almost makes the film entertaining by itself .
A Rousing Piece of Pseudo-History	As a follow up to CAPTAIN BLOOD , Errol Flynn's adventure spectacle THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE is an exciting , well made film . It has a good cast , including Olivia De Haviland as Flynn's ( Major Geoffrey Vickers ) love interest ( Elsa Campbell ) , and supported by Henry Stevenson ( Sir Charles Macefield ) , Nigel Bruce ( Sir Benjamin Warrenton ) , David Niven ( Captain James Randall ) , Patric Knowles ( Captain Perry Vickers ) , Donald Crisp ( Colonel Campbell ) , C . Henry Gordon ( Surat Khan ) , and Robert Barrett ( Count Igor Volonoff ) , and it was directed by Michael Curtiz ( THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON , CASABLANCA ) . It is exciting , even if stiff at times ( the addition of lines of Tennyson's poem towards the conclusion now seems rather silly , though in 1936 probably were more effective ) . But it ain't history - or rather it is " mushed-up " history . What happened here is that elements of the rivalry between Russia and England in India and central Asia , as well as one incident ( a notorious one ) from the later Sepoy Revolt , are combined here - and the clash of military personalities in the charge are sacrificed to the story . Flynn and the other British officers are located in India in 1853 , and find that Gordon has turned enemy because the British Government stopped paying him a bribe . Gordon is based on Nana Sahib , a leading Sepoy rebel , who had nothing really to do with the Crimean War . But in the film , now getting bribes from Russia ( represented by Barratt ) , Nana Sahib leads an attack on a fort at Chikuti which ends with a general massacre of English men , women , and children when they were evacuating under a flag of truce . This is based on the massacre of the British at Cawnpore in 1857 - an incident that was one of the great atrocities of that period . Nana Sahib never was punished for it ( he fled to the Himilayas to avoid capture , and died about 1870 ) . Jules Verne would later use this atrocity ( and Nana Sahib ) in his 1881 novel THE STEAM HOUSE ( made up of two novels , THE DEMON OF CAWNPORE and TIGERS AND TRAITORS ) . Among the dead are relatives and loved ones of the soldiers in Flynn's brigade of cavalry , including his brother Knowles . He and his fellow soldiers pledge revenge , but Gordon is hiding in Russia . Then comes the Crimean War . Now the Crimean War , one of the stupidest that four major powers ( England , Russia , Turkey , and France ) ever blundered into dealt with who had the rights to be protector of Christian shrines in the Holy Land against " infidel " ( i . e . Mohammedan - Ottoman Empire ) control . Russia claimed this , but was suspected ( probably rightly ) of wanting a pretext to gain control of the Black Sea and the Bosphorus . None of this is in the Flynn film ( why should it be - it's not dealing with India but Palestine and the Dardenelles ) . The conclusion is the charge - here caused when Flynn realizes there is a chance to get Gordon when he learns he is with Barratt and the Russian forces ( one wonders why - he is of no use in the Crimea ! ) . His commander in chief , Stephenson gives him an order for Bruce to take the Light Brigade to a position in a valley at Balaclava . Flynn ( on his own ) rewrites the order . They are now to charge the Russian guns . This is what they do , and in the process most of the Brigades heroes die , but Flynn ( before he dies ) gets Gordon ( who while dying is speared by the other surviving Light Brigade members ) . Barratt also is killed . At the end Stephenson reads a last note from Flynn explaining what he did and why . He keeps quiet about it , and lets the world condemn him for the " magnificent blunder " . Only his friend , E . E . Clive , realizes what Stephenson is doing . Would that it was so simple , but the incompetence shown by the British high command was responsible for the disaster , not a hot blooded young fool's desire to right a tragic wrong . But the film is so well done - in a period when America simply honored the British Empire when not being self-congratulatory to itself in it's history films - that it remains quite entertaining . Flynn plays the brave heart who disobeys orders for honor and righteous vengeance quite well . Gordon plays the Indian as the " foreign devil " quite well . Aside from the film's mock grandeur and mock history , it is significant as the first film that Flynn made with his pal David Niven , and for more than that infamous " Bring on the Empty Horses " crack of Michael Curtiz . It was in this film that Flynn had the experience of falling on his behind when an extra riding behind his horse purposely " goosed " Flynn's horse with his lance . Flynn ( considered erroneously a pushover glamor boy by the extras ) beat up the guilty party and won the respect of the other extras from then on .
A Martinet and his Mistakes	Henry Fonda rarely played villains . It is usual to think of him as a decent person trying to maintain decency , even in those films where he was technically a criminal ( YOU ONLY LIVE ONCE , JESSE JAMES , THE RETURN OF FRANK JAMES ) . But I would guess that with this 1948 film he began to be willing to play far less sympathetic types occasionally . For example , in later years he would play gunslingers in WARLOCK and ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST and MY NAME IS NOBODY . He does not seem to have tackled any of those villains prior to his monument to military ambition and pigheadedness , Lt . Col . Owen Thursday . As pointed out in an earlier review , Thursday's great days as a military leader was when he was a brevet General ( a battlefield promotion ) in the Civil War . But in the reduction of ranks following the war , Thursday is now only a Lt . Colonel , and has been sent to the obscurity of the southwest . He is determined to shape up his command there , and to so impress the brass in Washington that they will promote him again to his old rank . He is a stickler for military perfection in all matters - a walking encyclopedia of the rule book . So he is determined that the easy rules enjoyed at his command when it was led by his old friend Captain Collingwood ( George O'Brien ) will be replaced by spit-and-polish rules he feels are needed to reinvigorate the command . This gradually brings him into collisions with his officers , non-commissioned officers , and troops , as well as the local Apache Indians . In particular he is in conflict with Captain Kirby Yorke ( John Wayne ) who has years of experience on this frontier ( and with these Indians ) , and with Lt . O'Rourke ( John Agar ) , who is romancing Lt . Col . Thursday's daughter Philadelphia ( Shirley Temple ) . To add to his rule book mentality , Thursday has an arrogance based on his east coast background . When Yorke has worked hard to bring the Apaches to some understanding with the Federal forces , Thursday blithely ignores the issue of Yorke's word being binding to the Apaches ( after all , Thursday reminds him pointedly , how can any gentleman give his word to a savage ) . One of the causes of Apache complaints is their mistreatment at the hands of the local Indian agency head , Meachum ( Grant Withers ) . Yorke explains that Withers is part of a corrupt ring from Washington , but Meachum demands protection from the army . Thursday willingly agrees to protect Meachum , although ( to give Thursday some credit ) he is fully aware of the corruption and would like nothing better than to hand him over to the Indians if he could . It all adds up to the inevitable disaster , and the cover-up by the government that makes the bungling martinet a national hero . Ford based Thursday on George Custer , whose rank of Brevet Major General shrank to Lt . Col . Seventh Cavalry , who was sent to the Plains States , and stationed at Ft . Abraham Lincoln in what is now North Dakota , and who did eventually die in a massacre that appears to have been set up by his own misconceptions of the Indian forces he faced on June 25 , 1876 at the Little Big Horn River in Montana . Custer had his own problems too ( including an unfortunate massacre of Indian woman and children in 1866 ) , but he actually was far more active in trying to improve life for the Indians most of the time . Custer testified against the Belknap Ring of Indian Agents ( a ring involving the Secretary of War , William Belknap ) in 1876 . He was trying to recover his reputation in the White House and the War Department when he was at Little Big Horn , so it may have affected his judgment in that battle . There are traces of other army figures in Thursday besides Custer - there is also Major General George McClellan , in the disparaging comments regarding Jeb Stuart and General Robert E . Lee ( as well as the mustache and beard Thursday wears - it looks like McClellan's or Custer's ) . This film , the first of Ford's cavalry trilogy , was a pretty good film . While the westerns by Ford from the 1950s seem more interesting , especially THE SEARCHERS , this one is thoughtful and well told about the limits of military starchiness in the real world .
Lehar , Lorenz , and the " Lubitsch Touch "	Ernst Lubitsch directed some of the sweetest and funniest sex comedies of the 1930s and 1940s . He was fortunate enough to do three films with Maurice Chevalier and Jeannette MacDonald . They are all charming , but the last one may be the best . Here he took the best known operetta of Franz Lehar and turned it into a superb musical comedy , with new lyrics to tunes like " Maximes " , " the Merry Widow Waltz " , and " Girls , girls , girls , girls , girls " by Lorenz Hart . At the same time he maintained his marvelous sense of fun - something that may be very much missing from Eric Von Stroheim's earlier , silent film version ( that became a study in Balkan politics ) . THE MERRY WIDOW was composed in 1905 , shortly after a major scandal involving the nation of Montenegro . This land still exists , and ( with Serbia ) retains the now useless joint name of Yugoslavia - the Balkan state that once faced Italy and combined eight countries . Montenegro was a kingdom in 1905 , and it's ruler had a Crown Prince named Danilo , who created major scandal by his doings in Paris . Lehar , a Viennese composer ( and so , one who usually made fun of the Slavic states ) took the story and the name of the Crown Prince , retaining the setting in the embassy in Paris . In Lehar's operetta , the homeland of Pontrevekkio ( note how it sounds like Montenegro ) is on the verge of bankruptcy , unless the richest widow in the country ( Sonia ) marries a citizen of the state . She is being pursued by eligible Frenchmen in Paris , so the Pontrevekkian embassy decides to have Count Danillo , a member of the staff there , romance and marry her . The complications that ensue are amusing . Lehar's music is not as waltz oriented on the whole as Johann Strauss II , except for the famous " Merry Widow " number . Most of the tunes have more of a Parisian flair , and one ( " Vilia " ) has a lovely haunting effect . It remains his most popular operetta , although he was to do " THE COUNT OF LUXEMBURG " and " THE LAND OF SMILES " as well . Montenegro did complain ( like the Japanese complained about Gilbert and Sullivan's THE MIKADO ) . The major change in the book nowadays is the name is usually not Pontrevekkio , but Marshovia . When Von Stroheim did his silent version , he concentrated on the Balkan politics involving the Crown Prince , his " cousin " Prince Danillo , Sonia , her rich , insane husband , and the throne . The cast in that had been quite stunning for a 1925 movie , with John Gilbert as Danillo , Roy D'Arcy as the grinning , sadistic Crown Prince , Mae Marsh as Sonia , and Tully Marshall as the sexually mad Baron who weds Sonia ( and suffers a stroke on their wedding night ) . Full of sexual ideas ( Marshall has such a foot fetish that he dies having his nose in Marsh's pumps ) , the highpoint was the waltz , wherein Gilbert and Marsh realize their love to Lehar's strains ( the music at that point of the silent version was always the Lehar " Merry Widow " Waltz ) . It remains a masterpiece of silent cinema ( and another proof of Von Stroheim's peculiar genius ) , but it is not a light hearted as the operetta it was based on . Lubitsch is different . He has fun showing what little Marshovia is like , with sheep and goats appearing all over the streets and in the public buildings . The King ( George Barbier ) is aware that his wife ( Una Merkle ) is less than satisfied with him , and has a famous " freudian " moment when he returns without warning to get his ceremonial sword , grabs one , and finds he can't get the belt around his girth . He returns to his antechamber , and confronts Lt . Danillo with his wife . King Achmet is upset , but his solution - he'll cover up the scandal but sends Danillo to Paris . There are many good moments : Danillo's trial for treason is one . So is Ambassador Popoff ( Edward Everett Horton ) having his aide ( Herman Bing ) translate a coded message from King Achmet , which basically calls him a blockhead . And , yes , the film chemistry between Maurice and Jeannette is retained , as in their three other movies . But they could not have made more films together . Nolan disliked Chevalier - he had a habit of pinching her . Chevalier thought she was a hypocrite , because ( at the time ) she was having an affair with Gene Raymond ( whom she eventually married ) . When she was teamed with Nelson Eddy , she and Eddy happened to be quite close friends , which is why their total film output together is eight films . I notice that Clark Gable had some kind of cameo appearance here ( it is not in the billing ) . Two years later he and Jeanette would appear together in SAN FRANCISCO .
" When I'm Calling You . . . "	It is rightfully considered kitch now , but it is effective kitch because of its two stars ( two-and-a-half actually - more later ) , and the singing and background . ROSE-MARIE is set in modern times ( unlike MAYTIME and NAUGHTY MARIETTA and BITTERSWEET ) . Of the major successes of MacDonald and Eddy only SWEETHEARTS was set in modern times like this . MacDonald is a leading opera singer who is quite a prima donna type ( she is arguing with leading man Allan Jones over priority in a duet they are singing at one point ) , but she has a secret . Her brother is a criminal in the hands of the police . She tries to help by giving a personal visit to Canada's Premier ( Alan Mowbray ) but before she can ask she is told her brother has escaped his jailers and killed one of them . She immediately flees and heads north to try to find and help him . The film follows MacDonald's adventures into the hinterland , aided and abandoned by a " half-breed " type ( George Regas ) , and even singing for food and money to get to her brother . But she eventually she runs into the Mountie sent to track the brother down : Eddy . As they are in a canoe together the sound track swells and we hear the number from this film that is on par with " Ah Sweet Mystery of Life " and " Maytime " in their cinematic songbook : " Indian Love Call " . Eddy is not a stiff actor . He is plainly enjoying his easy relations with his co-star ( the rumor that he and MacDonald disliked each other is a lie , they became close friends ) , and has a piece of dialog where he admits that he uses one of his songs to romance all his girlfriends ( it only failed to work with one named Maude , but then nothing worked with Maude he admits to a shocked MacDonald ) . In the end it becomes a race between Nelson and Jeanette to reach the fugitive , and the result divides them . . . but will it be a permanent division ? ROSE-MARIE has several odd points in it . A bit player as a stage door johnny type is young David Niven . The Prime Minister played by Mowbray may have been based ( considering Mowbray's appearance ) not so much on William MacKenzie King but his predecessor Richard Bennett , who certainly looked more like Mowbray ( and was more likely to attend operas ) . But the most interesting cast change is the fugitive . It is Jimmy Stewart . Stewart ( in 1936 ) frequently played atypical roles - not like his Jefferson Smiths , George Baileys , or MacCauley Conners . In AFTER THE THIN MAN he would play a character who is far from a really calm type . Here he plays a ne'er-do-well who has committed a murder . Even after MacDonald finds him Stewart's weak character tries to shrug off the mess of trouble he has gotten into . It is possibly the oddest character he ever played in a film .
Kay Kendall and the other Ladies In Waiting . . . For the King	LES GIRLS is the forgotten musical gem of the last great splurge of MGM musicals in the 1950s . It's reception ( judging from the other comments here ) is less than overly enthusiastic , due to the script . LES GIRLS is possibly the most philosophical of the MGM musicals , because it tackles an immortal issue of mankind : " What is truth ? " Gene Kelly had been leading a highly successful nightclub group around Europe for many years called LES GIRLS . But he has ceased doing so , and disbanded the group . We learn that Kay Kendall has published her memoirs . She has married Leslie Phillips , a wealthy British aristocrat . In her memoirs she describes what life on the road with the act was like , and how she saved the life of fellow dancer / singer Taina Eig when the latter tried to commit suicide with gas . Taina has married wealthy Frenchmen Jacques Bergerac , and she is furious at this libel suggesting that she was mentally ill enough to try to kill herself . She brings an action in London against Kendall . This being a George Cukor film , he will have many touches in it that are normal . One , that I note , is the justice in this trial is none other than the old Cukor favorite Henry Daniell . Daniell appeared in Cukor's films from CAMILLE ( as Baron De Warvell ) , through THE PHILADELPHIA STORY ( as Sidney Kidd ) , up to MY FAIR LADY ( as the Prince of Transylvania at the embassy ball - he only appears in one sequence as he died on the set ) . Here he is just determined to have an orderly libel trial in his court . In the end , he is just as amazed and perplexed by what he hears as everyone else . Also to be noted is Patrick Macnee , playing a titled barrister . The act being a song and dance one ( with Kelly , leading the two ladies and Mitzi Gaynor ) the music is from none other than Cole Porter . It was the last complete music score that Porter made for a film . It is not a bad score , but not up to the par of say SILK STOCKINGS or CAN-CAN ( both composed in the early to mid-1950s ) . My favorite song is " We're Ladies in Waiting " sung by the three ladies in 18th Century costumes . The lyrics suggest King Louis has plans for them outside their normal duties . As the film continues , Eig produces as her defense that she was not the woman who tried to kill herself . It was Kendall , and she ( Eig ) rescued her . So now the court and the public have two versions of the story of the " suicide attempt " . The final witness is Kelly , who gives his account of what really happened . I won't explain it ( see the film ) but in revealing what he claims happened he also reveals something of the lies told by him to the two woman and Mitzi Gaynor , as well as some subterfuges he is working out with both Bergerac and Phillips regarding their personal interests in the matter . The results of his testimony settle the trial , and all parties return to their lives . We even see Kelly going home with his wife ( Gaynor ) , who was in the court but never questioned . But now she has questions about the validity of Kelly's testimony ! As they yell at each other in the back of their car , we see a man wearing a sandwich board with the eternal question : " What is truth ? " on it . And the film ends . It was only a handful of years before that Akiro Kurasowa's brilliant RASHOMON tackled the same problem , again in relating a legal issue ( who was responsible for the death of an nobleman , and how did the nobleman die ) . The screenwriters certainly picked up on this perennial problem of truth and it's limits , and a courtroom happens to be the best place to show it . Who can tell if somebody has told the truth completely or partially , and if partially why partially ? In looking over the issue of telling the truth , note that besides Kendall , Eig , and Kelly , the behavior of Phillips and Bergerac get scrutinized . Gaynor is also pulled in ( we have Kelly's version of how and why she behaved - but we never even hear her explanations ) . The tactics of Macnee and his opposing counsel ( and all lawyers , including his Lordship Daniell ) are based on playing out certain tell-tale facts that may hide other tell-tale facts . Who , in the end can judge the truth ? It is one of Kay Kendall's best performances , with GENEVIEVE and THE RELUCTANT DEBUTANTE . She was aware , in 1957 , of physical problems that she revealed to her husband Rex Harrison . Before the end of the year he knew it was leukemia , and that she was doomed . In his autobiography REX he tells how he made her last two years the happiest in her life . One would never think of the sudden end of such a funny , vibrant actress being so close seeing her with Kelly doing a song and dance duet ( and a saucy one at that ) . For that alone , I would recommend seeing the film to think of such a promising talent that was cut so tragically short .
A Good Version of a Classic	This version of David COPPERFIELD is quite a good one , in that it does trim the 800 plus page novel down to reasonable coherence . There are some characters that one misses , but they are understandably cut due to length considerations . While Steerforth and his betrayal of the Peggoty Family is in the film ( including the dual tragedy at it's conclusion ) , the sub-story of Little Em'ly's friend Martha and the business regarding Steerforth's mother , Rosa Dartle , and Mrs . Mowcher were dumped ( Mrs . Mowcher would have been hard to cast ) . Pity , Mrs . Mowcher's famous speech to David about not confusing her physical attributes with her mental ones is missing . Also Steerforth's butler Littimer appears once , but the film does not get into the ironic coda of his imprisonment . While Uriah Heep's villainy against Mr . Wickfield and his clients is shown , his willingness to dig up dirt against other " enemies " is not shown . In particular his treatment of Dr . Strong ( David's second schoolmaster ) , his young wife , and Jack Dalton is not developed ( which is sad as it proves Mr . Dick is not simple minded ) . But those are minor points really . The best jobs in the film are the work of the performers under George Cukor's direction : Edna Mae Oliver as the crusty , wise Aunt Betsy ; Roland Young as the evil , greasy Uriah Heep ( his best villain part ) ; and W . C . Fields as Wilkins McCawber ( Dicken's tribute to his lovable but improvident father ) is superb - the one time his comic personae met the proper dramatic role ; and Lionel Barrymore as Dan Pegotty determined to find his lost , ruined niece . Freddy Bartholemew's performance as young David is wonderful . But I must admit that Frank Lawson is a trifle colorless as the grown up David ( although he has a funny moment at a dinner that Dora ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) tries to prepare ) . It is a weakness but a small weakness in a nearly perfect film .
Ann Does Claude Wrong With Trevor	I think that most people will admit that Claude Rains was one of those character actors who transcended their lack of handsome features ( or likable features ) to be a real movie star - even though most of their roles were types involved in the plot for better or ill . He is in that select group with Basil Rathbone , Charles Laughton , Sidney Greenstreet , Laird Cregar , Vincent Price , George Sanders , Boris Karloff who dominate films they pop up in even though they are not the hero . When they are the hero , when Rathbone is Holmes or Sanders Uncle Harry or Laughton is Sir Wilfred in WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION we are especially happy . Rains too occasionally played nice guys , although with an edge . In the late 1940s he twice appeared as a wronged husband , first in Mitchell Leisin's SONG OF SURRENDER ( 1946 ) and once in David Lean's THE PASSIONATE FRIENDS . SONG OF SURRENDER ( with Wanda Hendrix and MacDonald Carey ) is the weaker of the two films , but has some good touches by Leisin's direction and due to Rains ' acting . THE PASSIONATE FRIENDS has a better , more brittle screenplay , and David Lean's direction complements Rains ' performance . Rains is the husband of Todd , who on a vacation meets Howard . In a sense this film is a kind of inverse version of BRIEF ENCOUNTER ( which also was directed by Lean , and starred Howard ) , but that film concentrated on the sad , inevitably doomed love of the two middle aged people who cannot marry each other . Here we are seeing the triangle from the point of view of the husband - in the earlier film , Celia Johnson's husband was a cypher who only seemed to come alive at the tail end of the film . Rains is not immediately seen , but he is in the center of events from the start . For Rains quickly learns of the affair . British people are supposed to be quiet about their private lives , and they don't like the snooping of others in hearing about their problems . So when he first appears to confront Howard and Todd it is in the flat he and Todd live in . He is polite but quietly outlines what he knows , and Howard at the tail end suggests that possibly he ( Howard should leave ) . Very effectively we hear Rains marvelous speaking voice spitting out ( one can imagine him shaking with anger ) " GET OUT OF HERE ! " The film follows the relations of the trio . Try as she does to avoid Howard , Todd keeps returning to him . Rains ignores the facts as much as possible , but finally when he is to meet Todd at a vacation hotel , he realizes that the behavior of everyone on the staff is proof that she has been seen there with Howard . There is again an explosion , and the marriage seems doomed . I saw THE PASSIONATE FRIENDS only once in the early 1980s , and it amazed me for telling about a sexual triangle simply and with dignity - and for giving the husband ( finally ) equal time to present his case - for the highpoint is a speech near the end when the depth of the real emotions of Rains pours out - when his care for Todd is fully expressed . Rains had many great moments on screen , but in all honesty this was his most human moment . For that alone the film is worth remembering .
The Travails of Julian Marsh	This is a fun film , because of it's cast of first rate character actors , and the various Busby Berkeley choreographed song and dance numbers . My favorite is the " Shuffling Off to Buffalo " number , but the concluding " FORTY SECOND STREET " number was first rate too . There is little additionally to add to a discussion of this film - it is quite popular seventy years after it was made - but there are some small points . First , for a musical it is best recalled because of the performances of Warner Baxter and Ruby Keeler . The latter was a first rate tap dancer ( not the best one though - that was Anne Miller or Eleanor Powell ) , but Ms Keeler ( as everyone knows ) was an awkward actress . However , as her character is a beginner in theater her awkward performance works well here . She seems a naive type who is growing up as the film develops . Baxter was a good actor , but it is ironic that in a career of fine performances ( DADDY LONG LEGS , THE ROAD TO GLORY , THE PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND , SUCH MEN ARE DANGEROUS , KIDNAPPED ) and even an early " Best Actor " Oscar ( as " the Cisco Kid " in IN OLD ARIZONA ) , he is best recalled as Julian Marsh in a musical where he did not sing or dance ( I doubt if he could do either ) . If anyone wants to do an imitation of him all they have to do is his famous speech to Sawyer ( Keeler ) about going out a youngster and coming back a star ( actually , she must come back a star ) . I have tried to figure out what the musical in the film is about . I think that the character originally played by Bebe Daniels ( but later played by Keeler ) is supposed to be a young innocent , who eventually becomes more sophisticated ( or corrupt ) using men . She starts by planning to get married ( the discarded wedding number being about her romance and " Shuffling off to Buffalo " being the honeymoon plans number ) , followed by " You're getting to be a habit with me ( showing her larger number of boyfriends and lovers ) , and ending with " Forty Second Street " . The rise of the heroine ( or is it her moral fall ) mirrors Sawyer's rise to sudden stardom . That , at any rate , seems to be the comparative musical stories . But surrounding it is the struggle of Marsh to bring this musical to a successful conclusion - he is a bankrupt due to the Crash , and he faces every problem in the production ( and usually overcomes them quite well ) . This and ill health ( a plot line that is never really developed ) , and loneliness . He even cramps the style of his assistant , George E . Stone , getting Una Merkle's goat at the conclusion . One final point : obviously Ruby had to be the unknown who becomes a star . But as a matter of personal choice , I wish " Anytime Annie " ( Ginger Rogers ) had taken over for the star . Rogers could sing , dance , and act . I give this a . I deducted 1 because Ginger did not get the lead in the end .
Ginger's Oscar and a worthy one .	Although a little dated today , KITTY FOYLE actually stands up well . It was based on a best selling novel by Christopher Morley . Morley wrote other novels ( PARNASSUS ON WHEELS is about a bookmobile and the adventures of its owners ) , but is best recalled for this novella and for helping to found the American Sherlock Holmes fan club " The Baker Street Irregulars " . Setting the novel in Philadelphia ( although from Bryn Mawr , Pennsylvania , Morley grew up in Baltimore , and later lived in New York State - his cabin is in a park out on Long Island ) , he tells a story of a young , determined woman ( Ginger Rogers ) who is from the wrong side of town . She lives on Griscom Street , near the train tracks . But she loves to read of the lives of the wealthy mainliners . Her father ( Ernest Cossart ) tries to make her see reality , but she wants to believe that wishes and fantasies can come true . Kitty ironically is introduced by her father to Wyn Stratford ( Dennis Morgan ) a struggling magazine writer and owner . He is a " Main Liner " , scion of a wealthy Quaker banking fortune . The story follows Kitty over a period of seven years , and her relationship with Wyn and with Mark ( James Craig ) , a doctor from New York City . The two men are competing for her love , but Wyn has the initial advantage as her first love . But as time passes he lives up to the warning description that Kitty's father gives about " Main Liners " : they end up returning to their social class for wives , and not rocking the boat . Wyn nearly does break free - he marries Kitty briefly . But his fine words of determination to stick it out with her in New York without the benefit of the trust funds that keep him very comfortable are just that . . . words . Kitty also has the tragedy of giving birth to a son , and losing the son . The story is one of those " sandwich " types that begin with the current life of Kitty , and how she has a chance to either marry Mark or run off with Wyn . We then see the whole past history of Kitty , and are not told until the final moment which of the two she will go with . Despite elements of tragedy , the film is not totally a downer . The scene where Wyn and Kitty go to a speakeasy run by Giono ( Eduardo Cianelli ) who is predicting the victory of Herbert Hoover over FDR on election night 1932 is funny as he keeps refusing to see the obvious ( that the votes are going into the Democratic column far more completely than they have in decades ) . Kitty's introduction to Mark ( she pretends to faint when she sets off a fire alarm ) and their boring first date ( a test to see if she is only after a good time , and not serious about dating ) are quite funny . So is her meeting with Wyn's family , headed by his mother ( Gladys Cooper ) , uncle ( Walter Kingsford in a white hair wig ) , and grandmother ( Cecilia Cunningham ) , where she finds that Wyn jumped the gun and that they wanted to send Kitty to a finishing school . When I watched the film I was aware that my mother used to visit relatives in Philadelphia during the depression quite frequently . She liked going to Wanamakers , where they had cocoa or coffee and sandwiches . I could see how the atmosphere of the film certainly remains true to that period , when social classes were so much stricter . Dated , but still a fine film for all that . One final point . This film was made in 1940 , and one running point is the snow globe that Kitty is looking at and reminiscing about . It fell from her father when he dies alone in their Philadelphia home , and she constantly looks at the snow as it falls within the globe . I wonder if Orson Welles and Herman Mankiewicz both saw this bit and decided to use it for the start of CITIZEN KANE the following year , where the snow globe the dying Kane holds and drops ( and breaks ) has a sled reminding him of Rosebud . Both movies were ( after all ) from RKO films .
Who Killed Sugar Torch . . . and does it really matter ?	Sam Fuller is one of the few directors who improves when one sees his movies several times . Yeah , I know that his reputation is that of a director who enjoyed sensationalism too much , but he also knew how to use sensationalism like a spice in a recipe - not too much of it in all situations ( the madhouse in SHOCK CORRIDOR is an exception ) , but enough to maintain our interest . Fuller once said that the story had to be a good one to make a good picture . Perhaps this truism sounds as simple as Coolidge's , " The business of America is business ! " But like most people who dismiss Coolidge's comment as second-rate , they don't realize he meant that the American people see all means of employment as business and pursue it for advantage . He just said it in that laconic style of his . Fuller's truism is also correct at the simplest : good films have good stories . Yeah . . . but how many film directors and actors and producers get to work with good stories ? Not that many - just look at the number of film flops each year . THE CRIMSON KIMONO starts off with stripper Sugar Torch ( Gloria Pall ) doing her normal act in some shabby theater on Main Street in Los Angeles . She is all smiles as she does the act , and then she leaves at the end , and her face shows the weariness of two or three shows a night on it . She heads for her dressing room , sees the theater owner and borrows a puff from his cigarette , and then heads for her door . She hears a shot - opens the door and sees a masked figure with a gun who fires at her . She runs out of the theater into the street and down into the street , where she is shot and killed in the gutter . While watching this three minute sequence ( long because of the initial song and strip tease ) I compared it to another sequence in a film noir of one year earlier : the opening three minutes of Welles ' TOUCH OF EVIL , wherein Rudy Linnekar and his girlfriend drive off in a car that we know is going to blow up . Welles rarely got big budgets but did so on the 1958 film , and did the most he could . Fuller was given a larger budget than usual for THE CRIMSON KIMONO , and managed to get considerable mileage from it too . Both set the mood of the film quite well . The death of the strip tease star brings two L . A . Detectives on the case : Sgt . Charlie Bancroft ( Glenn Corbett ) and Joe Kojaku ( James Shigeta ) . The two have been pals since serving in the Korean War together ( Bancroft was badly wounded and Kojaku gave him a pint of his own blood ) . Now living together in a residential hotel they are assigned to this case . . . one with two few clues . The theater manager can only tell them that Sugar was going to move to Las Vegas with a new act called " The Crimson Kimono " wherein she is the prize in a battle to the death between a karate master and a Samurai . But they have some pictures of Sugar in a Crimson kimono , and start looking for the artist , as well as the fellow who would have played the karate master . Fuller loads his canvass with colorful types . Bancroft knows an alcoholic artist named Mac ( Anna Lee ) who knows all the artist talent in the L . A . area . After getting her a bottle of her favorite bourbon Mac goes to town , and the next day recalls the artist of the drawings , " Chris " is connected to some art school . It turns out " Chris " is not a man but a woman named " Christine Downs " ( Victoria Shaw ) . Bancroft goes to interview her , and she recalls a man who was with Sugar - and draws a sketch of him . But Bancroft finds he is falling for her , and takes her to dinner as well as to headquarters to hand in the sketch . Kojaku in the meantime has found the person who was to be the karate specialist in the sketch , one Yuki . He tries to catch him , but finds it impossible . Chris's sketch gives her unwanted notoriety . While at her sorority house that night she is lured to the phone by the man who she drew , Hansel ( Neyle Morrow ) . Someone shoots at her while she is on the phone . She is taken into protective custody by the two detectives , and Mac is used as a chaperon . They proceed to find Yuki and this time subdue him together . He finally tells them what he knows of the man known as " Hansel " . We see them trace him , but he always seems one step ahead of them . Bancroft goes out one night to investigate , leaving Chris alone with Kojaku . The two get into a discussion of art and find they have much in common . In fact , Chris admits she is in love with Kojaku . This is troubling , for he feels the same way , but he knows Bankcroft loves her too . At this point the film seems to leave the film noir element and concentrates on Fuller's look at bi-racial love affairs , and racial bigotry . A lot of criticism is flung at Fuller for this because the eventual resolution of the noir plot is relatively mild compared to the bigotry theme or love affair theme . Actually Fuller keeps our interest in the new twist by the karate class mock duel that a jealous Kojaku turns into a violent attack on Bankroft . Also , the resolution of the noir plot deals with a second jealousy fueled murder , which makes Kojaku realize what has happened to him . And the final confrontation with the perpetrator ends in the gutter ( during a parade ) and somewhat compares with the earlier shooting of Sugar . Fuller pulled his story together well - he knew how to tell a good story .
Veidt as Anti - Nazi Hero	Conrad Veidt's career in European ( and American ) film from 1919 - 1939 was one as a notable star . He had played Cesar the Sonabulist in THE CABINET OF DR . CALIGARI in 1919 , and been a star ever since . In the silent film period it was easy for him to have an international audience as Gwynplaine in THE MAN WHO LAUGHS and as King Louis XI of France in BELOVED ROGUE ( with John Barrymore ) . But he was anti - Nazi and Veidt left Germany in 1933 and settled in England , where he remained a star . His last film in England of greatness was as the evil vizier Jafar in THE THIEF OF BAGHDAD . Then he went to Hollywood . Most Americans recall him for his American films , although he did not make many in his last three years ( 1940 - 1943 ) . These included a comic villain in WHISTLING IN THE DARK , a selfish Swedish scoundrel in A WOMAN'S FACE , and Nazis in CASABLANCA ( his best recalled performance - as Major Strasser ) , ESCAPE , and ALL THROUGH THE NIGHT . Twice he portrayed anti-Nazi Germans : ABOVE SUSPICION ( where he is aiding Joan Crawford and Fred MacMurray , and the villain is Basil Rathbone ! ) , and this film - probably the most interesting of the movies he made in Hollywood . The plot is simple . Veidt plays twin brothers , one of whom has been living in the U . S . since World War I , having gotten sick of the militarism and racial crap at home . The younger brother remained behind as a dedicated careerist Nazi . The younger brother has been sent to the U . S . as a " diplomat " but in reality to head a sabotage ring . He uses some of his agents to locate the older brother , and blackmail him into acquiescing into working for the Vaterland again . The older brother is forced by circumstances ( relatives in Germany may be executed or tortured if he refuses ) . But when he learns of the various sabotage acts planned , and when the ring members kill one of his closest friends , the older brother fights back . He confronts and kills the younger brother , and pretends he is the younger brother . Then he proceeds to destroy the sabotage ring . Veidt's Nazis were quite convincing , as he obviously based them on the people he met in Berlin in the 1920s and 1930s . Major Strasser , for example , is very businesslike - see how he confronts Rick with his file at the start of CASABLANCA and shows little concern when Rick starts reading it - and usually intelligent . He is also ready to turn into a subtly deadly threat , as when he tells Elsa about the cheapness of life in Casablanca . So the young careerist is quite true to form . But the older brother is fascinating . The issue of the " good German " was difficult to get across after 1941 , as most Americans saw Hitler's Germany as a real , viable threat . It was rare , in the movies of those years , to think of making a film about Germans who were decent ( it was actually easier to show Italians who were decent - see Forunio Bonanova's Italian general in FIVE GRAVES TO CAIRO ) . If a German was good or sympathetic , he or she might have been Jewish . But Veidt's two brothers are upper crust junkers . They are part of the establishment . The older brother was in the army ( unlike the younger one ) , so he knew what was expected of the German nobility . But he got to dislike the arrogance of the class towards all others . So he fled his native land to escape what he hated . Veidt's not the only good German in the film . For every younger brother , and Martin Kosleck , and Deborah Tree , there is a Frank Reicher and Anna Ayars who supports the decency wiped away by the Nazi regime . Veidt's older brother fall for Ayars , and in one sweet moment one sees what the Nazis have destroyed . They are seated in a car alone , and have put on the radio . The moon is out , and it is a moment for love-making . But the radio plays a piece by Felix Mendelsohn ( who was Jewish , and whose music was forbidden by the Nazi regime in Germany ) . Ayars , sadly , says " Verboten . " , and starts turning it off . Veidt gently stops her and says , " Just this once . " They cuddle listening to the music . Veidt also demonstrates a trait which ( oddly enough ) he can share with the Nazi Kosleck . The older brother's hiding spot in America was discovered by Marc Lawrence , who has sold his services to the Nazis . But later ( after the older brother has begun impersonating the dead younger one ) , Lawrence returns to squeeze more money out of his German employers . Kosleck tells this to Veidt ( and it is obvious that Kosleck is disgusted by this greedy American ) . Veidt says he'll speak to Lawrence . He does open the safe and give Lawrence the money without a word . Then after Lawrence puts the money in his pocket , Veidt grabs him around the neck and with a fierce look in his eye tells him never to ask for another extra cent beyond his salary again if he knows what is good for him . Lawrence is thoroughly frightened of his " employer " after that - and the viewer actually sides with Veidt at that moment even if he had been the younger brother instead of the older one . NAZI AGENT was a programmer , but it shows what would have been Veidt's ability to play a hero in American films . If he had survived World War II he probably would have been a star along the lines of his French contemporary Charles Boyer , playing good characters as well as bad ones . He did not have the fortune to survive , but we know what he might have been like .
Jourdan as the Evil Count	I have a problem with the classic horror story " Dracula " . It is , without a doubt , one of the best researched horror stories of all time - everything we generally know about vampires comes out of it's pages , because Abraham " Bram " Stoker spent years researching it before it was written and published in 1897 . Stoker was actually a part-time novelist , and worked usually as theater manager for the great Sir Henry Irving and Ellen Terry . This explains the paucity of his number of total novels ( roughly seven ) in a thirty year career ending before his death in 1912 . That said , my problem is that his strengths as a constructor of plots and of researching an arcane area of occult knowledge are not matched by a serious key to being a novelist : being readable . Of the major occult novelists , only the American Charles Brockden Brown can create such lugubrious prose ( but to be fair , every now and then both Stoker and Brown let down their halting prose styles and relax enough to write something truly haunting in terms of dialog ) . Because of his weakness I only half enjoyed Dracula the novel . I was thrilled by the circumstances he set up in his tale of the blood - driven Transylvanian Count , but I hated reading his dialog because his characters are so stiff . Therefore , when others are critical of what is cut out of some of the film transitions of his stories ( such as the classic 1931 Bela Lugosi film , based on the play Lugosi starred in ) I find that the cuts are welcome as enlivening the work for the screen . Lugosi's performance has been called one of the great " operatic " performances captured on celluloid . That is Lugosi captured the grandeur of his twisted nobleman with that impeccable old pedigree - he made that cape of his seem as natural as the wind . It remains a great performance , even as we realize it is has become a source of jokes and spoofs ( best seen in Mel Brooks / Leslie Nielson's " Dracula : Dead And Loving It " ) . But for my money , the best performance of the role was done in this 1977 British production ( shown that year on Masterpiece Theater ) that starred Louis Jourdan in the title part . For the first time the role was not just purposely making the Count sinister and grand but good looking as well . Jourdan , impeccably suave and handsome , looked like he could charm a woman into a fatal tryst with him . In a way this production mirrored the nearly contemporary Broadway revival of the old play that starred a young , good looking Frank Langella as a sexy Count . The story was better told than the movie versions - they included the subplot about the American Quincy Morris ( Richard Barnes ) who is a rival of Jonathan Harker ( Bosco Hogan ) for Lucy Westenra ( Susan Penheligon ) , and while Morris's character was combined with another minor figure it retained it's importance , as well as it's sad fate ( at the conclusion Dracula is able to kill Morris before he is destroyed ) . On the other hand , the script writers got rid of one annoyance in the Stoker version : Morris is supposed to be an American from Texas - he sounds like he never was within two thousand miles of Texas . Jourdan did some nice tricks with the aid of the director , including one thing that was not done in any of Lugosi's : he is seen at one point climbing the wall of his castle to come into the window of Renfield's ( Jack Sheppard's ) room . Done slowly ( Jourdan is heard creeping before he appears on the wall ) it was a genuinely unsettling moment , especially as Jourdan is shot from the head down . The beast-nature of the Count was never quite shown that way before . As his opponent , Abraham Van Helsing , Frank Finlay gave a good account of that master skeptic - skeptical of dismissing " old wives tales " because there may be some truth to them . His handling of the unfortunately necessary destruction of Mina Westenra's ( Judy Bowker's ) Vampire infected corpse was far more realistic than the versions in Lugosi's film involving Edward Van Sloan in that same role . Mina is aware here of what Van Helsing is doing , and part of her senses it has to be done to free her soul . It has not been seen for decades , and hopefully still exists to be viewed again . If I only give it a " 9 " it is due to my problems with that novel as a novel , not with this series .
Our Forgotten Mini-War of 1983	The Granada Incursion is recalled like an afterthought today . If people recall any military affairs of the Reagan White House they most likely recall the Iran - Contra Affair ( and it's star turn by Col . Oliver North ) or the tragedy of the Marine Barracks suicide bomb in Lebanon . Granada was a brief event - almost a stunt . But it did bring back a modicum of respect to the military , even if there were some snickering about the rescue of vacationers by the armed forces ( it was the rescuing of American students , by the way , at a Granadian medical school ) . After the Vietnam War , the U . S . was shying away from large scale troop commitments and conflicts for awhile . But in Gerald Ford's administration we had a bloody victory recapturing the " Mayaguez " from Vietnamese sailors , and in Jimmy Carter's we had the botched rescue attempt in 1980 to get the Iranian Hostages home . Granada was clearly better handled than those two events . There is some irony in Granada . The events actually put the Reagan Administration into a position of avenging a man who openly hated it . President Bishop of Granada was a Communist and wished to turn Granada leftward . He openly condemned Reagan . Unfortunately there are always fissures even in totalitarian movements . Bishop was moving too slowly for some others . He was killed in a coup by elements of the Granadian military who Castro was supporting . The fact that Americans were in Granada drew us into the matter . The Americans were rescued , and by our efforts Castro's allies were defeated ( and the murdered Bishop avenged ! ) . HEARTBREAK RIDGE was made three years later ( 1986 ) , directed by it's star Clint Eastwood . While not among his greatest films which were to come in the next twenty years , it is a good production . He is a tough Marine who dislikes authority . He has risen to the rank of Sergeant , particularly through his war record ( it turns out that he was one of three survivors of a grueling war fight along a small ridge - hence the title - that earned him a Congressional Medal of Honor ) . But his career has never gone as far as it can , and he is facing the end of it either in retirement or in court-martial due to his frequent drunken escapades or scrapes with the brass . He is given his last chance shaping up the worst bunch of misfits in the Marines base . At the same time Eastwood has married and divorced former military gal Marsha Mason . At first the marriage seemed working but Mason got fed up that whenever Eastwood had an opportunity to retire on his first rate combat record he resigned up to go to another action or war . They have been divorced for some time , and as he is approaching the end of the military road Eastwood wants to reunite with Mason . But she is hard to his advances ( although she is apparently interested enough in his welfare ) . The culmination is when they almost seemed reconciled , but she sees through his " soft approach " ( " You flanked me ! " , she accuses him ) , and she throws him out . Later , after a night in the local jail for drunkenness she bails him out and tells him they can't continue unless he respects her terms . The misfits in Eastwood's platoon include Mario Van Peebles , Tom Villard , Ramon Franco , and Mike Gomez . We watch as here Eastwood manages to bring these different misfits ( Van Peebles thinks he's a potential musical entertainer ) together . This despite the heated rivalry of another platoon , whose sergeant outranks Eastwood . It culminates in a victory of Eastwood and his men over the others in a war maneuver game ( including a slug match Eastwood has with the Sergeant - Major ) . Finally comes the actual combat in Granada , and how Eastwood and his men acquit themselves proudly in it . Besides the others , note Moses Gunn as a sycophantic sergeant who is in the command of Eastwood's rival . He's a real piece of work . The film actually works . This is ironic as Granada is ( in retrospect ) a slight affair of our history - a footnote . The one film of note made of it was a worthy and watchable war film . In comparison the one movie ( made in it's period ) about Vietnam ( THE GREEN BERETS ) was a wash-out . One had to wait until after Vietnam was receding into historic nightmare that films like THE DEERHUNTER and APOCALYPSE NOW ( and even FORREST GUMP ) came along to show what was that war like . For all that made Granada forgettable to Americans , HEARTBREAK RIDGE manages to capture the story quite well .
Good mix of comedy from Neil for Robert and Jane	BAREFOOT IN THE PARK takes Neil Simon's regular plot of his main characters learning to live in an apartment together - but here uses a normal situation . Instead of two people of the same sex ( as in THE ODD COUPLE ) it is a young married couple . Reputedly Simon was basing the situation of Paul and Corrie Bratter ( Robert Redford and Jane Fonda ) setting up their first married home in a fifth floor apartment with little space , a hole on the roof skylight , and other inconveniences on his own experiences as a young married in his first apartment . It is truly a terrible apartment , but the price seems remarkable for a Manhattan address today - only $135 . 00 a month . But in 1967 $135 . 00 was really a heady amount of rent ( although Paul is working in a law firm as a newly hired lawyer ) . People used to Redford and Fonda in meatier fare will find BAREFOOT odd . But in 1967 Fonda was not noted as a major acting talent ( though this was changing slowly ) . She was known more as a sex kitten in films like the European film BARBARELLA . Redford was not yet the serious actor of BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID or THE WAY WE WERE , but demonstrating growing talent too . So we are seeing them in their early careers , and they mesh nicely together . They were aware of this - in later years they'd appear in THE ELECTRIC HORSEMAN , a meatier film comedy about business ethics and rugged individualism . Still it is odd to see the horny Jane saying to Robert , " If we find that the marriage won't work , let's kill each other " . After a week's honeymoon at the Plaza Hotel , Paul and Corrie move to their new apartment , only to find nothing going right that first night - the furniture will be delivered late the next day , and they have to make due with a mattress on temporary loan . There is only a shower stall in the bathroom . The glass skylight has a crack in it ( and it is February , of course ) . The building is full of weirdos , one of whom is much married and divorced Victor Velasco ( Charles Boyer ) , who frequently has to go through the Bratters ' apartment to reach his own apartment . Victor is charming , and Corrie decides she should set him up as a date with her mother Ethel ( Mildred Dunnoch ) . Paul is not so sure of the wisdom of this move - and when the dinner occurs the viewers are more certain that the conservative Paul is on the right track , as Victor serves an exotic appetizer to them in his apartment , and then takes them to a wonderful restaurant in Staten Island ( it's roughly six or seven miles away - on a separate island from Manhattan , and across New York Harbor ) . The apparent disaster of the dinner party splits the newlyweds . Will the marriage survive ? Will some change be required between conservative Paul and free spirited Corrie ? It's Neil Simon , so you can figure that one out . I will only add that the title refers to throwing off inhibitions in New York City . The cast does well with their parts and the situations , aided by Redford , Dunnoch , and Herb Edelman ( as a telephone repairman ) knowing their roles in the Broadway production . But neither Fonda nor Boyer are slouches , especially as Boyer towards the conclusion begins to realize he is aging a little . All in all , the film is pretty good comedy served well by dramatist and by it's cast and production .
Mitchell Leisin's last good film .	It is not as philosophical as DEATH TAKES A HOLIDAY or as amusing as MIDNIGHT or EASY LIVING or as well done as an historical film KITTY , but THE MATING SEASON represents the last time that Mitchell Leisin got a good film with at least one first rate performance in it - that of the fourth lead , Thelma Ritter . Her role is that of the mother of John Lund . Lund is a junior executive in a mid-western firm owned by Larry Keating , and has owed all of his success as a result of his mother's sacrifices to get him a good education ( in New York University , of all places ) . Ritter did it alone ( Lund's father died of alcoholism years earlier ) . But to do it has taken a toll - her hamburger joint is foreclosed on at the start of the film , and she is not really happy about telling her son about this , especially as he has just met and married Gene Tierney , who is a more glamorous , and socially more classy type than Lund is used to . Still she comes to the apartment of Lund and Tierney . The latter is expecting people answering her advertisement for a cook and house keeper . Before Ritter can straighten out her misconception , Tierney hires Ritter for the job . She starts right in , and since that night there is a major party for Keating and the executives of Lund's firm ( including Keating's son , James Lorimer , as a particularly obnoxious snob ) , Tierney puts her to work immediately . The party is doing well until a double disaster occurs : Lorimer causes Keating to get covered by some food , and Lund discovers who is doing the first rate cooking they have been partaking in . Keeping quiet , but with a growing sense of fear of discovery , Lund watches for an opportunity to speak to Ritter . Meanwhile she helps to quickly clean up Keating , and to point out that he should wear a lighter type of suit for his appearance . It is the start of Keating taking a serious interest in Ritter . Despite what Lund wants , he never has any chance to straighten the error out . This is especially true when Tierney's obnoxious mother ( Miriam Hopkins ) shows up . To Hopkins a servant is useful but not to be heard ( except if speaking in the most respectful tones ) . Hopkins does not care much for Lund for his background , despite his attempts to earn a living to support her daughter ( whom he loves ) . And when she overhears and sees certain behavior at night , she is sure that her son-in-law is a sexual weirdo . The film is an interesting study in social climbing and snobbery . Lund wants to ascend to high executive position based on his abilities , and finds Lorimer gleefully standing in his way ( for personal reasons - he liked Tierney too ) . His hesitancy is partly due to circumstances , but also it is embarrassing to him to admit his mother was a professional cook . Hopkins is a scatterbrained twit , who has met some interesting people ( including Benito Mussolini ) and been asked to write her memoirs . The worst snob is Cora Witherspoon , as the wife of a businessman from Maryland who is interested in dealing with Keating's firm . She looks down upon people for laughing too loud ! In the end the ones who are least snobby are Keating ( who cant ' stand his son as a result ) , Ritter , and Tierney . Ritter has the best lines in the film , delivered in that wonderful understated , realistic way that was all her own . Hopkins , in comparison , is all flamboyance and pose , but makes the most of her histrionics . Tierney has two great moments telling off two characters for their character flaws , and Keating's dry wit nicely augments the roles of the others . Only Lund seems too stiff at times - about this time some of the naturalistic abilities he showed in TOO EACH HIS OWN and MISS TATLOCK'S MILLIONS and A FOREIGN AFFAIR began to fossilize into a personal stuffiness . But he too rises at the conclusion in a final confrontation to prove he is not a total snob . It was the best ensemble acting of the final Leisin films , even having a whiff of recognition from an earlier one ( some of " Mona Lisa " , first played in CAPTAIN CAREY , U . S . A . is played towards the end ) . Leisin had , reportedly , problems controlling Miriam Hopkins in the filming . Maybe , but the final result was still pretty good for all the trouble .
Never Apologize	There is an ironic point about the production of SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON immediately after FORT APACHE . Most critics agree that Col . Owen Thursday , the martinet commander , is based on General George Armstrong Custer , and that the massacre of his command due to his own pig headedness is the battle of the Little Bighorn . But SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON begins with that moment in the summer of 1876 when the entire frontier was nervous after word came of the destruction of Custer forces . The historic continuity ( which is amazingly consistent , despite minor anachronisms ) is shown early when Captain Brittles , visiting his wife's grave , mentions to her the death of Captain Miles Keogh at the Little Bighorn . Historically this is correct . Keogh , a hero of the American Civil War , served with Custer's Seventh Cavalry and died with his commander and fellows . In fact , the only " survivor " of Custer's forces at that disaster was Keogh's horse , " Commanche " . Captain Brittles has served in the American cavalry for thirty years . He was one of those soldiers who held higher rank in the Civil War with a " Brevet " , but in the cutbacks in the army following the war ( Custer went from brevet major general to Lt . Col . in the regular army ) Brittles had to be satisfied with the rank of Captain . His wife and children died ( presumably of some epidemic illness at the post - they are buried nearby ) . His old orderly from the war , Quincannon ( Victor McLaglen ) is still serving him . But he is facing a crisis . His thirty years means retirement , unless the army decides to promote him to Colonel . Despite the debacle in Montana , it is not too likely that the politically unconnected Brittles will get the promotion his fine abilities deserve . So we are watching an old soldier slowly fade away in this film . Brittles is aware he has days before he is to leave ( unless a promotion turns up ) , and he has to try to keep the hot blooded Indian braves , impressed at what they just saw Crazy Horse and the Lakota forces accomplish , go on the warpath . He also has to keep his two most promising young officers ( John Agar and Harry Carey Jr . ) concentrating on their careers rather than fighting over Joanne Dru . He is worried too for Sgt . Quincannon , who is likewise going to be leaving the army a few days after Brittles . Will Quincannon's drunken , roistering ways ruin his chances to maintain his pension ? And he has to keep an eye on the suspicious behavior of the local fort sutler ( Paul Fix ) is up to - can he be running guns ? Whatever he faces , he faces unflinchingly , and his motto is never to apologize - it's a sign of weakness . For all the anachronisms listed on this thread , such as the 48 star flag ( in 1876 ? ) , Ford got the time and place perfect in what counts . Note the fascinating relationship of Brittles and Sgt . Tyree ( Ben Johnson ) . 1876 was a crossroad year for the U . S . regarding the results of the Civil War . In the negative , a questionable Presidential election result was solidified when three southern states agreed to support the Republican ( Rutherford Hayes ) over the Democrat ( Samuel Tilden ) in return for the Federal troops being pulled out of the south and the official end of Reconstruction policies benefiting southern African-Americans . One can't deny that is still a stain in American history ( despite Hayes excellent handling of the Presidency afterwords ) . But the former foes were finding less and less reason to dislike each other , and more and more to admire the grit both sides had shown . During the Civil War , Tyree was a Confederate Captain - he was Brittles ' equal in rank . Once the war ended , after a few years , he joins the American Army and rises to the rank of Sergeant . Technically he is not as high a Sergeant as Quincannon , who is Brittles ' aide . But Brittles constantly treats Tyree as a full equal , consulting him again and again on how to move next when going out of the fort to confront the Indian threat . The highpoint of this respect is when one of Tyree's " soldiers " , " Trooper Smith " turns out to be a former Confederate cavalry leader named Rome Clay , and dies of wounds in an action against the Indians . Brittles and his men watch silently while Tyree and his fellow southern soldiers bury Clay properly with his flag , the Confederate one . In terms of relations between the whites of the North and South , SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is miles away from the confrontations of , say THE PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND . There John Carridine's northern officer has nothing but fanatical contempt for Dr . Mudd , whom he considers evil for helping John Wilkes Booth . Until the end of that film , Carridine takes a sadistic interest in making Warner Baxter regret his every move . The events of THE PRISONER was from 1865 - 1869 ( when Mudd finally returned to Maryland ) . This is seven years afterwords . There are other little historical pointers . The rivalry of immigrant groups is shown when Quincannon is facing rival Sergeant Hochbauer , who openly dislikes the former as an overbearing Irishman ( Hochbauer being a German ) . There is the civilian clothes that are meant for Brittles ( complete with " Muller cut-down hat " ) that Quincannon ends sampling ( which leads to his hysterically funny fight with Hochbauer and the other soldiers meant to take him to the guardhouse ) . Quincannon insists he is not out of uniform ( technically he is ) but is simply dressed as a retired gentleman should be . Yes , in 1876 , that would be the dress of a retired gentleman . I like this film . The characterizations of the all the actors are strong , and Ford had great set pieces in it . Perhaps not as great a film as THE SEARCHERS ( which is more meaty and dark ) , but a top notch Western all the same .
How to Properly Use 3 -	In the history of motion pictures only two ideas ( as far as I know ) failed to catch on in improving the movies we see . One is the laughable " Aroma-vision " that was tried out in the late 1950s with a film that Peter Lorre and Desmond Elliot made called SCENT OF MYSTERY . People just don't like certain odors that can be on the screen in films . But the other was an 3-D , which should have succeeded . If you want to have a more realism in movies , then you should have a movie where depth adds some degree of reality . But 3-D was not used properly . The best recalled uses are in grade z films like ROBOT MONSTER . The best uses of the process were in Alfred Hitchcock's DIAL " M " FOR MURDER , in the Vincent Price horror classic HOUSE OF WAX , and in INFERNO . But while Hitchcock's and Price's films are well remembered ( and seen frequently ) , INFERNO has been generally ignored . It stars Robert Ryan , Rhonda Fleming , William Lundigan , Larry Keating , and Henry Hull . Ryan begins the film in one of his typically negative characterizations - a millionaire married to Fleming who treats everyone around him as a servant to do his bidding . Sort of like a follow up to his Smith Ohlrig in CAUGHT , only with a new bride . He is going on vacation , and he is accompanied by his wife and a guide played by Lundigan . But Fleming and Lundigan are having a love affair , and when Ryan is injured they realize that they can get rid of him , collect his fortune , and then marry . They leave the obnoxious millionaire in the desert with just a six shooter and a canteen with water . He also has a broken leg . They figure they can report he wandered off , they could not trace him , and in a week the police can find his corpse . Ryan fools them . Always intelligent in his roles , he growls as soon as he is alone , " They think I'll drink up all my water ! " He starts an enforced rationing . He also makes a crutch . Finally he shows his patience in becoming a careful hunter - carefully using his gun to kill game only when it is available . Soon he is able to start following the stars to get back to civilization . And his disappearance is not being casually dismissed by the discovery of his body by the authorities led by Carl Betz . And Fleming and Lundigan are beginning to get nervous - and a bit less lovey-dovey with each other . But the best part of this film , aside from the careful script and performances , was director Roy Baker's brilliant use of 3-D . He wanted the size of that desert Ryan is marooned in to be really evident to the audience , and his shots of the miles of mesas and sand are deeply impressive . It adds to one's realization of just what Ryan is up against to survive . Actually it was the best use of the process in Hollywood movies , and it makes one regret that John Ford did not think of using the process in say THE SEARCHERS or TWO RODE TOGETHER . Ford's use of " Monument Valley " was always brilliant - imagine if it too had been in 3-D .
Gremlins again - this time on our side .	This was the second of three Warner Brothers , anti-Hitler cartoons that were broadcast yesterday on the Turner Classic Film Network's " Cartoon Alley " . Hitler is upset that all attempts to bomb Moscow have met with disaster , so he announces at the start that he will fly a special plane to hit the city . He announces that the flight will be by the greatest Nazi superman in history . When he is asked if will be flown by him , he answers " Mm , COULD BE ! ! " , which was a radio comedy catchphrase of the day ( I think from Jack Benny's program ) . So he sets off , and for most of the cartoon we just watch him flying . But we see these cartoon gremlins ( who this thread explains were caricatures of Fritz Freleng , Chuck Jones , and others , and they proceed to destroy the airplane ( while singing a song to the tune of OY CHICHOINYA " - " We're all gremlins , from the Kremlin " ) . In the end they cause Hitler to crash , and he is so confused by the whole adventure he turns into a caricature of Lew Lehr , who did comic travelogues for the movies . His catch phrase was " Monkeys is the Cwaziest peoples . " The cartoon is funny , and one can see some past influences , When the gremlins are trying a variety of things to do to Hitler , the cartoonist orchestrates them to just miss hitting each other . A cartoon about the building of the world's tallest skyscraper had a sequence when about five or six different construction workers tried to hammer nails in different corners of the structure as planned , but all fail to notice that their nails , if driven up , down , or sideways , will end up nailing some co-worker in his rear . This was also the second Warner's cartoon where the fictitious " Gremlins " popped up to destroy aircraft - the other was a Bugs Bunny cartoon where he is outsmarted by the Gremlins who are trying to destroy the U . S . Air Force plane Bugs is on . That cartoon only had one Gremlin on it , and it also had a joke at the end dealing with gasoline rationing . One of the highlights here was the mask of Joseph Stalin , used to frighten Hitler who was trying to kill some of the Russian Gremlins before that . Stalin also appears in the last of the three Warner cartoons I saw this morning , " Herr Meets HARE " , but was rarely in any of the Warner cartoons made after the " Cold War " began to heat up in the late 1940s .
A Good Follow - Up to BLOOD ON THE SUN	Carol Baker and James Shigata are good highly capable performers , but they tended to peak early in the 1950s and 1960s . However , they both did very well in telling this true story about Gwen , an American from Tennessee , met , fell in love with , and married " Teri " a Japanese diplomat in Washington , and how the events of 1935 to 1945 made their lives together extremely difficult if not dangerous . For the events leading to the Great Pacific War between Japan and the U . S . made Gwen's insistence on staying with Teri and their daughter Mako ( two young girls play Mako as she grows to be nine years old ) lead to one problem after another . This film was produced in 1961 , and it was made just at the moment when American audiences began being willing to make some extended effort at burying the hatchet with Japan . In the 1950s , thanks to Douglas MacArthur's work as our " proconsul " rebuilding Japan , the country retained it's imperial family ( even Hirohito ) and yet became a fairly reliable ally and democracy . It helped that in this period China ( formerly the tragic victim of Japanese militarism ) was now ( except for Formosa ) a bastion of Communism . The films of this period did show negatives in part ( Sessue Hayakawa's Col . Saito in " The Bridge On The River Kwai " at first ) , but also showed the pressures on our old enemies . Hayakawa's Saito loses face to his prisoner Nicholson who is better organized in engineering the bridge than the Japanese Colonel is . Other films dealt with re-understanding Japan . There was " Sayonara " , where Marlon Brando , Red Buttons , and Myoshi Umeki try to sexually bridge the divide of East and West , with tragic results . There was the kids travelogue - adventure film " Escapade In Japan " , wherein American and Japanese kids pal around the country . There was also the film " A Majority Of One " , wherein middle aged Roselind Russell and Japanese industrialist Alec Guiness find a romance despite her children's opposition . Also despite some past history ( her son died at Pearl Harbor , his wife and children at Hiroshima ) . There was also the French film " Hiroshima Mon Amour " which was about an inter-racial love affair , but looked at the long range effects of the radiation in the bombed city . It was a good moment to reevaluate the past . The period probably lasted until 1970 when " Tora , Tora , Tora " properly and somberly presented the story of the attack of December 1941 from both sides . To me " Bridge To The Sun " is a natural follow-up of Jimmy Cagney's " Blood On The Sun " . Although the Japanese were mostly villains and sneaks in Cagney's film ( especially the politician Baron Tanaka - John Emory ) Cagney was willing to show there were good Japanese , in particular an elderly Japanese aristocrat seeking to prevent the success of the militarists ( and who is murdered by them ) . That happened to be true regarding the politics of Japan in the 1930s . Several leading politicians who seemed too peaceful or not patriotic were killed off by assassins ( most of whom got slap on the wrist punishments ) . Shigata's Teri happens to be of the peace party , and as the film continues one sees he is fighting an impossibly well organized foe . The best moment that shows this is in a portion of the film dealing with November - December 1941 . Shigata tries to get a missionary friend to speak to FDR to send a personal message to the Emperor to keep Japan and the U . S . at peace . Instead , we see that despite all attempts to be careful , Shigata and his fellow peace lovers are being observed by the militarists . The story of the mixed marriage is fascinating because both Americans and Japanese stigmatize the couple . While going to the train with Mako to be reunited with Teri , Gwen sees American racism and hatred at it's worse ( " how dare she marry one of those people ! " ) . Similarly Teri is bothered in Japan by military bullyboys , and Mako is crying when she is teased and hit by Japanese children and even her teacher . Yet by the time the film ends , Mako has become so identified with her father's people she hates the Americans as invaders . " Bridge To The Sun " may be the best Hollywood film to show the home front in Japan in the war . It is disheartening . While America and Britain went into rationing in the war , they never went as far as Japan did where a little rice was given to the Japanese people for most of their stamps . Actually even Germany was being less hard for awhile . According to Albert Speer , luxury items were being produced in Hitler's Reich up to late 1944 . Not Japan - every available crumb went into the military's stomachs . The film follows Teri's continued attempts to rebuild the peace party , which only gets him into serious trouble with his oldest friend Hara ( James Yagi , who gives a good performance of a committed militarist who won't let old friendships keep him from his work ) . But Teri won't give up , despite Hara and the Kamentai . And Gwen remains loyal to her husband , up to the film's end . . . which is quite unexpectedly poignant .
Movies on medieval theological problems and history fail in Peoria	For the last three years we have been under the effect of the novel THE DA VINCI CODE , which swept the world's best seller lists , and then was finally turned into a film . It dealt with the so called secret writings of coded messages that are to be found in the works of Leonardo Da Vinci , and which deals with a hidden secret that the Roman Catholic supposedly has hidden . The film was a flop in the United States Some twenty one years ago a similar phenomenon hit the U . S . and Europe . The Italian , Umberto Eco , wrote a complex novel about the early 15th Century in Italy , the Roman Catholic Church , the rise of the great monastic libraries , and the rise of the inquisition . THE NAME OF THE ROSE became the great best seller of the middle years of the 1980s . It was made into a film starring Sean Connery , F . Murray Abraham , and Christian Slater . And the film flopped in the United States , but was successful in Europe . The events of THE NAME OF THE ROSE occur about the year 1410 in North Italy . A series of murders occur in a monastery that has one of the finest libraries . The abbot calls his old friend , the humanistic William of Baskerville ( Connery ) to assist in finding out what happened - if the murders are by human hand or the work ( as some have said ) of the devil . William comes with his young acolyte assistant Adso of Melk ( Christian Slater ) , and slowly finds he is facing two enemies . One is the murderer who is in the monastery , and whose motives are unknown . The other is an old enemy , the fanatical inquisitor Bernardo Gui ( F . Murray Abraham ) . Gui has had a previous run-in with William over a man William defended . William was tortured until he renounced his defense , and the man was executed . But in Gui's closed , evil mind once you defend a condemned heretic you are a marked man if you raise your head up again . The film follows William's struggle to solve the mystery and evade his old enemy's threats . It also follows Adso's romance with a local girl ( Valentina Vargas ) who shared his moment of love in the novel . In the end William does find the killer , but at a cost - the loss of the great library . Eco's novel , because it was a novel , could go into greater detail for the reader than the film could . While one picture is worth a thousand words , unless you read thousands of words you will not know what to look for in the picture . In Europe , where the medieval world is not too far from the modern in some cities ( those that were not flattened in the two world wars , like Prague ) , one had the education to follow the story and see the ironies in the tale . 1410 is an ironic date , and few Americans understood that . In 1410 the Roman Catholic Church's center of operations was not Rome . Most Americans have never heard of the " Avignon Papacy " , which began in 1360 and lasted sixty years ( until 1420 ) . The French monarchy , in a moment of anger at a Pope , invaded Italy and grabbed his Holiness and brought him back to Avignon with the Papal Curia . This would mean that from now on the Papacy would be an adjunct to the French throne , and the rest of Western Christian Europe resented it . But nothing was done about it for decades . By 1410 , to the French it looked like Avignon would be permanent . That year a movement began to sweep Europe . In Bohemia a reformer , Jan Huss , arose and created a national Christian church . This was fought by Avignon , and the inquisition was created to combat it . It did eventually kill Huss , in 1416 , after a show trial . But the Hussites survived ( and actually formed the first reformation - beating Martin Luther by a century ) . But worst was to come . The enemies of Avignon picked up on this heresy and said it was proof that the French Pope was the anti-pope . Soon there were two other Papal courts in Italy that excommunicated each other and Avignon . But after awhile the two Italian Popes realized how absurd the situation made the Church look in the eyes of the world . So they sent representatives to meet , and they created a joint resolution ( and a new jointly recognized Italian Pope - with backing from the rest of Europe ) . Avignon was declared heretical - and the newly created machinery of the inquisition turned upon the original creators . After 1420 Avignon was an unpleasant memory ( only revived as a threat first by Napoleon in the early 1800s and later by Hitler in World War II to control - if necessary - the Curia and the Pope in Rome ) . The irony of this is not noted by American audiences as much by European ones . If Gui had not died in the film ( well merited as it is ) he would have switched sides and gone after his former French masters . Also not noted is that the final irony of the story is the title - the " rose " is the young woman Adso loves and sleeps with . He never learns her name . The acting of Connery and Slater is fine , as is the performance of the doomed " heretic " ( who has been feeding the locals against the Church's orders ) Helmut Qualtinger . Abraham makes Gui a contemptible bully , but he does occasionally rant too much ( though that is easy given the bully's nature ) . His death sequence is ironic too , as he tries to get help in his precarious situation from the peasants who know he killed their friends - he begs for their assistance and they don't come . Also note Fyodor Chailapin Jr ( son of the great opera basso ) , as the blind monk . Certainly a fine performance for this elderly actor , best recalled for the dog-loving grandfather in MOONSTRUCK .
All You Need Is Love . . . .	It is not as good as BLAZING SADDLES or THE PRODUCERS or two other Brooks movies that I am fond of : THE TWELVE CHAIRS and Dracula : DEAD AND LOVING IT . But YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is in Mel Brooks ' best films , possibly because for all it's puns , jokes , spoofs , and fun it actually takes a moment to invert the actual novella by Mary Shelley and show what could have been the answer . Reading FRANKENSTEIN and seeing it's various incarnations on the movie screen and on television are two different things . Except for occasional documentaries on the history channel near Halloween , most people don't know the origins of the story - just perhaps some vague thoughts regarding the story of the Golem , perhaps , or of some of the odd early electricity experiments conducted by Alexander Volta and his contemporaries on dead frog's leg muscles or on executed criminals . You would also be surprised , in reading the story , to find that most versions on the screens delete a whole portion dealing with Captain Robert Walton's attempt to reach the North Pole by ship ( a comparative nightmare that is nearly as deadly to Walton's crew as Victor Frankenstein's experiment is to his family and friends ) . Yet the tale is so powerful it almost always keeps it's audience attention . Here Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder update the story to 20th Century America , where Dr . Frederick Frankenstein ( or Frankensteen , as he insists it is pronounced ) is trying to live down his cracked grandfather's experiments . He's a successful brain surgeon and expert , and he reluctantly returns to Transylvania and the family castle to collect an inheritance . In the end he gives into the family tradition - as he says during a nightmare he can't escape his destiny . With Marty Feldman as his hunchback assistant ( disgusted by Wilder's change of name pronunciation , he calls Wilder " Froderick " and himself " Whygor " ) , and Teri Garr as Inger the lab assistant , and Cloris Leachman as Blucher ( note off stage horse whinny ) as the enthusiastic house keeper , he creates Peter Boyle , only to turn from his creation when he learns it has gotten an abnormal brain by accident . But there is a major change in the story . In the novel Victor gradually realizes that his creation is hideous , and tries to destroy it - only to find it has hate for him in it's heart and destroys anything Victor loves ( including his wife on their wedding night , and his best friend ) . The monster eventually pursues it's creator to his death , and then reveals to Captain Walton that it realizes that Victor was also the father it should have loved - and will destroy itself on a funeral pyre at the end . There is a hopelessness in the novel for the monster's predicament . Nobody is willing to accept the Monster - it's so ugly and frightening . But in the film , Wilder and Brooks offered an alternative in the modern world . While not losing sight of the ridiculous opportunities for the comedy ( culminating in Wilder and Boyle dancing and singing " Putting on the Ritz " ) the screenplay writers also point out that had Victor been kinder to his " son " and treated him with love and understanding ( as Wilder demonstrates to Boyle ) , then the frightful destructiveness and evil of the monster would never have occurred . It is when Frederick treats the monster nicely that Boyle's monster grows into a more stable character , reaching out to Wilder's sudden interest to bring it acceptance from the locals . And in the end the monster finally gets the social acceptance he failed to find in the novella . I don't wish the reader to think YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is an ultra serious film . Boyle's dancing and singing " Putting on the RItz " is worth watching the film for , as is Gene Hackman's cameo ( based on the blind hermit played by O . P . Heggie in THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN ) - only this blind hermit can't do anything for the monster but accidentally scald or burn it , driving it out of the hermit's home in a panic . Bits like Kenneth Mars ' police chief , cheating in a game of darts with Wilder ( and Wilder manages to injure a cat and hit Mars limousine and chauffeur's hat ) or Madeleine Kahn's refusal to allow her lover to kiss or touch her ( she is perfectly prepared for a society party she was invited too - in the end she and Wilder say their farewells by " shaking " their elbows ! ) are wonderful pieces of nonsense . It does succeed in achieving the amusement of the audience who watches it - what more can one do than achieve the main goal of any Hollywood film , particularly a comedy . It merits .
A great comedy all around - and Rudy Vallee's most unlikeable character	This film is a rich one . Cary Grant is a charming artist who is always finding himself pulled into court by trouble he never intended to cause . Trouble finds Grant everywhere , because he is a magnet to women , and men get jealous . He is brought to court for just such an occurrence , and low and behold the judge is Myrna Loy . She is a no nonsense judge , but she allows Grant's lawyer ( Dan Tobin ) to convince her to let him off with a lecture . However , soon after , Grant delivers a lecture on the pleasures of a career in art to the local high school . Unfortunately he attracts the attention of high school senior Shirley Temple . Temple manages to go to Grant's apartment and get inside - she feels they are made for each other . But she falls asleep , and Grant returns home without noticing her . He gets into his pajamas and dressing gown and makes himself a drink , planning to read a book before bed . He puts on the music , waking up Temple . She says hello to him while he looks totally confused - and then there is pounding at his door . It is the police , the D . A . ( Rudy Vallee ) and Temple's sister . . . yes Myrna Loy . Grant is arrested on a very sticky charge - we are never informed precisely , but it appears to be attempted statutory rape . However , Loy is convinced by her uncle Ray Collins , to be easy on Grant - if she isn't , Temple will always think of Grant as a martyr . Grant has to help Temple get him out of her system . So Grant is given a suspended sentence if he cooperates ( which he really hates doing ) . The story is very odd in it's reversals of character . Loy never played such a high ranking professional before , nor had Grant played an artist of any type . Temple , the darling little girl of the 1930s , was now grown up , and here comes closest to playing a really bratty character : so spoiled that she does not care about how her actions affect Loy , Grant , Vallee , and her boyfriend from high school ( Johnny Sands ) . Possibly the most curious change in character is Vallee . He became something of a fixture in films in the 1940s , usually with Preston Sturgis like in THE SIN OF HAROLD DIDDLEBOCK or THE PALM BEACH STORY , or in films like I REMEMBER MAMA . His character were somewhat pompous but basically harmless . Here he is ( due to growing jealousy , but initially due to disgust ) in his most unlikeable character . After Grant is released , he meets Vallee in front of Loy and Temple's house . Vallee , sneeringly says , " Why don't you come to my home for my niece's birthday party ? You'd like her . . . she's six ! ! " Grant , understandably , looks like he wants to flatten the crooner . Later on he steals a chair in a restaurant from a patron who was using it ( causing the patron to fall down ) . The patron confronts him , but Vallee won't even consider apologizing . So the patron evens the score a second later . In this comedy you discover all about the man with a power ( what power - Hoodoo ! You'll catch on ) . You will see veteran nice old grandpa Harry Davenport show a less likable side to his nature , taking out his anger on defenseless chessmen . You will enjoy this quirky comedy , and be glad you saw it .
Good Crosby - Astaire - Berlin Musical , but leaves an unpleasant flavor in one's mouth .	It seems natural that Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby should have ended up in at least one musical together . They were able to actually appear in two films together ( " Holiday Inn " and " Blue Skies " ) and only missed out on a third film in the 1950s that became " White Christmas " with Danny Kaye in the Astaire part . Both men were perfectly in line with each other in terms of talent and style . Unlike the two other partnerships that Crosby formed with males in films ( with Hope and Fitzgerald ) this one was tied together by talent and musical comedy , not blending comic timing or ethnic pairing . It is instructive to see that in both films ( both with Irving Berlin scores ) , they share a duet about the blending of their talents ( in " Holiday Inn " it is " I'll Woo Her With Singing . . . Dancing " , and in " Blue Skies " it was " We're a Couple of Song and Dance Men " ) . It was perfectly complementary pairing here . But there is something annoying in both films to Astaire fans . While he played the hero in the musicals he made at RKO and MGM , he was not the hero in the two Paramount films with Crosby . That is understandable - Crosby was the star of the Paramount lot and in their musicals . Astaire was there as a loan from MGM . It has been suggested that if MGM had made musicals for Astaire borrowing Crosby the relationship would have been switched . That is hard to say though . Crosby made the two films at the height of his popularity as one of the biggest draws in motion pictures . Astaire was doing well , but was coming back after being selected as one of the stars of the 1930s labeled " box office poison " . He really was not in a position to demand a better split in the characterization of " Holiday Inn " . Astaire and Crosby are partners ( with Virginia Dale ) in a musical act that is managed by Walter Abel . Crosby feels like retiring , and has bought a farm in Connecticut . He plans to ask Dale to marry him . But Dale and Astaire have been having an affair he did not know of . Abel knows of the affair because they plan to continue the act as a duo , and he would remain their manager . Naturally Crosby feels quite betrayed by this , but somehow remains on good terms with them . He eventually comes up with the idea of turning his farm into a type of inn that is open only on holidays . He tells Astaire and Abel of the idea , but they are dubious of it's success . Crosby finds that Dale is very possessive and jealous of Astaire , whom she accuses of running after women . Meanwhile , Abel has to get flowers for Dale ( supposedly from Astaire ) , and the girl in the florist shop ( Marjorie Reynolds ) wants to get a break into theater . Abel ( to get rid of her ) gives her tickets to Astaire's show and a card with the address of Crosby's farm / inn . Reynolds ends up working with Crosby at his " Holiday Inn " , and they turn out to be a good singing and dancing couple . In the meantime , Dale leaves Astaire , and he goes on a bender around New Years Eve . He heads for Holiday Inn , and dances with Reynolds . They make a good dancing couple . But Astaire can't recall what Reynolds looks like . He and Abel return on Valentine's Day but miss her ( due to Crosby's interference ) . The same happens on Lincoln's Birthday ( Crosby disguises Reynolds in a black face number about emancipation ) . But before Washington's Birthday Astaire and Abel find Reynolds . When Astaire finds she is not engaged to Crosby he and Abel work at getting her to drop connections with the Inn and Crosby , and to hook up with Astaire . Crosby tries to stop this ( even trying to bring Dale back into the equation ) , but seems to fail . The film seems to be heading for Astaire marrying Reynolds . The film is actually a musical comedy and works quite well . Possibly the most disagreeable aspect of the musical numbers is the " Abraham " number which reinforces old stereotypes on race . But otherwise it is very amusing and memorable in the numbers ( particularly " White Christmas " and " Easter Parade " ) . Astaire's highpoint is his July 4th firecracker dance . But the worst aspect is the business of Astaire and Abel in doing anything they can at Crosby's expense , first with Dale and then with Reynolds . Astaire's hedonistic views of sex are part of his charm and also make him less than desirable as a friend or business associate . But they are understandable - many people are blind to the way their escapades hurt others . But Abel's willingness to help Astaire ( who is his client throughout ) is quite annoying . He is quick , at one point , at criticizing Crosby for raining on the parades of other people , but he never notices how he rains on the parades of others . The end result is that the film , while entertaining and memorable , seems flawed . How did Crosby get to be a partner to such a louse as Astaire , and to have Abel as his manager ? The film is definitely worthy of watching and re watching , but it leaves some unease in its wake .
The Japanese Americans on the Home Front and Battlefront .	It is an interesting coincidence of television programing that within three days of this week ( Thursday to Saturday , June 18 to 20th , 2008 ) I saw two films regarding the problems of Americans and Japanese intermingling in the period World War II that I have long known of but had never before been in a position to view . First there was BRIDGE TO THE SUN which told of the mixed marriage of a Caucasian-American with a Japanese Diplomat in the 1930s into the World War , when they lived together ( with their child ) in Japan . Second is this film which looks at one of the hardest fighting military units in World War II's American Army , the 442ND Regiment . It was made almost entirely out of Japanese - American volunteers who wanted ( in the wake of Pearl Harbor ) to prove their patriotism . It was extremely difficult . Gwen ( Carol Baker ) saw first hand American bigotry turned in her direction when she was spotted boarding a bus with her daughter Mako in BRIDGE TO THE SUN . Obscenities were being thrown in her direction , as the bigots knew the people leaving were going home to Japan . Here these were native born Americans from around the country who were determined to show their patriotism , but faced a country that imprisoned many of their relatives in " relocation camps " and where many individuals faced possible physical danger by local bigots . If ( as I said ) BRIDGE TO THE SUN is a fine follow up to Cagney's film on the rise of Japanese militarism BLOOD ON THE SUN , then the appropriate ( if disheartening ) follow up to GO FOR BROKE ! is BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK , as Spencer Tracy finds out the fate of his wartime friend's Japanese American father . GO FOR BROKE ! is a " B " Feature , and lacks many of the special effects of the better war films from World War II through the 1960s ( there is no point in comparing it to the computerized films of today ) . It showed care in how it developed character . Six of the Japanese actors in the film actually had served in the 442ND and were able to give a sense of realism to the movie . They were probably consulted in the script by Robert Pirosh , the director . There are moments of real humor in the movie . Van Johnson's taking his platoon through training , and suspecting ( but not being able to prove ) they cheated on an obstacle course is a good example . The actors are quite good . Lane Nakano ( Sam ) is a level headed fellow who is trying to understand the ways of the Caucasians who run the Army and U . S . , but also trying to get them to understand the plight of the Japanese - Americans . George Miki ( " Chick " ) is the reverse - a wise guy who knows the angles ( we first see him winning remarkably well in a dice game in the barracks - too well as one of the others wants to examine the dice ) . He was working on the farms of Iowa in choosing male and female chickens for the farmers ( a Japanese ability that Americans did not have ) . Since he was in the Midwest , " Chick " was not in the net of the Federal act that created the west coast relocation camps . Now he bemoans having been convinced to leave a $500 . 00 a month job for volunteering in the army of a country that disgraces his relatives . At the same time Sam is sending food to his family and girlfriend in their camp in Arizona , and is getting news from them about how they are being treated . Van Johnson is " Lieutenant Michael Grayson " , who is a Texan , and wished to be in the same regiment with his Texas buddies . He is appalled at the Japanese-Americans he has to lead , and this annoys his commander Warner Anderson ( Colonel Charles Pence ) who refuses to consider him for transfer . Johnson does bring the men up to snuff in their training " by the book " , but he earns their contempt for his obvious dislike of them . But as the film progresses Johnson gradually begins to question his own bigotry . The men are really willing to prove their worth . Moreover , in reading a U . S . guide book to Italy he reads words reminding him of the bigotry towards Italians and Germans that the Fascists and Nazi Propagandists build on . It unsettles him , and slowly prepares him into a defender of the men . [ I suppose only one racial stereotype could be concentrated on in each movie that came along - there is no mention of the " Jim Crow " African-American units in the war . Unlike the Japanese - Americans the African - Americans did not get put into camps , but they were treated throughout the country ( even in Hollywood ) as second class citizens . In 1943 Jesse Owens achievements in Berlin in 1936 and the brouhaha over Marion Anderson's singing in Washington in 1930 were yesterday's news . Joe Lewis was still considered a boxing treasure , but Jackie Robinson's breaking the baseball color line was three years away . And even if Hattie McDaniel won the Oscar in GONE WITH THE WIND in 1939 no other African-American performer got a nomination in this period . ] The film follows the men through Italy and France to the fighting at the Bulge . In the reaction of the men to their surroundings it bears comparison to A WALK IN THE SUN . One adopts a pet pig , and keeps the lovable little animal ( and feeds him ) until he has to make a choice about the pet . Another , who was an architecture major , keeps mentioning the different styles of great buildings that he sees along the way to the others . But for all their idiosyncrasies and different viewpoints , the men prove tough , experienced , and brave fighters , who rightly won their military glory with blood and toil . This is a worthy film in their honor , and you should try to catch it .
From the man who gave us Peter Pan	James Barrie's literary fame has never disappeared , but it has shrunk terribly . Although of late this seems to be changing , in reality it is still grounded on one work of his . He wrote the novel and then the play PETER PAN , immortalizing Peter , Wendy , her brothers , the lost boys , Captain Cook , Smee , the pirate crew , Tiger Lily and the Indians , and Tinker Bell the fairy . The recent film about how Barrie created the play was a success last year - but it remains firmly in place dealing with the one story everyone recalls Barrie created . Forgotten , of course , is the various novels about Scottish life that gave him his early literary reputation . Best of these was THE LITTLE MINISTER , which was turned into a successful early movie with Katherine Hepburn . He also wrote other successful West End plays , such as DEAR BRUTUS ( which was an early starring work for Helen Hayes ) , and this play : THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON . Yet Barrie's plays ( pace PETER PAN ) are rarely produced - especially on television . The original " Admirable Crichton " was a figure in Elizabethan England , who had made a name for himself as a scholar ( especially of languages ) , courtier , lover , minor writer , and adventurer , before he was killed in a fight in the late 16th Century . Ironically the term " the admirable Crichton " which was to complement the man for his achievements survived his actual achievements , so that he is but a footnote today . But the phrase now means ( when it is used ) that the person to whom it is applied is quite a clever and capable fellow in several fields . Barrie took this to examine society and it's hypocrisy . Lord Loam ( Laurence Naismith ) is an outspoken " Liberal " peer of the realm who talks a great deal about equality and democracy . But his daughter ( Virginia McKenna ) is going to be married to another aristocrat soon . But first Loam and his family are going on a short vacation to the south seas . With them is the family butler , Crichton ( Bill Travers ) , who is extremely capable to do all sorts of things that his betters just take for granted . He has good executive and organizational abilities as well . But he is from a class that produces butlers . Moreover he is supposedly engaged to one of the parlor-maids . The family and Crichton board a chartered yacht . Ah , but it is sunk in a collision off a deserted island , and while everyone survives the social order does not . Crichton is the only one in the group who knows how to survive . When some of the men try to put him in his place , he knocks them down firmly putting them in theirs . Soon Crichton is ruling the group and the island , and his Lordship and the others are his vassals . This includes Lady Mary ( McKenna ) who finds she and Crichton are in love . The turning point comes when their is a possibility of rescue : will Crichton send the signal or let it pass to continue his uninterrupted reign over his mental inferiors . It was only shown once , and I recall the performances were good , especially McKenna and Travers ( fresh from their film triumph in BORN FREE ) . One hopes it is released again one day - revivals of all of Barrie aside from PETER PAN are still quite rare .
The Plot To Control The White House	In 1939 Akim Tamiroff , Lloyd Nolan , Patricia Morrison , Mary Boland , Robert Warwick , and George Zucco , appeared in a film called THE MAGNIFICENT FRAUD . It was about a political murder in a Latin American country , and how an actor is forced to replace the murdered President to save the country in the middle of crucial negotiations . Tamiroff carried off the improbable plot very well , bringing a growing courage and determination to his actor who finds that he has a political conscience after all . Although the movie MOON OVER PARADOR had a similar plot to THE MAGNIFICENT FRAUD , it is DAVE that actually shows a greater link . This 1993 film deals with Dave Kovak ( Kevin Kline ) , a part-time actor and full time head of an employment agency ( where he is assisted by his friend and landlord Murray Blum ( Charles Grodin ) . Kline also plays President William Harrison Mitchell , and it is his resemblance that brings him to the attention of the head of the White House staff Bob Alexander ( Frank Langella - a very good performance ) and the Communication Director Alan Reed ( Kevin Dunn ) . They need Dave to replace the President for a few minutes after a speech . He just has to leave a hotel in place of Mitchell , and go to a limousine , and he'll be deposited back at his own address . The President can then go to another secret appointment ( for a tryst ) . Dave does what he is supposed to , but the President does not . Mitchell has a stroke . So Langella and Reed face contacting Vice President Nance ( Ben Kingsley ) to take over the administration . But Langella hates Nance ( he and Reed refer to the honest official as a " boy scout " ) . Langella realizes that as long as Dave continues playing the President the administration can continue until health issues allow him to quit . The real administration's brains will be Langella ( and Reed's to a smaller extent ) . Nance , in the meantime , can be framed in the failure of a Savings and Loan Company - one actually looted by Langella and the now incapacitated President . There are two flies in the ointment . One is Nance , who is sent on a long good-will trip to Africa ( while the framing takes place ) . The other is First Lady Ellen Mitchell ( Sigourney Weaver ) , who has been estranged by her husband for years . She might notice the difference . Actually there is a third . While the real President Mitchell was not overly concerned about the problems of his poorer countrymen , Dave is interested in this . He actually tries to make a difference , only to be quickly put into his place as a useful fraud by the arrogant Langella . Or has he been ? Soon Langella finds that his useful fraud puppet has a mind of his own , and a way to circumvent and humiliate Langella . Like all " perfect double " substitution movies this depends heavily on suspension of disbelief , but the cast plays very well . Witness the scenes between the stolid Secret Service man Duane Stevenson ( Vhing Rhames ) and Kline as Dave , who is trying to open up this guard by being friendly , only to find himself facing an official coldness on the issue of whether or not Rhames would take a bullet for him . Or the scene where Grodin comes to visit Dave at the White House , and helps him with a problem regarding balancing the national budget . Weaver , first hostile , than suspicious , and finally supportive , gives one of her two best comic performances ( witness her singing " Tomorrow " ) . The film is quite a nice comedy , and the appearance of a future Californian governor in one sequence adds a strange feeling to the film .
" From Head To Toe I'm A Gentleman ! "	I saw this with my family in Forest Hills in 1968 , and I recall how at the time the film was advertised as Bert Lahr's last great performance because he was supposed to have a major role in this valentine to the late , great days of the Burlesque shows that Lahr came out of . It's true he appears in the film , and that he died while it was being made , but his part was cut to ribbons due to his death ( obviously not enough of his role had been completed before he died , like John Candy in his last film and Spencer Tracy in his last film ) . But Lahr does have a final moment that always haunted me . More of that anon . The story ( how true it is I can't answer ) is how the tradition of the strip tease was created at the Minsky Burlesque House in New York City . The film follows the arrival of Britt Eckland ( Rachel Schpitendavel ) in Manhattan - she is an Amish girl who is running away from her way of life ( and her stiff-necked father , Harry Andrews ( Jacob Schpitendavel ) ) . She accidentally meets Lahr ( " Professor Spats " ) , who takes her to Minsky's to see if she can get a job there . The theater is run by Elliot Gould ( Billy Minsky ) who is the son of the owner Louis Minsky ( Joseph Wiseman ) . Gould gives her some work , and she soon is being pursued by the two lead comedians in the show ( Jason Robards - Raymond Paine ; Norman Wisdon - Chick Williams ) . Robards makes the biggest impression on her - getting her into bed . In the meantime Gould is being annoyed by Denholm Elliot ( Vance Fowler ) who is head of a moral crusade organization . He's also under pressures from his father Louis , who disapproves of the sexual content of the burlesque shows . When Andrews shows up , he is full of righteous fury towards the evil city and the evil theater as well . Eckland is now a chorus girl . SPOILER COMING UPWhen a furious Andrews finds his daughter on stage in a " skimpy " costume , he rips off part of it in disgust in front of the bored audience . This causes the audience to take notice . Eckland notices this too , and starts continuing to rip off her costume . It is the invention of the strip tease - and Elliot , of course , sends a signal for a raid by the police . The film ends with most of the cast under arrest , except for Robards , who leaves with deep regrets ( more in a moment ) and Lahr . Lahr enters the empty theater after the arrests , picks up a prop from the stage floor , and walked off stage . And the movie ended . You'd have to see the film fully to understand that Lahr's final appearance , silent as it was , was moving . Professor Spats ( for whatever remained of Lahr's part ) was a fragment of the past of burlesque - a once great clown of the show when it was a family entertainment . His last moment on stage alone , with no audience to see him , marked the end of his era . Robards played his role with real enthusiasm , as a second-rate comic and singer ( a burlesque " Archie Rice " ) who is also lecherous . He has some good numbers , including the tune I quote in the Summary Line . He does deflower Eckland , but in getting to know Eckland he also realizes she is out of her depth in the atmosphere of Minsky's . She really is a decent girl . He is opposed to her staying , and becoming part of the chorus line . And then comes her final act - inventing the strip tease . Robards is thoroughly ashamed of himself at the end , in helping bring this about . He leaves looking at Eckland as at a lost innocence . The show also includes a proper atmosphere for the burlesque theaters of the 1910 - 1930 period . Originally a junior partner to vaudeville , it degenerated into salacious jokes and bawdy skits ( and sexually alluring acts like strip tease and fan dancing ) . The audiences were mostly unemployed types who were more frequently asleep in the audience than watching the stage . Some great talents did arise ( Lahr , Abbott & Costello , Gypsy Rose Lee , Phil Silvers , Rags Ragland ) , but they were exceptions . It was end of the line entertainment , and it annoyed many people who were not fanatics like Denholm Elliot in the film . Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia did close down the New York burlesque theaters in the 1930s ( so - they reopened in New Jersey ) . The film does recapture the spirit of that time , and that , with Robarts , and Lahr's farewell to the screen , is definitely worthwhile as a film to watch .
The Shortage of Rubber in 1942	This movie is about how close the U . S . war effort ( and it's " arsenal of Democracy " image ) came to faltering in 1942 . The U . S . has been blessed with many natural resources that other country's don't have . Oil for example , or iron ore and steel . Or even huge forests of trees . But we are not a nation with huge stores of rubber . We are dependent on rubber supplies from abroad . Oddly enough one man had tried to counter this . In the teens of the 20th Century , Thomas Edison had become a close friend to Harvey Firestone , the tire king . Firestone had huge rubber plantations in Liberia , but was aware of the dangers to his shipping of rubber in World War I . He discussed the possibility of an alternative to rubber in the U . S . with Edison . It was the Wizard of Menlo Park's last big project , occupying his life until 1931 when he died . He found that golden rod came closest to being a viable substitute . But little was done with this discovery . In 1942 our rubber was coming from three areas of the globe , and none were next door to us . They were in Liberia and Brazil , both of which were across the Atlantic Ocean to the east or to the south . Nazi u-boats were making shipments from these areas difficult . The third was from southeast Asia , principally from French Indo - China or from Malaya and Indonesia . The movie RED DUST dealt with the rubber plantations in French Indo - China in the 1930s . The Japanese had these plantations and the ones in Malaya and Indonesia in their control from December 1941 onward . To counter the emergency , a rubber-collecting drive occurred across the country ( similar to tin and metal drives that children got involved in ) . But the U . S . government was quick to organize any method to get the rubber that was in Japanese hands . This movie dealt with the scheme that was planned that involved smuggling Rubber out of Malaya . Lionel Barrymore is John Manchester , the editor of the LOS ANGELES RECORD ( based on Manchester Boddy ) . He has gotten Jimmy Stewart , a reporter with a mixed record , to the U . S . Stewart knows about a way to get huge supplies of rubber to the U . S . under the nose ( theoretically ) of the Japanese . The plan requires the government springing his former friend Spencer Tracy , a big time smuggler , out of Alcatraz . With Tracy Stewart would go to Malaya ( with papers showing they are sailors from the neutral Eire - Irish Free State - of Eamon DeValera ) . They would hook up with Tracy's old friend " the Dutchman " ( Sidney Greenstreet ) and he would help find the local wharf rats ( including Gilbert Roland ) to assist the matter . They would have unlimited American gold to get the men they need , and to bribe the three largest plantation owners in the area ( Tom Helmore , Ian MacDonald , and Roland Winters ) . To sweeten the operation for Tracy , who will get a free pardon for his help , he is reunited with Valentina Cortesa - his girlfriend who works in Greenstreet's saloon . The film follows the whole operation , which ( on the whole ) is working well enough - but has it's dangers . The local Japanese Colonel is Richard Loo , who is suspicious ( if dismissive ) of westerners , and he soon zeros in on Tracy and Stewart as distinctly odd figures . And one of the three plantation owners , Winters , is a German . He is a greedy man , but he may be closer to the Japanese than the allies . The film works pretty well . My only complaint is the seeming waste of John Hodiak , who is a Federal agent and is seen for twenty minutes at the start of the film , but only turns up at the tail end of it to deliver a medal ( I won't say to whom ) . This was Sidney Greenstreet's last movie , and he does look a trifle ill , but he certainly maintains his best standards - as a philosophical gent who knows how to safely balance his friendship with Tracy and his " necessary " friendship with Loo ( his relationship with Loo , regarding gambling in his saloon , is similar to that of Rick Blaine with Captain Louis Renault in CASABLANCA ) . Winters plays his few scenes as an untrustworthy type well . Cortesa has a few good scenes with Tracy , including one where he has to forcibly cause her to leave him when she does not want him . Stewart's character believes in maintaining his own counsel . At the beginning he seems a hard bitten reporter who has seen the world and skirted the edge of the law a bit . He is cynical . Only later do we realize that a family tragedy has made him less cynical and more patriotic than we realized .
Portrait of a Sociopathic Villain	It is an odd film , and the elements that made it are rather disjointed , but THE MAN ON THE EIFFEL TOWER is actually quite rewarding in the long run . When it was made in 1950 it was rare for any of the novels of Georges Simenon to appear in American or British productions . In particular the novels of Inspector Maigret . Within a few years of this film , a second rare one ( THE MAN WHO WATCHED THE TRAINS GO BY ) was made with Claude Rains and Herbert Lom , and it too was a good film but ( like this ) just did not win a large audience . The interesting thing about Simenon's novels is that he concentrates on the characters , but he insists on making their behavior fit psychological patterns that rarely emerge in other popular detective novels up to his period of writing . Imagine Agatha Christie or Rex Stout making a novel turn on the psychological behavior of their villains . Dorothy Sayers did that occasionally ( most notably in GAUDY NIGHT , where the villain hates female scholars for a deeply felt reason ) . But Christie's Poirot and Mrs . Marple studied clues to see what were the course of events in a murder case - they were not interested in the motivation of the killer's actionsIn THE MAN ON THE EIFFEL TOWER , Franchot Tone's character dominates , although Laughton's Maigret is able to figure out how to handle him . Tone is a normal looking sociopath , who hears Robert Hutton lament his problems with gaining an inheritance that would settle his problems with his wife and mistress . Of course , Tone is aware that Hutton's position is a weak one , and he plans to do the crime but use it to blackmail Hutton for the lion share of the inheritance . The scheme does in Hutton's aunt and her servant , so that Hutton seems to be benefiting , but he is very skittish talking to Maigret and the other authorities , exciting their suspicions that he knows more than he is saying . When he is found dead they realize that he was very dangerous to the real killer . Tone is not only willing to let Hutton look guilty ( after he's squeezed money out of him for while ) . He is also willing to frame Burgess Meredith , who once had the temerity to be critical of Tone . He also has sadistic attitudes towards other figures who are not central to his scheme . He lures Hutton's wife ( Patricia Roc ) and his mistress ( Jean Wallace ) to the house where Hutton died , with the intentions of them meeting ( they literally hate each other ) so that they might kill each other off . It is doubtful if Tone ever played such a totally dislike-able person as M . Radek . Besides his sheer violence and willingness to destroy anyone he wants for his pleasure , he is an absolute intellectual snob . But Laughton's Maigret figures out how to undercut him - you ignore his comments and ideas openly , and he becomes confused . His ego is not ready for that type of rejection , and Tone suddenly acts sluggishly and with uncertainty - as though he is on anesthesia and has not come out from under it . In the end , Maigret shows that all the crimes Radek committed can be traced back to him . Radek knocks out the gendarme holding him , and he goes toward the Eiffel Tower , climbing higher and higher to avoid capture . And Maigret succeeds in forcing him down , when he tells him that he is not worthwhile risking their necks for . Maigret and the others leave Radek holding onto the side of the Eiffel Tower , and he suddenly realizes his danger . He follows them and is arrested . His last moment in this film have a marvelous tag line . As he is led to the guillotine , Tone / Radek turns to Laughton / Maigret and sneers , " I bet this is one place you will not follow me to Maigret . " A great conclusion to an interesting psychological study of a criminal .
Good episode with Jack Cassidy , but Thayer David has best moment	Jack Cassidy appeared in Columbo episodes on three occasions , but my favorite one was this episode dealing with " the Great Santini " , his magician par excellence . Cassidy is starring at a nightclub / dinner club owned by Nehemiah Persoff . The club spotlights David Copperfield level magicians , and Cassidy certainly is able to pull in customers . But he is not making the money he should be . The reason is that he is being bled every week out of half his income by Persoff . The latter , a rather nasty blackmailer and creep , latched onto Cassidy secret . In World War II he was Sergeant Muller , a 21 year old Nazi fanatic who was in the S . S . and responsible for many atrocities . He is a war criminal , and Persoff will inform the authorities unless 1 ) Cassidy remains his star at the club , and 2 ) Cassidy keeps paying him 50 % of his salary . It is a running theme in detective fiction that killing a blackmailer does not count . In the " Sherlock Holmes " stories , Charles Augustus Milverton is killed by a collateral victim of his vicious business , and Holmes and Watson learn who she is but don't inform Lestrade ( whose own attitude is , " Good riddance to the rubbish . " ) . Here Link and Levinson came up with an interesting twist on this . We don't like Persoff , but we really don't care for the egotistical Cassidy either . He is all career , with a little left over for his daughter and assistant , and quite cold to most people . He also has fragments of his past beliefs that show up . He disapproves of his daughter's boy friend and makes a comment about the latter's genetics and background . He comes up with a scheme to give himself an alibi during his stage performance , using a trick or two to convince people he is far from Persoff's office . But he kills Persoff ( who was typing a letter to the FBI regarding Cassidy's past at the time ) . In his care for the murder scene Cassidy takes the letter and burns it . He then sets it up to look like the unsavory Persoff was killed by underworld associates . Enter the Lieutenant , who just can't buy the theory regarding the Mob rubbing out Persoff . Instead he soon finds the trail pointing to the one man with an alibi of sorts : Cassidy . And the process of chipping away begins , with the Lieutenant trying to get background on Cassidy and finding it a path that gets very vague about 1947 or so . " I find that you were the Great Darlington or the Great Washington . " , he says to Cassidy . Cassidy says it was " Washington " . Falk asks , " What was the first name ? " . Cassidy answers , with a sneer , " Martha ! " . It is one of the best duels up to the conclusion , wherein Falk works some magic of his own to trap Cassidy , and present him with a past that won't disappear easily . But the best moment is actually Thayer David's . The portly and distinguished character actor only appeared in this one Colombo episode , and made the most of it : He is the owner of a magic store , and Falk is there to try to figure out what the trick is that Cassidy used for his alibi . David starts demonstrating a trick guillotine to Falk , and shows how to make it seem to pass through an object without destroying the object . Falk is fascinated but explains he is actually there to investigate Persoff's murder . Hearing about this , Thayer starts going into a mild diatribe against the deceased who was not popular among the magician fraternity because of his greed and trickery with contracts . Then after finishing it he suddenly realizes that he made himself look like a personal enemy of the deceased . He rapidly explains to Falk that he probably could get his brother-in-law and other people as alibis for his appearance at a family dinner on the night of the murder . Falk reassures him though that he was never a suspect . And then they discuss the possible explanation of the trick that Cassidy played . A good episode with few slow spots , I think it was one of the best of the series .
" So Long Elmer . . . Gee We Want To See You Go "	After the depressing late MGM films that Keaton did ( several in tandem with up-and-coming Jimmy Durante ) , after the divorce from Nathalie Talmadge , and a messy remarriage , and alcoholic binges , and an indifferent and vicious Louis B . Mayer , Buster hit probably the bottom of his career . But all things are relative . Keaton never was totally unemployed ( like his fellow Silent Film star John Gilbert ) , because he had other talents : as writer , gag men , and bit player . He also had name recognition , due to the strength of his performances in his silent masterpieces . So , despite a plethora of bad films he still could show what he was capable of . Working for " Educational Films " , Keaton made " Grand Slam Opera " in 1936 . I see it as a pretty funny film - one of an increasing number of shorts and small features that would keep him going until the 1950s brought his " rediscovery " by the public . It starts off with a spoof of a scene which many of you have seen done correctly in a film biography . If you recall the film YANKEE DOODLE DANDY , they have a scene from the George M . Cohan musical , Forty-Five Minutes From Broadway , where Fay Templeton ( Irene Manning ) is escorted by the beaus of her hometown to the train to New York City . They sing the tune , " So Long Mary " . Keaton purchased the rights to use the music with some altered lyrics for his film persona Elmer Butts from Cohan . Instead of boy friends or girl friends , or friends , Elmer ( Buster ) is accompanied by a lynch mob led by Bud Jamison . And they tell him how glad they are to see him leave , and not to come back . Elmer goes to New York City hoping to make his fame and fortune in entertainment . Spoofing Major Edward Bowes " Amateur Hour " , Elmer goes to appear on " Colonel Crow's " show on radio . Initially though the show ends before he can do anything . Soon he begins having a series of accidental meetings with another contestant . The young lady keeps telling him off , and he keeps asking her out to dinner . Elmer tries to practice juggling and acrobatics in his boarding house room . But the staff of the house come in and knock down sticks he is balancing , or he breaks his bed . He sees a picture of Fred Astaire , and tries to dance like that gentleman . It has been pointed out that the sequence here imitates Astaire's dancing on sand to put Ginger Rogers to sleep in TOP HAT the previous year , and that ( ironically enough ) Keaton even starts dancing around the room almost ( if not quite as artistically ) as Astaire would in ROYAL WEDDING in 1951 . Elmer returns to the radio program , and is forced to wait in a waiting room , where he does a series of dances to the folk music ( Scot , Irish , Russian , among others ) he hears from inside . Finally he returns and gets his chance , only to find that he is on an audio entertainment system and everything he does requires sight to appreciate . He tries to overcome this by describing the tricks and then performing them . Soon , however , he is at loggerheads with the orchestra conductor and Colonel Crow . He is thrown out . In disgrace , we see Elmer walking and hoboing across American , only to hear on radio that he is sought by the authorities : he won the first prize . We see him rapidly recross the country , get the prize ( and also upset the conductor again ) and finally get a chance to take out the girl . While not up to the standards of his work in the 1920s ( compare this with a short like ONE WEEK or COPS ) Keaton is quite inventive throughout the entire film . It was still possible , despite the extensive problems he was facing in his personal life , for Buster to show his creativity at this low point .
A Story That Always Fascinates - No Matter How Many Versions We See Of It .	The tale of the last great ruler of Ancient Egypt , Cleopatra , has been the subject of many films . Theda Bara played her in 1917 . That version ( if it still exists ) is rarely seen - and if it were the broad gestures of early silent movies would probably strike us as funny . Nearly twenty years later , in 1934 , Claudette Colbert did a wonderful job as the Queen of the Nile under the guidance of Cecil B . DeMille . In 1946 England produced CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA with Claude Rains sharing acting honors with Vivien Leigh , to dialog by Bernard Shaw . Finally came this 1963 version - which is different from most of the others ( the 1946 is the closest to it for a different reason ) . The 1963 version with Elizabeth Taylor , Richard Burton , and Rex Harrison is remembered for the beginning of the Taylor - Burton relationship which destroyed their respective marriages , and got more news coverage than any items of that period except for the Cuban Missile Crisis and the assassination of President Kennedy . The film is also remembered for being ( up to that time ) the most expensive " flop " film of American movie history . It cost ( in 1963 money ) twenty five million dollars , which was nearly twenty two million over original budget . Which is why the 1946 version is also so similar - it was the most expensive film of the British cinema up to that time , and it too was a box office flop . The film was a mess - it was started without decent control of budget and cast from 20th Century Fox's leadership . The original filming was in England under Rouben Mamoulian , but he got no where with his stars ( they included Peter Finch as Caesar and Stephen Boyd as Anthony ) . He was replaced by Joseph Mankiewicz , at the demand of Taylor ( who had worked well with him on SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER ) . Mankiewicz tried to give coherence to the script - and eventually created a plan for a six hour , two part movie first about Cleopatra and her romance with Gaius Julius Caesar , and then her relationship with Marc Anthony . Mankiewicz apparently shot that much ( or almost that much ) but the leadership at 20th Century Fox was changed , and Darryl Zanuck returned to command . Zanuck insisted on a single long film - the four hour version that most of us have seen . Despite the cuts , the remaining film is quite a worthy one . It is attacked as pompous because the dialog is more formal than ours - it is based on Plutarch , Suetonius , and other ancient Latin and Greek historians , as well as Shakespeare ( and a little of Shaw ) . But the basic story of the princess who fought her way to the oldest throne in the ancient world , and twice came close to being the lover / wife of the most powerful man in the Roman Empire . The supporting cast is fine , including Hume Cronym as an Egyptian adviser to Taylor , and ( possibly the best performance ) Roddy MacDowell as Octavian ( later Emperor Augustus ) who is a compound of brains , suspicions , and respect for his foes . Look at the end when he berates a soldier for dismissing Anthony as a drunken failure , reminding the soldier that he was one of Rome's greatest soldiers . Mankiewicz may lack De Mille's gift for special effects ( only eight years after THE TEN COMMANDMENTS ) but there were no miracles in the tale of Cleopatra - she used her wiles , her intelligence , her looks to beguile to powerful men , who also saw her as a key to their own ambitions . So there was no " parting of the Red Sea " here . But there is a fine production of the naval battle at Actium to really climax the second part of the story . For all the expense , the ego clashes , and the pompous language , CLEOPATRA remains a good epic film retelling of a remarkable ancient figure and her world . It's nice to note that after twenty years , it finally made a small profit from television rentals , foreign distribution , and later videos and DVDs .
Six Comedians in Clover , but the funniest line belongs to Bradley Page	It is not always certain that by mixing comedians together you will produce laughter . The comics involved have to actually like or admire each other , or be willing to put up with each other's crankiness . GO WEST with the Marx Brothers had Buster Keaton write the script as a gag man . Groucho did not think too highly of Keaton's ideas , and embarrassed him at a script meeting . And though some of Keaton's gems still appear in the finished film ( such as the gun that turns into a brush that turns into a gun ) the film was one of the weakest the Marx Brothers ever made . A better film , but also affected by dueling comic egos , was W . C . Fields and Mae West in MY LITTLE CHICKADEE , which jettisoned the script for a series of duels of one liners between the leads . But the one liners were equally funny , so the film remains a success . But SIX OF A KIND is an example of six film comics who worked well together . The reason is simple : it is really three comic teams working together : Charlie Ruggles and Mary Boland , George Burns and Gracie Allan , and W . C . Fields and Alison Skipworth . Ruggles and Boland were paired in about half a dozen comedies during the 1930s , usually with Boland as a somewhat bossy wife , and Ruggles as a nervous wreck of a husband . Fields ( usually a single act ) was paired three times with Skipworth ( TILLY AND GUS and IF I HAD A MILLION were the other two times ) . Skippy always figured out how to control or counter the larcenous activities of her man - it the present film she takes action into her own hands with the stolen money that is being searched for ( she knows that the local sheriff , Fields , is not the one to trust with this ) . As for Burns and Allan they manage to effortlessly involve themselves with the put upon Ruggles and Boland on their cross-country trip by car . Ruggles quickly gets to realize what a mistake it was to agree to travel with Gracie - at one point she manages to cause him to fall off a cliff , and dangle from a branch . He is relatively helpless when she insists on 1 ) photographing him on his perch , and 2 ) correcting his grammar . The presence of George and Gracie's humongous dog ( " Ran Tang Tang " is it's name ) does not make travel arrangements easier for Charlie and Mary . Fields has some choice moments . When he insists on shouting at the quartet , he says he's allowed to do so - he's the sheriff ! He also explains , during a pool game , the improbable story of how he got his undeserved moniker " Honest John " . You have to listen carefully to the tale , as it is interrupted with his attempts to play pool a few times ( once getting accidentally beaned by a billiard ball ) , but it does show that there were items that even Fields would have had no reason to steal . Oh , in the " Summary Line " , I mentioned a forgotten actor named Bradley Page - he was the man who is responsible for the trouble that Charley Ruggles is suspected of . Bradley has to have a reason to leave town in order to catch up with the unwary Ruggles and Boland , so he telephones his girl friend . He tells her to call back his job and say that he has to leave town because somebody has died . There is a pause as he apparently hears a question shot back by the girlfriend . " ANYBODY ! " , he says - clearly annoyed . Although the bulk of the humor in the film is carried by the sextet of performers , Mr . Page happened to have the most amusingly unexpected line in the film .
I almost wish the film had ended slightly differently , but it is terrific	It is a very simple plot . A Nazi U-boat has been doing it's dirty work in the North Atlantic , but has to get supplies . It enters the northern part of Hudson's Bay , and the Nazis look at the Canadian landscape and spit . But they send a boat out to seek supplies and do some more damage . Unfortunately they are spotted by RCAF bombers who sink the submarine . The lifeboat with those sent for forage are the only survivors . The film's plot is how , in trying to get out of the thousands of miles of Canadian territory to the then neutral United States , the Nazis are slowly whittled down one by one in a variety of ways , until the last one ( the officer in charge - Eric Portman ) is captured at the end . It is the role most people recall Portman for ( his interesting murder mystery story , DEAR MURDERER is runner up ) . He is an icy Nazi leader , who espouses all the racial crackpot ideas and anti-democratic feelings created in Berlin . He does show weariness as the journey keeps going on and on and on , but to almost the end he is committed to his country and its doctrines - although it is nice to see him in a fright and frustration at the end ( realizing he will probably be hanged for his crimes in Canada at the end ) . Along the way he and his men meet different types . They find Lawrence Olivier as a French trapper with Finley Currie as the Scotts Factor . They think Olivier ( who espoused anti-government comments ) is a fifth columnist , until he starts poking holes into their treatment of " allies " or secondary nationalities in their homeland ( which makes the treatment of French Canadians by English Canadians almost look like a friendly peccadillo ) . They kill Olivier , but one is shot by an Eskimo friend of his . Another is killed in a plane they stole that crashes . They then reach a " Hutterite " settlement thinking it was part of the " masterplan " of sending German agents into Canada's heartland to be ready to spring up . Anton Walbrook ( in an excellent speech ) tells them they did not come to be militarists in America . Glynnis Johns also tells them off . Niall MacGinnis ( the one really nice guy among the Nazis ) tries to leave them , but they shoot him as a deserter ( which is reminiscent of the treatment of German deserters by regular German troops in some American P . O . W . camps in late 1944 ) . Portman and two other trek on , attacking and robbing a traveler , and stealing his car and clothes . They reach a public event , only one of them being discovered when his nerve fails . Portman and John Chandos reach a camp site where they find cultured , urbane , writer sportsman Philip Armstrong Scott ( Leslie Howard ) who gets on their nerves by his love of Picasso and Thomas Mann , and his manuscript for an anthropology book on Indian tribes which takes swipes on the Nazi regime . They destroy his manuscript , his copy of THE MAGIC MOUNTAIN , and his Picasso , and rob him . However , as they flee , Chandos turns on Portman ( whom he considers an idiot for the loss of most of the comrades ) , and knocks him out . As a result Chandos faces Howard in the end , who knocks the swine out cold . Portman faces Andy Brock ( Raymond Massey - the only actual Canadian star in the film , by the way ) , who is late getting back from a weekend pass . He too has badmouthed the government regulations , so after Portman knocks him out and exchanges clothes with him , when Massey comes to and complains Portman reminds him that even he had complained of governmental inefficiency before . Massey points out that at least he has the right to speak his mind , something not to be found in Nazi Germany . When they cross the Niagara River and enter the U . S . , Massey turns the table on Portman with the aid of two American guards ( whom Portman makes the mistake of handing over his pistol to ) . It seems Massey and Portman were not brought into Canada as legally as Portman thought . The final moments , with the gun all the way out of Portman's reach and he and Massey behind an iron bar grill ( like a jail ) are marvelous , with Portman getting the beating of his life as Massey takes back his uniform and the train passes back to Canada . However , in my more anti-German / anti-Nazi moments I have had a secret wish that the ending had been different . Powell and Pressburger had wanted to make the film as a propaganda piece about the threat of the Nazis to America , and it is well established for such purpose . But if the train had gone across the river on December 11 , 1941 , and Massey was knocked unconscious again so that he could not stop ( if he wanted to ) Portman , a different ending could have been arranged . Imagine if one of the guards had been the father of a sailor on the Arizona or the Reuben James ( sunk off Iceland by a U-Boat in the fall of 1941 ) , and Portman had not heard that his pals in Berlin had just declared war on the U . S . as allies of Imperial Japan . And that was the guard who was given Portman's gun . The ending could have been far more interesting though the results would have been similar .
Bing's Darkest Character	It is Bing Crosby's acting swan song , and a worthy one . Except for his brilliant recovering alcoholic stage star in THE COUNTRY WIFE , and an occasional display of anger in his other films ( note his speech at Emperor Franz Josef about the puppies at the end of the THE EMPEROR WALTZ ) , Bing is always notable for his wonderful even temper . Dr . Cook gave him his chance of pulling out the stops . Burl Ives had played the role briefly on stage , and actually got good reviews ( the play seemed too slight to the critics , and to New York audiences ) . The story is this : Frank Converse is Dr . Jimmy Tennyson , who is returning to his small home town to work with the man whom he always admired the most , Dr . Leonard Cook ( Bing ) . Cook is the ideal small town doctor ( reminiscent of his young doctor who goes to the New England Town to assist Barry Fitzgerald in WELCOME STRANGER ) . He is warm and kindly , and full of common sense . He also has a green thumb , being usually in his personal garden when not with his patients . So Converse is very happy to be working with his emotional / educational mentor . But in now working closer with Cook , Dr . Tennyson begins to notice that there are some odd deaths that accrue in the town . People will ask Cook to come in for some minor cold or something like that , and will be dead in twenty four hours . Tennyson soon begins to notice that the people who die so suddenly are not really mourned . His girlfriend , Janey Raustch ( Blythe Danner ) , points out that many of them were notoriously bad tempered neighbors , cruel to their families or to pets or other people , or drunkards who made life hellish for others , and so they aren't missed . Eventually Tennyson starts questioning Cook , and after some attempts at shrugging off Tennyson's questions Cook begins to admit that the not-to-loved departed were possibly sped on their way with Cook's assistance . Tennyson is ( naturally ) astounded to hear that Cook has been poisoning ( with overdoses of morphine and other drugs ) these patients . Cook looks upon the town as a grander version of his garden , and these bad people as the equivalent of the weeds that he removes from his real garden . The tension is the story is how Tennyson finds the growing number of dead " bad " people affecting his own conscience , and how his uncertainty is effecting his relationship with Cook , who is beginning to wonder if Tennyson is another weed to remove . SPOILER COMING UP : Cook does go after Tennyson , but suffers a heart attack ( his health has been in decline for awhile ) . As he is dying , Tennyson runs over with Cook's medication and can give it to him , but hesitates and realizes that Cook may not deserve to live if he is a murderer . Cook sees the hesitation , and ( with a quiet irony ) says to Tennyson that now he sees how really easy what Cook has been doing is . And Cook dies after saying this . Crosby acting sinisterly is quite a novelty for his fans , and his final moments include chasing Converse with intent to kill him . It was quite a performance , matched by Converse and Danner ( who gradually realizes what Converse has discovered ) . This television film has not been shown in many years , but if it is revived one day catch it . It was Bing's last moment to shine on screen .
Eric Ambler's Masterpiece ?	In the pantheon of fine thriller and adventure novelists of the 20th Century , Eric Ambler has always been in a shadow . He began writing in the 1930s , and continued turning out novels ( and screenplays ) until his death in the 1980s . With a few exceptions these novels were all quite good . But he was in the shadow of his fellow Britain Graham Greene . Greene ( like Ambler ) wrote political thrillers and spy novels , but Greene ( a serious supporter of Catholicism ) was able to examine the universal hold of the Catholic religion in his novels like " The End Of The Affair " and " The Power And The Glory " . In particular , like Alfred Hitchcock , Greene enjoyed looking at how guilt makes us all shared sinners - like his Candide traveler innocent Holly Martins plunged into betraying his old friend Harry Lime in " The Third Man " . Ambler never ( sorry to say this ) had that kind of depth in his writing . He did reveal the hidden connections between economic realities and international politics in books like " A Coffin For Demetrios " , or " Cause For Alarm " or " The Intercom Conspiracy " . But he was not pushing a religious agenda and philosophy in his novels . So while he had ( and still has ) deserved popularity and readers , he never could achieve the thoughtful criticism that Greene could ( and still does ) arouse . His 1963 novel , " The Light Of Day " , was a kind of break from his usual . Instead of concentrating a plot dealing with the political realities of Europe or the Far East , " The Light Of Day " was a first person narrative of one Arthur Simpson ( played in the film by Peter Ustinov ) . Simpson is a small time con-man , who is hired to transport a car secretly full of illegal weapons to Istanbul from Greece . As relations between the two countries were fragile ( and still are ) , it would not be good for him to be caught by the Turkish Secret Service with those weapons . Unfortunately for him he is so caught . The mastermind of the crime has set things up for the registration of the car and the bill of sale for the arms to be in Simpson's name . But the frantic man manages to convince the Turkish officer interrogating him to believe he knew nothing about the weapons . Simpson has to continue on his way to Istanbul to keep an eye on the people behind this . He is kept on as a chauffeur , and subsequently discovers that the weapons are not part of an assassination plot or a plan to overthrow the government , but part of a robbery scheme . That is the plot of the novel . But Ambler makes Simpson an engaging rogue , and one fully ambivalent to the forces that make him feel like a tennis ball . By the time the novel is finished one does not care for the cynic who plans the crime , or for the Turkish police official . Both only see the fruition of their plans as important . Simpson is quite amusing , first in his honesty in seeing what a lowly toad of a small-time crook he is , and secondly his repeated abilities to create situations that make him believe he is controlling events when he really is not in such a position . As a comic novel , this may be Ambler's masterpiece . When the novel was turned into this first rate crime caper comedy , Jules Daissin had been making films in Europe for over a decade . Starting in Hollywood in the late 1940s , his best work ( " The Naked City ) suggested a major career in film here . But Daissin had left wing political ideas , and he was blacklisted . Unlike many of the victims of the blacklist , Daissin moved to France and continued movie making . His biggest hit was " Rafifi " , his painstaking look at a crime heist ( a jewelry robbery , no less ) , where he played the lead role as the safe cracker . The movie also showed the success of the robbery collapse when the thieves fall out over personal matters . After his marriage to Melina Mercouri , Daissin moved to Greece , and would make his two masterpiece comedies " Topkapi " and " Never On Sunday " ( again he starred as Homer , opposite Mercouri in that film ) . But Daissin also took advantage , when he made " Topkapi " , to alter the script . In the novel there is no character like Mercouri's Elizabeth Lipp . The scheme is totally planned by the male character that Maximillian Schell plays . The weapons are involved in the jewel robbery scheme , but here there is a difference that Daissin brought into Ambler's story . Simpson ( in the novel ) never goes into great detail about the robbery - he is only there as the chauffeur for the getaway car , so he is sitting outside when the robbery takes place . But for the creator of RIFIFI , Daissin could not resist creating a second complicated robbery scheme , involving setting up an alibi at a public wrestling match , delaying the movement of a lighthouse , using pulleys and tackle to lower a man through a window into the main room of a museum , and criss-crossing the Topkapi Palace / Museum roof without being seen . He does this very well . The cast ably assists , with Mercouri as an honest nymphomaniac who loves jewelry , Schell as her partner and sometimes lover , Robert Morley as a mechanical genius who manages to wipe axle grease on his face in a quick comedy highlight , Akim Tamiroff as a drunken Turkish cook who hates the foreigners ( except Simpson ) and only likes the British , and best - Ustinov as the sweaty , hopelessly over-his-head Simpson . It was a role that won Ustinov his second Best Supporting Actor Oscar . I notice there is a lament that , despite the ending , there was never any sequel film . I suspect this was due to Ambler , who did write a second novel narrated by Simpson , about a land grab in Africa . It is not as good as " The Light Of Day " , and has never been filmed .
If One Has To Choose Between an Unpleasant Tasting Truth and a Moving Lie , Choose the Lie !	It's not the most memorable comedy with either of it's two stars , nor did it get more than mediocre reviews when it came out , but HOUSESITTER is actually quite an interesting comedy . It certainly is much more than the one joke everyone who critiqued the film jumped on . At the start of the film , Newton Davis ( Steve Martin ) is taking his long-time fiancé ( Becky Medcalf - Dana Delany ) on a car ride where Becky is blindfolded . Newton has promised her a surprise . He drives her to the surprise , and she takes off the blindfold . It is a two story , specially designed private home that he has built for her , and has even put a huge ribbon around for her to pull off while he proposes marriage to her . The house with the ribbon around it is the joke that was pinpointed by the critics as the best gag - and it was done too early they claimed . Actually it was done pretty well . For Becky is speechless , until she explains to Newton that she wants an end to their dating and sexual relationship . As this ignores the expense and time of Newton in creating and building that house , her announcement that their relationship is over demolishes him . Returning to Boston and feeling dejected , Newton goes to a dinner at a Hungarian Restaurant in honor of the head of the architectural firm ( Roy Cooper ) that ends in quasi-disaster when Newton gets his boss angry . As he tries to pick up the tatters he has left , he talks to a waitress named Gwen Philips ( Goldie Hawn ) and mentions the house he's built . Gwen ( who has had problems with her boss , which has just cost her her apartment ) , realizes that Newton has given her a possible place to reside in for awhile . So she moves to the house . And she soon is acquiring credit with various local townspeople claiming that she and Newton have married and she's setting up the house . Newton also heads for the house , debating on when he can sell it or tear it down . He's surprised to get dozens of congratulations for his marriage , and when he confronts Gwen she offers him a deal . He still wants to win back Becky ( who is astonished that he has gotten married so quickly ) . Gwen will remain his " wife " as long as possible for him to make Becky jealous and willing to marry Newton ( once he gets a " divorce " ) . It's interesting to compare this fake marriage with INDISCREET , CACTUS FLOWER , and OVERBOARD . In the first Cary Grant made up a non-existent wife so he could have an " above-board " romance with no strings attached with Ingrid Bergman , but when she learns of it she teaches him a lesson by pretending she's been carrying on with an old flame . In the second Walter Matthau invents a non-existent wife for a similar reason to romance Goldie Hawn , but when she reveals the depth of her love for him coupled with her insistence that her husband has to be truthful , Matthau has to make his nurse / receptionist ( again Ingrid Bergman ) his " wife " in order to create an " amicable divorce " . In OVERBOARD , after being abandoned by conniving husband Edward Herrmann , amnesiac sufferer Goldie Hawn is convinced by her " husband " Kurt Russell that she is the mother of his sons . Here the so-called " wife " sets up the situation for her own benefit , and her so-called husband goes along because it will enable him to reunite ( maybe ) with his original lover . What I find particularly fascinating in HOUSESITTER is that as the movie unfurls , and there are more and more stories that have to be created to give a background to the " marriage " of Gwen and Newton , more and more people on the periphery get drawn in , and even when they have doubts about the stories end up not only affirming they are true , but seemingly embracing them . The best example is Richard Schull and Laurel Cronin as Ralph and Mary . Both are middle aged derelicts who know Gwen ( who helped give them food near the restaurant ) . When Newton's parents ( Donald Moffett and Julie Harris ) want to meet Gwen's parents , she brings in Ralph and Mary . This includes cleaning them off , draining them of their alcoholic haze , and giving them clothes . Ralph soon falls into line - he likes having a nice daughter . He also talks about his services in World War II . And since he and Mary are cleaned now , he is showing more consideration to his old fellow drunkard , and she's starts embracing the lies . Later , there is a dinner party at the new house , and Newton's boss is among the guests ( he is very impressed at the way Newton designed the house ) . It turns out the boss was in the theater of war that Ralph was claiming he was in . At first the boss is doubting this , but as the evening goes on he starts embracing the idea that Ralph was not only there , but fighting side-by-side with him against the Japanese ! They are not the only ones . It actually hits every character as the film continues because everyone realizes the lies are more pleasant than the truth . And the last one to learn this is Newton - just watch his moment of " lie " when comparing Gwen and Becky and realizing which of the two is really worth more . I don't think there is any other comedy where truth took such a beating before or since .
A Fascinating Portrait of Turn - Of - The - Century - America	When RAGTIME was published in 1980 it was a big best seller , establishing E . L . Doctorow as a leading popular novelist , and also showing the way to Mr . Doctorow to future literary work set in other periods of American history . It was optioned for the movies , and became a hit of the 1981 film season . Guaranteeing it's success was the announcement that after nearly two decades ( except for some minor television appearance dealing with conservation ) James Cagney was going to reappear in the film , in an important supporting part : the somewhat corrupt New York City Police Commissioner Rhinelander Waldo . Actually RAGTIME had several " old time " faces in it . Cagney's pal , and frequent co-star , Pat O'Brien played Harry Thaw's lawyer Delphin Delmas . And in a smaller part , Donald O'Connor appeared as a singer and dance teacher who was part of the cast of " Mademoiselle Champaign " , the musical that was being shown at the Madison Square Garden on June 18 , 1906 ( the night architect Stanford White was shot and killed by millionaire Harry K . Thaw ) . Interestingly enough , when I first saw RAGTIME , it was at a theater that stood on Northern Blvd . , in Queens . There were two theaters , one showing RAGTIME and one showing GHOST STORY , a film that starred Fred Astaire ( his last film ) , John Houseman , Melvin Douglas , and Douglas Fairbanks Jr . The affect of seeing all these old time actors on the marquee of the theater was to make me look at the cars on the road to make sure they did not all have rumble seats and running boards . The story was cut in the final movie that was shown . Emma Goldman and Harry Houdini , among other real characters , were in the shot film , but their sections were cut ( in some DVDs theses sections are sometimes shown as extras ) . Houdini's role was rather important , for in the plot he was supposed to demonstrate an escape trick to the Younger Brother ( Brad Dourif ) that he was going to use later on to aid Coalhouse Walker's gang ( Howard Rollins ) . Emma was supposed to represent the rise of labor as a force against the powers of the rich . She also was to undercut the blare of the Hearst Press regarding the White Murder Case , which was called the " Crime of the Century " . " How can it be the crime of the century , " Emma asks with amazement , when the century is only six years old ? " J . P . Morgan and Henry Ford also appear , forming a club for themselves only as America's two richest men , and going to Egypt on an archaeological trek . Morgan's mansion and library ( still there on East 32nd Street and Madison Avenue ) and Ford's Model T play important roles in the story too . Doctorow's novel was to show the growing pains of what is modern America , with the rise of American power under Teddy Roosevelt , the rise of immigrants and their contributions ( Goldman , Tateh the future movie pioneer : Mandy Pantikin ) , the rise of African-American self-respect and struggle for equality ( Coalhouse / Rollins ; his wife Sarah / Debbie Allens ) , the power of the rich ( Harry Thaw's crazy acquittal - the " Million dollar defense " : Robert Joy ; and the deus ex-machina appearance of Waldo / Cagney to settle the final confrontation ) . The complications of the story are the collision of groups seeking equality and power , from the past ( the rich , the family that hires Coalhouse's wife Sarah ) , the African-Americans , the immigrants ( Houdini , Tateh ) . Inside the groups are conflicts . They younger brother becomes a committed revolutionary , while his older brother ( James Olsen ) is a remnant of conservative seeming sanity . Coalhouse finds his violent activism ( which is due to personal tragedy caused by bigots ) is opposed by America's leading African-American educator ( Dr . Booker T . Washington : Moses Gunn ) . Washington believes in self-respect earned by a bootstrap approach that will gain the admiration and support of the better elements of the White majority . Ironically , after he has helped unman Coalhouse towards the end of the story , Waldo and the other whites push him aside as though they consider him little better than , say , a Pullman Car porter ! The film was well directed by Milos Forman . The acting was quite good , including Cagney who was rather infirm at the time , but who is shown to advantage , and has his last good part . It was nice to see him going out on a high note here . Rollins was very promising , and it is a pity that he died so young from A . I . D . S . with so little shown for his talent . I can go down the list , including a brief performance by Norman Mailer as the ill-fated White . But take special note of Kenneth McMillan ( as Willie Conlin ) who is the bigoted fireman who mistreats Coalhouse and causes the tragedies . He is pretty good as a malevolent slob ( or piece of slime ) who ends up a pawn in a final game of sudden death that ends the movie .
A Delightful Pirate Romp with an atypical Matthau	Walter Matthau played many villains in his career , but his performance of the greasy , dirty , thoroughly charismatic Thomas Bartholemew Red is one of the best . Pulling out all stops ( presumably with the blessings of director Roman Polanski ) Matthau acted as the personification of guile and greed . He is seen floating on a raft at the beginning with his one loyal crewman " Frog " ( Chris Campion ) , and are rescued by a Spanish galleon that they learn is carrying a treasure ( a golden throne ) and the daughter of a Spanish Governor . Matthau gets started stirring up the crew's discontent , in order to take over the galleon . But despite his stratagems , it is not easy - due to the countermeasures of Don Alfonso De la Torres ( Damien Thomas ) , who is as ruthless in his way as Matthau is . This film would be memorable for just one moment I never forgot - to stir up the crew to mutiny , Red and Frog " find " a dead rat in the crew's food . The rat is brought to the attention of Torres . Instead of stammering apologies , Torres asks the pertinent question if any other rats were found in the food or on the ship . The crew thinks about it , and have to admit none were . So there is only this rat . Torres looks at the rat , and points out it looks like it isn't ' even the type of rat found on boats at sea . It looks like a land rat - in which case , the rat was planted . So who found it ? Red and Frog are brought forward . Torres does not beat them . He takes his sword , and cuts the dead rat in half . He gives half to each man , and tells to eat it . With some self-control , both men finish their half of the rat ! Later was another scene regarding camera angles and bathtub shots . Roy Kinnear was playing a seventeenth century fence , who is useful to Matthau and the other pirates , but universally disliked ( he gets his cut from the treasures , but he never puts his own life on the line regarding getting the treasures ) . Kinnear is taking a bath when Captain Red is announced . He knows that Red particularly dislikes him . A moment later Red is standing before the naked Kinnear in his steaming tub . While a disgusted Kinnear watches ( we see Red from the back ) the pirate urinates into Kinnear's bathtub . Any film with two sequences like that is unforgettable and entertaining .
Interesting shortened form of the play and the movie .	Andy Griffith made a name for himself in the play NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS on Broadway . It , combined with his devilishly good performance as the anti-hero in A FACE IN THE CROWD established him as a star . And like Lonesome Roads , he turns to television for stardom - soon to crystallize in THE ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW . But he also did this television version of NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS in 1955 , a few years before his movie version with Myron McCormick and Nick Adams . It was shown on television about ten years ago with some other long unseen television dramas , such as the original REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT with Jack Palance , and THE COMIC with Mickey Rooney and Edmund O'Brien . The productions were doubly interesting , not only for the performances of the actors but for the changes in the films from the television versions . The movie version of NO TIME gave more freedom of movement than the restrictions of the sound stage Griffith and the other actors had , but this was overcome by having frequent use of light effects darkening sections of the set when the action was completed . It sort of helps the production as Will Stockdale is telling the story ( Will is also something of a narrator in the film as well ) . Thus as he completes one incident or adventure the darkening of the stage seems like the close of a memory . The actors are quite different . Harry Clark , the actor in the role of Sergeant King ( Myron McCormick's part ) is more down to earth , if still confused - McCormick seemed high strung at times ) . Clark gave a very good performance , but he died in 1956 , so his career in television or movies never got far . The role of the trouble making Lucky ( the character had a different regular name in the movie , but was played by Murray Hamilton ) is played here by Bob Hastings , who would later be on Lt . Carpenter in MCHALE'S NAVY . Hastings gave a good performance , but the arrogance that Hamilton brought to the part is missing . Somehow Nick Adams made Ben Whitledge a nervous recruit who was somewhat more intelligent ( in normal ways ) than Will , but unable to restrain his attacks of panic . Eddie Leroy was capable in the part , but nothing as special as Adams . But there is one interesting variation , and with the one actor in the television production who is well recalled besides Griffith . In the film James Mulhollin had been a psychiatrist who gave a Will a psychiatric test that blew up ( quite memorably ) in his face . Not only did Will come across as normal , but Mulhollin's doctor turned out to be unintentionally neurotic . In the television version , Will's confrontation is with Adnia Rice as a WAF Captain whom Will ( with his southern upbringing ) can't think of as an air force officer , and this brings him to the attention of the camp shrink played by Robert Emhardt . He has as little success with Will as Mulhollin does in the movie version , and finally chases Will out of his office . A moment later it turns out ( when the spot on the set where Emhardt's office is located ) we see the rotund , bald actor , having a moment of stolen passion with the WAF CAPTAIN . The film ends with Will and Ben leaving the camp , not going through the section about the nuclear test and the erroneous award ceremony . However , Sgt . King does end up stuck with the two men just as he does when the film ends - but not looking as stunned as McCormick does - just unhappy . It is an amusing version , and one hopes if the film is put on DVD they include this for comparison .
Love Takes A Holiday - And Grows Up A Little	After making four relatively minor films as sound movies , Douglas Fairbanks Sr . concluded his career with a good film . No ROBIN HOOD or THE BLACK PIRATE perhaps , but THE PRIVATE LIFE OF DON JUAN managed to give a coda to his career as screen presence , by giving him the role of a legendary lover who discovers that age catches up with legends . Made in England by Alexander Korda , THE PRIVATE LIFE OF DON JUAN was one of a series of " historical " dramas and biographies ( here a pseudo-biography ) by Korda that would include Henry VIII , Rembrandt , and Catherine the Great as subjects . As a result , the cast includes such Korda familiar faces as his wife Merle Oberon and Binnie Barnes . Fairbanks ' Don Juan is over fifty , but still exuberant , and still a master of seduction . However his wise valet Leporello ( Melville Cooper in a nicely phrased performance ) is getting tired ( after decades of such work ) of helping extricate his master from various sexual escapades . Perhaps they were more tolerable when Juan was twenty or thirty , or even forty , but a middle-aged man of fifty should settle down . Years earlier Juan had married ( legally ) Dona Dolores ( Benita Hume - later , in real life , Mrs . Ronald Colman ) . Hume wants him to come to his senses and return to her - she's aware he is not the romantic hero of the age anymore . Cooper is aware of this and soon is working with Hume to manipulate Fairbanks into growing up . A chance helps them . A young fool is going around Seville pretending to be Juan , and steals into the house of Juan to learn the master's secrets . He also steals some personal items of Juan , and soon afterward is caught in the house of a young married woman by her husband ( Gibson Gowland - " McTeague " in Von Stroheim's GREED ) , who reluctantly challenges him to a duel . Gowland is reluctant because Don Juan's reputation is a class A fencer . However the impostor is not as good , and is run through . News spreads that the great lover has been finally killed by a cuckolded husband . Gowland's popularity shoots up , and the women in Seville go into morning . Fairbanks is initially going to straighten out the issue , but is " convinced " by Cooper to take advantage of it to get away and have a vacation . He decides to do that , pretending he is a retired sea captain and going to a sea port . Here he soon is pursuing his old interests , but he finds that the young woman he " attracted " wants him to assist her in contacting her real boyfriend ( she thinks Fairbanks is a wise old man who can help her ) . Similarly , when he approaches Binnie Barnes , the maid in the inn , she's willing - if he buys her really nice presents of jewelry ( he gives her some in disgust ! ) . The inn-keeper ( about five or six years older than Fairbanks ) offers him a chance for marriage . He is now thoroughly tired of the vacation , and returns home . But everyone thinks he is dead - he can't convince anyone he is not dead . He sees a play about his life in a theater and interrupts ( a situation like that of Baron Von Munchausen in the 1989 movie ) . But everyone there , including Gowland and Oberon - a former lover - refuse to acknowledge this old man as the great dead man . He is laughed off the stage . But Cooper is there to guide him to Hume , and the film ends with Fairbanks realizing that Hume expects him to be as passionate and expert as a lover - and will never laugh at him like the others . Fairbanks happily accepts the final situation with relief . It was a marvelous performance , showing Douglas Fairbanks at his best , in all but youthful vigor . It gave him a final film of stature to end with . Maybe he could have continued into good character roles , but as he to end somewhere , this film was a good place to end .
Six " Lost " Films Revived	It is a happy moment when something that has been absent for awhile returns in good shape . On Wednesday , April 4 , 2007 Turner Classic Movies ( hosted by Robert Osborne ) played ( for the first time in sixty years ) three of six films that had been out of circulations due to some complicated court settlements involving RKO studios and their producer Merriam Cooper . All the films are from well preserved negatives , so these films looked fresh as well . Whether they hold up as well as they did in the 1930s is another matter . I happen to like them , but they are not missing gems - it's not like finding one of those great " Holy Grails " like the complete GREED or the complete Welles ' MAGNIFICENT AMBERSOMS " . These were serviceable comedies and dramas of the age of our grandparents , and have the flaws of those films as well as the best merits of the Hollywood system near it's peak . RAFTER ROMANCE is typical of the positive and negative aspects of these films . An early Ginger Rogers movie , it reminds us that prior to turning out to be the perfect dancing partner to Fred Astaire Ginger was usually playing smart , tough working girls in comedies ( sometimes being too agreeable - as in her role of " Anytime Annie " in 42ND STREET just before this film was made ) . Rogers has come to New York for a career , and is in Greenwich Village ( the outsider's view of the raffish village back in the 1920s or 1930s - no Gay types seem visible ) . She is rooming in the " Eckbaum " Arms rooming house , run by George Sidney ( Mr . Eckbaum ) and his wife and son Julius . Sidney got permanently typecast as Jewish after appearing in a series of " Abie's Irish Rose " mixed ethnic silent comedies in the 1920s called " THE COHENS AND THE KELLYS " . Sidney's not bad as far as caricatures of Jews go . He mangles language a little - tolerably so ( we still understand him ) . He uses some Yiddish terms . He is money grubbing , but with the taxes on his rooming house it's understandable - he's constantly knocking the pay phone to retrieve coins , with indifferent success . However , he does show anger once - his idiot son starts drawing swastikas on the wall of the hallway , and Sidney lets him have it ( a first perhaps in American films ) . He's also kindhearted . He has let Ginger and another roomer ( Norman Foster ) stay on far longer than most landlords without paying all their rent . But his wife convinces him he has to alter this . What the screenwriters did is actually a bit of plagiarism , which I am surprised nobody caught . In 1866 Maddison Morton wrote a farce called BOX & COX about two men , one who works at night and one who works at day , who both ( unknown to each other ) rent the same room in a boarding house ( until they accidentally meet when one gets an unexpected holiday ) . This farce was made into a one act musical operetta retitled COX & BOX by F . A . Burnand and Arthur Seymour Sullivan ( of Gilbert & Sullivan fame ) which is how it survives today ( like CAVALLARIA RUSTICANA and PAIGIACI , COX & BOX is usually on a double bill with Gilbert & Sullivan's TRIAL BY JURY : it is the only non-Gilbert & Sullivan work that Savoyards like to watch ) . Sidney moves Rogers to the attic loft that Foster lives in . From 8 : 00 P . M . to 8 : 00 A . M . Rogers may use it as her own . From 8 : 00 A . M . to 8 : 00 P . M . Foster can use it . Needless to say neither is happy at the arrangement . They never have met , so they are soon sniping at each other . The reader can see where this will lead . Rogers finally gets a telemarketing job for a refrigerator firm owned by Robert Benchley . She does well , but she has to fight off Benchley's amorous interests . Foster is a night watchman , but he is also a struggling painter . He has attracted the attention of Laura Hope Crews , a wealthy woman who is also a dipsomaniac . He has repeatedly refused to have her make him her boy toy ( much to Sidney's chagrin , as it would pay off the debt that Foster owes him ) . By chance Rogers and Foster meet in the streets of the city , and a romance begins - but at the same time they are unconsciously sniping and sabotaging each other as the rival , unseen roommate . Benchley was just starting his film career , and in his opening scene his fumbling with some papers to explain to the new girls how to do their sales pitch reminds us of his classic " THE TREASURER'S REPORT " which began his acting career . He was not quite as paunchy here as in later films , but certainly no Adonis . Ms Crews ' alcoholic dowager is miles from " Aunt Pittypat " in GONE WITH THE WIND , but is a distant cousin of her drunken mentalist working with Clark Gable in IDIOT'S DELIGHT . She has a distinct distaste for boarding house landlords . Guinn " Big Boy " Williams has a role that probably was a little longer originally . He's a taxi driver who takes a brotherly interest in Ginger . They apparently meet when she is buying herself a hamburger at an all night stand . Later he helps her derail Benchley's attempts to make an evening's dinner - theater date into a boring flop . He also shows up at the conclusion of the film to assist in the genial mayhem . It's also nice to note ( in a bit part ) our old friend Bud Jamison - away from his foes The Three Stooges for awhile - as the winner of a fat man's contest at a picnic .
If the world is an asylum , with lunatics running it , can those in asylums be sane ?	I saw this at my college over thirty years ago , and remember it fondly . Made in the late 1960s , it became a hit with American audiences in the grips of our madness called " Vietnam " . British soldier Charles Pumpnick ( Alan Bates ) is ordered in a typical screw-up to go into a French village to defuse a large bomb left by the Germans . It is World War I , and the British are led by Col . MacBibbenbrook ( Adolfo Celi ) who is actually sending Pumpnick for a second reason : he wants to know if the Germans have actually left the town , so that his soldiers can " reoccupy " it . Given the tedious and murderous stalemate on the Western Front between the Allies and Central Powers in their trenches , any temporary regaining of land is a great victory . The Germans are led by an officer as fully suspicious of the British as MacBibbenbrook is of them . So he decides to test the waters by pulling out most of the troops , leaving a trio to watch for the British turning up . Pumpnick , rather reluctantly , does pop up , and soon discovers that the French citizenry has long since fled the town in the wake of the massive warfare around it . The only people he find seem very eccentric types . They should be - they are the inmates of the local insane asylum , who were abandoned by the doctors and staff . They have now decided to take over their imagined roles in the new reality of the deserted village . Soon Pumpnick realizes this , but he soon finds himself protective of these lunatics . He also finds their gentle insanity has some real substance to it that moves him - much more than the intense insanity of the outside world does . Other writers and artists have tackled the idea of the madmen running the asylum . A good example is Edgar Allen Poe , in his short story , " The System of Dr . Tarr and Professor Feather " . But Philippe De Broca's film compares insanity in two forms , and finds the form we normally " punish " by incarceration in asylums to be far kinder than the larger one . None of the madmen and women of the asylum threaten or hurt Pumpnick ( a point which shows this is a fantasy , as in real life they would have some dangerous types ) . The ones who we reward with rank and power are far more willing to send the Pumpnicks of the world into dangerous ( if not deadly ) situations . The conclusion of the film is too well known for me to discuss . I will only say that when the more dangerous outside lunatics get rid of each other's threat , Pumpnick opts to stay on with his new friends . They will welcome him . Aside from this I like to comment on more point . De Broca had a bit part where he shows that things on the outside can only get worse , when he shows up as Adolf Hitler briefly , delivering the German officer a message . Perhaps I should say the intensely bad situation will get even more intensely bad in twenty years time .
A Touching Drama From Truman Capote	THE GRASS HARP was a novel by Truman Capote , based ( in part ) on his a youth , living with a pair of aunts in a southern town . Here his narrator hero is orphaned at an early age , and he is raised by his father's cousins ( Sissy Spacek and Piper Laurie ) . Spacek is the actual head of the family , running four prosperous businesses in the small town , such as the town department store and town hotel ( complete with Presidential suite ) . She is a humorless , hard working woman , as opposed to her sister , who is a loving , free spirited type , who ( with her friend and assistant ( Nell Carter ) collects herbs for a patent medicine remedy for " dropsy " . Edwin Furlong ( and , earlier , Grayson Frick ) play the hero of the film , Collin ( the narration is by Boyd Gaines ) . The hero quickly finds himself in love with Laurie , and just respectful towards Spacek . As he grows up , he finds himself defending Laurie's reputation ( she is seen as quite eccentric ) . The town people also fear Spacek , but rather openly dislike her . Walter Matthau is retired Judge Cool , a sensible elderly man who " good " people consider a nut ( he openly admits that there was nothing wrong with a true love affair between a white man and an African-American woman which led to the white man being run out of town ) . Matthau is having problems in his home with an unsympathetic grown son and the son's wife . Matthau's wife has died years before . Others in this well cast film include Jack Lemmon as a Dr . Ritt from Chicago , whom Spacek brings back home - and whom accidentally sets in motion the delayed rebellion of Laurie and the others against Spacek's stiff and respectable regime . Joe Don Baker plays the local chicken rancher / part-time sheriff ( who hates having to cow-tow to Spacek ) . Charles Durning is the local minister , who is out for only respectable religious leaders ( with Bonnie Bartlett as his equally stuffy wife ) . Mary Steenburgen is the religious threat - an unmarried mother of twelve who has a mobile revival tent in the back country , but whom is pretty likable for all one's questions about her revivalism . Sean Patrick Flannery is Riley , a young man who lives unconventionally , but whom turns out to be a pretty good friend to Collin . Roddy McDowall ( in one of his last roles ) plays Amos , the local barber . Basically Capote uses his characters to punch holes in what " nice , conventional " small town people believe is proper behavior . Spacek is the leader of these people , who believe in organized Christianity , hard work and business , and straight-laced morality . Laurie , Matthau , Carter , Flannery , Steenburgen , and Furlong are all believers in doing what is natural , and from the heart . So as they begin working together they become a model and a danger for the " nice people " . But as the tale progresses , the nice people find that what they believe in does not emotionally satisfy them . Indeed Spacek suffers several losses in the course of the film that she never expected . Charles Matthau , Walter's son , directed this ( very nicely - it is one of the best ensemble movies of recent years ) . It was also a rarity in the 1990s decade of Matthau-Lemmon films . Whereas GRUMPY OLD MEN , GRUMPIER OLD MEN , OUT TO SEA , and THE ODD COUPLE II were all comedies , this film is dramatic and the two actors only shared one scene ( with Roddy McDowall in his barber shop ) in the film . Also , Lemmon's character is less likable than usual in this film . The title , by the way , refers to a statement by Laurie's character about how the grass gives off a music like a harp , which is actually the voices of all the people who ever inhabited the earth . It becomes a running metaphor in the film up to the conclusion .
Politics and the 1948 Election	Melvin Ashton is a U . S . Senator . He is also a blithering idiot , who feels that we should help the American postal worker by making their loads easier to lug . How ? By hiring more workers and cutting down the average load that way ? No . Everyone should write on tissue paper . It is lighter than current stationary . Ashton is representative of the men ( like Franklin Pierce and Warren Harding ) who managed to get the nomination to the U . S . Presidency ( and in those two disastrous cases , won election to that office ) when they did not deserve such distinction . In this send-up of our political process , Ashton is facing an unnerving problem . He has risen to the U . S . Senate , and has only one of two places to go : either he is defeated in a reelection bid ( not too hard to imagine ) or he is nominated and elected President . If party head Ray Collins had his way Melvin would be allowed to gracefully bow out of the U . S . Senate ( he could easily be replaced ) . But Ashton is made of sterner stuff than that . He has a diary , and it includes the story of every dirty political deal made by his party since he first entered office . If published it would send his party into a tale-spin . And Melvin is very willing to publish it . . . unless the party gives him the nomination . " The Senator Was Indiscreet " was directed by George S . Kaufman . Recalling that he ( with Moss Hart ) created John Wintergreen and the immortal Vice President Alexander Throttlebottom in the musical " Of Thee I Sing " ( and subsequently did a political spoof of FDR " I'd Rather Be Right " ) it is no surprise that Kaufman went back to this theme for the only film he ever directed . He did a good job with this one , which shows the shallowness of our political leadership and punches holes in the whole Presidential campaign system . Look at the brief series of vignettes where Melvin is shown making political speeches like , " Not inflation , not deflation , but good old American " Flation " . " That makes sense , doesn't it ? Or how Melvin , to show himself a capable engineer for the country , is shown taking over a modern super-train , which his incompetence wrecks ( a headline suggests it was foreign agents ) . I can go on with the jokes of this wonderful comedy . But I will only add that it comes close to showing its actual hand . Just which party is it ? Most of us would say does it really matter if it is either the Democrats or the Republicans ? Well one could say it does not matter , except there seems to be a hint it is the Republicans . Ashton keeps worrying about the leading opponent he has , whose name is never mentioned . It appears to be some other Senator that Collins and the other party leaders are fully willing to see as their standard bearer . At one point Collins politely tries to reason with Powell that he has to know what a total jerk he is and he could not possibly deserve the job . Powell shoots back , " Well , what makes you think HE does ? " Collins looks at him incredulously . . . like saying " Are you for real ? " My guess is that ( unsaid as it is ) Kaufman and the screenplay writers of 1947 were thinking of Senator Robert Taft , at that time one of the three front-runners for the Republican nomination in 1948 . Taft did not get that nomination ( he never got his party's nomination , which in retrospect was very unfair to the man known as " Mr . Republican " ) . Too starchy a person ( and far too straight talking and honest ) , Taft did deserve an opportunity to run . And , yes , his political career ( culminating in the labor law that still bears his name ) showed how deserving he was . So Ray Collins incredulous stare had some real point to it .
He Used To Be A Big Shot	It is not as centrally dynamic as THE PUBLIC ENEMY nor as Freudian as WHITE HEAT , but THE ROARING TWENTIES is a leading gangster film for Jimmy Cagney as it details the rise and fall of a gangster Eddie Bartlett . The product of World War I and Prohibition , Eddie rises to great power as the head of a gang , always trying to return to legitimate society , and then to fall again due to the Wall Street Crash and the machinations of his right-hand man George Hally ( Humphrey Bogart ) . Both men's characters are far more subtle as studies of success in criminal enterprise than the normal crime bosses of the 1930s . Eddie painstakingly builds up a taxicab corporation to gain legitimacy , as well as his stock acquisitions . Bogart , a bit more realistic on what types of businesses he understands , does not get involved in the stock market . But he enjoys the trappings of the upper class . Witness the scene when he is talking with his underling ( Abner Biberman ) and he is practicing his putting in his office . At the conclusion , Bogart is living in a townhouse ( a sign of his financial success ) . There is a tradition in the films of the depression that some gangsters are not as bad as others . This is not to be taken seriously in real life , but the idea is that certain people are driven to crime by economic circumstances ( Cagney returning to no job at the end of World War I ) and some are driven by pure evil ( the sadistic side of Bogart's nature ) . Cagney , on his rise , gains the friendship of people like Gladys George ( actually the unrequited love of Ms George ) and tries to find room in his organization for people like Frank McHugh , a nice guy who really never fit in properly as a criminal - and dies as a result . Bogart gains the support of like villains ( Bibberman , who shares Bogie's fate at the end ) , and keeps showing a contempt for human life in most of the film ( witness how he kills a cop on one of the rum runners he and Cagney are on , because the cop was once his sergeant in the army who punished him for breaking the rules when he did ) . But Cagney turns out to have more guts in him than Bogie . At the end of the film the latter , facing his own demise , turns into a total coward . The film has many touches to set the tone of the 21 years it covers ( 1918 - 1939 ) . At the start newsreel footage takes the audience back to the end of World War I , showing Presidents and events up to Wilson ( who , curiously enough , is shown by an actor playing the President , not as part of an old film ) . It has been noted that Gladys George's Panama is based on Texas Guinan , the speakeasy hostess . The death of Cagney on the steps of a church is based on the death of Hymie Weiss , a Chicago gangster rival of Capone who was killed that way in 1927 . It was too good a death to not use in a gangster film , as it seems more symbolic than it was in real life ( it does remind us of how Cagney , for all his good intentions , came up short due to his profession in violence ) . I have not commented on the love triangles involving Cagney , Jeffrey Lynn , and Priscilla Lane ( and Cagney , Lane , and Gladys George ) . The irony that Cagney never sees that George is more than just a good friend is rather poignant , for both of them . And it is George who cradles his dead body in the end and gives his epitaph . Perhaps today a director would allow Cagney to wise up and get away with George . But that would spoil the full effect of the film's conclusion .
Slightly Superior Remake of a Clever Television Mystery	In 1976 Jack Klugman , James Franciscus , and Elizabeth Ashley made a clever television mystery , ONE OF MY WIVES IS MISSING , which is about a weird extortion scheme by an impostor . It was remade ( in my opinion slightly better ) in 1986 with Elliot Gould , Mike Farrell , and Margot Kidder in the lead roles . I say better because , while the supporting cast of ONE OF MY WIVES IS MISSING , was good , this remake had Fred Gwynne in a pivotal role as a somewhat shady clergyman - an ally of Kidder's in her scheme . There was also a nice bit by that underrated supporting actor Graham Jarvis ( MARY HARTMAN , MARY HARTMAN ) as a holistic doctor who gets dragged into the mystery . Finally the writer / producers in this were the creators of Lt . Columbo , William Link and Richard Levinson . They improved the script a bit , particularly with Gwynne's role . The story is the same - Farrell is the newlywed husband who had an argument with his wife , and she left their cabin in high dudgeon . When he reports this to officer Elliot Gould , suddenly the door opens and Kidder comes in begging Farrell's forgiveness for the argument and her snit . But Farrell insists she is a fake . Gould , thinking he's been the victim of a joke , leaves disgusted . And then Kidder reveals her larcenous demands on Farrell unless he wishes to have serious problems with the law . Farrell , forced to go along with her demands , keeps looking for a chance to get Gould to come back and investigate a bit more . But when Gould reappears a " witness " shows up to support Kidder - a Catholic clergyman played by Gwynne . Of course once Gould leaves again , Farrell faces now two extortionists working some badger game on him . Again the tension is maintained by a good cast and the improved dialog of the script . What is going on ? Where is Farrell's wife , and what have Kidder and Gwynne done with her ? Will Jarvis , who has stumbled into the mystery accidentally , help Farrell overcome these villains ? And what is Gould up to . . . for he to begins acting oddly after awhile ? Again the ending catches the viewer by surprise ( unless they saw the original television film ) . Certainly worth catching if it is shown again as one of the best television mystery films .
Boy Meets Girl , Boy Loses Girl , Boy Gets Girl . . .	That is the philosophy of J . Carlyle Benson ( Pat O'Brien ) , fast talking screen writing hack at Monumental Pictures , a Hollywood dream creating factory run by C . Elliott Friday ( Ralph Bellamy ) . Benson constantly insists that is the simple formula for every film script he and his partner Robert Law ( James Cagney ) do at Monumental . It must work because they are more than tolerated by the pretentious , " intellectual " Friday , who spends most of his time trying to salvage a movie set in Britain ( at one point making the grandiloquent comment , " I'm trying to save " Young England " ! " ) . Friday's intellectual triteness is easily shown - he so misunderstands just what a " trumpet " is , that he ends up making his sentinels blow some preposterous looking trombone while wearing beefeater costumes . Pat O'Brien and James Cagney formed one of the most legendary friendships in Hollywood history , lasting from the 1930s until the 1980s . It was the backbone of what was called the " Irish Mafia " ( O'Brien , Cagney , Spencer Tracy , Frank McHugh , Lynn Overman ) . They co-starred in many films , most notably ANGELS WITH DIRTY FACES , TORRID ZONE , THE FIGHTING 69TH , and this , their only real comedy together ( the other films have comic moments , but are basically dramatic ) . BOY MEETS GIRL was a farce about Hollywood film making by Samuel and Bella Spivak , that was a Broadway hit . It translate well to the screen , as it follows the antics of O'Brien and Cagney as frustrated writers turned into meaningless hacks . In fact , despite the financial benefits for surrendering their talents , it takes a toll on the men . Cagney feels disgusted at the loss of his real writing talent ( he almost got the Pulitzer Prize ) . O'Brien finds his marriage suffering due to his feelings , and his wife eventually walks out on him . So they take their revenge on several targets , most notably Mr . Friday , but also the Dick Foran , a popular cowboy star at the lot , and his obnoxious agent Frank McHugh ( one of the few McHugh - Cagney films where McHugh is not a close friend of Cagney's ) . Then they meet an employee of the studio ( Marie Wilson ) , who has a baby but no living husband . Wilson's baby is quite adorable , so Benson and Law create a series of films involving the baby in the old west , and so force Foran into a co-starring position that he resents . Lest you think this is extreme , the 1930s saw many film series in which children or babies dominate . Shirley Temple is the best known example , but Jane Withers was the central figure in several movies , as was young Jackie Cooper , and even the Dionne Quintuplets . Further , there was a silent film called " Three Godfathers " that John Ford directed ( he would later remake it with John Wayne , Harry Carey Jr . , and Pedro Armendariz ) , in which the western heroes give their all for a baby that is left with them . The speed of the farce is matched by the delivery of lines by both it's Irish-American stars . O'Brien had learned to deliver lines snappily early on , and his speed is infectious on Cagney . But they can slow down for effect , especially as they give capsule descriptions of their gooey plots ( at one moment , Cagney reveals the obvious point - when badman Foran is about to hide his loot from a robbery , he looks down at the place he chose , and " What do you think he finds ? A Baabee ! " dramatizes Jimmy ) . He also tries to make up dialog to explain the missing father of the baby , by suggesting that he may not have died on the Morro Castle ( burned in 1934 ) . If the situation seems somewhat more dated today because screen writing is recognize ( when well done ) as the equivalent of a good novel , short story , essay , or play , the movie's gusto and humor still work quite well . So while not a film meriting a " 10 " it still gets a " 9 " .
Somewhat curious love story plot for the 1950s . . . and Powell's last acting part	It must have been in the air at the time , though why in the Eisenhower Years ? In the 1950s several films ( two by Billy Wilder ) had successful marriages between young women and middle aged men . Wilder's two films were SABRINA ( where Audrey Hepburn falls for Humphrey Bogart ) and LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON ( where Hepburn fell for Gary Cooper ) . Hepburn also was paired in FUNNY FACE with Fred Astaire . Astaire was also in the movie DADDY LONG LEGS with Leslie Caron as his ward turned lover . Caron would also be in GIGI where her little girl is paired off with a slightly older Louis Jourdan . And there was SUSAN SLEPT HERE , Frank Tashlin's second feature film comedy , starring Dick Powell and Debbie Reynolds . The difference in ages is mentioned - Debbie Reynolds is supposed to be 17 ( she was 21 at the time ) , but Powell is supposed to be roughly 20 years older . He is supposed to have been an early Oscar winner ( for screenplay ) and to have served in the navy with his friend Virgil ( Alvy Moore ) , who was his superior officer . It is possible if Powell was 55 to concede this , but he is supposed to be about 43 or so . He just looks too old . But despite this the film does work . It has good lines in it ( particularly some zingers used by Glenda Farrell at her favorite target Anne Francis , and by Les Tremayne as Powell's overwrought and overworked attorney ) . Powell is a successful if jaded screenwriter who is dating Anne Francis , a snobbish Senator's daughter . On Christmas Eve he is visited by two members of the L . A . Vice Squad ( Herb Vigran and Horace MacNally ) who have a " gift " to drop off . Vigran had been an adviser on a film script that Powell worked on , and the latter made the mistake of mumbling an idea about having a day or so talk with a genuine juvenile delinquent about his lifestyle ) . Of course the problem is he meant a male juvenile delinquent . Vigran ( in what is really the only weakness of the story ) has arrested Debbie Reynolds in a brawl with some military police , but has not reported it yet . He thinks she'd be perfect to give to Powell for his research over Christmas Day ( Vigran eventually pays for this stupidity and it's outcome by getting demoted - he's lucky , in real life he might get arrested and charged with pimping ) . The plan is for Debbie to be " rearrested " on December 26th , and thus to act as though nothing wrong was done . Powell is not pleased with this - he can't depend on his secretary Farrell , nor on Moore ( who quickly takes a powder ) . He tries to work around the " Susan " problem , but no matter what he tries it blows up in his face . Worse , Reynolds answers the phone by habit , and Francis discovers that her boy friend has an underage girl in his house . Slowly , however , Powell and Reynolds settle down and learn about each other's life . It turns out Reynolds mother is out of the U . S . with her second husband ( a man Reynolds thinks was a better choice than the first husband , who was her own father ) . The mother is one of these modern types , and has left a note of consent for whomever Reynolds meets whom she may wish to marry . Powell finds that she is a feisty and independent young woman , and he finds himself falling for her . But when Moore learns that they shared Powell's apartment for the night , he drags Powell's lawyer Tremayne into it . Tremayne starts planning damage control to prevent a scandal or worse But the detectives return to pick up Reynolds ( Vigran's Sergeant is not very understanding about what they did - really hard to understand that reaction ! ! ) . ( Having sexual relations with any underage child or girl is always treated quite harshly in the U . S . , but California had a really heavy reputation in this area back in the 1920s - 1960s because of the Hollywood crowd . In the Marx Brothers ' 1940 comedy GO WEST , Groucho's name of " S . Quentin Quayle " was based on the term " San Quentin quail " which was about under-aged , but attractive girls who got men into serious trouble when arrested . The trial of Errol Flynn for rape in 1944 was worse because the two victims were teenage girls . I may remind you also of the still odd situation involving director Roman Polanski today concerning a statutory rape charge from California . ) Powell flees with Reynolds to Las Vegas where they can get legally married despite her age . He reasons that they can remain married for a few months ( while he is working in Sun Valley on a screenplay ) and she can then get the marriage annulled , while he finds her a job . But Reynolds is determined to prove herself a good wife . And Powell is not all that sure if he wants her to cease being his wife - especially after Tremayne sees evidence that she may be pregnant . The wit in the script is hard to describe - it ranges from comments like Farrell momentarily thinking Reynolds has arrived in Sun Valley , and welcoming her with a " Come to momma " , but finding it is Francis ( whom she loathes ) and saying , " Oh , Dracula's daughter ! " , to Tremayne having a session with his psychiatrist interrupted by an angry Powell , and letting Powell take over his session as Tremayne can bill him for it later ) . The acting is good . Anyone who thinks of Moore only as " Hank Kimble " on GREEN ACRES should see his rather thoughtful Virgil , who gets an emotional slap-in-the-face from Reynolds that makes him rethink himself carefully . All in all it is far better than one would have thought - given the one blunder in the screenplay that I mentioned .
When Agatha Christie Finally Came Into Her Own Cinematically	Agatha Christie lived long enough to enjoy something few of her contemporaries could claim . Movies based on Christie's novels and stories were being made back to the 1930s . One early one with Charles Laughton as Hercule Poiret so turned her off that she was hesitant about future productions of her work . But they were made - like the two versions of LOVE FROM A STRANGER . There were two high points : Rene Clair's AND THEN THERE WERE NONE and Billy Wilder's WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION ( oddly enough with Laughton again , but in a better fitting performance ) . Then came the popular series of Miss Marple films with Margaret Rutherford , which were rewritten to emphasize Rutherford's comic abilities ( and to give Miss Marple a companion - Mr . Stringer , played by Rutherford's husband Stringer Davis ) . Another attempt at Poirot was made , again as a comic film , THE A . B . C . MURDERS ( with Tony Randall as Poirot ) . Christie was not amused . But in 1974 she saw her vision of Hercule Poirot as a character put properly on screen by Albert Finney in MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS . It gave her a satisfaction that few mystery novelists of her age ever had . Dorothy Sayers did live to see Lord Peter Wimsey played by Robert Montgomery in BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON , but while entertaining it was not the Wimsey that she created - she died before she could see Ian Carmichael play the role on a series of television multi-episodes shows based on her novels . While Josephine Tey's novels occasionally were made into films , her Inspector Grant was not turned into a good running series character . I think that the reason that Agatha Christie was satisfied was the care that Sidney Lumet took with MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS . Not only the all star cast involved , but keeping the story in the late 1920s to early 1930s style , with clothing , vehicles , and class snobbery maintained . It actually helped preserve the novel's effectiveness . The casting is quite good . Poirot is ably played by Finney , who is fussy but also serious and sharp when going over the clues and interrogations . Martin Balsam as his friend , the railroad official , is properly " watsonish " , constantly jumping at conclusions as to who the killer is . Interestingly forgotten in the background is the only other passenger we learn of that is not under suspicion , the Greek doctor who assists Poirot ( George Coulouris ) . In the 1940s Coulouris would have been a red herring at least . The suspects ( led by Lauren Bacall and Wendy Hiller ) are properly snobbish ( especially Sean Connery ) . They are even snobbish towards each other . But the question of who killed the victim is handled to constantly throw off the viewers . It is one of the most perfectly balanced whodunits . I only have one minor criticism . The murder centers on a " Lindbergh " kidnap-murder tragedy of the past , and the killer has to be someone after the real brains behind the tragedy . So all the suspects happen to be connected to the victim ( s ) . But as it turns out there was one victim who was overlooked - the patsy killer ( based on Hauptmann ? ) who was frightened into committing the crime and was hanged . It would have been interesting if the family of this criminal also had been represented among the suspects .
A Tragedy Foretold ?	I liked this particular episode of ONE STEP BEYOND because it happened to be based ( unlike some of the others that had historical deaths or disasters involved ) on material I had actually been aware of - indeed that most students of the Titanic Disaster were fully aware of ever since the classic study by Walter Lord , A NIGHT TO REMEMBER , came out in 1955 . Lord's Preface to his book told a story that is true . In 1898 a young writer named Morgan Robertson came up with an idea for a novel about the construction of the greatest ship in the world - a mighty luxury liner for the rich and powerful . It was supposed to be unsinkable . It was over 800 feet long , and could carry up to 3 , 000 passengers . It was launched and set sail for America in April , and on it's maiden voyage hit an iceberg and sank . The ship's named ( due to it's size ) was the " Titan " . The novel is FUTILITY , OR THE WRECK OF THE TITAN . Robertson's book was not a major best seller - indeed it was forgotten until the sinking of the Titanic brought it back to everyone's attention . This most famous coincidence of the Titanic Disaster was mentioned at the tail end of the half hour ONE STEP BEYOND episode , when John Newland showed the small novel in the library of the London home he was standing in . There have been attempts to explain Robertson's remarkable series of guesses , the best being done by science and math writer / popularizer Martin Gardiner , who wrote a book about the Titanic and the supernatural . Gardiner concluded that discussions in the newspapers and magazines of the possibility of such super-ship constructions in the 1890s probably influenced Robertson to write his book and to make some logical guesses about the size and passenger potential of these crafts , and of the hubris that would lead to disaster . Others , as Gardiner pointed out , made similar predictions . One was the newspaper editor and crusader William T . Stead , who wrote a piece in 1893 about a dream he had where he was drowned in the sinking of a large ocean liner . Stead's story was possibly meant to stimulate necessary changes in the antiquated safety regulations of the British Board of Trade , but if so it did not have enough effect to be useful to the passengers ( ironically including the unlucky Stead ) in 1912 . The episode follows a young couple , Patrick Macnee and Barbara Lord , who are going on their honeymoon on the TITANIC ( similar to the unfortunate couple in the play and movie CAVALCADE ) , and how Ms Lord has a premonition of drowning before she knows that they are booked on the cruise . Others on board have ill-feelings , and later we see people on the mainland do too ( in one telling moment , an artist gets up in the middle of the night , and draws a picture of the shipwreck ) . In the end Lord is put into a lifeboat , but Macnee ( we are informed ) is lost . The episode was ( despite our prior knowledge of the historic fate of the ship and most of it's passengers and crew ) quite exciting - and met the highest standards of this fine series . I don't know if people have e . s . p . or second sight or whatever that gives them an edge in guessing what is going to happen . But for thirty minutes ( as always ) I suspended my disbelief and accepted the events as true and as mysteriously odd as ever . It was always hard not to like this series , even if you are a skeptic .
The Caper of the Cellini Venus	This is a charming comedy that is solely to entertain the audience . It's cast certainly helps the story immensely . Historically Benvenuto Cellini is remembered as the author of one of the classic autobiographies of all times . But he was also a great gold and silversmith - but tragically only one or two of his wonderful works still exist . He was also a sculptor , his best statue being one of Perseus holding the head of Medusa . Yet , in Paris is the home of Hugh Griffin , a wealthy man with a great private collector . He has another piece by Cellini - a miniature of a naked Venus . It is one of the gems of Griffin's collection , and he is always showing his friends and customers to see it . Customers ? Well , every now and then if a fellow collector is willing to talk big money Griffin will sell a piece from his collection to the man or woman . This has led to some problems . Art specialist and detective Charles Boyer is aware that some collectors who have dealt with Griffin subsequently were less than happy for their expensive purchases - they seem to be fake . But none are willing to go to court and look like greedy fools . So , Boyer sends out his best operative , Peter O'Toole , to observe Griffin and see if he can find anything . Griffin , in the meantime has bitten off more than he can chew . It seems that he is being constantly pursued by Fernand Gravet of the Louvre to let them display the Cellini on a loan . He has kept putting Gravet off claiming he fears something may damage the rare piece . But at the same time he is encouraging the collecting greed of wealthy Eli Wallach , and promising he may sell the great statue . But by a fluke , Griffin makes the mistake of agreeing to allow Gravet's great wish . So the statue is taken to the museum , and then Griffin realizes the disaster he has opened . For insurance purposes the Louvre insists on having the statue examined by experts . Griffin does not want them to see that . His daughter is Audrey Hepburn , and he confesses to her that he has followed the family tradition of artistically excellent forgeries , that would pass the eyes of most people as real , but not the real experts . His huge income is due to selling suckers these copies . Now , he might end his days in jail once the statue is examined . But Wallach does not know this . He still wants an in with Griffin , and he hopes to do this by offering marriage to a stunned Hepburn . But if he could get ownership of the Venus ( which he would be willing to keep in his private vault in America ) he'd reconsider marriage to Hepburn . Hepburn begins noticing O'Toole's observations about the neighborhood . Soon he starts noticing her more than her father . As their romance spreads they both reveal what they are up to . And join forces to get the statue back without Griffin being involved , and to put it into the hands of Wallach to make sure nobody ever sees it again . The twenty minute robbery at the Louvre is a very funny session , dealing with hiding in a broom closet , using a boomerang toy , and repeatedly demonstrating the new museum security system has flaws in it . This brings in the supporting performance of Moustache ( the fat French comedian ) as ( ultimately ) the most surprised museum guard involved in the the testing of that system . An anonymous cameo by a very , very important French figure ( of Paris in 1966 ) is the final key to the success of the robbery . Will it be pulled off or won't it ? Will Wallach marry Hepburn , or will he find another woman to fall for ? And will Griffin learn his lesson ? Delightful all the way .
Cribb's Social Problems , and 19th Century Pugilism	This novel-turned-to-television play is set in the late 1870s . At that time pugilism , which was about to be organized by the Marquis of Queensbury's rules , was turning away from the old fashioned style of boxing called " bare-knuckled " boxing . Before one boxed with boxing gloves the boxers hit each other without any protective gear . It was very bloody as a result - in fact the boxers had a good chance of doing permanent damage to each other's faces , as well as to their hands . So it was considered very dangerous and forbidden by law . But there were boxing fans who were willing to pay a great deal of money to see the old fashioned " bare-knuckled " fights . This is the background of THE DETECTIVE WORE SILK DRAWERS . Cribb and Thackeray are sent by Jowett to investigate the discoveries in the Thames of the beheaded bodies of several men - who appear to be pugilists . From the states of their bodies they have been involved in bare-knuckled fighting . So Cribb is disguised as a fight manager - promoter . Assigned to help him is Constable Henry Jago , a new police officer who is the champion amateur boxer of Scotland Yard . He is to be Cribb's pug , whom Cribb is to try to get into the illegal fights . Hopefully he will find who is putting on the illegal fights , and is responsible for the murders . The twist in this story is that Jago is under Cribb in this investigation , but is treated with more deference than Cribb by Jowett . It seems Jago is from the upper middle class , and ( as I have mentioned in other reviews of this series ) Cribb is lower class . This will have an effect at the end of the story that is natural for the age of Victorian England , but certainly less than fair to the fans of the Sergeant .
Chief Inspector Jowett's big moment in the " Cribb " Series	David Waller was a familiar face in British television and movies in his career - never a big name character actor but a dependable one . His best recalled performance ( to me ) was as that master politician Stanley Baldwin ( in EDWARD AND MRS . SIMPSON ) forced to manipulate a foolish monarch off the throne ( he does so quite adroitly , but he does regret the necessity of it ) . But usually Waller played " Col . Blimp " types - conservative , authority figures who slow down or put up road blocks to the plans of other characters in the story lines . He was given the role , in the " Sgt . Cribb " series , of Chief Inspector Jowett , Cribb's supervisor . Except for the episode A CASE OF SPIRITS ( where Thorley Walters played Jowett ) Waller kept the role in the entire series . In the series he was more than just the man who gave Cribb his assignments . Cribb's tragedy ( if you follow the novels ) is that he is a very sharp man , but he is lower class - he is not likely to ever get into an Inspector's job , even if he deserves it . Jowett is upper class , and he has gotten into a Chief Inspector's job . He is not brilliant ( he needs Cribb for that ) but he is careful and observes the statutory law - and he has the fine understanding of the social order to know just what is expected to be covered up if anything has to be . The reason Jowett has gotten as far as he did is that he's honest . In 1877 the Detective Branch at Scotland Yard was badly shaken by a bribery scandal that officially ended with three Detectives ( two of them Chief Inspectors ) going to prison , and the head of the department having to retire even though the jury found he did nothing technically illegal . The exact extent of the bribery scandal is still unknown ( it is suspected that many others were bribed over the years , but only the four on trial were caught ) . Jowett never took a bribe , so he was promoted to Chief Inspector . Usually Jowett appeared in the background of the stories ( exception was A CASE OF SPIRITS , where he was one of the believers in paranormal phenomenon ) . But in MURDER OLD BOY ? he is brought forward into the plot ( like Thackeray was in THE HORIZONTAL WITNESS ) . Jowett is sent an invitation to a reunion of his public school class . This by itself is nothing , but Jowett is disturbed by the person who sent the invitation : a man named Russell Haygarth ( John Carson ) , who has had a checkered career to say the least . So Jowett asks Cribb and Thackeray to go to the local village and check into the inn there , and do some outside inquiries while he attends the reunion . It is a smallish reunion . Only three other men from the Public School Class attend : a doctor ( boasting of his surgical standing ) , an actor ( who is constantly suggesting that Sir Henry Irving , Richard Mansfield , and William Terriss are taking tips from him about performances ) , and a solicitor . The doctor used to bully Jowett , and seems prepared to resume this . As for the school , it has had better days . The headmaster is a young man ( Terence Edmond ) and there is a house matron ( Petra Davies ) but little evidence of any fresh students . In fact , the reunion is ( suspiciously ) occurring during a holiday week - when no students would be there to be seen . The bulk of the episode finds Jowett recalling the less pleasant aspects of being a public school boy , due to the bullying of the surgeon . He also does demonstrate that while not Cribb's equal as a detective in finding clues he is sharp in his own way ( his suspicions about Haygarth are proved right ) . Cribb also finds out that Jowett's three fellow alumni have things to hide as well , and that the school is on it's last legs ( Thackeray actually is shocked that Jowett is connected to such a second-rate public school ) . The crisis comes after Haygarth makes a pitch for funds to save the school . Shortly afterward he is found murdered . The conclusion is one of the better ones in the series , especially for those episodes written for the series . And Jowett is last seen , after the others have left , enjoying the remaining days of his vacation with the school matron .
The Romantic versus The Realistic in the Modern World	With his roman nose profile and height , and before he put on weight , George C . Scott was a natural looking actor to essay the role of that greatest of fictional detectives Sherlock Holmes . But for some reason he never got the nod to do a film on Holmes or Conan Doyles stories . Instead , he did get to play a pseudo-Holmes : Justin Playfair , the eccentric ( some would say cracked ) judge who is currently in an asylum and believes he is the great detective . Assigned to help treat him is Joanne Woodward as Dr . Mildred Watson , who first tries to slowly get him back into reality ( like Alonso Quijano was supposed to be brought back from being Don Quixote de la Mancha into being a wealthy land owner by his niece and her fiancé ) . Gradually Woodward begins seeing that far from being crazy , Scott is seeing the world in a different way : Scott is basically letting his imagination look beyond the forms of reality to the hidden side of things . As he says , with a reference to his Cervantes ' model ( rather than his Conan Doyle model ) , when Quixote charges the windmills we think him mad , but those windmills might actually be giants , justifying fighting them . In this film it is the small people versus the proper and more powerful ones that are at the heart of things . Scott and Woodward are soon leading others with a romantic view of life . Jack Gilford gives another one of his sweet , profound performances as a little man who does see himself - as the Scarlet Pimpernel - righting the wrongs of the world . So it goes with many of the characters in the film . The real climax ( there are two ) is in the supermarket scene , when momentarily the forces of power gain the upper hand over Scott's allies and start rounding them up . Scott turns the tables by basing a counter-attack on their greed : he starts announcing insanely cheap prices for meat , poultry , bread , fruit , etc . , that these " realists " cannot pass up . They start grabbing things ( and releasing Gilford and the others , who look bemused at the " realists " as they sneak away ) . The film's second climax is timed at the conclusion . For Scott / Holmes must have his Moriarty ( it is his brother , who is trying to have him permanently committed ) . Scott and Woodward go for a final rendezvous , and we last see them admiring their adversary as he advances . The film does not show what happens but leaves us wondering if they survive or not . But it is a conclusion that leaves us somehow satisfied for the sake of Playfair and his Watson . Maybe it was only his brother they saw approach , but it could have been Moriarty - just like it could have been those giants .
The Pressures of Hollywood Names and Talent	POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE is based on the novel by Carrie Fisher which has certain traces from her own family background with her mother ( Debbie Reynolds ) and her father ( Eddie Fisher ) . Ms Fisher has had a good career in movies , best for the original Star Wars Trilogy ( as Princess Leia ) , but in other films , such as Meg Ryan's friend in WHEN HARRY MET SALLY . However , she has had many problems , including ( presumably ) the issue of a mother who knows the business and cannot avoid meddling into her life , and a drug problem . These have been somewhat settled in recent years , and her career is back on track . But the film shows the point when the problems became life threatening : when she almost overdosed and had a downturn in her film career . Mike Nichols ' directing is pretty good here , and enhances the performances of Meryl Streep ( in the Fisher role ) , Shirley MacLaine ( as the Debby Reynolds clone ) , Dennis Quaid ( as the false lover ) , and ( in cameos ) Gene Hackman as Streep's director , Richard Dreyfus as the physician who pumps her stomach and subsequently tries to date her , and Annette Benning as an unexpected rival for Quaid . Mary Wickes appears as Streep's grandmother ( as critical of MacLaine as the latter is of Streep ) , and does a good job as a lively old scold . Her husband , Conrad Bain ( he was Bea Arthur's neighbor , Arthur , on MAUDE ) is equally good as an elderly grandfather who may or may not be senile . The film even gives both it's female stars a chance to demonstrate their musical talents : MacLaine in singing " I'M STILL HERE " at a party she is throwing for Streep , and Streep singing a country tune ( as part of a film she is filming ) at the conclusion of the movie .
" Johnny , what ' d I do wrong ? "	Wallace Beery was a complicated man . He was ( from what I have read of him ) a nasty customer in many ways - he skirted the edge of the law on several occasions . But he was an entertaining performer , in both drama ( CHINA SEAS , THE CHAMP ) or comedy ( DINNER AT EIGHT , A DATE WITH JUDY ) . Although his Oscar ( in the first tie vote in Academy history - with Fredric March in DR . JECKYL AND MR . HYDE ) was for THE CHAMP , in some ways his most sympathetic role was as Pancho Villa in VIVA VILLA . It is rather curious that this film , the first really serious sound film to study the Mexican Revolution , picked up on Villa as the hero , rather than Francisco Madero , the original leader of the revolution in 1910 . Madero appears in the film ( played by Henry B . Walthall , in a good performance ) , but it is Villa's story ( or what passes for it ) . He was more colorful than the unfortunate Madero , now best recalled for his murder in 1913 by General Huerta . Villa was a highly successful bandit ( a model for Alfonso Badoya's great bandit in THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRES ) , who did support some amount of social reform for the lower classes - but he never was as committed to it as his southern rival Zapata . In fact , when Villa finally ended fighting the government , he retired to a large landed estate he had acquired . But he had great color . . . for good or bad . On one occasion he was giving an interview to a newspaperman , when he noted a drunken soldier who was making too much noise , so that he could not hear the newsman's questions . Quietly , without looking vicious or nasty , Villa took out his gun and shot and killed the soldier . He then resumed the interview with the horrified newsman . Villa was like that . He considered his killing someone like that natural . He was an odd man , very childlike at times , very cunning ( to a point rather clever as a military strategist ) , and highly murderous when angered . He loved women , and would " marry " many to satisfy their scruples if they hesitated having sex with him . This led Theodore Roosevelt to make the rather loopy comment that Villa was an evil murderer and bigamist . Villa was also the last man in history ( prior to Osama Ben Laden's tools ) to attack the continental United States . Angered that President Woodrow Wilson stopped supporting him and his men in 1916 , Villa attacked Columbus , New Mexico , killing several Americans . The failure of the Carranza government to arrest or catch Villa led Wilson to blunder into Mexican affairs by sending General John Pershing and a large armed force into northern Mexico to catch Villa . Villa led Pershing a merry chase , and finally the Americans had to withdraw in humiliation . Actually that was his highpoint as a public figure . Within two years his army was in ruins and he had to surrender to the government forces . He retired to his ranch , only to be assassinated by personal enemies in 1923 . Beery was not the only actor to play Villa . Yul Brynner and Telly Savalas both played the role in films too . But the Beery film is best in making the Mexican into a tragic hero . He is an overgrown child , who needs a father figure to bring out his best side ( briefly found in Madero ) , and does not fully know when he does wrong . But he also has a sense of right and wrong : witness his willingness to humiliate himself before his enemy General Pascal ( Joseph Schildkraut ) , to save lives - only to find that Madero has pardoned him already . Later , when he learns that Madero was betrayed and murdered by Pascal , he captures the General and gives the latter a brutal punishment , but one that the audience fully supports . His friendship with the John Reed character ( Stu Erwin as Johnny Sykes ) shows that he was capable of being a more reasonable man , but was troubled by his behavior and his failures . He never did fully deliver the reforms to Mexico that he had pledged Madero he would bring . In the end , as he lays dying , Sykes is there to comfort him - telling him how Mexico will honor his memory . But he dies crying the line in the " summary " line above - what had he done wrong indeed ! Not the historic Villa , but a worthy portrait of a fascinating man .
Adam Schiff : " Where did these people learn ethics ? " Jack McCoy : " Law School " Adam : " Of course ! "	This is certainly one of the sharpest written and twisty Law and Order episodes , because of the secret at the base of it all . A marriage councilor is murdered in her office , and soon Detectives Lennie Briscoe and Rey Curtis ( Jerry Orbach and Benjamin Bratt ) are investigating how the killer got into her office in a city hospital . There are one or two typical red herrings : A madman who thinks he is the Pope , and who liked the therapist who helped get him shelter , and the idiot running hospital security who has an excuse for every error that the police find ( at one point Orbach says , " I smell a big law suit ! " looking at the hidden room of one of the transients the idiot security man boasted they ran out of the building . When the red herrings start to settle , it turns out that the therapist was supposed to be speaking as an expert witness in a divorce action between Molly Kilpatrick ( Haviland Morris ) and Billy Kilpatrick ( Craig Lawlor ) . The couple's attempt at an amicable divorce was shot down in flames by their two lawyers , Sheila Atkins for Molly ( Jill Claybergh ) and Paul Redfield for Billy ( Tony Roberts ) . Subsequently we learn that the two attorneys were once married themselves to each other , and that may explain the harshness that entered the divorce as claims , counter claims , injunctions , demands for discovery , new proceedings , are all being called in the name of the two clients by the attorney . Roberts keeps insisting that Claybergh is on pointless fishing expeditions to annoy his client . Claybergh keeps insisting that the husband has hidden assets with the connivance of Roberts in off-shore accounts . She may be right , but ( as Sam McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) finds out ) the paperwork on the case from Claybergh is very petty at times . The beginning of the end comes when Claybergh begins to act at supposedly cross purposes from her client's criminal lawyer in trying to arrange a three to five year manslaughter rap for her . Morris is horrified that Claybergh is doing this , insisting she is innocent , but Morris is a pill abuser , and the best suspect . But to get Claybergh to bring Morris to accepting this sentence , McCoy must assist Claybergh in proving that the money laundering is going on . Roberts brings in an attaché case full of subpoenas and similar documents created by Claybergh to show what he's been up against . One interests Waterston and his assistant Jamey Lowell ( Carey Ross ) : a special request to nullify a Church edict that nullified a marriage on the grounds of a violation of Canon Law . The case actually seemed to have merit , but Claybergh abandoned it . . . two days after the murder of her star victim . And suddenly the open and shut case against the unstable ex-wife turns into a different direction . It is a clever episode that shows the superiority of the best of the Law & Order plots . And the incredulity of the story is brought home when the broken hearted widower of the therapist tells off the perpetrator in court . But the final word is ever that of D . A . Adam Schiff ( Steven Hill ) and Waterson and Ross on the weird twist given to ethics by two venomous lawyers .
Lincoln's advice	After the failure of " The Crusades " at the box office , Cecil B . DeMille stopped doing films about non-American history . His films for the next thirteen years were about our history from Jean Lafitte to World War II ( Dr . Wassell ) . The first in order of production was this film , starring Gary Cooper as Wild Bill Hickok , with Jean Arthur as Calamity Jane . James Ellison was Buffalo Bill , John Miljan ( not a villain as usual ) was General George A . Custer , and Anthony Quinn was one of the Indians who fought at Little Big Horn . The villains were led by Charles Bickford ( selling arms to the Indians ) and Porter Hall as Jack McCall ( who killed Wild Bill Hickok ) . Basically the film takes up the history of the U . S . after the Civil War . Lincoln is shown at the start talking about what is the next step now that Lee has surrendered . Lincoln talks about the need to secure the west ( more about this point later ) . Then he announces he has to go to the theater . That April 14th must have been very busy for Abe - in " Virginia City " he grants a pardon to Errol Flynn at the request of Miriam Hopkins on the same date . Actually , while Lincoln was concerned about the West , his immediate thoughts on the last day of his Presidency were about reunifying the former Confederate states and it's citizens into the Union as soon as possible . It was Reconstruction that occupied his attention , not the west ( except for the problems of Maximillian and his French controlled forces in Mexico against Juarez ) . But he had been involved in actual problems with the West . In 1862 he sent disgraced General John Pope , the loser at Second Manassas , to Minnesota to put down a serious Indian war by the Sioux ( the subject of McKinley Kantor's novel , " Sprit Lake " . Pope , incompetent against Lee and Jackson , turned out to be quite effective here , and the revolt was smashed . However , with all Lincoln's actual attention to western problems , it is doubtful that he says ( as Cooper repeats at least once ) , " The frontier should be secure . " There is nothing to say he could not have said it , but it is hardly a profound pronouncement by a leading statesman . Like saying , Teddy Roosevelt said , " Eat a good breakfast every morning for your health . " It is not a profound statement of policy . It is , at best , a statement of recognizable fact . Cooper turning it into a minor mantra , like Lincoln's version of the Monroe Doctrine , is ridiculous . . . typical of the way DeMille's scripts have really bad errors of common sense in them . However , this is not a ruinous mistake . " The Plainsman " is an adventure film , and as such it has the full benefit of DeMille the film creator of spectacle . As such it is well worth watching . But not as a textbook on Lincoln's political ideas or his quotable legacy .
The Law and Life : Striking a Perfect Balance	Cary Grant has a curious role in this film - he is a labor agitator . He has been stirring up matters in his native town against the local big business factory , owned by Charles Dingle . Then , there is a fire at the factory - an arson fire . Grant is suspected and arrested for the arson ( and subsequently for the murder of Tom Tyler , the factory foreman who is missing and presumed dead ) . Grant manages to escape capture , and heads for the home of one of his oldest friends - Jean Arthur . What he does not realize is that Arthur has rented the house for the summer to a law professor of note , Ronald Colman . Arthur is willing to hide Grant in the attic , but Colman does arrive , only to find that the sheriff and a pack of hounds are at his door ( and due to some unexpected clothing switching the hounds chase Colman up a tree ) . Starting with this situation , THE TALK OF THE TOWN blossoms into a neat little comedy triangle that tackles the issues of what is law , and what do we expect of it ? Colman's Professor Lightcap is a quiet judicial scholar - a man of books . Probably too many books . Later in the film , Grant's Leopold Dilg tells Arthur's Nora Shelley that he's looked at the legal tomes Colman reads ( and upon which his judicial philosophy is based ) and they are intelligent , comprehensible , " and dead . " Colman , in short , is a legal conservative , and so has a tendency to support the status quo . He is also an appointee ( awaiting confirmation ) to the U . S . Supreme Court . All this is hardly promising for Grant and Arthur , who hope that Colman can assist them in saving Grant from prison or worse . Grant's attempts at getting Colman into the real world is limited by his inability to appear in public ( he is a wanted man , after all ) . But Arthur , and Grant's attorney Edgar Buchanan , are capable to take Colman around the town and make him realize that Grant has not been given a fair chance to defend himself . The film concentrates on Colman's slowly becoming a realist - seeing that the opinions of one hundred years of precedents are not the be all or end all of justice . It begins when he meets Dingle , and then the trial judge ( who seems all too prejudiced against Grant before the trial - not to mention too chummy with the owner of the factory ) . As he comes down to earth , he even strips himself of his badge of ivory tower-ism - his beard , which he shaves off ( much to the distress of his valet , played by a subdued but funny Rex Ingram ) . I leave it to the viewers to see how Colman eventually does get Grant out of his legal difficulties . The movie is one of the few ( up to that date in the 1940s ) that looked at the legal system critically . The massive dislike of the townspeople towards Grant ( where they all have been financially hurt by the factory fire they blame on him ) makes a fair trial in that town impossible . It reminds us of the issue nowadays about media coverage of crimes where local jury pools get tainted by prejudgments of defendants thrust down their throats . Yet Colman is warned by his political friends to avoid involvement - to keep himself clean before he is confirmed . You wonder what is the value of a seat on the Supreme Court if the would-be judge cannot make sure that justice is even handed and as near pure as possible . To me TALK OF THE TOWN may not be a great film but it is above average , and an unusual one for both male leads - for Grant in his character's personality , and for Colman for his gradual concentration less on his rivalry with Grant over Arthur as with the battle for justice . Before TWELVE ANGRY MEN came out over a decade later , TALK OF THE TOWN was the best movie about the philosophy and reality of the law ( except for THE OX-BOW INCIDENT ) Hollywood produced .
Poor Charley Hall ?	In the pantheon of character actors that supported Laurel and Hardy over the years Charley Hall is second to Jimmy Finleyson as their constant foe ( or victim ) . Hall was a good journeyman comedian , and appeared in many shorts besides those with the boys . Inevitably they irritate him ( which may be why Finn is somewhat higher in the rating of their foes - Finn reacts to their comments , sometimes asking for mistreatment , but frequently being somewhat in the right ; Charley usually just is bad tempered . In BE BIG Ollie and Stan are trying to get some ice cream for dinner at home that night . Charley is selling ice cream , and repeatedly tells Stan that they don't have Chocolate ( apparently Stan's favorite ) . Finally instead of rattling off all the flavors he has , Charley grits his teeth and decides to list all the flavors he doesn't have ! It still doesn't work . It's very possible that Charley's best performance against L & H was in LAUGHING GRAVY ( possibly THEM THAR HILLS is equally good - but that was one of two shorts that are interconnected ) . LAUGHING GRAVY stands on it's own feet - it was a sound version of the silent short ANGORA LOVE , about the difficulties of the boys sneaking a goat into their rooming house when it won't stop following them . Later this plot would also be used in THE CHIMP , with a chimpanzee as the animal they have to keep hiding from their landlord ( Billy Gilbert ) . But here it is Hall who is the landlord , and has been having problems with these two roomers some time before the short begins . He keeps being awaken by them and keeps threatening to send them out into the snow drifts outside . Stan has a cute little dog , " Laughing Gravy " , and does not want to put the dog out into the snow . But there is a no-pets rule . The short expands on how they boys try to keep the dog in the room , but try to keep Charley from finding out . The results are usually at Ollie's expense , although both boys get locked out at one point . Ollie keeps getting soaked , and Charley keeps getting angrier and angrier at Ollie's making one disturbance after another . The culmination is when they are washing the dog , and Stan sees Hall staring at them - and pushes the dog out and starts washing Ollie's head in the soapy water instead ! They are told to leave the boarding house . Here an interesting thing developed . It seems that many of the Laurel & Hardy films had scenes shot that were cut out ( and not necessarily by television ) . Few of these have been found , though occasionally we know what they are ( the Spanish version of PARDON US has a sequence involving the boys saving the warden's daughter from Walter Long during a fire - which apparently was in the English version too , but finally cut out of that version ) . In the case of LAUGHING GRAVY a ten minute sequence involving Stan getting a telegram and Ollie dying to know what it is about was dropped . They are packing when the telegram is delivered , and Stan reads it , but quickly folds it into his pocket . Ollie keeps asking what is on the telegram , but Stan says it's nothing . Ollie gets so annoyed , he starts singing a song , " You'll be sorry when it's too late . . . when our friendship has turned to hate ! " Stan finally gives in , and gives Ollie the message . Stan has inherited a fortune from an uncle - but he has to give up his friendship with Ollie , who the uncle could not stand . The sequence is not a bad one , but one realizes why it was cut - it did nothing to further the plot line of the short . In fact , it was rather weak in comparison with the rest of the short ( and costs the short a " 10 " out of " 10 " - it gets a " 9 " as a result ) . Still it is nice to occasionally see a lost sequence returned to any film . The real conclusion is when Hall ( holding a hunting rifle ) is waiting for the boys and Lauging Gravy to leave the boarding house . But as they are about to leave they hear nailing . They open the door and see a policemen has put up a quarantine sign there - Stan and Ollie can't leave with their dog now ! Shocked beyond endurance by this twist , Hall says there is just so much a man can take . We see him walk off the camera's range . Then we hear two shots . The policeman enters to check the body , while Stan , Ollie , and Laughing Gravy head back upstairs . A really good conclusion to the short .
Not His Best - But His Second Best is Better Than Most People's Best	I regret giving THE PILGRIM a " 9 " . It is so well done it deserves a " 10 " but one so wishes it had more scenes to it one's disappointment makes it lesser than say THE GOLD RUSH or CITY LIGHTS or MODERN TIMES . Chaplin was trying to get away from his classic tramp figure , but public love of the character forced him to use it in his last four major silent films as well as traces of it in his first sound film THE GREAT DICTATOR . Yet in the middle years of the 1920s he considered projects avoiding the tramp entirely . He would make Edna Purviance's A WOMAN OF Paris as director , and played a cameo as a porter . He would consider a variant on the tramp " Professor Bosco " who had a flea circus ( the sequence from this film survives in the anthology THE UNKNONW CHAPLIN ) . He would even consider a film on the life of Napoleon ( a still of him dressed as Napoleon exists - the resemblance is uncanny ) . Finally there was this , the one feature he did prior to his sound period where he really isn't the tramp . But he's close . Chaplin is a convict who manages to break out of prison . He heads for the Texas-Mexican border , and by circumstances he is dressed as a clergyman ( hence the title ) . It is odd that Charlie never delved into the field of religion before . He believed in the Judeo-Christian code of ethics , but was basically indifferent to organized religion ( a point used against him as a " godless atheist " by his right-wing critics from the 1930s onward ) . Occasionally he shows a minister in one of his comedies . In EASY STREET he is partly convinced to reform and join the police by a minister at a mission house ( whom is glad to see the success of his sermon , but is shocked when Charlie turns over the collections plate and some other items he pinched ) . But no full scale film emerged - possibly due to Chaplin the businessman thinking shrewdly ahead about box office results . The 1920s was not only the age of bathtub gin , Al Capone , the discovery of Freud , the kicking up the traces of the Victorian period . . . it was also the time of the reemergence of the K . K . K . , the beginning of such figures like Aimee Semper McPherson among Christian religious leaders , the Scopes Monkey Trial in Tennessee . The Religious Right was very much alive in the 1920s , and while they loved Charlie's tramp they would have scowled at a serious spoof on religious leaders . Two years after the film Sinclair Lewis did just that in ELMER GANTRY , which won the Pulitzer Prize ( Lewis refused it for personal reasons ) . Although a best seller , GANTRY did not get made into a film until the 1960s . Charlie arrives in a small town in Texas , close to that border he wants to cross . Once across in Mexico he'll be safe . He is met at the station by a group of church elders led by Matt Swain . They have been expecting the new minister , and they think it is Charlie . As the town Sheriff ( Tom Murray ) is with them Charlie can't disavow them of their error without causing further questions being asked . He goes along hoping to find an opportunity to flee before long . Of course one complication after another arises testing his abilities to maintain his role . The most critical one is the appearance of a fellow jail bird ( Charles Reisner ) who blackmails Charlie into assisting him in robbing the Church or face exposure . Charlie goes along - or does he ? From being an opportunistic crook , Charlie's performance is wonderful in showing how sometimes a person's new role brings out values he or she never realized existed ( think of party boss Chester Arthur made President of the U . S . by the assassination of his predecessor in 1881 , and subsequently showing a zeal for reform in Civil Service , Naval Construction , and vetoing pork-barrel legislation that nobody ever thought he had in him ) . Here Charlie the opportunist did think of using Church money to defray expenses in Mexico , but gradually he gets to take his role very seriously . First time he does is a cute little joke about the collection plates . There are two boxes passed around by Swain and the other elders ( the congregation is large and divided into right and left sections of the pews ) . Chaplin is watching the congregation , but notices more activity on one side than the other . The boxes are given to him for safe-keeping . He feels the heaviness of the well-filled box and smiles beatifically at that portion of the congregation . Then he sees how light the other one is . He gives the other side a dirty look ! He turns out to be a very effective preacher , delivering a sermon on David and Goliath . Done in pantomime it is one of the best bits he ever concocted , managing to show the story without having to speak at all . He never forgets he's a comic , and the final bit in the sermon after the death of Goliath ( when he shows David's disposal of the corpse ) is a typical " tramp " gesture with his foot . There are other bits in the story that are worth treasuring . Swain ( shortly to get his great role in Chaplin's films in THE GOLD RUSH ) shows for all his marked piety a degree of failing in his drinking . His and Charlie's discomfiture regarding a side flask ( keep in mind an illegal one - it's Prohibition in 1923 America ! ) is cleverly handled . The others in the film are quite good - particularly Murray who proves to be one lawman with a human heart . And the conclusion , wherein Charlie wonders if his idea of escape was so really smart is clever too . THE PILGRIM is not the top tier Chaplin , but is wonderful enough as it is - and well worth viewing when one can .
Buster tales on the " chivalric " south	Not quite up there with THE GENERAL , THE NAVIGATOR , SHERLOCK JR . and STEAMBOAT BILL , JR . , OUR HOSPITALITY gives us encouraging signs of Keaton as film creator and thinker . He had done historical films before it - the film just before this was the amusing THE THREE AGES , which was somewhat influenced by the structure of INTOLERANCE ( not quite : the stories are parallel here like in INTOLERANCE , but Griffith blended the conclusions to show the results of intolerance are always evil , whereas Keaton has each story end separately ) . Griffith is an influence here to , in the matter of trying to impose historical correctness of detail . The result is Keaton spoofing it : showing Broadway and 42nd Street in 1830 based on an actual lithograph of the time , which shows that modern thoroughfare as barely out of the cow pasture age - even the cop stops a " traffic jam " by halting foppish Willie McKay on his early bone-shaker bicycle while a wagon has the right of way ! ( Keaton continues this later on in a throw away line , to spoof the cautions of an earlier age . Before he boards the train to take him south , he is warned by his mother , " Be careful of those Indians in Delaware ! " ) All great comedy skirts the edge of tragedy . STEAMBOAT BILL , JR . is resolved when a tornado hits the southern town it is set in , wrecks most of it , and sinks Mr . King's modern steamboat . The reason the ship in THE NAVIGATOR is set adrift is due to foreign agents of one of two countries currently at war . Keaton is fully aware of how close tragedy and comedy touch each other . In Our HOSPITALITY he has a ten minute prologue which could have been in a drama : Willie McKay's dad ( when Willie was an infant in the south ) has been insulted by the younger brother of Joseph Canfield ( Joe Roberts ) a neighbor . Apparently the insult was a mutual one . Despite the entreaties of his wife Mr . McKay goes out of his home armed . Canfield , likewise , tries to prevent his brother , but fails . We watch as both men basically spot each other in the dark , approach with care and fire - mortally wounding each other . Canfield dies on the spot , but Mr . McKay stumbles back to his home and dies . Joseph Canfield looks at the dead body of his brother and realizes that this begins the real matter of a blood feud . He regrets it , but hardens himself to prepare for a massacre . Mrs . McKay quickly leaves the house with baby Willie , fleeing town and heading North . It sets the stage ( though a logic question is dropped - given the threat to McKays in the southern town , why is Willie allowed to go back to claim his inheritance ? ) Willie heads south on the newly built railroad , which has wooden tracks that keep needing repairs ( at one point the train accidentally goes off the rails and continues puffing along like a set of coaches pulled by a steam powered automobile ) . The train contains more than Willie - he has met a charming southern girl ( Nathalie Talmadge - in actual life Buster's wife ) , who happens to be the only daughter of Joe Canfield . He arrives with an invitation from her to her home for dinner . He plans to do that , and goes to see his great estate ( which turns out to be a little log cabin ) , and then heads for the dinner invitation . In the meantime word has spread to the Canfields that the last McKay is in town . They are planning on killing Willie when ( to their general consternation and surprise ) he shows up for dinner . What follows is how Keaton twists southern hospitality into a pretzel as Joe Canfield and his two sons keep an eye on Willie in the hope that he leaves the house long enough to be shot . At first Willie is unaware of all this , but gradually he realizes what is going on , and he is as determined to stay inside their home as long as possible . This delights Virginia Canfield ( Talmadge ) until she realizes the danger she has put Willie into . Soon she's trying to figure out how to prolong this visit beyond the conclusion of dinner . Eventually it is impossible to maintain the strained bond of hospitality . Willie flees into the forest , pursued by vengeful Canfields . The tricks here include a memorable demonstration on the dangers of the law gravity involving Willie and one of his pursuers and a ledge overlooking a waterfall . The waterfall also turned out to be nearly fatal - Keaton took a serious fall in the shooting , and did not realize for several years that he had broken his neck ( and survived ) . Another unconscious serious element is Joe Roberts - he had suffered a stroke during the filming , and insisted on continuing his scenes when he " recovered " . There are scenes where he is seen wandering in the forest , but acting really lost - like he can't tell what is going on around him . Roberts ( an old family friend of Buster's ) died later in 1923 , OUR HOSPITALITY being the last film he made with Keaton . Despite the downer of Roberts ' illness and Keaton's close call , the film works well , and remains consistently funny . As a second level Keaton film it is a good introduction to his work . As an intriguing look at Keaton's fascination with trains , it is a fine introduction to his masterpiece THE GENERAL .
In The Wake of Quartet , Trio , and Encore	William Sydney Porter was a citizen of North Carolina who ( following the period of Reconstruction ) moved to Texas . He married and worked in a bank . His wife became very ill . Now he was charged with embezzlement ( presumably for his wife's medical bills ) . He fled the U . S . to Latin America , and then returned when he heard his wife was dying . After her death he was arrested tried and convicted for embezzlement and got four years in prison . Prison destroys many inmates , but it has occasionally helped some writers . John Bunyan , author of THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS , wrote part of it in prison . Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra was imprisoned for debt and began DON QUIXOTE . Porter wrote some of the prison newspaper , and the chief guard in the prison , Mr . Orrin Henry , persuaded Porter to try writing as a career . Porter did , when he left prison , and proceeded to become one of America's greatest short story writers . In honor to his friend the prison guard , Porter wrote under the still remembered pseudonym , " O . Henry " . Porter / " O . Henry " died in 1910 . Therefore he really missed the full effect of motion pictures . In his own lifetime only one of his stories , " A RETRIEVED REFORMATION " , became dramatized as ALIAS JIMMY VALENTINE . He did not do the dramatization . He was working on a play at the time he died . Also a novel . Given his sharp characterizations , and his fast moving plotting that leads to a surprise ending , we just don't know if he could have done either a play or novel as well as a short story . But we know he was never approached to do a movie script . . . the films didn't begin talking for seventeen more years until after his death . In the late 1940s another master of the short story , William Somerset Maugham made a three picture deal in which he narrated introductions to a total of ten of his short stories . The three films , QUARTET , TRIO , and ENCORE remain great examples of how real literature can be brought to the screen without loss , and certainly were a hard act to follow for other film makers . There were few contemporary takers ( Hemingway and Faulkner just did not seem to be the type to introduce some of their shorter fiction ) . 20th Century Fox managed to get the only other master writer of the period , John Steinbeck , to do the equivalent introductions that Maugham did . The resulting film , O . HENRY'S FULL HOUSE , was a good one but not as good as the Maugham films . Don't forget , Maugham's introductions were to stories HE wrote , whereas ( despite Steinbeck's respectful comments ) Steinbeck's introductions were to stories written by someone else . So the impact is a little different . Pity it was not Hemingway ( if they could have gotten him ) introducing some of his short stories . The five choices are fine . The best ones ( to me ) are " THE RANSOM OF RED CHIEF " , " THE LAST LEAF " , " THE COP AND THE ANTHEM " and " THE GIFT OF THE MAGI " . Were they the best possible choices ? Well , I have always liked " A MUNICIPAL REPORT " , which is light-years ahead of it's " Jim Crow " era views on race relations ( and by a Southerner , for that matter ) . It could not get into the film because of Southern distribution . The one failure as an episode is " THE CLARION CALL " . One of the other reviewers faults Richard Widmark's giggling 19th Century " Tony Udo " as the cause , but the story is not very exciting to begin with , and for once the trick in the conclusion is rather routine . The two comic episodes are amusing as they prove Bobby Burns ' " The best laid plans of mice and men . . . " ( a comment that Steinbeck would be familiar with ) . In " THE COP AND THE ANTHEM " the hero Soapy is a hobo , determined to spend a month or so on a any charge so he can have a warm place to be ( i . e . prison ) while avoiding the winter . He keeps failing to get arrested ( including one interesting episode with Marilyn Monroe - her only time with Charles Laughton ) . Then , at it's bleakest moment he hears an anthem coming out of a church , and starts recalling how he heard it as a boy . He softens and begins to consider reforming . Then comes the conclusion . " The Ransom of Red Chief " stars Fred Allen and Oscar Levant , who mistakenly think kidnapping a child is a piece of cake . They learn quickly the word " hellion " . Howard Hawks directed that episode , and his touches for farce help it tremendously . " THE LAST LEAF " is about two sisters , Anne Baxter and Jean Peters , in a rooming house , living beneath a grumpy artist named Behrman ( Gregory Ratoff ) . Baxter is dying , and Ratoff takes an interest in her health and mental condition . It is late autumn , and the leaves on the trees are falling , and Ratoff hears that Baxter believes she will die when the last , topmost leaf falls off the tree . But the last leaf is still there after a storm rips all the foliage off the tree , and Peters is sure this will give Baxter her grip on living again . Then comes the final , sad surprise . " THE GIFT OF THE MAGI " has been reprinted more frequently than most stories ( and spoofed - Durwood Kirby and Carol Burnett spoofed it delightfully on the old Gary Moore show once ) . Farley Granger and Jeanne Crain are happily married , but in straightened circumstances , each with one prize possession . Christmas is coming , and both want to get fitting gifts for each other . They do at tremendous personal cost , but they realize how deep their love is at the conclusion of the story . Not as good as the Maugham films but worthy of being seen .
An Unexpectedly Nice Inverted Thriller .	I have only seen this film once , and that was over two decades ago . Channel 9 in New York , one August , decided to show only British movies all month , and I happened to see this one . I wish it was revived on cable or Channel 13 , but it is relatively obscure - unfairly so . Herbert Lom has been romancing Eileen Moore , whose father is a wealthy airplane manufacturer played by John Mills . Mills and his wife , Phyllis Calvert , don't like Lom who is older than their daughter , and who is too mysterious in his background . Mills has Lom checked out , and discovers that he is a bad lot . So he goes to Lom to pay him off to leave his daughter alone . But Lom refuses , and in a confrontation , Mills accidentally causes Lom to fall and hit his head ( killing him ) . Mills comes up with a plan to drop Lom's body off on a road and let it look like Lom was the victim of an auto accident . Time passes , and for some reason the police fail to notice Lom's absence . Mills grows increasingly nervous - what if they don't discover the corpse . What if they check out Lom's apartment and find some clue that leads back to Mills . Moore , in the meantime , begins to show curiosity about Lom's disappearance . Not that she wanted to continue the relationship with Lom - she has met Sam Wanamaker , an American born attorney who is far more acceptable material as a potential husband . Mills tells Calvert about the truth and they start trying to push the authorities ( subtly , of course ) into attending to the area where the body was dropped . But the details that they manage to drop have an effect that they did not expect . Moore starts wondering if Lom has been killed , and Wanamaker ( to show his care for her feelings ) takes it upon himself to REALLY push the police into investigating the disappearance . Soon the police do find traces of the incident , but they are looking at it rather darkly - like a murder ( which it was ) . Mills keeps taking time to parry the police thrusts , but finds he has no way of covering up anything from the overly eager Wanamaker . Soon he is in for a second shock , when the dead man's brother shows up ( played by Lom again ) . Now there are several interested parties in the search for the missing man . And the issue is , has Mills plan slipped up , or will he get away with it . If the film had been made in America in 1952 the ending would have not been the same . This film had a very satisfactory , surprise ending - if you can catch it do so .
A matter of delayed , bad timing	I have mentioned elsewhere that the Tudor family ( particularly those two main pillars : Henry VIII and Elizabeth I ) are the most popular British reigning family in Anglo-American films . Only Charles II ( of the follow-up Stuart family ) , Henry V ( of the Lancastrian Plantagenets ) , Richard III ( of the York Plantagenets ) , Henry II ( of the Plantagenets ) , and Victoria ( of the Hanovarians ) rival the Tudors , but only for their own immediate story or stories . In telling of all the intrigue and tragedy and glory the Tudors still beat the others . Yet this wonderful film study of Henry VIII and his second wife was somehow not as successful as it should have been . Although it gained Oscar recognition , it did not win anything notable - and that is due to an ironic delay in it's production . " Anne Of A Thousand Days " appeared in 1948 on Broadway , and was a critically acclaimed triumph ( his last one ) for the overrated Maxwell Anderson . Anderson and his " blank verse " Elizabethan tragedies ( " Mary Of Scotland " ; " Elizabeth The Queen " ) had been popular in the 1930s and both were turned into films ( with Katherine Hepburn and Frederic March in the first and Bette Davis and Errol Flynn in the second ) . One might say " Anne " was the conclusion of a trilogy on Tudor tragedy and history . Anne was also a great dramatic triumph for it's star , Rex Harrison , who won the Tony Award for his portrayal of Henry VIII . It was a personal success for him as well , for he was currently being pilloried in the press for being the man who ( supposedly ) caused Carol Landis to commit suicide as their love affair ended . Unfortunately the story of Henry's courtship , pursuit of Anne , his divorce from Katherine of Aragon ( and the resulting English Reformation ) , his disappointment when Anne only produces one living child - a daughter named Elizabeth , and his destruction of Anne ( literally taken to the executioner's block at Tower Hill ) included bits and pieces of infidelity , illegitimacy , and incest : the three " I " taboos of motion picture codes in 1948 . So we missed out on Harrison making a film record of his great performance . And the play did not appear on the screen until twenty years passed . Despite the pomposity of Anderson's mock-Tudor writing , the play was actually good due to it's story . Anne is a brave woman , and an ambitious one . She is a fit wife for Henry - but she is unlucky to have the same problem that Katherine had ( a problem that only Jane Seymour did not have ) of not fathering a legitimate male heir who survived . Even Jane's child , the future Edward VI , would only live to be an advanced teenager before he died in 1553 . There may have been something physical wrong with Henry ( who did die of syphilis ) that prevented his sperm from producing strong males . By the way , he did have an illegitimate son , Henry , Earl of Richmond , who was considered a possible heir on several occasions , but died in 1536 . Burton gave a wonderful interpretation of Henry , the complex man seeking happiness but also determined to have his way as he is King . Critical reaction to his performance was only negative in that Henry VIII had red hair ( which trait he passed to his daughter Elizabeth ) , not black like Burton's . But that was a minor flaw . Genevieve Bujold was quite memorable as Anne ( who was brought up in France - ironically one of the last " favors " Henry gave her was to allow her to be beheaded by a French swordsman from Calais , not an English axeman ) . Anthony Quayle was certainly thoughtful as Cardinal Wolsey , watching his great power collapse in his failure to secure a papal divorce for his real master . John Collicos is a properly ruthless Thomas Cromwell , while William Squire is adequate as Thomas More and Joseph O'Conor gets a chance to show Bishop Fisher's moral strength . But that's just the problem here . This history lesson was given to the public - brilliantly given - just three years earlier in " A Man For All Seasons " , which emphasized Thomas More's struggle of conscience over gratitude in the English Reformation of the 1530s . It is not to disparage " Anne " as a film to say that " All Seasons " covered the same or most of the same territory better or just or well . But it got there first . This is why " Anne " is rarely revived while " All Seasons " has been . One also has to admit that altruistic More is a better figure to sympathize and honor ( as his fellow martyr Fisher is ) than the unlucky but ambitious Anne . So the public felt . Both are first rate films , and " Anne " does go a step further into the matter of how she's framed by Henry and Cromwell for divorce and execution purposes . But we heard all this before - and from a morally higher position .
A Colorful but lesser Ruritania	The Stewart Granger - Deborah Kerr movie version of Anthony Hope's THE PRISONER OF ZENDA is an entertaining film , but it comes off second best to it's 1937 predecessor with Ronald Colman and Madeleine Carroll . The fact that the film was in Technicolor ( Colman's was in black and white ) is odd but possibly part of the reason for the slightly lesser result . All of the performers in the 1952 version did very good work that was comparable to the work that the previous cast did . Yet the later film is not quite as good . According to the Turner Classic Movie's Stewart Granger was at a dinner at Ronald Colman's house where they ran the 1937 film as entertainment . Granger liked the film and convinced MGM to do a remake . The film was like a scene by scene remake - with a small screen set up showing the original film for the cast to review when they did their scenes . The only changes was the production crew , the cast and the color film stock . Granger comes off as good as Rudolf Rassendyl and King Rudolf V , but he is a trifle self conscious . When Colman played the part he had a great lightness of touch that helped color his performance ( particularly when dealing with both Douglas Fairbanks Jr . as Rupert of Hentzau and Raymond Massey as Black Michael ) . Granger tries to copy this but it seems a little forced . It's odd because he had an advantage over Colman regarding the cast - Rupert in the 1952 film was played by James Mason , who had already appeared in two films ( as deadly adversary ) to Granger ( THE MAN IN GRAY and FANNY BY GASLIGHT ) . Colman never appeared opposite Fairbanks in any previous movie to their version of THE PRISONER . As a result there is a screen chemistry between Granger and Mason , but it doesn't translate to a better pair of performances . Some critics point out that Mason seems to old for Rupert , but except for being called " Young Hentzau " by Colonel Sapt ( Louis Calhern ) there is nothing to suggest he is in his early 20s . However , Fairbanks was leaner in appearance than Mason , so that his youthful qualities did shine through while Mason's just did not do so . The part of Michael is handled by Robert Douglas as though he is just jealous of his half-brother's luck of birth . Yet he is shown with one thing that Raymond Massey's performance did not have - Massey was not crippled . Douglas constantly walks with a cane , which suggests a physical weakness that is a mirror to his emotional one . But it's too little , and it is never really developed . Deborah Kerr's Flavia is appealing ( any performance of Kerr's is appealing ) but Madeleine Carroll was able to get the jolt of that sense of duty that prevents Rassendyl and Flavia from leaving at the end - Kerr seems to be just repeating her lines by rote in their last scene . Mary Astor and Jane Greer both were equally affective as Michael's mistress , as were C . Aubrey Smith and Louis Calhern as Sapt ( Calhern was able to give a devilish twist to the Colonel at one point when commenting on a hidden passage in the royal palace at Streslau which was useful for protecting royal reputations ) . David Niven and Robert Coote were Fritz von Tarkeheim in the two versions , and both played the role effectively but not remarkably . The color was useful in the 1952 film in making the sets more evocative of that period from 1890 to 1897 ( Victoria's upcoming Jubilee is mentioned at one point ) . But it only goes so far - it just reminds us that the characters are in a realistic setting . But the story is such romantic fluff that the realism seems unimportant . In short the 1952 film is really good , but the earlier one is nearly perfect in comparison . I still would stick to Colman's version than Granger's . As for the 1979 Peter Seller's spoof , or the 1975 Malcolm MacDowell " George Macdonald Fraser's " ROYAL FLASH , or the 1965 partial spoof in the Blake Edwards ' THE GREAT RACE , they are in a special class as they are not serious remakes but done for laughs mostly .
One of the two wickedest crimes	It has been suggested , over the years , that only blackmail / extortion approaches kidnapping as the most evil crime in the book . Not that this excuses murderers for their crimes , but there is an additional twist of the knife when the victim is missing or taken from the midst of their loved ones , or when the victim is fighting a smear that may be based on truth , but that demolishes whatever good or decent changes the person has tried to make since the original act happened . Today we are too used to kidnapping because of it's use by terrorist groups , usually middle eastern ones ( but some were in Latin America and Asia as well ) . The high sounding self-defense whining of the kidnappers in these political cases , where they claim that they are acting for some noble cause , does not deflect from the hideous helplessness they place the families of the victim in . It is just a little better when it is a " business " kidnapping - that is a kidnapping for financial gain . The oldest known kidnapping in the U . S . was in 1874 - a boy named Charlie Ross was stolen with his older brother Walter ( who was later released ) by two men in Germantown , Pennsylvania . They subsequently tormented their father and mother and family with a deluge of telegrams and letters that made huge financial demands , and put the potential blame on the father , Christian Ross , if Charlie was never returned - for loving money more than his son . Ross would have paid the ransom but the police and many wealthy men put pressure on him not to - it would set a bad example . As a result the kidnappers stopped communicating . Then , both kidnappers were shot and killed performing a burglary in Brooklyn , New York . One of their accomplices was tried and sentenced to eight years in prison , but Charlie Ross was never found . His fate remains a mystery . Over the years kidnappings would take place - Pat Crowe , a strange , dapper bank robber , kidnapped the son of the founder of the Cudahy meat packing fortune , got the ransom , and subsequently released the boy ( Crowe was eventually captured ) in 1900 . Leopold and Loeb's murder of Bobby Franks was disguised as a kidnapping ( it was always planned to be a perfect crime - payment of the kidnap money would have added to the " pleasure " of the killers ) . In 1927 a particularly vicious , hard hearted kidnap murder occurred in Los Angeles when William Hickman got a ransom for Marion Parker , but returned her mangled corpse to her father ( Hickman would subsequently get hanged ) . The kidnap / murder of Charles Lindbergh Jr . caused the creation of numerous " Lindbergh " laws in America about the crime ( as well as the national one that made kidnapping a potential federal crime if across a state border . What is frequently forgotten is the large number of kidnappings in the 1932 - 1935 period , such as that of Brooke Hart by Holmes and Thurmond ( the source of the story in the movie FURY ) , and that of Mr . Urschell , the Oklahoma oil millionaire , by Machine Gun Kelly and his gang . That a national hero's son got kidnapped and murdered spurred on the number of laws , but the laws were headed for a change anyway . The murder of poor Bobbie Greenlease in 1955 is the germ of RANSOM . Bobbie's father was a wealthy car dealer . A pair of drug addicts stole the boy and murdered him , but sent a demand for a ransom that Mr . Greenlease paid . The case was complicated by two problems for the police . Mr . Greenlease had underworld connections , which affected his full cooperation with the authorities . The other issue was dishonest cops . While the couple who murdered Bobbie were captured , tried , and executed , a huge portion of the ransom was never recovered . It is believed two crooked cops shaved off a large portion of the ransom for themselves before they handed the bulk over to the other criminals . As in the Mel Gibson remake , Glenn Ford is the father of the boy ( Bobbie Clark ) , who is held for ransom . His mother , Donna Reed , and the authorities advise cooperating , but everything Ford does brings criticism onto him , not on the criminals . He is also advised that the chances of his son being returned are slim at best . In a combination of anger and desperation , he turns the tables and offers the ransom money for payment to anyone who will 1 ) return his son , and 2 ) betray , kill , or turn in the kidnapper . It is a clever twist ( in actual life it's never been tried - at least officially ) . It only seems to be the final nail in the coffin of Ford as to his public reputation . I give the film high marks , for Ford , Reed , Clark , Robert Keith , Juano Hernandez , and Leslie Nielsen do first rate work in this film . But I do agree that the return of Clark at the end ( no matter how emotionally satisfying ) ruins a potentially great film . So I can grant it a " 9 " , but it missed the " 10 " it should have had .
The first Philosopher we all tend to recall the name of . . .	He is the first and best known philosopher , as his pupils Plato and Xenophon would have wanted it , but he is also the only " great " philosopher who never wrote anything or constructed his own theory . In fact , Socrates ( fascinating man that he was ) was really the inventor of a method of inquiry , and the man who became the mouthpiece of a great philosopher , his friend and disciple Plato . We know much about Socrates because of Plato and Xenophon ( and a few later writers who had access to sources now lost to us ) . He also was a friend of Aristophanes ( who spoofed him in THE CLOUDS ) , and is mentioned for distinguishing himself in some heavy fighting at a land battle in the Pelopponesian War by the historian Thucydides . It does show that in his own time ( roughly 450 - 399 B . C . E . ) he was a well known public figure . But his fame was secured by his death . He died literally because of his faith in his city-state's laws and decisions , even if they were deadly for him . Because Plato and Xenophon were politically conservative types , even elitists , one can assume that Socrates too was one . But he was inquisitive , and constantly asked question after question about the philosophical issue or point of behavior under discussion . The " Socratic method " remains the favored method of philosophers , but it is also the key to legal confrontation in court . You never accept a statement without testing it , or seeing where it goes . It was Plato who took his teacher's method in the various dialogs to include his own views on society in THE REPUBLIC and THE LAWS , or on love and friendship ( THE SYMPOSIUM ) or on the issue of goodness or whatever issue would occupy Plato's attention . But the Socratic method also makes enemies . Most of the sophists or rival teachers of Socrates who are Plato's straw men resented being made to look like fools by Socrates . When several of his students and friends were among the anti-Democrats who helped Sparta win the Peloponnesian War and to conquer Athens , they took their first opportunity to have Socrates arrested for " impiety " . This was tantamount to a treason charge . Socrates had long talked of a small voice that spoke to him at times . This suggested a rival to the official gods of the city of Athens ( although Socrates never said it was ) . The result was that Socrates was convicted by an Athenian jury . He was asked if he could suggest his punishment ( it should have been death ) . He gave a speech , and suggested some trivial punishment . The jury decided to condemn him to death . He had one month left , and his friends insisted that he flee . He refused - he would not fight the laws of the city state he loved . So he was given a goblet of the poison hemlock , and died after drinking it . Plato wrote four short dialogs giving the trial of Socrates ( including the speech the " Apology " ) Socrates gave to the jury . The trial ( the first great historic trial in western civilization ) has been written , analyzed , and discussed ever since . Plato's later REPUBLIC was designed to protect a future Socrates from a stupid judicial murder . Plato's disciple Aristotle left Athens after a political error almost led to his trial and death ( he said he would not enable Athens to repeat a historic mistake again ) . Yet the drama of Socrates ' demise never became the subject of a major drama or movie , except this one time . In the late 1950s Maxwell Anderson wrote the play BAREFOOT IN ATHENS ( Socrates walked without sandals ) . A late play , it has less of Anderson self-indulgence in it than most of his works and can be revived . This is probably because all he has to do is turn to the ancient writers to get his story and structure of the dialog . His only innovations is the development of the character of Socrates ' wife Xanthippe ( historically a shrew ) , and his relationship with the Spartan King . Socrates befriends the King of Sparta , who has slowly found that defeating Athens just unloads a huge number of problems into his lap . He has little trust of the small men who would run Athens now ( the generation of leaders personified by Pericles is long gone ) . But Socrates keeps arguing for the restoration of the city's democracy . Of course this will guarantee his own doom , but he is a patriot . Ustinov was perfect casting as Socrates , physically looking like the fat , slightly homely , and bearded Greek . His high points ( that I recall ) were when he begs the King of Sparta to restore Athenian democracy , when he defends himself at his trial , and when he tries to comfort the difficult Xanthippe ( Geraldine Page ) who does , for all her sharp tongue , love him dearly . It was a worthy production , and until a full movie is made of it this is the only dramatization of this historical tragedy .
A Talky Film , But Highly Compelling For All That	I have always felt that if Humphrey Bogart had not died in 1957 he would have gradually left the lead roles of his greatest films to pick up very juicy character roles , and the film that convinces of this is THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA . His Harry Dawes is not the hero of this tragedy - there is no hero , just a heroine who loses all . Harry is her closest confidante and guide , for he sees the talent that makes Maria Vargas ( Ava Gardner ) the great film star she becomes , but he realizes that she is a very real and good person - but a terribly naive one for all that in a corrupt world . It is Harry's sad duty not only to help tell the audience the story , but to watch ( one might say inevitably ) Maria destroy herself . Harry is one of the people that wealthy control freak Kirk Edwards ( Warren Stevens ) finds available because they are on beams end . Harry has had drinking problems , and his career as a film director is in the toilet . Edwards has found Maria in the slums of Madrid , and believes she has great potential . He wants Harry to direct her in a film test , just to be sure . Harry has little choice , and does the test - but he gets to know Maria and win her trust . And he finds a way to somehow do his work for Edwards but give Maria a fighting chance to not be under Edwards ' iron glove control . We watch Maria's career progress , with her honesty able to capture public approval when she runs to defend her father from a homicide charge . Later we see her successfully break with first Edwards , and then his Latin American rival Alberto Bravano ( Marius Goring ) and then falling in love with the Count Vincenzo Torlato - Favrini ( Rossano Brazzi ) whom she marries in the belief he is her long awaited knight in shining armor . But the Count has a secret , and in learning it and trying to overcome it Maria destroys all she achieved in four short years . All of Joseph Mankiewicz's films are literate - he is possibly the most verbally careful of all major film directors . Some by the way find that THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA may stray too far afield because of the dialog ( most of the film's narration is during a funeral ) . But he still gets some very effective scenes in . The confrontation between Edwards , a humorless example of the Puritan work ethic , and Bravano ( who for all his defects is honest about enjoying his money and position to appreciate living ) at a party is a great highpoint . So is such a minor moment as when a royal pretender to a throne makes a tragically accurate comparison between himself and Torlatto - Favrini . So stick to that dialog - it pays off . The film is also a roman-a-clef . Some of the characters are obviously clones of real people . Edwards the millionaire control freak is based on Howard Hughes , especially with private contracts for performers like Jane Russell . Bravano has a lot of the Dominican Republic playboy Porfirio Ruberosa . The background of Maria Vargas is supposedly based on that of Rita Casino ( Rita Hayworth ) . I am sure that Harry Dawes is based on some directors that Mankiewicz knew of , as was Edmond O'Brien's publicist and factotum Oscar Muldoon ( catch his scene on the telephone talking to Harry when the latter is in Hollywood and Oscar is in London , or his final break with Edwards - " the Party's Over " - and realize this role , not D . O . A . , was the one that netted O'Brien his Oscar for best supporting actor ) . A fascinating study of the limits of movie fame and fortune in winning happiness . Final note : Mankiewicz apparently could not avoid having a small joke at the expense of his audience . When we see Maria's first film , the marquee has a poster that mentions the screenplay is by " Lloyd Richards " . " Lloyd Richards " ( Hugh Marlowe ) was the dramatist who wrote plays for Margo Channing and Eve Harrington in Mankiewicz's classic ALL ABOUT EVE !
The Limits of the Joys of the Swinging Single's Life	When Frank Sinatra's real film career ( the one that starts with MEET DANNY Wilson and FROM HERE TO ETERNITY and SUDDENLY ) got started , his comedies generally improved . Instead of playing the eternally naive heartthrob that the bobby-soxers supposedly enjoyed ( but is actually quite annoying in films like ANCHORS AWEIGH ) , he found that his sophistication could carry a better style of comedy . Ahead of him was HIGH SOCIETY , OCEAN'S ELEVEN , COME BLOW YOUR HORN , ROBIN AND THE SEVEN HOODS , where he was usually in control of the situations rather than pulled about by mechanical plot twists based on his stupidity . And THE TENDER TRAP is an early example of this switch . Sinatra's Charlie Reader is a successful talent agent , and his success is mirrored in his apartment facing the 59th Street Bridge in Manhattan , and his colorful lifestyle of a different date with a different woman ( Celeste Holms , Lola Albright , Caroline Jones , and Jarma Lewis ) every night . His trade comment of " A ring-a-ding-ding " is not voiced here , but it could easily be said . Like his character of the older brother in COME BLOW YOUR HORN , he is inviting an old childhood pal ( like his younger brother in the later film ) named Joe McCall ( David Wayne ) . But the younger brother in the later film is intoxicated by the glamor of Sinatra's lifestyle . Eventually the younger brother actually makes Sinatra ashamed of his own lifestyle as the younger brother takes it to extremes . Here , Wayne is in the middle of a mid-life crisis , and he's actually hoping to enjoy Sinatra's lifestyle , but as the film progresses gradually realizes that Sinatra's habits mistreat many women . Sinatra may be a great swinger , but he is something of a sexual pig . But Frank's lifestyle is beginning to show cracks . In COME BLOW YOUR HOME it was a matter of his aging ( Lee J . Cobb fuming that he's a bum because he's unmarried and approaching 40 ) . Here it is his meeting a young actress named Julie Gillis ( Debbie Reynolds ) that he starts dating . Sinatra looks at Julie ( at least at first ) as just another lady on his weekly list . But he slowly finds he does not want her to consider his other girlfriends , and he also wants her to be available to him . But his interest is tempered when he discovers she is only interested in him dating her and only her . . . with the intention of only marrying her . Sinatra goes crazy here - not babbling but losing his cool thoroughly . He tries to forget her quickly , by picking up one of the other regular girls , only to find that Jones has met a fellow who is going to marry her , and Albright has another regular date . Holms ( as Sylvia Crewes ) shows up . Oddly enough she is willing to accept the one sided dating system that Sinatra has chosen , because she is aware that she is now 33 and the chances of getting a fellow to marry her are quite rare . She lists the types to Wayne , and none are very appetizing . Sinatra proposes marriage to a shocked Holms , who ( somewhat shakily ) agrees . Sinatra decides to throw a huge party , even inviting his other occasional date Lewis to it . But in the middle of getting the party under way he runs downstairs and smack into Reynolds . She decides she loves him despite his selfishness , but he announces that he loves her as well . . . and proposes to her . She heads home , promising to see her fiancé in the morning , and he proceeds to wonder what to do now that he's affianced to two women . It turns out to be a disaster , but it is deserved . I won't go into the rest of the plot , but things do work out . It is nice to see Tom Hellmore , soon to be the notorious Elstin Draper in VERTIGO , in a far nicer role her . Also the conclusion of the film , with the now standard Jimmy Van Husen theme song being sung by Sinatra , Reynolds , Holms , and Wayne ( with a sorrowful chorus of Albright , Lewis , and Jones ) bears comparison to the singing by Cameron Diaz and her three bridesmaids at the start of MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING for being so fresh and unexpected . It was a top notch comedy , and another step upward for Sinatra in the rebuilding and expansion of his film career .
A Colman - Selznick triumph	Sir Anthony Hope Hawkins was a successful London barrister , who got his measure of permanent fame as the author of several novels . Some were quite popular in their day , like " The Dolly Dialogues " and " The Man In The Car " ( which bases it's central figure on Cecil Rhodes ) . But it is his two " Ruritanian " Romances , " The Prisoner Of Zenda " and " Rupert Of Hentzau " that are the main novels he is recalled for , especially " The Prisoner Of Zenda " . Set in a middle European kingdom , it was ( for it's day in the last decades of the 19th Century ) an updating of the swashbuckling novels of Alexandre Dumas . Dumas had some stories set in " modern Europe " ( " The Count Of Monte Cristo " is set in the period of 1815 - 1830 , and was written in 1844 - 1845 ) , but most were in earlier periods , such as the 16th , 17th , and 18th Centuries . Hope Hawkins ( who wrote under the name Anthony Hope ) figured that there was sufficient intrigue and deviltry in modern Europe to transplant the plot style to the 1870s - 1890s . And there was considerable intrigue , especially in Eastern Europe . In the 1880s Prince Alexander of Battenberg seemed set to become first Prince or King of Bulgaria . He had won admiration in Europe for his stunning victories over the armies of the Kingdom of Serbia in a war of 1885 ( the war that was the background to Shaw's ARMS AND THE MAN ) , and was poised to get his crown , when the Russian Empire balked . They thought Alexander was too pro-German , and too close ( due to family relationships ) to Great Britain . So Alexander was toppled , and forced to leave Bulgaria under very humiliating circumstances . Eventually Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg got the Bulgarian throne . " The Prisoner Of Zenda " is not based on the story of Alexander of Battenberg , but it shows the type of conspiracy atmosphere that pervaded the area . Basically the plot is an old one of substitutions concerning political figures . Dumas had used one in " The Vicomte De Bragalone " , a huge multi-volume novel that included " The Man In The Iron Mask " . One of the theories about the Iron Mask ( the one that Dumas used ) was that it was the twin brother of King Louis XIV . In that novel D'Artagnan has to thwart a plot to replace the Sun King with his brother - a plot that almost succeeds . Hope changed this slightly . Here the King is threatened by his ambitious half-brother , and the King's distant twin cousin replaces him to save the throne . The 1937 film version of the novel is usually considered the best of several ( including the 1951 version with Stewart Granger and Deborah Kerr , and a comic version with Peter Sellers and Lionel Jeffries in 1978 ) . David Selznick was the producer , this being part of his series of movies-based-on-famous-novels that included " A Tale Of Two Cities " ( also with Colman ) , " David Copperfield " ( with W . C . Fields ) , and finally " Gone With The Wind " . His casting was top notch , with Colman supported by Madeleine Carroll , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , Raymond Massey , Mary Astor , C . Aubrey Smith , and David Niven . It is an exciting and well made film , and definitely worth watching . Selznick hoped to do the sequel " Rupert Of Hentzau " , but that book is a comparative downer . Several of the main characters from the first novel are killed , and one of them shows a less likable side to his personality than in the first story . He toyed with a total rewrite of the story , to try to make Fairbanks a hero instead of a villain . The project never reached fruition . Probably just as well . It is rare for a successful film production to be replicated in a sequel .
Cinderella with an opportunistic streak	This is one of the films at Paramount ( with EASY MONEY & REMEMBER THE NIGHT ) that Mitchell Leisin was criticized by the screenwriters ( Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett , and Preston Sturgis ) for altering the pacing or direction of the screenplays . He didn't . Leisin was never as cynical as either Wilder or Sturgis , and tended to soften the central characters of his comedies by showing them as human beings . This is true with how he handled Wilder and Brackett's " Eve Peabody " ( Claudette Colbert ) , who is a showgirl / gold-digger who lucks out because a wealthy banker George Flammarion ( John Barrymore ) needs her to help him win back his wife Helene ( Mary Astor ) . MIDNIGHT is the " Cinderella " story . Colbert has come to Paris with nothing but the clothes she has on her . She meets a cab driver ( Don Ameche as " Tibor Czerny " ) who is willing to help stake her until she can find work . But Colbert ( although she obviously likes Ameche ) is determined to take Paris by storm first , and runs away from him - managing to get into a social event . It is a soirée held by Hedda Hopper ( one of her few movie roles ) , where she keeps annoying the pianist by introducing his piece as a Prelude , when it is an Etude . Barrymore is there with Astor , and with her boy-friend ( Francis Lederer as Jacques Picot ) , as well as Astor's gay confidante Rex O'Malley ( as Marcel Renaud ) . Lederer keeps looking very interested at Colbert ( much to Astor's increasing annoyance ) , and Barrymore notes this . He asks Colbert a few questions , and accepts her answers . Like another Eve in a later film , Colbert does not know enough to keep her comments simple and non-committal . But as the party breaks up , a limousine is there to pick up Colbert and take her to a ritzy hotel suite as Baroness Czerny . After she wanders stunned through the opulent apartments , Barrymore shows up . After pointing out her error about various answers she gave him ( you will learn about the oldest subway in Europe ) , Barrymore explains why he has set her up ( and will back her ) . He wants her to attract Lederer away from Astor , whom Barrymore loves deeply but who is infatuated with the younger man . Colbert agrees , but only because she may end up marrying the wealthy Lederer ( his fortune is from an inferior champaign , but Barrymore says that " Everytime his champaign is bought , his fortune bubbles ! " ) . Ameche of course is busy looking for Colbert , and eventually finds her . He confronts her at the Flammarion mansion , and claims he is the husband of the " Baroness " . This , of course , adds a complication to the plans of Barrymore ( who tries to derail Ameche repeatedly ) . In the end the entire matter has to go to divorce court . Unfortunately it is run by that stickler for law , order , and the French home : Monty Wooley . And how it is resolved I will leave to the viewer to discover . It is a witty little film , due in part to the Wilder and Brackett script , but also the master hand of Leisin in getting performances out of his actors - including John Barrymore in his last good performance in a supporting role . Reportedly Barrymore read his lines from cue cards just off the set ( he explained that he would not memorize lines from a Hollywood script - only from a classic play ) . Still look at his moments of zaniness pretending he is the Czerny's child , or in making little sniping remarks at O'Malley's expense . He still could act quite well at this point . Ameche and Colbert also have good timing , and chemistry together . Colbert even has a moment of humanness ( that Leisin added ) where she explains her avariciousness is based on seeing how her parents grew to hate each other in their mutually entrapped poverty row marriage . Wilder normally never got points like that into his films , nor did Sturgis . It is a wonderful comedy , and one of the best screwball films of the 1930s . Pity it is not as well known as it should be .
Whatever it is , he's against it !	HORSE FEATHERS , the fourth of the five Paramount Marx Brother Movies , is one of their best - tackling the world of higher education in America . Groucho is the latest of the Presidents of Huxley College , which is doing very badly ( apparently ) not because of poor scholastic standards but due to not having a successful football team . His son ( Zeppo ! ) steers him toward solving this issue , but with typical Groucho ineptness he thinks the two semi-professional football players he is looking for are Harpo and Chico . He proceeds to regret his own mistake , until the climactic football game . The music numbers of this film are well remembered , particularly Groucho's introduction ( " I'M AGAINST IT ! " ) and " Everyone Says I love you " . The latter was sung to the anti-heroine of the story , Thelma Todd in her second and last film with the brothers . Thelma plays the " college widow " , a popular fictional figure in early 20th Century American humor - a euphemism for an ever-ready widow of a college professor who was there to have sex with students or the staff . George Ade , the humorist who wrote FABLES IN SLANG , wrote a play called " THE COLLEGE WIDOW " in the teens of the 20th Century . Thelma is certainly effective as the vamp trying to help David Landau ( President of Darwin College ) get the football signals of Huxley College . Her scenes with Groucho and Chico are quite funny . Chico is playing the piano and she sings . She says she has a falsetto voice . Chico says that's all right , his aunt has a false set of teeth . And Groucho , when taking Thelma for a boat trip throws her a lifesaver ( literally ) , while returning with a duck who interrupted his singing . The final football game is the second best spoof of college football on film ( the one in Harold Lloyd's THE FRESHMAN is a better one ) . In the end we see the boys demolish football huddles , football signals , even hot dogs ( poor Nat Pendleton ) . A delightful antique , it is well worth watching . This is one film I'm not against .
Without Hal Roach	In 1939 - 1940 Laurel & Hardy's long contractual relationship with Hal Roach was coming to an end . The boys actually never had a joint contract with Roach - Stan and Babe had signed up in the 1920s at different times . Stan's contract was ending first , but Babe's would be finished within a year . Most people assume that the three men worked very smoothly together . The decline in their work is ascribed to a lack of sympathy shown them by MGM and 20th Century Fox in the 1940s . This is not quite true . Roach , as a producer , was cost conscious , and if he felt something was over-budget he squawked . This led to collisions with Stan . At least once it harmed a film - the feature " Swiss Miss " , where a vital element in the scene involving the rope bridge was dropped . Similar cost cutting may have hurt " Bonnie Scotland " ( which has an ending that does not even try to settle a plot problem ) . As early as 1937 Roach began to look into ending the boys partnership . He tried to create a " Hardy " family series ( no pun intended ) in which Babe was married to Patsy Kelly , and their son was Spanky MacFarlane . A still photo exists of Babe holding Spanky ( both trying to out-stare each other ) with Patsy looking somewhat bemused . But nothing came of this . In 1939 Roach produced the film " Zenobia " , starring Babe as a small-town physician in the anti-bellum South . A request to help a circus elephant causes him trouble . The owner of the elephant is Harry Langdon , and there were rumors at the time that Roach was toying with a new teaming of Hardy and Langdon . Under the circumstances of Roach's antics , it is just possible that the decision of Stan and Babe to make " The Flying Deuces " with Boris Morros as producer was a counter-move : a type of testing the waters to see if the boys needed Roach to be there in order to make successful comedy features . If so , they were smart to do it . " The Flying Deuces " is not one of their greatest comedies ( like " Sons Of The Desert " ) but it is a very amusing one . Although a story and screenplay is listed as the source of the film , one imagines the real source goes back to a short subject movie made a few years earlier called " Beau Hunks " . In that short Babe is broken hearted because the woman he loves has married another man . The woman in question is actress Jean Harlow . Babe insists that he must join the Foreign Legend in order to forget his false love . But he insists Stan go with him . Stan can't quite grasp this - why should he join , as he has no reason to forget anyone . Babe immediately says that it is selfish of Stan not to join his friend in trying to forget . So they leave for North Africa . The rest of the short deals with their hard life as legionnaires ( under Commandant Charles Middleton ) and the fact that the horrified Hardy keeps finding that every man in the Foreign Legion is there trying to forget Jean Harlow ( as is the leader of the Riffs ! ) . As you can see there are elements in " Beau Hunks " that are picked up in " The Flying Deuces " . Here , while in Paris , Hardy falls for Jean Parker , but she has a boyfriend . Hardy resolves on suicide in the Seine , and ties a heavy weight to himself AND Stan ( who should share his fate , as a good friend ) . But they are prevented by French Legionaire officer Reginald Gardiner , who convinces them to join the Legion in order to forget the sad affair . They agree ( Stan is told to get rid of that thing , promptly unties himself from the weight , and throws it into the Seine , causing Ollie to be pulled in ) . They show up in North Africa , at a fort run by Charles Middleton , and discover that Gardiner is an officer there too - as is his new wife , Jean Parker ! The difference in the two films is that the feature enables more material to be put in . When they are going to their quarters , Stan and Ollie break into a soft shoe and song of " Shine On Harvest Moon " ( no doubt influenced by similar moments where they did singing and dancing in " Way Out West " the year before . They get into trouble when they are outraged with the small pay they have unwittingly agreed to by signing up . Their behavior keeps escalating until they end up in the guardhouse , awaiting court martial and probable execution , with Jimmy Finleyson as their jailer . And then they make a final break for freedom at the controls of an airplane . The plane crashes , and ( for the only time in their films ) one of them dies . . . temporarily . Earlier they had a discussion on reincarnation , and now they see the wisdom of that theory . It is an extremely amusing film for all the players ( Middleton having a royal fit when he reads an insulting message left by Hardy on his desk ; Gardiner going ballistic finding the boys in Parker's boudoir with her , and Finleyson unable to understand how the boys as well as nearly twenty soldiers raced into the cell they were locked into - so that he couldn't find them - and then they all reappeared ) . While not as polished as their best work , it certainly was in the top of their second tier of good feature films ( better , anyway , than " Bonnie Scotland " ) . It may have worked for awhile . After " Zenobia " and " The Flying Deuces " , Roach did not seem to bring up re-teaming Babe with anyone . The boys made " A Chump At Oxford " and " Saps At Sea " with Roach . Then both contracts were over . Unfortunately , they then signed with MGM and 20th Century Fox , and the long decline began in earnest .
Wells ' Other Space Novel	One year after arranging for the near destruction of the Earth by invaders from Mars ( 1898 ) , H . G . Wells turned the story around and had humans invade another heavenly body - the moon . THE FIRST MEN IN THE MOON , written in 1899 , created a bit of controversy when it appeared . Jules Verne was still alive , and he had some proprietary interests in the Moon , as he sent three men ( two Americans and a Frenchmen ) to the moon in 1865 ( FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON ) , and returned them to earth in a sequel in 1870 ( AROUND THE MOON ) , and - although most people don't recall it - had the Americans and their gun club associates try to use the " Columbiad " cannon to affect the earth's tilt ( in THE PURCHASE OF THE NORTH POLE in 1889 ) . Verne's moon cannon and projectile , despite some amazing predictions regarding it's physical location and the time to reach the moon ( four days ) , is now known to be erroneous due to the power of the explosion to reduce the projectile to dust . But it was cutting edge science in 1865 , and it was based on everyday physical items of use , like gun-cotton and steel . Verne dismissed his English rival's work , asking where M . Wells found his Cavorite . The reply of Wells is not known . Actually , Wells does tackle the subject of Cavorite a little towards the last page ( literally ) of the novel . Cavor , in his final moments of desperation for help from his fellow men , tries to send the formula for Cavourite , and we learn it is based on hydrogen ( the lightest of all elements ) . However , Cavor stops the transmission , probably cornered by the Selenites , with a final message of " Uless " , meaning probably " Useless . " The film version does expand the story quite well , especially in the performances of Lionel Jeffries as Joseph Cavor , Edward Judd as Arnold Bedford , and Martha Hyer as Kate Callender . Jeffries normally played comic parts ( like his dim-witted policemen in TWO WAY STRETCH and THE WRONG ARM OF THE LAW ) . He did do overly excitable dramatic characters , like his Marquiss of Queensbury in Peter Finch's film about Oscar Wilde . But Cavor may have been his best acting job , as he ends up sacrificing himself to save Judd and Hyer , and to somehow restrain the thousands of Selenites who seek mankind's destruction . His act is also one of guilt , as his overly chatty admissions about the militarism and destructive activities of human beings brings about the final decisions to destroy man by the Selenite people . Judd's career was mostly in science fiction . He rarely had one of the three leads in a film , and he makes the most of it as he blindly goes ahead financing Cavor's anti-gravity experiments , despite warnings of how dangerous they are ( with the collapsing smokestack of Cavor's chimney as a reminder ) . He also , by not leveling with his girlfriend Hyer , gets her tangled up in the trip to the moon , and ends up endangering her as well as Jeffries and himself . Ms Hyer's performance is not in the original story ( as Arlene Dahl's appearance in the film version of JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH is not in that book either . It was thrown in to make the story more scary , as there were now three intrepid explorers to the Moon , one of whom was female . It really was not needed , but it was a good move , as Ms Hyer turns out to be a welcome addition to the cast . She has one moment of unintentional comedy . The Selenites are examining their unwanted visitors , and we see a screen ( some type of x-ray device ) and a skeleton on the screen ( a full skeleton . We hear Ms Hyer talking angrily about being violated , and she walks out from in back of the screen - her clothes all on . The violation was the x-ray machine revealing so much ( her skeleton ? ) . Ray Harryhausen adds to his memorable stable of animated clay figures with his moon cow - a centipede type monster that the space travelers manage to kill . We see the Selenites strip it of it's meat , leaving a large skeleton behind . Altogether a superior science fiction film .
The first two volumes of THE CHRONICLES OF BARSET	Anthony Trollope's position as a leading British novelist is established today in a way that would seem odd to our grandparent's generation of 1900 - 1930 . He seemed so quaint and old hat , having little of the fire and exuberance of Dickens , the passions of the Bronte sisters , the intellectual realism of George Eliot , or the mystical tragedy of Thomas Hardy . He got high grades for being amusing , mostly due to the novels he wrote of the cathedral city of Barchester in the county of Barset . As this comprised only seven or eight novels out of his over seventy titles , it was like a polite slap in the face . However , after 1930 , prodded in part by the book EARLY VICTORIAN NOVELISTS by Lord David Cecil , Trollope ( like his Amercian contemporary , Herman Melville ) began to get reassessed . His novels about the Palisser family were noted for their tireless realism in showing the political world . Novels like THE WAY WE LIVE NOW showed a subtle and perceptive social critic , who saw the greed and selfishness that pervaded his society . And he never lost his sense of ironic humor either . Today , after Dickens and the Brontes and George Eliot , Trollope would come as the leading Victorian novelist . In fact , in readability , he would be higher than Eliot . The series THE BARCHESTER CHRONICLES dealt with two novels : THE WARDEN and BARCHESTER TOWERS . THE WARDEN deals with Reverend Septimius Harding , a kindly clergyman who has an 800 pound a year job ( a very good salary for 1855 - the year the novel was written ) taking care of a charity almshouse , that is supposed to be a home for about one dozen men . The charity was set up in the eighteenth century , and comes to the attention of a local reformer named John Bold , who ( misguidedly ) brings it to the attention of England's leading newspaper THE THUNDERER . Bold claims that the charity as handled by the church cheats the dozen men , who should be getting more of the money . THE THUNDERER leads the attack on the greedy clergy , particularly Harding . He is in a precarious position : his younger daughter Eleanor is being courted by John Bold , and his older daughter is married to Archdeacon Grantley . Harding does not like the negative publicity , and tries to get out of it , but Grantley ( a bullying type ) refuses to allow him . Bold tries to stop the campaign from hurting Harding , only to get a lecture from the power-hungry editor of the paper of not putting one's interests above the public . In the end Harding manages to resign . And the old men find that the promised increase in their money is non-existent , and Harding is replaced by a less sympathetic clergyman . BARCHESTER TOWERS takes place a year later . Grantley's father , the Bishop of Barchester dies . THE THUNDERER pushes the appointment of one Rev . Mr . Proudie , who is married to a very dominating type of wife , and has a curate , Mr . Slope , who is very efficient , very devious , and very ambitious . Trollope looks into the split between " High Church " and " Low Church " when dealing with Slope's " Low Church " views ( including cutting down expenses by reducing church choirs ) . This is opposed by the old guard of Grantley , Harding , and Dean Arabin . They call in all their various allies , including Dean Stanhope , who has been living with his family in Italy for ten years . The Proudies and Slope use every possible weapon against the old guard to push their religious reforms agenda . But Slope is looking for a wealthy wife ( he wants to have power base away from Mrs . Proudie ) . Mary Harding had married John Bold , and had a son by him , but Bold has died , and she's a wealthy widow . Grantley can't stand the idea of Slope as a brother-in-law . Bertie Stanhope , a son of the returned Dean , is handsome , but somewhat weak . Slope presses his suit , but finds that Mrs . Proudie is critical ( it is affecting his position with the Bishop ) . Mary has to make a choice , and notes that Slope seems just as attracted to Bertie's sister , Madame Neroni , as to her . Soon the social world of Barchester gets drawn heavily into the political and theological world in ways that are astounding . Donald Pleasance played Septimus Harding , making the most of his quieter side - he is far from his villainous Blofeld or similar characters here , and quite effectively so . Nigel Hawthorne's Grantley is properly pompous , as Alan Rickman's Slope greasy . David Gwillim as John Bold is properly well intentioned , but chews off more than he can handle . Janet Maw is Eleanor Harding Bolt , and was adequate . Her sister Susan was Angela Pleasance ( the daughter of the man playing her character's father ) . Susan Hampshire was Madame Neroni , the woman who tempts Slope . And Clive Swift is the Bishop who is as wife dominated as his later Richard Bucket was by Hyacinth in KEEPING UP APPEARANCES . The series was very good , but oddly enough it was not followed up by the other novels of the complete series that Trollope wrote .
How to Raise Sale Revenues ?	Business is bad at Grace Brothers , and Mr . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) calls for a meeting of the staff to discuss ways of bringing business into the store . Besides the initial problem of getting the women's and men's wear department people in at some point , the meeting finds a depressing lack of ideas , except for one fairly sensible one : Captain Peacock ( Frank Thornton ) figures that a fashion show would certainly make people aware of the good and practical clothing sold at the store . In typical fashion Rumbold ( who is usually befuddled and timid , except when throwing his own importance around ) appropriates Peacock's idea only changing the title of the fashion show . The episode's last ten minutes show an impatient Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett - he's impatient because he does not want to miss the Walt Disney cartoon at the movies , where he is going after work ) watching a make-ship fashion show by the staff to get an idea of what the concept is . In typical fashion the costumes of the personnel mirror their personalities ( Peacock dressed like a prosperous professional and strutting about ; Mr . Humphreys - John Inman - flouncing around in an elegant but flamboyant outfit ) . In the end , Mr . Grace makes a sensible suggestion ( for a change ) that brings some discomfort to Mr . Rumbold .
Hoss as a would-be fiddle virtuoso	One of the joys of watching BONANZA was that ( unlike GUNSMOKE and other major western television shows ) it did not take itself very seriously . Every now and then there would be purely comic episodes involving the major characters , usually Hoss and Little Joe , but frequently Ben Cartwright as well . And what made these episodes good was the simplicity of the story line - they tended to be very believable . Hoss ( Dan Blocker ) is always a decent sort of guy - he can get mad , but he is fully willing to let bygones be bygones if the opponent changes for the better . But he has a failing . It is not that he is stupid , but he is more prone than this brothers Joe and Adam to fall for certain half-truths or lies if the liar is able to push them properly . The plot of this wonderful episode is that Hoss finds a group of gypsies ( naturally led by Eva Gabor ) on Ponderosa land using their resources without asking permission . When he confronts them he does notice that Gabor is quite attractive ( something she is very used to in men , and which she is always quick to take advantage of ) . She gives him a line about the nasty ways of the world , and how she has been persecuted , and she brings up her " second sight " ( she reads palms ) . While he bashfully protests against this , she looks at his palm , and suddenly she is treating Hoss like royalty . It seems his palm says that he has great musical talent . Hoss is astounded - he's never noticed this before ( and soon the audience realizes why ) . Gabor sells him ( she doesn't miss a trick ) an old violin . Hoss goes back to the Ponderosa to practice . Soon he has Ben ( Lorne Greene ) , Joe ( Michael Landon ) and Hop Sing ( Victor Sen Yung ) in a tizzy . Hoss has a tin ear - he has no sense of melody or harmony . His fingering of the strings is for the birds . He lacks rhythm . Joe and Ben try to set him straight , but he insists it is his destiny to give music to the world . Well , they insist he practice in the fields . He does - and it upsets the ranch hands and the neighbors . Ben always tries reverse psychiatry in moments like this . He convinces Hoss ( who has been practicing ) to go into Virginia City with him . There is a new piano teacher in town , and Ben wants Hoss to play for her . Ben figures that Hoss will be told off by this expert to forget about a music career . Unfortunately for Ben the piano teacher is Kathleen Freeman , who takes one look at the broad and wide Hoss and sees a kindred spirit ( and a potential boyfriend ) . Gritting her teeth but never letting on what she really thinks , Ms Freeman hears the maestro play his fiddle , and tells him ( much to the dismay and amazement of Ben ) that he certainly is original and shows great promise ! This is repeated with variations in the story . Nobody wants to hurt Hoss's feelings , and most tell him ( only Ben , Joe , and Hop Sing being independent on this ) that he plays very well . Ben even has Hoss set up an evening's musical recitation for the ranch hands . They sit down knowing how bad Hoss is ( they have been hearing him all these days screeching his notes out ) . But the foreman ( and I keep thinking the foreman was played by Lyle Bettger , but I might be wrong about this - he is not listed in the credits ) , warns the men ( including Doodles Weaver ) that rich people like the Cartwrights are eccentric , and people who work with them have to humor them - so no matter what they really think , applaud like crazy or face the chance of losing your jobs ! They too keep painfully straight faces ( except for a calm Doodles - he has put cotton in his ears ) , and then applaud and cheer like mad at the conclusion - much to the amazement of Little Joe and Ben . It is only when Joe confronts Ms Gabor's gypsy lady that a resolution is brought about - and Hoss drops the violin . But this only leads to the final catastrophic decision he makes regarding his musical career . A really funny episode , and one that makes one respect people who can play musical instruments .
Oh , What a Tangled Web We Weave . . . .	If you examine any major film or novel or play defects pop up . If the work is worth watching or reading you won't mind them - and if you are considering directing or producing a version of the written work you will find a way to overcome the defect . Most film noir plots do have defects in them . Given how he has romanced his late partner's wife , and how he knows that some of the police ( like Barton MacLaine ) would like to ruin him , in real life Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade would fully cooperate with the San Francisco police regarding Jerome Cowan's murder in THE MALTESE FALCON . Given the homicidal nature of Lawrence Tierney in BORN TO KILL , Walter Slezak would probably not try to blackmail him and Claire Trevor . In fact , he might find an excuse to drop Esther Howard as a client . KANSAS CITY CONFIDENTIAL is a taught and exciting film noir at the tail end of the period when such films were being made . Preston Foster is the former head of detectives for the Kansas City Police , who was forced to leave his post because of a change in city political structures that he did not prepare for . He is bitter about this forced retirement , and so he creates a scheme to commit a major armed robbery of a bank , using three low-lifes ( Jack Elam , Lee Van Cleef , and Nevil Brand ) as his bandits . But he arranges for them to wear masks when they all meet ( he is wearing one too ) so that none of them know each other or him . They are given half a playing card as a key of mutual recognition when they are to reunite for the splitting of the money ( some six months after the robbery , in a resort in Mexico ) . Now , in real life the three convicts would ( of course ) be dying to know who their partners and boss were . I can't believe they would not make some effort to find out ( compare this to Humphrey Bogart's clever way of tracing down Edward G . Robinson's phone number in THE AMAZING DR . CLITTERHOUSE , to see what is more likely to occur ) . But as this film is going in a different direction , I am willing to suspend my disbelief and just accept that Elam , Van Cleef , and Brand - despite all being thoroughly dangerous and nasty customers - are willing to go along with this witless demand by Foster . There have been comments made here ( understandably ) that Foster's attitude to John Payne , accidentally framed by the scheme as being the thief , are not consistent . Actually they are . Foster never intended for the three goons he used to split the money and get away with their shares . He was planning to spring a trap on them - as though he had solved the robbery himself - and so reclaim his job with the Kansas City police . Precisely how he would do this we never learn ( presumably he would have somehow killed them before they could identify him by his voice ) . But his plot miscarries when he gets involved with Payne , seeking to clear himself . Suddenly , watching Payne's involvement ( and realizing that Payne has been romancing his daughter ( Colleen Gray ) he is conscience-stricken . You see , framing Payne was never part of the scheme . The scenes with Payne are among the best acting that performer ever made . John Payne , in the 1930s and 1940s , was mostly in comedies or in supporting parts , and in many musicals for 20th Century Fox . It was only in the aftermath of his best recalled role ( the attorney for Edmund Gwenn in MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET ) that he began appearing in off-beat noir regular films or noir westerns . It turned out he was a fully capable performer in negative ( or quasi-negative ) roles . Here he has the misfortune to be fingered by his ex-convict past , and his chance appearance as the driver of a similar florist van to the one used in the robbery . He gets the third degree from the police , before they find out his alibi is checking out . But the newspapers have plastered his face and history all over the place , so he loses his job and can't get another . He is only able to hang on and locate his first clue with an assist from an old friend who understands what he is going through . The performance of Foster is good given the odd situation he faces of having set up a scheme to go from a to b to c to d , and finding it is thrown off kilter by something he never intended . I like the performances of Jack Elam , who has a serious drug problem ( in the days that drug addiction was rarely discussed in movies - but notice how many " cigarettes " he's smoking , and how he is shaking ) , and of Lee Van Cleef , as a totally amoral criminal . Elam's death scene ( he is unarmed , but by force of habit lunges for a gun that Payne has on his own person , and is shot by the police ) is surprisingly sympathetic as he is crying and laughing as he dies . Van Cleef , smart enough to figure out that Payne is not who says he is , is as ready to kill Payne as he might be ready to kill his temporary ally Nevil Brand . Actually , Brand's performance ( compared to the others ) is not developed . Maybe part was cut . Colleen Gray is wonderfully controlled and sexy as Foster's daughter and Payne's love interest . For a " B " feature , it gets remarkable strength - comparable to the original THE NARROW MARGIN . I give it a " 9 " out of a possible " 10 " .
Sidney Kingsley Pulitzer Prize Winner	Given all the hoopla against the film ( due to it's abortion theme ) it is funny to note that the film was produced by Cosmopolitan Pictures - the production company run by William Randolph Hearst out of MGM . Perhaps he was one of the few figures in Hollywood that could ( at that date ) afford to buck the system for this type of story . Sidney Kingsley's play MAN IN WHITE won the Pulitzer Prize for best play of 1933 , and made a Broadway star of J . Edward Bromberg , who played Dr . Hochberg . Some of the issues of the story are toned down in the film . Hochberg like his old friend Dr . Levine ( Otto Kruger ) are Jewish , and there are traces of anti-Semitism by some of the non-Jewish doctors towards them . But the basic flow of the story , about dedication to serving humanity at all personal cost is maintained . Gabel is engaged to Myrna Loy , and they plan to wed and go to Vienna ( he is spending a year there with a specialist as his teacher ) . But Loy is a wealthy woman who can't understand the round-the-clock demands the medical profession push on her fiancé . Jean Hersholt is Hochberg , and he has great expectations for Gabel ( Dr . Ferguson in the movie ) as his student and lab assistant . He tries several times to explain the situation to Loy , but he gets nowhere . Loy finally fights back and starts cutting Gabel out of her social life if he misses promised dates . This sets Gabel up for a brief fling with a nurse who worked on a case with him ( Elizabeth Allen ) , who subsequently is rushed to the hospital in an emergency regarding aborting her child by Gabel . That is the crisis of the plot - will Loy dump him or forgive him ? Actually the film is still quite effective , as hospitals have become such a common subject since Kingsley's play made it such . The film also offers an interesting comparison regarding Myrna Loy . She was a supporting actress in John Ford's ARROWSMITH in this period , opposite Ronald Colman and Helen Hayes . She was a wealthy woman who loves Colman , but gradually loses him to his desire to be a research doctor . The issue is better examined and explained in MEN IN WHITE .
A Very Nice , Moody Thriller	A lot of movies just are not shown frequently as they should be . I was first aware of this obscure movie by Fritz Lang when I was at my college in the early 1970s , and was reading a book about his films . Then I finally saw it about five years ago on channel 75 in New York City , in a series of movies for a City College film course . It was worth waiting for . Louis Hayward is married to Jane Wyatt , and lives in a small town near his brother Lee Bowman . The year is about 1890 , and it is set in a rural section of New England near a major river ( as the title suggests ) . Hayward is supposed to be a promising writer , but the truth is that he wrote a few small stories that got published awhile back , and he's been pretending to be working on a novel for nearly two years . He takes a fancy to a new servant ( Dorothy Patrick ) whom he attacks and kills when she resists him . Frantic he begs his brother to assist him , and Bowman makes the mistake of agreeing . They dispose of the body , but the missing girl's fate becomes a subject of local interest , and ( ironically ) Hayward is able to make a better impression on the locals than Bowman does . Soon they are suspecting Bowman . Hayward , ever an opportunist , is fully willing to let Bowman take this heat - especially as he is suspicious of whether Wyatt and Bowman ( who once dated ) may be still in love . In the meantime the body of Patrick reemerges , and ( in one of the best sequences ) Hayward puts the body into a rowboat and rows in the early morning hours for miles up the river , until he can find a spot to drop the body ( which is still eventually traced back to his home , but to Bowman ) ) . Lang always showed the darker side of human nature in his films , like the mindless mob violence in FURY . Here it is the brittle , nasty small-minded New England neighbors of Bowman , Wyatt , and Howard , who are impressed by Howard's friendlier demeanor and don't like the stand-offishness of Bowman . The evidence against Bowman is quite weak , but the dislike his character causes with these boobs makes him a likely murder suspect . Louis Hayward was a competent actor , usually a minor league swashbuckler ( THE SON OF MONTE CRISTO ) . Here he is given a negative role , and makes the most of it . His Steven Byrne is not among the great villains in movies , but it is an interesting study in arrogance and selfishness that is worthy of watching . His claims to writer's block are patently false , as we never see him even struggling to write anything ( he is seen sitting at tables with paper and pens near him , but no activities whatsoever ) . But he knows how to feed a friendly and superior but accessible air to the townsfolk . This may be his best performance . Bowman , usually a figure in comedies ( or a supporting man for Susan Hayward in one of her " weepies " ) purposely plays his role of John Byrne as a taciturn type - stiff but not hostile . But the stiffness goes against the thin skins of the idiot townsfolk ( who prefer Hayward's false front ) . And Wyatt ( best known for her performance in LOST HORIZON or as Robert Young's wife on FATHER KNOWS BEST ) does well as the long suffering Marjorie . Not SCARLET STREET , FURY , or YOU ONLY LIVE ONCE , but definitely worth watching .
It was not old Mrs . Plunkett who was summoned	Rex Harrison is Charles Condimine , a prominent novelist whose first wife Elvira ( Kay Hammond ) died of flu-type illness ) . His second wife , Ruth ( Constance Cummings ) is planning to assist his research into the occult for a new novel . This includes a dinner party where a local medium ( Madame Arcati - Margaret Rutherford ) is invited to hold a séance . So far it seems simple . Harrison and Cummings treat the whole matter as a joke ( politely , of course ) , but just before the séance begins Madame Arcati requests some music - and Ruth finds a recording of Irving Berlin's song " Always " and puts it on . Charles shows disquiet at this ( the first time that happens ) , but despite protests the record is put in . And as a result , when Madame Arcati puts the record on she manages to contact Elvira , who shows up ( much to Charles increasing panic ) . " Always " , you see , was her favorite tune . So begins Noel Coward's ( and David Lean's ) film version of BLITHE SPIRIT . It is , technically , the best of the three films based on Coward's classic comedies ( the other two are PRIVATE LIVES and DESIGN FOR LIVING ) . Note , for example , the way Elvira is colored green in the film-stock . But in it's way it is flawed just as they are . Enough remains , however , for an above average comedy . To it's credit it revealed Margaret Rutherford as the delightful , eccentric comic actress who would help push British comedies in the 1950s and 1960s ( until she became the first popular Mrs . Marple , and an Oscar winner for THE V . I . P . S ) . Look at her trances , as her voice assumes that of the little girl ( with a runny nose ) who is her contact with the other side . Rex Harrison gave one of his best comic performances as a realistic man caught in a occult nightmare ( when Arcati says the spirit she contacts wants to speak to Charles , it is suggested that it is the recently deceased " old Mrs . Plunkett " who wants to speak to him - a surprised and annoyed Harrison asks , " Why should old Mrs . Plunkett want to speak to me ? " It's a typical response . ) As the two warring wives , Hammond and Cummings are quite good , the former all frivolous and fun loving , the latter more down-to-earth and serious . But both love Charles , although not blind to his real flaws . Nor , as it turns out , is he blind to theirs . The film is better than Lubitsch's DESIGN FOR LIVING . That one had some nice touches in it ( I mentioned Edward Everett Horton's " Honeymoon " kick in my review of that film ) , but it was censored in revealing the bi-sexuality of the characters played by Cooper and March . Here the flaw is that the end is tampered with for a final joke , but while cute ( and ironic ) it hurts the way Coward ended his play . I saw Richard Chamberlain and Geraldine Page ( in her last role as Madame Arcati ) in a stage production in the late 1980s . The play ends with Charles free to leave and continue with his life ( indeed , Madame Arcati urges him to go ) . But he first tells off his two wives , and leaves them trapped together . Coward favored that particular ending - it was more in line with his theme in the play that even the happiest marriages flounder in part because of personality clashes , and attempts by wives to control husbands that just lie under the surface . It is not dismissed in the film - on the contrary the theme is broadly shown - but the film suggests that it is impossible to escape this . It is not going to ruin watching the film , but it does weaken Coward's vision of things .
From the age of Grover Cleveland to the Age of Eisenhower	This is a clever episode of TWILIGHT ZONE that was comic rather than strange or tragic . Buster Keaton is Woodrow Mulligan , a janitor from 1890 America , works in a laboratory . He is constantly griping about the life problems around him : meat is too expensive ( it's like $1 . 00 / lb . Unheard of ! ) . He is always yelling after crazy speeders ( on bicycles - autos haven't appeared yet ) . Griping to the end , he sees a helmet like device by a scientist , and puts it on and tries it . Suddenly he is in modern America . The beginning was a seven minute silent film . Now it is all noise , all talking , all beeping , all blowing . Keaton is here only a few minutes when he realizes that the world has changed and not for the better . He runs into Stanley Adams , a Professor Rollo , who realizes that Mulligan is from c . 1890 ( he mentions President Cleveland ) . Rollo has always wanted to live in that charming , quiet age . He helps Mulligan get the helmet repaired , and they go back in time . Rollo gets bored after awhile , due to the lack of scientific equipment that he can use . Mulligan puts the helmet on him and sends him into the future . But now Woodrow is fully content with the quiet , simple age he lives in . He has found contentment . In his last fifteen years Buster Keaton was frequently on television ( many times for Allan Funt on CANDID CAMERA , where he could help set up sight gag tricks on the public ) . He did make a few films as well ( most notably A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM and THE RAILRODDER ) . But he occasionally popped up in television plays and episodes . He is in his element here , presumably advising the director ( old comedy film director Norman McLeod - he directed the Marx Brothers in HORSE FEATHERS ) on the tricks he could do . Watch how Stanley Adams and he time Adams picking him up when he is snatching a pair of trousers he needs . In terms of timing it reminds one of gags he did in the 20s in films like SHERLOCK JR . The episode does show Keaton in fine fettle for a man in his sixties . The appearances of Jesse White ( here as a repairman , of all things ) is always welcome . But look a bit at " Professor Rollo " . Stanley Adams was a well known figure in movies and television from the 1950s onward to his tragic suicide in 1977 . Plump , with unkempt appearance , and heavy , booming voice , his best known dramatic role was as the wrestling promoter in the film version of REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT ( he wants Anthony Quinn to be a wrestler wearing a costume as an Indian ) . His best known television appearance was as the space trader who introduces the crew of the Starship Enterprise in STAR TREK to those furry , fertile little creatures " Tribbles " ( as in " The Trouble With " ) . Adams was always worth watching ( like Jesse White , and certainly like Keaton ) , enhancing most of the productions he appeared in . I have never understood his suicide , but it was a sad end to a first rate character performer .
God Bless Us . . . Everyone	Of all the most popular Dickens ' novels and stories , none has been so done or redone in the movies , on television , on radio , and on stage , as A Christmas CAROL . Written in 1843 , it proved to be an instant winner - which is what Dickens needed after an apparent drop in popularity with MASTER HUMPHREY'S CLOCK , THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP , and BARNABY RUDGE . This simplistic novella , about Ebanezer Scrooge and his rediscovery of the true spirit of Christmas ( and Christianity ) is easy to read and understand . It does not have as many plots and subplots as the large novels do , so the reader does not get really confused by it . The best version of the story as a movie is probably this version starring Alistair Sim as Scrooge . Supported by a cast of veteran British character actors ( including Michael Hordern as Jacob Marley , Katherine Harrison as Mrs . Dilber , Mervyn Johns as Bob Cratchit , Ernest Theisinger as the Undertaker , and even Patrick Macnee as the young Jacob Marley ) it has a better sense of the period that its closest competitor ( the 1938 Hollywood version with Reginald Owen and Gene Lockhart ) . Sim , usually appearing in comedies , gave a strong performance of Scrooge as a neurotic cynic . His speech patterns showed an easy dismissal of " humbug " - his term for what is not business or seems too emotional - and later to show his reawakening humanity and his growing fears for his future . It has been suggested by one critic that Sim deserved an Oscar for this performance , but he was overlooked by the Academy in 1951 . The other performers , in particular Johns , give first rate performances . Make a note to catch it again this upcoming Christmas season .
Jimmy Stewart's Other Christmas Film Masterpiece	It would be of interest to study the dramatists of late 19th Century through 20th Century Hungary . The only one who has left a lasting imprint to most theatergoers in the U . S . and England ( and the English - speaking world ) is Ferencz Molnar , best recalled for LILLIOM and THE PLAY'S THE THING . But Ernst Lubitsch was born in middle Europe and frequently turned to German , Austrian , and Hungarian dramatists for his movie scripts . It is to him that we owe the discovery of Miklos Lazslo's THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER , which has a remarkable track record : it is one of the few stage plays that was the basis for three successful movie versions . THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER was the first and possibly the best ( YOU'VE GOT MAIL may actually be the best , depending on who you talk to ) . The middle one is IN THE GOOD OLD SUMMERTIME , which was the first musical version ( there was a second , successful musical , for Broadway , called SHE LOVES ME ) . Oddly enough , it is the only play by Lazslo that seems to have been discovered . Perhaps someone will look over his dramatic confections to see if anything else is worth taking . The plot of THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER is very simple . James Stewart is Alfred Kralek , who is the chief salesman at Matuschek and Company , a leather goods store in Budapesth that is owned by Hugo Matuschek ( Frank Morgan ) . Kralek is forced to work with Klara Novak ( Margaret Sullivan ) , an intelligent saleswoman ( who initially he resisted hiring ) , who seems to question all of his ideas and orders . In the meantime Kralek has started writing letters to a pen pal whom he has never met - a woman that attracts him . What he does not know is that Klara is the woman , and she is equally attracted to his pen-pal form . So they love each other in their letters , but ( not knowing each other's pen-pal personae ) they dislike each other in the flesh . However , their pen-pal versions set up a date , and this is jeopardized by a change in the usually jovial personality of Mr . Matuschek , who becomes very harsh towards Kralek ( up-to-then his " fair haired " boy ) . It turns out that Matuschek is aware that his wife is carrying on an affair with a male employee . He believes it is Kralek ( who has been invited over to Matuschek's home several times ) . Finally , he fires Kralek a week before Christmas , and the night that Kralek was to finally meet his pen-pal . Kralek does go to the meeting spot with his close friend and co-worker Pirovich ( Felix Bressart ) . He discovers Klara is his pen-pal , but he shows up ( as though by accident - he claims he's waiting for Pirovich who has gone home ) , and proceeds to needle Klara . Klara manages to finally get him to leave . But her " pen-pal " never shows up . In the end the actual villain is revealed , and Morgan does rehire Stewart . I won't go into the rest of the film - delightful as it is - but the film does surround itself with Christmas . The store has a banner Christmas sales ( an element rarely touched in Christmas stories ; the commercial side is usually not considered something to push in Christmas stories ) . And the romance is straightened out in an entertaining fashion . Stewart and Sullivan make a very appealing couple ( even when bickering ) . Morgan plays the comedy as he typically did , but his moments of anger and jealousy show he is really hurting ( and disappointed at his wife ) . Bressart makes an art out of running out of sight when his boss wants advice ( and he also has interesting views about apartments and having friends over for dinner ) . William Tracy ( as Pepi ) , who is the store's messenger boy , is wonderfully nasty at several points to Mrs . Matuschek and her boyfriend , and to the fellow whom he eventually hires as his replacement - and look at his wonderful brief scene with Edwin Maxwell as Matuschek's doctor . And Joseph Schildkraut , as Ferencz Vardas ( the villain ) is properly sleazy and sneaky ( although when Stewart is fired he shows he is feeling guilty about that ) . Perhaps not as soul enriching as IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE , but it's sweet presentation of a set of little people who find each other makes it one of the nicest of all film romantic comedies .
The First of The Best Series of Nero Wolfe Stories	Rex Stout , the master mystery novelist who created " Nero Wolfe " ( and his assistant " Archie Goodwin " ) was a firm believer in the Bill of Rights . That is an admirable quality . But in the 1950s it was a dangerous one , as the forces of reaction took over the Federal Government for awhile and the era of Joseph McCarthy came into existence . McCarthy fell from power in 1954 , but several of his closest allies remained in high office until the end of the decade ( though with declining effect ) . One who did not go into that good night ( at least at that time ) was the head of the F . B . I . , J . Edgar Hoover . Stout never cared for the head G-Man , whom he saw as a power-hungry bureaucrat who publicized the successes of his organization as though only he was responsible , and used ( or misused ) his power to ruin his foes . The novel , THE DOORBELL RANG , is not the best of the mysteries Stout wrote about his pair of investigators . Probably THE LEAGUE OF FRIGHTENED MEN or FER-DE-LANCE are better stories . But it is a superb example of slapping a man in the face figuratively and publicly without committing a crime - so it is justifiably among the best recalled mystery novels of Stout , or for that matter among American mystery novelists . If you looked at the summary for this thread you have the basics of the story : A wealthy woman requests Wolfe's assistance in stopping Hoover's vicious hounding when she dares to send copies of an anti-Hoover book to her friends . Wolfe finds a covered-up murder by an FBI agent . Wolfe finds that once he starts the investigation , he is . . . well , he's no longer alone . He can see his phone has been tapped , and he notes very quickly the all too obtrusive presence across the street of FBI men . What follows is an interesting example of what was true across the country . Normally FBI involvement in any state or local investigation was not well received , because the local police quickly found themselves pushed aside as subservient foot soldiers at best ( at worst as uniformed gophers ) . In a typical Wolfe story the NYPD is not happy about him showing them up ( his Inspector Lestrade - Inspector Cramer - is constantly threatening to get him arrested for interfering with police investigations , and constantly getting egg on his face ) . Here for the first and ( as far as I know ) the only time Cramer learns what is going on , and offers his department's help : he loathes the FBI and their arrogant local head Wragg . I will not go into the details of this but Wolfe basically sets up the FBI to commit a crime that he can use against them . It's very clever dealing with convincing the FBI that he and Archie have left their brownstone home . When the FBI agents come into the house . . . well they find it most embarrassing when they have to leave the house . Maury Chaykin is a fairly well known Canadian character actor , and his two year stint as Nero Wolfe was his best role . It was not a perfect match of his physical appearance ( actually Chaykin is not as fat as Stout made Wolfe ) but it gave him a role with real teeth in it . Wolfe is brilliant , but he is spoiled and even more arrogant than Wragg is . But he has a sense of justice ( like all good detectives in fiction ) and he pushes for it constantly . Timothy Hutton ( who also directed this episode well ) played Archie as he should be - a man who adores his boss , but loves to tease him every now and then . And the title : Well I regret this but I will explain it . SPOILER HERE : Having embarrassed his organization Hoover decides to show what a " big " man he is , by visiting Nero and Archie . It is quite a shocker to Archie when he sees Hoover in the street walking up the steps to the doorway to ring the bell . Archie rushes to the door when the bell rings , only to hear Nero say " Don't open it ! " The novel ends with Hoover ringing the bell again and again and again , and being met with total silence . As I said , it was the perfect conclusion .
Eric Ambler and the Sea	Five years before he adapted the non-fiction classic A NIGHT TO REMEMBER for the screen , Eric Ambler wrote this screenplay for THE CRUEL SEA , based on the book by Nicholas Monserrat . If , as many still claim , A NIGHT TO REMEMBER is the definitive film about the Titanic Disaster , THE CRUEL SEA is regarded as the definitive film ( made in Britain ) about the small corvettes that helped guard the nation during World War II . It's a brilliant screenplay , concentrating not on heroics but on the awkward reality of wartime that leads to issues about who are your mates or what are you forced to do in fighting for your country . In the course of the film we see the career of the British corvette , HMS Compass Rose , commanded by Jack Hawkins . Hawkins has among his crew Donald Sinden , Denholm Eliot , Jack Warner , Stanley Baker , Alec McGowen , Bruce Seton . We watch the crew slowly gel into a whole , although there is one officer who unifies the crew against him : Baker . Baker turns out to be a really tight-ass-ed officer who is sticking too closely to the rules ( to everyone else's discomfort ) . But they do find a way to rid themselves of his presence - with the aid of sausages . The best scenes in the film were ( naturally ) the battle and war scenes , in particular one heartbreaking one concerning the necessity of killing British seamen in need of rescue . The weight of command on Hawkins in these scenes is terrifically harsh , and he almost cracks . While not as remembered ( because the main story is not as infamous as the Walter Lord book's tale of disaster ) Ambler's retelling of Monserrat's THE CRUEL SEA is a memorable movie experience - because it spares no punches in showing how cruel the sea is , especially in wartime .
Preminger's Anatomy of a Rape Murder	ANATOMY OF A MURDER was Otto Preminger's attempt to relate a subject hinted about in motion pictures , but rarely gone into great detail . The subject was rape and it's consequences , and how the rape victim frequently found herself under attack in our law courts when the issues of the case hinged on her moral innocence or guilt . The story takes place in the upper peninsula of Michigan , near a resort town . There is a military base nearby , and Ben Gazzara is a lieutenant there married to Lee Remick . It is the second marriage for both of them . Remick is extraordinary pretty , and her best features are highlighted by the tight fitting casual clothes she wears . She also is aware of how attractive she is to other men than her husband . One night , while Gazzara is sleeping after dinner , Remick goes to the local bar for some fun ( austensibly drinking and playing pinball ) . She is playing it with the bar owner , who subsequently gives her a car ride home . Except for her pet dog , nobody witnesses what happens in the car - her story is that the man raped her twice , and she ran home and told her husband . Gazzara , one hour later , goes to the bar and shoots the owner five times . Was there a rape ? The police made a cursory examination , and find that while there are some signs of a struggle , there is no trace of sperm . Remick's panties are missing , but they may just have been hidden by her . She did have some bruises ( including one of her eye ) , but they could be due to a beating from anyone else . Gazzara is arrested and charged with the murder . And Remick calls in Jimmy Stewart . He was the former District Attorney for the town , but has been recently defeated after ten years of service . His staff consists of Eve Arden , and ( when he sober ) Arthur O'Connor . Stewart has handled prosecutions , and has never handled any criminal defense . He would not only face the current District Attorney ( Brooks West ) but an additional big city prosecutor ( George C . Scott - in his first major movie role ) . Stewart finds that aside from the ironclad case the prosecution has , the lack of evidence conclusively showing a rape , and the time issue of one hour between said rape and the killing , prevent him putting forward a defense of temporary insanity . He also finds that both Gazzara and Remick are difficult figures to fit into a " respectable " couple image for what he has to do . There had been plenty of first rate courtroom dramas in previous years in the movies , such as THE STORY ON PAGE ONE and WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION , but nothing had been so carefully shown as this case was . The tactics of both defense and prosecution are demonstrated , with the careful maneuvering of questions and answers , and the attempt to probe for weaknesses in each other's cases . And Scott's cross-examination of Remick , bringing out her somewhat promiscuous character , reminds us of what usually happened ( and still does ) in rape cases . The character of the wise judge in the case was played by Joseph Welch , the Boston legal whiz who smashed Senator Joseph McCarthy to kindling very quietly and with dignity in 1954 at the Army-McCarthy hearings on television . Here , in his only movie role , Judge Welch shows the same courtly calm and dignity that adds to the sense of reality of the film . Well acted and directed this film has to be on anyone's list of top ten court room films .
Bijou and her men	Declared " box office poison " in the middle 1930s with such inept film figures as Katherine Hepburn and Fred Astaire ( one would like to know what happened to the idiot that wrote the advertisement about " box office poison " in later years - did he find nobody listened to his opinions anymore ? ) , Marlene Dietrich made a comeback in the late 1930s with DESTRY RIDES AGAIN , cementing it with SEVEN SINNERS and FLAME OF NEW ORLEANS . She proved quite adept at performing without her old " Svengali " director Joe Von Sternberg pulling the strings . Her stardom would survive intact until her retirement in the 1960s . Box office poison indeed ! Had Von Sternberg directed instead of Tay Garnett SEVEN SINNERS would have been somewhat like THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN . Concha , the heroine in THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN goes from man to man for her own benefit , not caring for any evil results that befall these men ( in fact , she only seems to change at the end when she senses that she has lost Lionel Atwill's affections for good - it is a new experience and she is not crazy about it ) . Bijou is willing to use her sexual allure too , but unlike Concha she is not in control of the situation constantly . Concha rules the roost of the provincial town society she resides in ( witness how she basically controls the Mayor of the town ( Edward Everett Horton ) about the matter of the duel between Atwill and Cesar Romero ) . Bijou finds she is not in control of the officials of the south sea islands she is living in . She is a notorious character , and can be thrown off islands at will . Yet she does fascinate or control a good number of men - most notably John Wayne , a U . S . Navy officer who risks his career and future social marriage to Ann Lee for her . There are also Broderick Crawford and Mischa Auer , her two raffish protectors ( Crawford a naval deserter and Auer a swindler and magician ) . There is her former employer Billy Gilbert , who rehires her despite misgivings ( more about that later ) , and - most sinisterly , Oscar Homolka - a knife wielding criminal mob boss . Homolka is ultimately quite a dangerous and bad guy , but he does have one running joke with Vince Barnett , the bartender at Gilbert's cafe . Barnett is a quiet , timid character of few words , but he does appreciate a joke . Every now and then Homolka makes some really nasty joke about what he'd do to Wayne or anyone else standing between him and Dietrich . Barnett starts laughing along with Homolka at the jokes , and at first Homolka is appreciating his own sense of humor to notice - then he does notice , and it makes him less happy . He's not there to entertain this idiot bartender . So each time he ends Barnett's laughing by throwing a stiletto next to his head . And Barnett does shut up . . . until the next time . There is also one other - an exception to the rule of the manipulatable men in her life : Albert Dekker . Dekker was starting his interesting film career at this time . He had first gained notoriety playing Baron Geiger in the original stage version of Vicki Baum's GRAND HOTEL . Dekker was " Albert Van Dekker " when he essayed the role ( opposite Sig Ruman as Preysling ) . Both were noted as first rate performers in the drama , but neither was brought to Hollywood for the film ( John Barrymore and Wallace Beery playing the two roles in the movie ) . Ruman got the Hollywood nod first , but by 1939 Dekker was in Hollywood too . He soon was given some interesting parts - the twin brothers in AMONG THE LIVING and the evil scientist in DR . CYCLOPS being the best known . His performance as the ship doctor in SEVEN SINNERS is interesting . He and Bijou hit it off , but he is not ready for commitment when the ship docks , but they part amicably . As a result , when the film ends and Bijou again is on board the ship , Dekker is available to replace Wayne as her permanent lover . It's a situation ( by the way ) that never reappears in any other Dietrich film : she usually ends with the hero , or ends alone . The other men are besotted regarding Bijou , and it eventually leads to the final battle ( nearly to the death ) between Wayne and Homolka . But the most interesting ( to me ) is Gilbert . A hard working , and flustered , businessman - his role seems typical for Gilbert . He is forced to do things he knows are illegal or dangerous for Bijou because he does like her . But in the end , surprisingly , she shows she really cares for him too . Gilbert rarely had a dramatic moment in his films ( he was such a good comic actor , nobody thought of him in dramatic parts ) . Here he is accidentally stabbed when the homicidal Homolka was aiming at Wayne in the final fight . Critically stabbed in his back , Gilbert is under a table when Dietrich comes over to him , and starts taking care of him and comforting him until the doctors can come . It too is a rather unusual moment for Dietrich , and one is glad that it was brought out in this fine movie .
Another chance to see a rarity from You Tube	While going through You Tube I came upon this ten minute Foxtone short , one of the earliest sound films . It was made in 1927 and it is wonderful that it exists today for us to hear and see it . The subject was only three years away from his own death . He was a world class figure for his literary and other endeavors ( one , at least , controversial ) . And when one recalls that he was born in 1859 and we are in the year 2007 one really appreciates the development of talkies . How much would we have liked to have heard Abraham Lincoln on gramophone disk or in an early talkie , or Florence Nightingale , or Charles Dickens . At least we have ( among other Victorians ) Sir Arthur Conan Doyle . Actually two " actors " are in this short . Conan Doyle strolls from his front door into a garden accompanied by his pet dog . He is carrying a book and puts the book and his hat down on a table while he sits in a chair addressing the character . For a relatively new device , Sir Arthur is not nervous and speaks quite frankly , directly , and honestly to the camera ( and to the sound equipment recording him ) . To be fair , Conan Doyle had appeared in a prologue to the silent film classic THE LOST WORLD ( based on his Professor Challenger story ) , so he was probably used to the filming . But he certainly at ease with the only recently developed sound equipment ( THE LOST WORLD was made in 1925 , before the Fox sound system was tested ) . Doyle's comments can be divided roughly in half . The first five minutes deal with his creation of the great " Sherlock Holmes " series of stories and novels . He is quite honest about what influenced him , mentioning " Dr . Bell " one of his medical teachers . Bell ( properly Dr . Joseph Bell ) was the model for Holmes in his ability to look at a person and talk to them and tell all sorts of biographical things about the person in a matter of minutes . Bell was also occasionally used by the police ( with Professor Harvey Littlejohn ) on certain criminal cases . There was a series of shows a few years ago with the late Ian Richardson as Bell , assisted by an actor as the young Conan Doyle , helping the Scottish police on cases . The latter five minutes of the film deal with the controversy of Doyle's crusade for acceptance of psychic phenomenon . He explains that it is real and that much of the criticism that has been thrown against him is from people who haven't experienced work with mediums . Doyle does not name names , so there is no reference to Harry Houdini - who had experienced and exposed mediums in the U . S . , and was once a good friend of Doyle's . But Houdini was dead for a year by the time this film was made . Doyle's pitch for the psychic crusade and spiritualism is based on helping to heal the emotional losses due to the huge death toll from World War I , so even if one is skeptical about this crusade one approves of Doyle's motives . The film ends with Doyle and his dog returning to the house . It was a lovely brief visit that his fans and the future are grateful for .
To Say Nothing About the Dog	There was a time that the name Jerome Klapka Jerome ( his middle name was in honor of a Hungarian war hero ) was one of the best known writers in Great Britain . Not only for this novel , and it's comic sequel THREE MEN ON THE BUMMEL , but for his successful West End plays . The most notable one that has survived ( though rarely revived today ) was THE PASSING OF THE THIRD FLOOR BACK , about a " Christ-like " roomer in a boarding house , who is able to force his fellow boarders ( by gentle means ) to see their own flaws and correct them . That play was turned into a film in the late 1930s that starred Conrad Veidt as the title figure . Not everyone thought highly of Jerome K . Jerome's plays . Max Beerbohm felt that they were too mechanical and unreal for lasting theater . Perhaps he was right , but in his heyday the public supported Jerome . Today it is THREE MEN IN A BOAT ( 1888 ) that is considered ( and rightly ) Jerome's masterpiece . It is more than a comic novel . It is a wonderful window on an element of Victorian fun that still exists today - the gentle boat trips down the Thames into the countryside and among the small islands in the hinterlands . For some reason no British writer of stature ever mentioned punting and boating like this . Jerome did , and more credit to him . Three friends , Jerome ( Tim Curry - fresh from the Rocky Horror Picture Show ) , Harris ( Michael Palin - fresh from Monty Python ) , and George ( Stephen Moody ) have decided to go away together on a three week vacation . They decide to take a boating holiday down the Thames past Hampton Court , Oxford , etc . With them is their only companion , Montmorency ( Jerome's pet dog ) . They get plenty of food from Fortnum and Mason ( which leads to a highpoint of hilarity later on ) , and board a rented house boat for their trip . From this relatively mild beginning comes the series of crazy incidents that have entertained the readers ( or viewers ) since that day . For example , they reach Hampton Court Palace , and find it's famous maze . One of them insists that he knows how to get through the maze and has such a self created sense of ability that everyone in the maze believes in him , follows him , and actually ends entrapped in the maze with the idiot . Another one deals with the food supply . Our heroes are having a leisurely lunch on an island , and find a can of pineapple has been packed . As Jerome / Curry says , " The only thing that is better than a pineapple is a canned pineapple ! " Not quite . They have forgotten to pack the can-opener . We see our heroes try knives , rocks , flinging the can from heights , and never opening the can at all . The program was only an hour long , so much is not included from the novel . But what remains , such as Jerome discovering how many fatal illnesses he has when he reads a medical textbook , are quite funny . The show was quite good , although it had a bit of an epilogue that described the fates of Harris and George , which was a bit of a downer . It was a a fine production , and one hopes it will be shown again some time .
One day a limousine will drive up and a friend will be inside . . . .	This is possibly the only first rate spy thriller , whose most classic set of dialog lines ( spoken by Max Von Sydow ) became the basis of a very funny moment in a " Seinfeld " Episode . Originally published as SIX DAYS OF THE CONDOR , the film title took a reduction of days to three . Robert Redford is working in what we would call a CIA " think tank " in Manhattan in an old brownstone . He reads there , and makes reports of what he reads . It is a pleasant enough job . One day he goes to work , not realizing that he and his fellow workers are all being watched and counted as they enter the building . They start working , but Redford goes out a back door to get some coffee . Soon the men outside come in , and shoot down all the people in the building . They note that Redford is not there , and that the back door is not locked , so they realize he stepped out . But time is of the essence , as the NYC police may be on the scene soon . So they leave before Redford returns . The film then follows what happens to Redford . He is horrified at the murder of all his colleagues , and tries to get some guidance from his contact ( Cliff Robertson ) but soon he is beginning to wonder if Robertson is really being so very helpful . He seems hesitant to assist Redford in figuring who committed this set of killings . And one attempt at a safe surrender ends in the murder of a close friend . The film is dated in one ironic manner - the meetings of Robertson and his C . I . A . boss ( John Houseman , at his most cynical weary ) are in the agency offices in the World Trade Center . But we see slowly what is at the base of this . There appears to be a rogue C . I . A . group acting here , and for patriotic motives ( in their own eyes ) . Von Sydow is a freelance assassin used by the C . I . A . , who has been involved in the massacre . Redford , realizing he can't trust Robertson or the latter's bosses , becomes his own protector , hiding out in Brooklyn Heights at the apartment of Faye Dunaway , and using a stolen port - o - phone used by telephone workers to telephone Robertson without being traceable . We follow the rest of this splendid thriller as Redford slowly finds out who did the dirty work , why , and gets his own back at the Agency . Oh yeah , SEINFELD . Remember the episode where Cosmo Kramer tried to start a movement to get people to drop all use of the U . S . Post Office . His pal Newman , realizing what Kramer is bucking , tries to warn him , while driving a postal truck ( Kramer is standing in the street ) , that one day a friendly face will offer him a ride in a postal truck . " Do not take that offer ! " warns Newman . But a moment later , Newman sees that two of the " Postal police " have seen him and Kramer together , and Newman tries to get Kramer into the truck . Unfortunately for both , Kramer has learned not to trust such offers . So both are caught . Kramer is then intimidated by a smooth as silk Postmaster General ( a splendid Wilford Brimley - whose golf game was just spoiled by all this ) . As a crestfallen Kramer leaves , he sees Newman brought in for his " punishment " tied up with a bucket over his head . " Tell my story to the world ! " , the postman squeals . A perfect comic salute to a first rate thriller .
The Truth About the American Democratic System	The 1940s saw the appearance of four major American directors : Orson Welles , John Huston , Billy Wilder , and Preston Sturgis . They had careers of varying degrees of success . Welles is usually seen as the great talent done to death by the jackals of the Hollywood system and his own personality quirks . Wilder and Huston were both more successful , although both met with serious problems as well - Huston with the threat of the blacklist in the last 1940s , and Wilder with increasing feelings of irrelevance in the industry after 1969 . Sturgis actually had a far longer career in Hollywood , as he was a highly successful screenplay writer in the 1930s . But his heyday as a great comedy director lasted only from 1940 - 1948 , and even then with two projects ( THE SIN OF HAROLD DIDDLEBOCK and UNFAITHFULLY YOURS ) failures at the box office . His last two films ( THE BEAUTIFUL BLOND OF BASHFUL BEND and THE FRENCH THEY ARE A FUNNY FACE were not as good as the films that preceded them . He was finished as a filmmaker by 1955 . Even Welles lasted longer . His first film comedy ( that he wrote and directed ) is THE GREAT MCGINTY ( 1940 ) starring Brian Donleavy as the title character . It remains the best study of the weaknesses of the democracy our country prides itself on every 4th of July or other patriotic occasion . For the whole joke of the rise and fall of Dan McGinty is that he only succeeds when he fully works alongside the corrupt Boss ( Akim Tamiroff ) and the latter's underlings ( William Demerest , Harry Rosenthal ) , and when he actually tries to personally reform and be the good statesman , he is brought down by the Boss in disgrace . Said this way the joke sounds flat , but Sturgis ' witty and perceptive script is not flat at all . Basically the problem comes down to this - how seriously do Americans take their system ? As I said before we give a lip service to it , and we follow the forms , but do we really understand the nature of the public trust imposed on our elected officials ( and the electorate ) ? It is doubtful . The reason is that everyone is more concerned with earning a living for themselves and their families . At one point Muriel Angelus tells William Demerest she has just read a book in which the writer points out that the money spread around by political corruption actually does help everyone by stimulating business and prosperity . Demerest shoots back that he wishes that book was read by everyone in the country . Of course Demerest's self interest would push this theory . But is he far from totally wrong ? When Donleavy runs for Governor he is Mayor of the state's largest city . There is a series of inter-cut scenes of Demerest giving a speech for Donleavy while Robert Warwick gives a speech for the " reform " candidate . Warwick keeps harping on the useless public roads and public works that Donleavy and his cronies have foisted on the public to line their pockets . But Demerest reminds the public that as a result of these acts of public construction hundreds of families were fed during what was the depression , and the result gave the people " the most beautiful city in the world . " For all of Warwick's high toned attack , the actually results of the corruption seem rather sensible . Akim Tamiroff's boss seems like a typical political hood , but if you listen carefully his comments culminating in " America is land of great opportunity " merely mirrors comments like those of the Tammany Hall sage George Washington Plunkitt in the early 20th Century , who said he " saw his opportunities and took ' em . " Plunkitt differentiated between " honest graft " ( i . e . inflating the prices of public works projects which do benefit the city ) , and " dishonest graft " ( stealing the iron roof of an almshouse to sell it to a scrap iron dealer ) . But there are examples of dishonest graft in Tamiroff's world - examples that Plunkitt would have known of . When Donleavy starts his way up the political power tree , he is an " enforcer " collecting bribes from bordello operators and bar owners . This is not as gray an area of corruption as the public works issue - how do you defend shake-downs of small fry ? Sturgis , in the end , destroys the machine and the would-be reformer by showing the impossibility of reform . Donleavy tries to make a stand , but his principled attempt is ignored as the public learns he took bribes . He is swept out of power as rapidly ( in it's way ) as his rise from bum to governor had been . Yet even Sturgis must have realized that in the real world such sudden altruism would not have occurred to rock the boat . In his later film , THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK , we find both Donleavy and Tamiroff back in power together , running the state - and ( in the end of that film ) solving the problems of the hero and heroine .
The Difference of Four Days in One Month in One Year	April 1889 is significant for two births that occurred within four days of each other . The births were of two men who would leave their marks , for better or worse , upon the 20th Century . On April 16 , 1889 Charles Spencer Chaplin was born to poor parents in London , England . On April 20 , 1889 Adolf Hitler was born to a minor bureaucrat and his wife in Austria-Hungary . The first truly great cinema clown and star and the most evil dictator of all time born four days apart - it does show the impersonal way fate acts , willy-nilly , in tossing this old globe and it's peoples about . Chaplin and Hitler never met . They never had reason to meet . Hitler , although he liked movies , was not known to be enamored by comedians . In fact few of his intimates suggest he ever laughed that much . Chaplin had little use for the demon from Austria who seized Europe by the throat and nearly destroyed it , and who did destroy millions in his death camps . But by some ironies , such as their similar ages , their paths were bound to cross . The most supreme one was the mustache . Charlie had gotten there before Adolf ( publicly , that is ) with his toothbrush mustache . It made it look like a showdown for ownership of a trademark was destined between the two men . Only Oliver Hardy would sport a similar one to theirs in the same period , and Hardy's bulk made him hardly look like a Hitler clone . Chaplin had read MEIN KAMPF , and knew the homicidal insanities of his contemporary . He made no mistakes about them - this man was pure evil . It helped Chaplin that he had grown up in the East End of London , heavily populated with Jews , and that his half-brother Syd was Jewish ( as was his wife Paulette Goddard ) . Chaplin was fully aware of what this beast and his minions could do and would do . And yet he did miss the beat on the camps ( more below on that ) . Chaplin's first full talkie picks up with the conclusion of World War I . He is playing two roles , and the first is a Jewish Barber , who is a soldier in the Tomanian Army . The soldier saves the life of an officer , Captain Schultz ( Reginald Gardiner , in a good performance ) , who was trying to deliver an important directive to the Tomanian commanders that could have won the war . But he fails to do it , so Tomania loses . The barber is knocked out and only emerges from his amnesia twenty years later to find Adenoid Hynkel the dictator of Tomania . Hynkel is also Chaplin . His first speech on screen is a wonderful spoof on those hideous eruptions of spite and malice from " Der Fuhrer " that newsreels showed in that period . When he clearly says in mock German that Democracy and Free Speech stink ( he says " schtunk " ) the propagandist stooge translator uses euphemisms like " Democracy is fragrant ! " to hide the curt dismissal involved in these comments . When Hynkel goes into a tirade about the Jews , the translator will only say " His excellency is commenting about the Jews ! " . Henry Daniell ( as " Garbitsch " - a Goebbels type of adviser ) is nonchalantly listening on the podium to all this . Later , when riding home with Hynkel , Garbitsch says , " I thought you didn't like the Jews ? " to a surprised Hynkel . So it goes throughout the film , with point by point demolition of everything hideous about the Nazis . But with fun . The swastika is reduced to a pair of exes ( a " double cross " ) . The cult of the leader is spoofed by Hynkel having a schedule which allows him one five of six second pose for a sculptor and a painter ( he switches the direction of his head for both ) . An inventor of a new bullet proof jacket offers a pistol to Hynkel to shoot him with to test it . Hynkel does just that , only to kill the man - which he just shrugs off . It's a film full of delights , even with those horrendous shadows from the monster across the ocean in our minds . Only the handling of the concentration camps is less than desirable . Instead of real torture and horrible murder being shown , the camps are shown as places where the prisoners kick each other by forced marches in close order while goose stepping . Chaplin later said that had he known what horrors were in the camps he would not have made the film . Paulette Goddard is the love interest , a spirited Jew who is shown fighting off two storm trooper thugs in one scene . Daniell is perfectly aloof as always , feeding his bosses's ego in that memorable floating balloon globe scene . Billy Gilbert is a Goering clone , Field Marshall Bismarck Herring , whose bulk is used in some scenes against Hynkel . Gardiner is Hynkel's aide , who eventually turns on him . And best is Jack Oakie , who is perfect as Napoleoni , the rival dictator ( and Mussolini clone ) , who keeps besting Hynkel in oneupmanship ( I suspect that Chaplin did not like Mussolini , but in 1939 - 1940 the Fascist leader looked more tolerable to most people , prior to his fully joining the war as Hitler's ally ) . THE GREAT DICTATOR was a wonderful comment by April 16 about April 20 . It remains so to this day .
The Movie Version of the " Playhouse 90 " Classic	The film version of REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT had some major differences from the television version made five years earlier . To be fair the television version is better because it has a more positive push than the film does - but somehow one senses that in the real world " Mountain " Rivera would have been doomed to his sad fate rather than the happy ending for " Mountain " McClintock . The first difference is that Louis " Mountain " Rivera ( Anthony Quinn ) is Latino , and not as solidly grounded in the United States as his television version " Mountain " McClintock ( Jack Palance ) . Quinn really is dependent on his manager Maish ( here Jackie Gleason , possibly in his best performance ) , because of his ethnicity . And up to a point they did well together , but Rivera is aging , and can't compete with younger boxers ( he loses the bout at the start to a young Mohammad Ali - here under his old name of Cassius Clay ) . Although he was once the eighth best heavyweight boxer in the world , he is a has-been . His serious eye damage from repeated boxing matches is potentially leading to blindness . He can't box anymore . But , as in the television version , Maish has bet on Mountain losing in a particular round , and Mountain stayed into another further round . Maish got several gamblers to bet with him , and they are after him to pay them back . Maish is willing to do so , but at Mountain's expense . As the two biggest gambler - creditors , Ma Greeny ( Madame Spivy ) and Pinelli ( Stanley Adams ) want Mountain to become a professional wrestler until ( at least ) the debt is paid off . Maish pulls everything to force Mountain into line . He is opposed by Army ( Mickey Rooney ) , who is far more caustic towards Maish in this version than Ed Wynn was towards Keenan Wynn in the television version . Army pushes Mountain to go to an employment agency where he is taken under the wing of Grace Miller ( Julie Harris ) who wants to help him get a job as a camp counselor . Mountain , proud but confused - and still under Maish's emotional control - likes this idea . Maish sees himself losing his power over the pugilist , but then turns to Mountain's worst failing : he gets Mountain drunk . The collapse of Mountain , who for all his failings is a proud man , is the tragic conclusion of this version . Maish's sin is revealed to him , finally breaking the bind between them ( it is a tremendous act of treachery to Mountain's pride ) . But when Greeny and Pinelli point out that they'll kill Maish unless Mountain goes into the wrestling game ( dressed as an Indian , and making false war whoops for the crowd ) , Mountain agrees . But he and Army leave Maish alone - they'll save his life but that is the payment for what he did for Mountain . After that they won't have anything to do with Maish , and he is left at the end of the film realizing how much his selfishness has lost . I'd like to point out the performance of Madame Spivy - she plays Ma Greeny as a dike-type , and is quite threatening as a result . Stanley Adams repeats his part as Pinelli , disguising his viciousness with a false bonhomie and laugh ( like a sloppy looking Sidney Greenstreet ) . Both performers help make the grundginess of this portion of humanity all the more real to the viewers . Not as good as the television version ( in my view ) , but quite good on it's own .
The Final Appearance Film of Two Screen Titans	There is a mystique about last films , or films that are really sign-off movies ( even if the star appears in a few minor films before the end ) . Most actors don't leave with flags flying and sky ablaze . It is rare for that perfect last film to show up : Tracy and Hepburn together for the last time in GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER ; Wayne in THE SHOOTIST ; and Robinson in SOYLENT GREEN . Add to these films Joel McCrea and Randolph Scott in RIDE THE WILD COUNTRY . Both stars came out of retirement to do this , their only film together . It had been impossible to cast them before , as their Western images were so similar ( with Scott given to be a bit edgier , but still the hero in the end ) . But the story dealt with the last days of two western heroes , and how they meet the conclusion of their way of life . That way of life is a code of honor : that one uses one's powers with a gun to uphold law and order and not to enrich oneself . Steve Judd ( McCrea ) has always upheld this point of view , and he is hired by two bankers ( Percy Helton and Byron Folger ) to take on the job of protecting gold shipments from a camp in the mountains . In dealing with the bankers we begin to see the moral strength and also the fiscal disaster in Judd's old age : his shirt cuffs are unraveling from being so old and used . Folger notes this with a look of disdain , which stings Judd a little . He agrees to the job for $40 a day and he will bring two men to assist him . He has already found them : Gil Westrum ( Randolph Scott ) and Heck Longtree ( Ron Starr ) . But both are working at a carnival ( McCrea actually was seeking out Scott , but notes Starr who was involved in a crazy race ) . He meets them that night to offer them the jobs ( at $10 . 00 / each per day ) . Both agree , but Westrum and Longtree actually plan to steal the gold for themselves . Westrum has become more cynical about living and aging , and he could use a small fortune in gold to make his old age comfortable . Longtree is equally willing . Westrum now hopes to convince Judd on the trail , with stories of how various people they knew and respected died poor and ignored . They come across a house on the way , owned by a fiercely religious farmer named Joshua Knudson ( R . G . Armstrong ) , who lives with his daughter Elsa ( Mariette Hartley ) . Knudson allows them to spend the night ( in the barn ) , and to feed them that night , but he stops Elsa from associating too much with Heck . This is not too difficult because she has gotten engaged to Billy Hammond ( James Drury ) . But Knudson doesn't want her to be close to Billy either - he wants her always on the farm , away from the rest of the world , which is a cesspool in his opinion . Else flees the farm and catches up with McCrea and the others . After fighting off the clumsy advances of Heck ( who gets punished by both Steve and Gil ) . Then they reach the mining camp , and take Else to her fiancé . Heck brings her to the claim of the Hammonds ( John Anderson , Warren Oates , L . Q . Jones , John Davis Chandler ) , and Heck finds them less than desirable . In fact Billy is the smoothest of the family - but we learn later that when he gets drunk he turns mean . Oates is nothing to like - he hates to wash and is quick to pull out a knife . Anderson seems " plausible " but he is looking forward to later - apparently when the marriage is over the brood will share Else's favors . The marriage scene is classic : in this God-forsaken camp the largest building to use is the local bordello , and the ceremony is a civil one under a drunken old judge ( Edgar Buchanan in a nice performance ) . Once the Hammonds start drinking Else begins seeing the hideous error she has made . She is mauled first by Billy then by brother Henry ( Oates ) . But Steve shows up and takes Else away at gun point . At a miner's camp court the next day , Buchanan says the wedding is no good ( and later gets beaten as a result ) , so Else leaves with Steve , Gil , and Heck . Throughout the journey Gil has kept his comments about the ingratitude of the public to their law enforcement people at a boil . Steve has talked about regrets ( a woman he loved married a rival - and they have grandkids now ) . But he refuses to admit that ingratitude for fiscal support is ever in his mind . Now though he catches the other two trying to flee with the gold . He arrests both , and plans to turn them over to the police - once Else is returned to her father's care . But the Hammonds start turning up , trying to take back Else . They have a fight that leaves two of them dead , and the party continuing - but Gil manages to escape and rearm himself . I'll leave it at that - there will be a final shoot-out , but the issue of codes of honor remains . Whatever happens , will that code be upheld ? Sam Peckinpah shot his first major film here , and did it very well . Together with the later THE WILD BUNCH he created a coda to the age of the Great West . He did a marvelous job here - and gave Scott and McCrea their last glorious moments on the screen .
A Clever , If Gimmicky Romantic Musical	In 1947 Britain was looking forward to the marriage of the heir to the throne , Princess Elizabeth , to Philip Mountbattan . The marriage would be a lasting one ( it still is going on ) and a fruitful one ( producing three sons and a daughter . This film , made four years later , is set during the period of the wedding events in London . Curiously the King ( and all members of the royal family ) are not shown in this film - although stock color film of the wedding procession to Westminster Abbey is shown . I suspect this musical must have gotten onto the MGM planning boards rather quickly - there had been no real royal family marriage for a long time , and the pageantry connected to this one was quite extensive . It was the first real attempt by the British Government to rekindle the advertising strength of the Royal Family since the Second World War . Oddly enough the government that pushed it was the Atlee Labor Government which had beaten Winston Churchill's Tory in the 1945 election . But by the time the film came out Churchill was back in power . Perhaps then it is not hard to understand the appearance of Sarah Chuchill ( Sir Winston's daughter ) in the film as a love interest for Fred Astaire . Jane Powell's love interest is Peter Lawford . This is a film with plenty of gimmicks : In one dance number , Astaire dances with a clothing rack in a gym . He also is recalled ( in this film ) for dancing on the walls and ceiling of a hotel room . He and Jane Powell entertain the passengers on the French liner they are taking to England by dancing for them at dinner time , only to find the ship is rocking in turbulent seas , so they keeping losing their footing on the dance floor . In this film Keenan Wynn plays twin brothers who run a theatrical agency . One lives in the U . S . and his speech is full of American theatrical slang . The other is in London , and speaks in British slang . The humor of their phone conversations is that they find they barely understand each other . Finally , the screenplay romance and marriage of Powell into the British aristocracy is a gimmicky capitalization on the career of Fred Astaire's own sister and partner ( in the 1920s ) Adele Astaire , who also married into the British aristocracy . The film is a nice film despite the gimmicks in it's script and plot . Under the situation it is a nice little musical comedy which deserves some attention usually shown for bigger films and somewhat more outstanding casts than this one has .
The rise and fall of a Jewish-American Brooklyn Family in the 1930s Depression	In the history of the golden age of American Drama from about 1915 to 1955 , while the names of Eugene O'Neill and George F . Kaufman and Moss Hart are still well known many have entered into a kind of netherworld we just do not think about . One that has declined is Clifford Odetts . Odetts was from a lower middle class Jewish background , and his dramas dealt with the economic warfare and reality of that period - most people recall his play about labor unions WAITING FOR LEFTY which ends with the actors spreading around the theater with calls for striking . Yet Odetts lasted as a force in theater for decades , as well as a force in Hollywood script writing . He was involved in the movie NONE BUT THE LONELY HEART , and many of his plays like CLASH BY NIGHT ended up as movies . The McCarthy Era hurt Odetts , who was revealed as too pro-Communist ( as were many of his actor friends ) . Still he continued working , immortalizing his unfortunate friend John Garfield's fall from stardom in THE BIG KNIFE . Today there is a kind of shrillness in his dialog that turns off many viewers - they find him overly preachy . My own sister once dismissed a movie which was not one he had any hand in as " the worst of Odetts " in it's writing . But at his best he can still be quite compelling dealing with the reality of lower middle class and working class Depression families . In the early 1970s two of his best plays got television treatment . Walter Matthau headed a good cast in a production ( a rarity for Matthau , by then a movie actor rather than a dramatic stage actor ) of AWAKE AND SING . Then came this wonderful production with Eli Wallach , Cliff Gorman , Mike Kellin , Sam Groom , Jo Van Fleet , Bernadette Peters , and Fred Gwynn of PARADISE LOST . Although both are on video they rarely have been re-shown on television - which is our loss . Wallach is Leo , a somewhat prosperous lower middle class businessman . He is married to Clara ( Van Fleet ) and his partner is Sam ( Kellin ) who is married too . Leo is a warm and friendly man , frequently expressing himself in philosophical prose about life and the world . Sam is more of a trial - he happens to be something of a blow-hart . Leo has two sons , one of whom is scholastically a champ and the other a charismatic loser . But the bright one is dying of tuberculosis , and the loser can't apply himself to hard work ( and ends up falling under the spell of a shady friend played named Kewpie ( Cliff Gorman ) ) . The loser does get his girlfriend pregnant , before dying in a botched crime . The dying brother potters around the house wearing a tuxedo until he is too sick to go any further . Kewpie ( by the way ) ends up as a rising underworld figure . To worsen the situation , Leo learns his business is collapsing - looted by Sam . Sam always has had big ideas about his virility , and how his wife has failed to give him the dozens of kids he should have . It should come as no surprise that this idiot is impotent and misused the funds of the firms buying useless treatments and machines to regain his virility . There is also problems with local corrupt politicians who conclude that Leo ( a critic of theirs ) is one of those left-wing troublemakers . As his family has taken in a stranger ( Mr . Pike - Gwynn ) who is an outspoken communist , these politicos hit their mark and help make it impossible for Leo and Clara to stay in the neighborhood as being alien foreigners with Mr . Pike . Ironically the politicos are Irish-American types while Pike comes from about two hundred years of American genealogy . PARADISE LOST is a wonderful updating of JOB , in that nothing goes right for the likable Leo or his family . Everything he turns to goes sour , as the American dream just collapses . Yet to the end Leo remains defiant in his optimism , well supported by Clara despite the disasters . And the audience ends up cheered by them ( despite those disasters ) as well . It was a first class production of classic American theater on television , and is well worth watching if you can get that video today .
The Follow - Up To Hollywood	When the series Hollywood was made in the late 1970s , it's producers had more than enough material for a series of over 10 episodes ( as it was shown ) . Especially the material dealing with interviews of silent film period survivors . The producers decided to do several follow-up documentaries . Three eventually were made , about Chaplin , Keaton , and Lloyd . This was the first . Taken from the Chaplin family film vaults , it showed ( in three episodes ) scenes that were filmed by Chaplin from movies that were actually finished but re-cut ( like CITY LIGHTS , THE CIRCUS , and THE CURE ) , as well as films that were made for private viewing ( a film with visitor Sir Harry Lauder ) , and film that was created for projects that did not work out . It was a wonderful series , and all too brief - mostly due to the tragic fact that Chaplin did not save all the cut material from all his projects and films . Try to catch this on DVD .
Leisin directs De Haviland to her First Oscar	TO EACH HIS OWN is in that category of woman's films dealing with a mother who loses her child for social or economic reasons . So it is in the same group as MADAME X ( in all it's versions ) or STELLA DALLAS . But it is little better than a superior weeper . Mitchell Leisin was a director with taste and ability , frequently given run-of-the-mill assignments , and sometimes given important films that were taken from him and mangled ( LADY IN THE DARK ) . But when given a sensible property like EASY LIVING or HOLD BACK THE DAWN he turned in one really good result of a film . In 1941 Leisin had directed Olivia De Haviland in HOLD BACK THE DAWN , a film about European immigrants in a Mexican / American border town like Tijuana , who were hoping to figure out how to finally achieve permission to come into the U . S . and become citizens . De Haviland played an American school teacher who is swept off her feet by a calculating gigolo ( Charles Boyer ) and ends marrying him ( which is how he plans to become an American citizen ) . Her performance was well done , and she got nominated for the Best Actress Oscar of that year . Unfortunately , her sister Joan Fontaine was also nominated for SUSPICION . Fontaine was on a personal high at that time , as she had been the star of Hitchcock's film REBECCA the year before , and now that great director directed her in this second film . The news media built up the rivalry between the two sisters , probably out of nothing in particular . As it turned out , the result was good for Fontaine but bad for De Haviland . And a breach apparently did develop between the sisters ( if it had not been there before ) . But in 1946 Leisin got a second chance to direct De Haviland . Here she was Jody Norris , the daughter of a pharmacist in a New York State small town . In 1917 her town is visited by a pilot ( John Lund ) who is on a bond selling tour for the war effort . Lund and De Haviland hit it off in the brief time they are together , and have a very passionate love affair . But he has to return to the front . He leaves and she soon finds she is pregnant . Then she hears he is killed in the war . De Haviland decides ( with the advice of her father ) to have the baby away from the town , and then to arrange for it to be deposited on the doorstep of a poor family who have too many children . Her intention is to come by with her father , find the family can't afford to have another baby to feed , and offer to adopt the baby so they can avoid a scandal and keep the child . Unfortunately the best laid schemes fall apart - De Haviland's rival , a wealthy snob ( Mary Anderson ) had married one of De Haviland's boyfriends ( Philip Terry ) but had lost their child . Terry hears about the foundling , and beats De Haviland and her father to the poor family's house . He and Anderson adopt the baby . And De Haviland's sad heartbreak begins . She can't ( as her wise father - Griff Barnett - points out ) make a scene about her rights to adopt the foundling without making everyone aware that she must be the mother . If she does it will bring shame down on the baby boy . In the course of the film , De Haviland tries , over the years , to remain as close as possible to the baby as she can . Unfotunately Anderson keeps thinking that Terry is actually keeping sexual relations with De Haviland . Soon she is forbidden the house . Later she tries economic pressures , but with even less success - the baby has grown into the loyal little son of Anderson , and rebels against De Haviland's encroachment . The script of Charles Brackett & Jacques Thery allows De Haviland to show more than heartbreak . She has been her father's assistant in the drugstore , and she puts this to use in building up a cosmetic empire ( like Helena Rubenstein's ) . Also Anderson and Terry face financial problems , as Anderson's father manufactured player pianos - which are going out of favor in the depression . This briefly gives De Haviland her financial pressure on them to try to take Gregory ( " Griggsy " ) - her son - back . And it does not work . Still , De Haviland keeps tabs on her son . She has moved to England as she got wealthier , and the surrounding framework of the film shows her as a fire-watcher with a nobleman , Lord Desham ( Roland Culver ) . They narrowly have a fatal accident , and when they are together having dinner we learn the story - and that she has a chance ( she thinks ) of seeing her son again before he is shipped to the front . Will she see him or not ? De Haviland's role gave her scope to show heartbreak and to show sense and to show overreaching . It was a marvelous part . Leisin's direction gave her every opportunity , and he brought out the best in the supporting cast - and the over-the-years review of events like the rise of women in business , prohibition , the Depression , and the Wars helped the film too . De Haviland got nominated for an Oscar for best actress for TO EACH HIS OWN in 1946 - and this time she won . She would repeat her success in a few years with THE HEIRESS as well .
Let's Give Everett The Air	In a wonderful series of films between 1940 and 1948 Preston Sturgis rewrote the idea of film satire in Hollywood , taking apart political and business sacred cows , and showing a remarkably realistic view of sex in America despite the continued use of the so-called Hays Office and the moral code . HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO is one of the best of these films . It deals with the issue of heroism and it's political value in wartime . Woodrow Truesmith ( Eddie Bracken ) is a 4-F who has been working in California in a plant because he could not get drafted . But his family and neighbors expect him to be in the army . His father was a war hero in World War I ( he was named Woodrow Lafayette Pershing Truesmith after President Woodrow Wilson , General John Pershing , and the Marquis of Lafayette - supposedly Pershing's staff Major , Charles Stanton , made the statement " Lafayette we are here " when our troops arrived to help the French in 1918 - so that Woodrow was born about 1918 ) . Bracken has lied in letters to his mother that he is a marine and a hero . He tells this to a small group of Marines , led by William Demerest ( and including one named Bugsie , played by former boxer Freddie Steele ) who decide to accompany him back to his home on their furlough . They go with him , and back up his lies , so that Bracken finds himself the town's leading hero - and a potential piece of political timber . The town is run by two men , Al Briggs ( the quiet but intelligent town boss ) and Raymond Walburn , the richest man in town who is the mayor as well : Everett Noble . Walburn is always blustering , but he basically knows what's what . However it is Briggs who asks the right questions . When the reform party nominates Woodrow for Mayor , Briggs asks , " I wonder if he really is a hero ? " And he starts making inquiries . They have an unwitting ally : Woodrow himself . He finds the expansion of his lies too much pressure on him , and he questions it's value . But he can't buck his mother , his girlfriend ( Ella Raines ) , nor Demerest , Steele , and the other Marines . They've learned that Woodrow is the only hope for the town's future because it's currently somewhat shoddy and corrupt in it's goals and actions . They can't let Woodrow confess . What makes a hero ? In HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO , set in the middle of WORLD WAR II , it turns out that heroism is not only found on a military front or battlefield , but can be found on the home front as well . It can take many forms , and sometimes it is at great personal humiliation and hurt . Bracken never had a better role ( except for his other starring role for Sturgis in THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK ) , and demonstrate the growth of his moral stature quite well . Demerest , Walburn , Raines , Briggs all do well ( Demerest in an oddly different role - he's a soldier , not a wise guy ) , and Freddy Steele's " Bugsie " is a wonderful portrait of a slightly mentally ill soldier with a mother fixation . Steele had a a career in movies in the 1940s , mostly in bit roles . This was his best performance .
The Japanese - American Homefront in World War II : Part II	In his last film in 1966 Spencer Tracy tried to tackle ( with Katherine Hepburn and Sidney Poitier ) the problems of African-American acceptance in the United States in the issue of mixed marriage . Whatever the viewers feeling of the resulting film GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER that is the theme . It was not the first time Tracy dealt with issues of bigotry in his films . In KEEPERS OF THE FLAME he and Hepburn revealed a fascist conspiracy in the U . S . led by a " Lindbergh " type figure . In STATE OF THE UNION , as Tracy approaches sweeping the Republican Presidential nomination he is sickened by dealing with an unsavory type of " patriotic " woman who has a list of suspect minorities . His Mayor , Frank Skeffington in THE LAST HURRAH , has a broad view of his political machine , including in it a Jew ( Ricardo Cortez ) , and he has a really low opinion of one political enemy ( John Carridine ) who is a known member of the K . K . K . ( even Carridine's erstwhile ally Basil Rathbone throws that into Carridine's face at one point ) . But of all these films of Tracy's only one really deals with the ugly bottom line of bigotry prior to GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER - and in a more realistic view of the issue . It is BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK . In this film it is not African-Americans , or Jews , or European minorities who are the target but Japanese - Americans . As I said when reviewing GO FOR BROKE , this film is the natural follow-up movie . GO FOR BROKE showed how the Nisei - Americans volunteered for service ( despite the cruelty of the deportation camps of the Japanese on the west coast ) and fought well for the country that treated their families so badly . GO FOR BROKE , except for a small bit at the end showing Truman honoring the 442nd Regiment , really concentrates on the training and fighting of the Nisei troops . Some of the dialog mentions the unfair treatment these men are aware are being dished out in the states to their families , but we never see the camps . One can say BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK is the day after events to President Truman honoring those soldiers . One John J . Macreedy ( Spencer Tracy ) gets off the super-liner going west at the dead end town of Black Rock . Nobody has left the train there for five years . The telegraph operator ( Russell Collins ) notices Macreedy and tips off two local goons ( Ernest Borgnine and Lee Marvin ) . Soon word reaches the real boss of the town , Reno Smith ( Robert Ryan ) . He goes to the local hotel to feel out this stranger and find out what caused him to come to Black Rock . We see very few other people in this town . There is the owner of the hotel and café , Pete Wirth ( John Ericson ) and his sister Liz ( Anne Francis ) . There is the local doctor ( Walter Brennan ) and the so-called law of the town , the sheriff ( an ineffectual Dean Jagger ) . Macreedy is not a gabby man , but he willingly explains that he is there to drop off some possession connected to a local resident , Nokomo Smith - a Nisei farmer . It is a brief visit , and once it is done he'll be on his way . But Reno Smith and his cohorts ( especially bully boys Borgnine and Marvin ) are more and more aware that Macreedy is a real threat to them . For they share a guilty secret - one hinted at in a scene in GO FOR BROKE , where a character reads what happened to his brother when they tried to get some work picking crops ( they were beaten up ) . This happened more frequently than we like to admit . Macreedy eventually discovers that after Pearl Harbor Smith got drunk and led the others to Komoko's farm , killed Komoko and burned the farm buildings down . For five years Smith and his two pug-ugly have terrorized most of the town ( Brennan and Jagger in particular ) into silence - and have willing accomplices in Francis ( who thinks Smith is sexually attracted to her ) , Erickson ( a weak reed , as he is not sure if he should look the other way about the crime ) , and Collins ( who seems willing to violate Federal law to keep Smith aware of developments ) . The system was perfect - until Macready showed up . So we watch while a battle of wills between Macreedy and Smith occurs . It seems Macreedy served in the military with Kokomo's son in World War II . He wants to give the old man the medal of honor that the son earned . But now he finds he is facing a murderous bunch of bigots who will kill anyone who stumbles on their secret . Since Macreedy only shows one hand when he walks around Smith and his two thugs feel they can easily take him . But ( in a memorable ) sequence he mangles Borgnine with some judo and some karate that Macreedy has learned - possibly from his dead army friend . Still , even with a wounded Borgnine , the danger is not finished . And the film heads for a final showdown between Macreedy and Smith . Stark and bleak in it's photography of a Western backwater , BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK is a pessimistic film from the start . But the performances of the eight leads is flawless ( Marvin demonstrating his own ability to be violent by ripping the transmission out of a car that Tracy was going to borrow ) . Heading for a savage conclusion , the film shows that acts of violence just breed future acts of violence , and a day of reckoning may very well come out of it all . But in the end Macreedy does his duty to his war buddy , and gives the lie that bigots like Smith always can get away with their crimes in this polyglot land of ours .
A Wonderful Romantic Comedy - despite a casting error of sorts	It is the forgotten gem of Billy Wilder's film career . Coming in that string of successful films of the late 1940s - 1961 , LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON is probably less well known to modern audiences than SABRINA or STALAG 17 . Yet SABRINA has a similar casting error . There Audrey Hepburn played the love interest between William Holden and Humphrey Bogart , ending up with older brother Bogart . Yet somehow that is more acceptable than here where she is love interest to Gary Cooper , who was only a few years older than Bogart . I think the reason is that Wilder's casting in SABRINA was more astute in one way - he cast Walter Hampden in what proved to be Hampden's best movie part - the elder Mr . Larrabee - father to Linus ( Humphrey Bogart ) and David ( William Holden ) . Hampden looked old enough to be the father of both " sons " . But in LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON , Maurice Chevalier was ( in appearance ) about the same age as Gary Cooper . Chevalier played the father of Hepburn . It does not make Cooper's matching with Audrey Hepburn sit as well . A younger man was needed ( one can suggest Tyrone Power , whom would subsequently pop up in Wilder's WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION ) . But Cooper did have one thing that makes his age problem seem less important than it should be . His public persona was that Cooper represented small town ( usually western ) America . He had won two Oscars for playing a Tennessee mountain boy who became a national hero in World War I ( SERGEANT YORK ) and an abandoned lawman in a 19th Century western town ( HIGH NOON ) . He did play occasional sophisticates ( DESIGN FOR LIVING ; BLUEBEARD'S EIGHTH HONEYMOON ) but those were atypical films . In real life Cooper was a socialite - he hobnobbed with upper class types . This is similar to that elegant roué Frank Flannagan . One can see Cooper fitting that part of the role quite well . So despite the apparent May - September romance , Cooper and Hepburn act as similar sophisticates and their chemistry is not bad . What would have been the result with another actor like Power or Cary Grant or Robert Taylor is hard to say - Grant had the sophistication , and Taylor and Power had developed high acting ability - but Cooper was the actual article . LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON is about a young woman , the daughter of a detective ( Chevalier ) who gets her excitement from reading the files of her father's client's cases . Frequently he is investigating the antics of the career of Frank Flannagan , an American millionaire who is so scandalously famous that the 1950s ' scandal sheet magazine CONFIDENTIAL has an entire issue naming him " Man of the Year " . One client ( John McGiver ) upon hearing his wife is having an affair with Flannagan decides to shoot him . Hepburn manages to get to the hotel where Flannagan is staying first , and warns him . McGiver does charge in , but does not find his wife there . Flannagan is grateful , but finds that while Ariane is willing to see him again she won't tell him who she is . She shows up at the hotel quietly , after attending her music rehearsals at the Paris Conservatory , and manages to keep Flannagan totally in the dark . Then he leaves the city for a year . They meet a year later , and he does remember her - so they resume their relations . But Ariane is totally in love with him , and she wants to test him . She gives him a " history " of her sexual life , fully as garish and full of incidents as his . And it drives Flannagan crazy - crazy enough to contact Claude Chevasse ( Chevalier ) to locate this fascinating girl . The film has many lovely touches in it , from Chevalier's opening about how Parisians are always kissing to McGiver's whining to Cooper's band of musical gypsies who always end by playing " Fascination " before he has his sexual encounters . If SABRINA aimed at bringing Hepburn and Bogart to Paris in the end , LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON is a perfect follow-up with the characters in Paris itself . It is a perfect love valentine to the spirit of romance , leading to a moving and sweet ending that is narrated in part by Chevalier . Despite that casting problem LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON is a beautifully made romantic comedy .
Thurber's THE CAT BIRD'S SEAT - moved to Scotland	Just like the criticism from feminists that Laurel & Hardy rarely paint a realistic picture of a wife , girlfriend , or woman in their films ( Mae Busch is certainly one tough customer against them ) , the writer - cartoonist James Thurber was also accused of misogyny . His female characters are eccentric , blasé about the worst tragedies that befall male characters ( a woman confronts a hippopotamus in the jungle , and we see the remains of a man's clothing and property on the ground - " Just what did you do with Dr . Millmoss ? " she asks waving her finger in the hippo's face , like she is a kindergarten teacher ) , and frequently fully ready to do battle to the death for domination of their male counterparts . So women do have a point , but Thurber is equally critical about the men who inhabit his planet too . All too frequently they are cowardly - witness his greatest fictional character , " Walter Mitty " , who retreats into fantasy to survive a dreadful life . Thurber did a series of cartoons entitled " The War Between Men and Women " that traces a genuine war between the sexes . It does end with a male victory ( femenists please note ) . But he also wrote this short story , " THE CAT BIRD'S SEAT " which is like an expanded version of an earlier tale called " THE UNICORN IN THE GARDEN " . In both , a Walter Mitty type man is confronted by a dominating wife or woman , and manages to turn the table on her by " proving " to the people who matter that the woman is crazy . " THE UNICORN IN THE GARDEN " was actually a Thurber fable , and it has been made into several films or television episodes ( one was on MY WORLD AND WELCOME TO IT ) . THE CAT BIRD'S SEAT is a little different . It turned out to be made into a film only once - in 1959 , and in Great Britain - not the United States . It's stars are Peter Sellers , as a meek Scotsman working in a century old textile firm in Edinburgh . It's current owner is Robert Morley , who has more money than sense . Morley has spent most of his time in London , so he has forgotten that the great capital of the North is a slower , more traditional place than the hated southern capital . Morley has met Constance Cummings , an energetic American businesswoman , who has depressed the morale of the American firm she has been working for . In fact , when the film begins , Cummings is told ( rather cruelly by a drunken Donald Pleasance ) that he was told to accompany her to London not for business conferences , but to unceremoniously dump her as she was boarding a train . Her male counterparts ( including Pleasance ) are entirely upset at her showing them up by her superior abilities and energy . Hence the way they drop her . Morley is too fatuous to understand what a danger this woman will be to his staff . He is just impressed at her stroking his ego , and her big ideas about expanding business by modernizing equipment and processes that have stood the test of time . Sellers , the business manager when Morley is usually away , watches with horror as a complicated inter office intercom system is put in for the staff to use to contact each other ( rather than just walking over to each other's desk ) . The wisdom of this development is shown to Morley when one of his employees ( while trying to get a cup of tea ) pushes the wrong button and says something insulting about Morley in his hearing . Other innovations are coming , and Morley is certainly under Cummings ' thumb . Sellers comes up with the idea of killing the American , and goes to her apartment . But at the last moment he just can't bring himself to do it . Instead , Cummings unwittingly gives him a better idea . Who'd believe he would ever visit her at night at her apartment ? Taking advantage of this , he starts telling her his wild " plan " to get rid of Morley and take over the firm with Cummings as his partner lover . He convinces her that he means business , and she tries to warn Morley , who has shown up for dinner . But Sellers , Morley , and Cummings ( in a well choreographed sequence ) keep missing each other in the apartment , so that the next day Sellers can deny he ever was there . Which may lead to Cummings leaving the firm . Or will it ? As a follow - up to THE SECRET LIFE OF WALTER MITTY and THE MALE ANIMAL , THE BATTLE OF THE SEXES is worthy to be watched with them . Despite the expansion of the story to give it the Scottish atmosphere , and Morley's fatuous boss , everything works . And as with WALTER MITTY , after you've seen this read THE CAT BIRD'S SEAT to see what was the original tale like .
Charlotte Bronte's Byronic Hero	If you remember any novel at all of Charlotte Bronte , it is JANE EYRE , her romance of a struggling governess who falls in love with a wealthy , mysterious land - owner whose ward needs an educator . It is the story that has been filmed most often of all of Bronte's novels ( three films and a series , as opposed to only one series based on VILLETTE and none for SHIRLEY or THE PROFESSOR ) . It is not as overpowering in it's appeal as her sister Emily's WUTHERING HEIGHTS , but it is ( for most people ) a good romantic novel . It is also one of the few Victorian novels that is read today ( in fact , it was used in an episode of FRIENDS , when Phoebe and Rachel are supposed to be in a literature night school class ) . What was unique about the novel when it was published in 1847 was that it was rare for a novel to be told from the perspective of lowly governess , and about unrequited love for her employer . This was really hot stuff for Victorian England ( though not as hot as Heathcliff and Cathy running wild on the moors of Yorkshire ) . The novel also gave Charlotte Bronte a chance to even one old score . The business about her being sent to the school run by Henry Brocklehurst was based on Charlotte's personal feelings about a school she had been sent to that was run by one William Carus Wilson . She felt Wilson was a hypocrite and tyrant ( this view has been disputed by scholars researching Bronte since the 19th Century ) . This is the best known version of the novel , but it is not as complete a version as one imagines . The early part of the novel , showing how Jane's aunt Mrs . Reed and her son John bully Jane ( as a poor relation ) is cut ( John doesn't even have any lines ) . Henry Daniell is effective as Brocklehurst , in that his religious tyranny over his students is shown , but the hypocrisy of his behavior ( in the novel his wife and daughters are fashionably dressed , as opposed to the girls in his school ) is not commented upon . The subplot concerning the Rivers cousins is not included in the film . Possibly this is wise , as it concentrates the narrative to Jane's hiring by Edward Rochester , her growing love for her " Byronic " employer , and her discovering of the shattering secret that derails their marriage . When the film was made Joan Fontaine was at the height of her career as a movie star . She had won her Oscar for best actress in SUSPICION only three years before . She fit the role of the quiet " plain Jane " heroine quite well . But in her memoirs NO BED OF ROSES she reveals that she did not like this film . Her co-star got on her nerves . Orson Welles did the role of Rochester because he was trying to demonstrate to Hollywood producers that he was quite a good actor , even if he was not directing as he wanted . But , as it turned out , he got involved in the production of the film - and he had some clashes with Fontane whom he thought was a spoiled star . That their scenes together worked is amazing . Of the others in the cast , the two I find most interesting are Elizabeth Taylor as the ill-fated Helen Burns , Jane's closest friend at Brocklehurst's school . It is a small part , but the beautiful young Taylor makes it heart-breaking . But also note the performance of Hillary Brooke as the fortune - hunting Blanche Ingram , who summarizes the reason for her defeat in this movie while playing billiards with her parents : " GOVERNESSES , MAMA ! ! "
Is Knowing the Future Really Worth It ?	A sort of fantasy counterpart of the contemporary Ernst Lubitsch film HEAVEN CAN WAIT , while parts of IT HAPPENED TOMORROW are set in the 1940s , at a vast family get together for the 50th Anniversary of patriarch Dick Powell and matriarch Linda Darnell , the bulk of the film is set in the same 1890s setting as the Lubitsch film . As it is directed here by Rene Clair , he probably enjoyed the mixture of nostalgia and fantasy ( in this same period he also did I MARRIED A WITCH with Veronica Lake and Frederick March ) . Powell is a newspaper man who has finally been promoted from doing obituaries to reporting events by boss George Cleveland . He and some chums ( including George Chandler ) are celebrating his promotion when he has a conversation with the oldest employee of the paper , the newspaper morgue attendant ( John Philiber ) . Philiber is pointing out that in every age there was a sense of a future which we now accept as part of the past , but that to know the future is not a blessing . After all , if you know the future , that includes all the bad things as well as the so-called good things . Powell , emboldened by some drinking and optimism at his promotion , feels Philiber is wrong and insists that he'd love to know the future . Powell and his friends go out to a nearby theater / bar for entertainment , and they see a mentalist act of Jack Oakie ( complete with fake Italian dialect ) and his niece Darnell . Powell is attracted to Darnell , and begins making a pest of himself and his intentions to Oakie . Later he actually does take Darnell back to her rooming house . The when walking home he is stopped by Philiber , who presents him with the " evening " newspaper . But Powell does not realize that the newspaper is special . The next day he reads it and finds it is the evening paper of the next day , and it's events predict the incidents of that day - specifically the robbery of a theater that Dame Nelly Melba is singing at . Powell is to meet Darnell for lunch , but takes her to the theater , and he witnesses the aftermath of the robbery . He then goes to the newspaper and presents the story , but the police ( led by Edgar Kennedy ) naturally are suspicious of Powell , and think he was in cahoots with the robbers . The end result is that both Powell and Darnell are under police suspicion " until they prove their innocence " . What follows in the film is the incredible complications regarding foretelling the future in a newspaper and maintaining a good reputation with your employer , the authorities , and the general public . Powell and Darnell are soon forced to reveal what they know of the future ( real or fake ) to the Police to avoid arrest . Powell is also forced to rely on the increasingly mysterious Philiber who is not showing up at work , and only shows up to present the newspaper of the next day ( or read it ) to Powell . It is a very amusing film , reminding us again that Powell was a good comic actor when given good material . The crazy fight in the film's conclusion , based on his knowledge of what he believes is his fate , is excellent because he can take chances since he knows his current activities have nothing to do with what or where his fate is tied to . So are his actions that are driving Jack Oakie crazy , first in disturbing a pretty successful mentalist act ( Sig Ruman is a representative of Barnum and Bailey trying to sign him up ) , and then apparently compromising Darnell's reputation , and then in going to the racetrack and winning four impossible horse race bets in a row . Darnell is good too , giving support to Powell ( although she can't believe in his crazy source of inside information ) , to the point that she too predicts an event for the benefit of the Police . Kennedy is in his element , slow burning as he can't figure out how Powell knows so much in advance and is not a criminal . And several side faces in the cast remind us of another Paramount comic genius active at that moment : Preston Sturgis . Jimmy Conlon , Robert Dudley , Kennedy , Darnell , and Powell all appeared in Sturgis films in their time . Here they show that Clare could also depend on their work . In the series ONE STEP BEYOND , there was an episode about a newspaper reporter in Boston who predicted the Krackatoa Explosion in 1883 and then ( possibly ) McKinley's assassination in 1901 . That episode treated this entire problem far more seriously , as the reporter involved never really recovered from the freak fame he momentarily got in 1883 . But this film fantasy treats the matter more lightly , but still makes one really question the full value of the possibility of predicting the future . It also reminds one of Goethe's famous comment : " Be careful of what you want . . . you may get it ! "
Her Guy Walter	Charles McArthur and Ben Hecht met when both were reporters in Chicago during the 1920s . They created two of the funniest farces in American drama , TWENTIETH CENTURY ( about theater people ) and THE FRONT PAGE . The latter was based on their experiences as news reporters in those crazy days in Chicago , where the newspapers concentrated on sensationalism and the politics was thoroughly corrupt . The resulting play is hysterically funny and yet remains timely . For all the exaggeration of how Walter Burns and Hildy Johnson manipulate police , politicians , reporters , and civilians to get their scoop , the story remains relevant for several reasons . The political balance in a big Mayoralty election is precarious due to the Earl Williams case . Williams has shot a policeman who is African-American , a big local voting block , and they want him punished . The corrupt Mayor and his idiot jail warden are willing to execute him for the votes needed to stay in office , but the Governor ( who is from the rival party ) believes the killer is insane ( or at least mentally deficient ) . So already ( as you see ) race , politics , and the validity of the death penalty get pulled in . Soon we also see examples of nepotism and corruption in the police , and City Hall , cynical politics based on a man's life , and questions about privacy and a free press . For a play from 1931 this one still has relevance . There had been an earlier version of the play in the 1930s called THE FRONT PAGE , starring Adolphe Menjou as the conniving and devious Walter Burns , and Pat O'Brien as ace reporter Hildy Johnson . It is a good version , and both stars do well with their parts ( and both have the verbal speed necessary for the dialog to flow over the ears of the audience ) . But when the film was remade in 1940 , Howard Hawks decided to redraw Hildy Johnson into a female reporter ( and previous wife ) of Burns . His casting of Cary Grant was radically different too . Burns is a nasty , conniving s . o . b . who would kill for a good story . Menjou was somewhat dapper ( he was usually dapper ) in the role , but the hardness under the presentable shell was there . And by changing Hildy from a guy to a gal , and Walter's former wife , you had to make Walter look more interesting . So Walter is turned into Cary Grant . There was a search for Hildy , involving Jean Arthur and Irene Dunne as possibilities . Neither ended up playing him . Instead it went to Rosalind Russell . It has to be admitted Russell had the vocal abilities to push the dialog at the proper clip . Possibly Jean Arthur could have done that just as well , but Arthur did not have the apparent physical strength behind the stylishness that Russell showed . She really does balance well ( in this film ) with Grant , given their characters . Motivation changes a little . This Walter Burns still wants to get his scoops , but there are moments of fragility when he realizes he may forever lose Hildy to her fiancé Bruce ( the ever helpless Ralph Bellamy ) . And they oddly work ( Hawks manages to keep them under control ) . Also , as the story is now twelve years older than the original play , certain changes occur in Walter's political views . He does dislike the gang ( led by Clarence Kolb and Gene Lockhart ) running the city , and points out to Hildy that they have a chance to help give the city the sort of government New York City has under La Guardia . This does not end his joy at scooping the opposition , but it does suggest that Burns has more depth . It is now generally believed that this is the best of the film versions of THE FRONT PAGE , and one of the funniest films ever made . The entire cast shines ( look at the scene where Helen Mack confronts the reporters who have made her look like a tramp , and have told lies about John Qualen ( Williams ) - she is in a state when Russell takes her out of the press room , and the reporters are thoroughly ashamed of herself - and Russell comes back looking at Regis Toomey , Porter Hall , and the others , and says " Gentlemen of the Press ! " with heavy cynical irony ) . And also note Billy Gilbert's immortal Joe Pettibone , the most hopeless monument of total befuddlement in movies . It is one of the few film comedies of that period that retains it's laughs one viewing following another .
First Rate Laurel & Hardy With Minimum of Story	Some comedians rely on plot and screenplay - such as the Marx Brothers , who have to have sharp dialog for Groucho and Chico , and some social target to aim at . So did W . C . Fields . But Laurel & Hardy were frequently at their best when they had a simple story line and just expanded the situation without words . IN BUSY BODIES they are going to work at a wood mill run by Tiny Sanford . They have to go to work by car , and we see them in a rare moment of pleasant peace with the world , listening to music on their car radio - or I should say car " radio " as it is something special . They arrive at the work site , and quickly have their first run in with Charlie Hall , causing him to become discomforted by a mild joke ( which he is not crazy about ) . But shortly they head inside , and keep getting into a variety of simple but effective sequences that are pure gold humor . First Ollie keeps getting hit in the head by co-workers with bars . Then Ollie's fingers get stuck in a window frame , that Stan can't quite get him out of . Curiously enough Stan starts showing a bit of initiative here - looking at a blueprint supposedly of the window frame . Ollie , impatiently points out it is a blue print for the Hoover / Boulder Dam ( why ? what's it doing there ? ) . Shortly occurs another confrontation with Hall , which ends with a surprising action by Stan . More mayhem ( including Stan having to give Ollie a shave with a wood plane - you have to be there to see it ) follows , topped by Ollie being shot through an air duct into crashing on top of a shed , demolishing it ( and nearly demolishing Tiny Sanford ) . The film ends with the boys trying to drive off in their Model T , only to find that a buzz saw has other other ideas . It is not as organized as say THE MUSIC BOX or HELPMATES , but it is as funny as those two sound shorts were . This is a delight to watch to see how the boys did so much with so little .
A Shattering Dissection of a Scottish Regiment	It is hard to say anything new about this marvelous film - possibly the last great film Alec Guiness had the starring role in ( although some STAR WAR fans may disagree with that assessment ) . Guiness as Major Jock Sinclair is a man's man , and the popular head of a Scottish army regiment . Since the war ended he has been in charge of it , and there have been no complaints . But one day he learns that the Army brass have decided to appoint John Mills ( Lt . Col . Basil Barrow ) as the Regiment's new commander . Guiness is not a coward - he has fought his way up the ranks on the battlefields of Europe , and the others in the regiment know this . But Mills is an unknown quantity . He is aloof , and he is English . Nobody can tell whether or not he has any inner reserves of strength or what was once called " moxie " to win their respect . So soon Mills finds that while his commands are heard , the men are still basically looking to Guiness for real leadership . It becomes a quiet but steady battle between the two men to see who is the real head of the regiment . Even when , due to personal problems , Guiness is arrested for drunkenness , Mills keeps fumbling his attempts to put him under control . Part of the problem is psychological - Mills has had a very rough time during the war . He was tortured badly by the Nazis in one of their camps . He has been just beginning to pull himself together . The lack of respect he is being shown is not helping . The characterizations in the film are wonderful , in particular Dennis Price . Mills had been the star of GREAT EXPECTATIONS in the late 1940s , with Guiness in support . Price had been the actual star , as the scheming Louis D'Ascoyne - Mazzini , in KIND HEARTS AND CORONETS , again opposite Guiness . Here Price is Major Charles " Scotty " Scott , who has usually been Guiness's closest friend , but has stumbled . In typical Price double-dealing , he has made a play for Kay Walsh , Guiness's girlfriend , and has not been totally rejected ( when Guiness learns of this he goes into his bender , which leads to his arrest ) . Price however is more complex than one would initially believe . He , of all the regiment officers , does not go to Guiness to double-check the orders of Mills . Price feels that Mills , as commanding officer , needs no double-checking . The others are there to obey him . But then Mills decides to be nice to that drunken scamp Guiness - and Guiness and his friends sees this as weakness , not kindness . Mills finds that the last shreds of his rank's dignity are gone . . . especially after he and Price have some quiet words while Price is playing billiards . Basically Price tells Mills that it is impossible now to have any respect for the Lt . Col . And this leads to the final double tragedy at the end . Dennis Price ( from what I have read on this board ) had many family and financial problems , and emotional problems that led to an alcoholism that smashed his career . But his performance as " Scotty " , relatively short in comparison to Guiness and Mills in this film , was a quietly effective and superb one . One only wishes his personal demons could have been controlled , so that he could have given us more performances as this one .
An Englishman among the Mafiosi	Hugh Grant is in someways a modern version of a comic actor who I have had problems with in viewing : Charles Butterworth . Butterworth would hem and haw , afraid of making some social faux pas while pursuing whatever business occupied his activities on screen . This diffidence while mildly amusing could get tedious after awhile . Similarly Grant will hesitate , and stammer a bit . But his English manners , and his good looks make his hesitancy far more easy to accept than Butterworth's . Certainly his good looks have made him an easy leading man type ( whereas Butterworth always played in supporting roles ) . MICKEY BLUE EYES gives Grant far more to be nervous and hesitant about . He plays Michael Feldgate , a highly successful auctioneer at a leading house in Manhattan ( his boss is Philip Cromwell ( James Fox ) ) . Michael has been romancing a schoolteacher named Gina Vitale ( Jeanne Tripplehorn ) , and has finally decided to propose to her . Besides causing an unintentional series of uproars in a Chinese restaurant , he is surprised to find Gina less than enthusiastic . After he meets her father Frank Vitale ( James Caan ) he follows Gina home and learns the reason for Gina's lack of enthusiasm ( though not lack of love ) . Frank is a member of a Mafia family headed by Vito Graziosi ( Burt Young ) , and Gina was always afraid that if Michael and she married he'd be trapped into the Mafia way of life sooner or later . Uneasily Gina agrees to the wedding , with Michael insisting that with her assistance he can avoid any real problems from Graziosi and his gang . But soon the subtlety of the mobsters proves too much for Michael ( with or without Gina's help ) . Graziosi realizes that auctioning art can be useful as a way of laundering dirty mob money ( he can have debts paid by having various debtors settle what they owe by buying items the mob puts up at auction ) . And Michael soon finds he is auctioning art by Graziosi's violent mental case son Johnny ( John Ventimiglia ) that are setting records - records the F . B . I . are showing great interest in . While worrying about this , Michael is also under pressure of trying to present a good , respectable front for a potentially lucrative client . Somehow the mobsters and the F . B . I . just don't seem to help create this image . Michael finds that everything Gina suggests , or her father Frank tries to help with fails , and soon the Englishman finds he is in the middle of an unwanted killing - one that can set off a mob war . He also finds that he has to parade around town with his erst-while father-in-law as an out-of-town underworld torpedo named " Mickey Blue Eyes " ( actually , " Young Mickey Blue Eyes " from Kansas City , as opposed to " Old Mickey Blue Eyes " his dead dad , and the original " Mickey Blue Eyes " from Chicago ! ) . This includes burying a corpse in an overused waste land , and ordering steak in a restaurant where " Mickey " is barely understood talking a version of underworld English , and upsetting customers by his anti-English remarks and his constantly dropping his gun . The cast is wonderful , led by a continually drained Grant who can't find any way out of the deeper and deeper hole he is in , Caan who has found that he has a comfortable niche in the mob - but has somehow lost his daughter's trust , Tripplehorn who finds that she is bloodily closer to the mob than she ever expected or wanted to be , Young who is properly sinister but ruthlessly smart , and Fox who constantly trying to put the best face on the worst situations ( like talking to his potential client about respectability , opening a door , and finding Grant shaking his behind in front of his fiancé ! ) . Even that late budding comic " goon " actor Joe Viterelli ( who played " Jelly " in the ANALYZE THIS and ANALYZE THAT films ) has a nice moment where he watches a television commercial about a very strong adhesive tape that can even bind people's hands - and makes a note for future reference when he needs to bind some person's hands ! Until the last comic twists of the plot , the film entertains , and is certainly worth a " 10 " out of " 10 " on the scale here .
" Not if you stand on tippy toe on the tallest mountain in the world . "	In talking about Joseph Mankiewicz one has to notice the highly excellent dialog he writes . He is one of the most literate of all major directors , best shown in LETTER TO THREE WIVES and ALL ABOUT EVE . The same can be said for this unusual Cary Grant film , made in 1951 at the height of the McCarthy Era , One has to keep the McCarthy period in mind when discussing this film . Mankiewicz was targeted by the Hollywood right wing when President of the Screen Directors Guild . His chief foe was Cecil B . DeMille , who thought Mankiewicz ( with his liberal point of view ) was a left winger . He was also targeted ( along with William Wyler and Billy Wilder ) for their foreign sounding ( i . e . Jewish ) names or pronunciations ( DeMille had Jewish ancestry too , but he liked to overlook it ! ) . In a confrontation to throw Mankiewicz out of his Presidency of the Guild , DeMille confronted the one director in Hollywood he could not scare : John Ford . Ford basically said that while he admired DeMille's productions and work , he thought he was a total creep . That ended DeMille's move against Mankiewicz . Having been a near victim of petty and bigoted persecution , Mankiewicz decided to do this film based on an old German movie . Grant plays a very talented doctor and teacher , Dr . Praetorius , who is one of the most popular figures in a university and it's town . Only one person ( Hume Cronyn ) is opposed to Grant . Cronyn ( as was pointed out in another review on this site ) does not hesitate to spread rumors and scandal against people he dislikes to improve his own scholastic position . Here he starts looking into Grant's background . A wiz at psychiatry , Grant would be a holistic physician today , figuring that his patient's mental condition has to be taken into consideration in treatment . He finds a new patient in Jeanne Crain , who comes to him regarding a physical problem she wants him to take care of : she's pregnant . She hopes he will give her an abortion ( although this is not openly stated - in 1951 the Hollywood code was still in effect ) . As she falls asleep during the interview , Grant pretends to examine her and tells her it was a false alarm . He starts visiting her , and finally discovers he likes her . Eventually he proposes marriage , and rescues her and her father ( Sidney Blackmer ) from the less than generous minded " charity " of Blackmer's brother Will Wright ( a nice , mean character performance ) . Grant and Crain marry , and then she discovers she is pregnant . Although this strains the relationship , Crain realizes after awhile that Grant has not only saved her child , but her reputation . Of course this does not mean his reputation is safe . Cronyn's Professor Elwell is still nosing about for anything to smear Grant with . At one point he invades the home of Grant , and there is a nice confrontation scene with Crain . Eventually he finds something . Grant is always accompanied by a friend and factotum Mr . Shunderson ( Finley Currie ) . Cronyn wonders who he is , and eventually finds that Shunderson ( a quiet , gentle man ) has a secret which looks potentially nasty involving the Canadian police . Triumphantly Cronyn decides to use this information to ruin Grant's standing with the Dean of the University ( Basil Ruysdael - who like most of the staff barely tolerates Cronyn ) , and the Board of Trustees . Grant is working on a concert ( he is conducting the " Academic Overture " of Johnannes Brahms ) . He has to give up this work , and stop worrying - if he can - for the health of Crain and " their " child ( now in the concluding phase of her pregnancy ) to face the accusation . I won't go into the amusing story behind Currie's run-in with the police . All I'll say is that Currie has one of his two best roles in this film ( the other was as Magwich in David Lean's GREAT EXPECTATIONS ) and the high point is when he quietly , and effectively tells off Cronyn about his personality failure . The quote in the " Summary Line " above is from the conclusion of that scene . Other shine in the film besides Currie and Cronyn and Wright and Ruysdael . Walter Slezak plays an " Einstein " clone part , who is one of Grant's closest friends on campus - a nice " nice person " change of pace for him . Also look at the scene of the comic argument between Grant , Slezak , and Blackmer regarding electric trains that crash . Grant plays one of his oddest roles , but handles it well ( as does Crain as the woman he saves and then falls in love with ) . Also Margaret Hamilton as a gossip who won't admit she's a gossip . If not as well known as LETTER or EVE , PEOPLE WILL TALK is as fascinating as those two film classics .
A Lovely Day's Drive ?	TWO TARS has gotten a deserved reputation as being one of the funniest of the Laurel & Hardy short comedies ( and certainly among the best of their silent comedies ) due to the last half of the film . Initially Stan and Ollie are on furlough from the navy , and meet two young ladies ( Thelma Hill and Ruby Blaine ) . After some typical Hardy small talk ( in which he drops his close relationship to Secretary of the Navy Curtis Wilbur ) , he and Stan decide to rent a car and take the girls for a drive in the country . Unfortunately their car ends up in a traffic jam . Keep in mind that this was only 1928 , and the expansion of American automobile use ( from the days when the car was only the toy of the rich or the object of early racing figures like Barney Oldfield and Edward Vernon Rickenbacker ) dated back only to 1914 when Henry Ford's Model T was put on the assembly line . By 1928 nearly 15 million of Ford's car was on the road - and there were other car companies too . And here we have a film ( a short film comedy ) which is about a traffic jam . Modern problems are always mirrored in the movies . The series of confrontations L & H have are with equally grumpy motorists like Edgar Kennedy ( whose front tires and fenders the boys manage to pull off in timed unison ) . Cars backs are dumped off , or they are reduced to accordions on wheels . Every possible disaster that could befall a 1928 car is shown . And the police are fairly powerless to do much , except to watch in amazement ( at the conclusion ) of the parade of mangled cars . And it is , surprisingly , very funny indeed .
In the eddies and wakes of a boat on Big Moose Lake	In 1906 there resided in upstate New York a young man named Chester Gillette . Mr . Gillette was good looking and ambitious , and hoped to better his social and financial situation by family connections and a socially advantageous marriage to a wealthy young woman . But Gillette had been dating Grace Brown , a farmer's daughter , and Brown found out she was pregnant . She insisted that Gillette marry her , or she would reveal what he did to her . Gillette arranged for her to meet him at a resort at Big Moose Lake in the Adirondacks , but they were to go there separately , and he made sure they were not seen together too much . Actually they were seen many times together - like many schemers Gillette thought he had accomplished his intentions but actually had failed to do so . He took Grace out on a boat , supposedly to enjoy the quiet pleasures of the lake . Something occurred in that boat - we will never know for certain . The majority of us feel certain that Chester hit Grace with either an oar or a tennis racket , knocking her unconscious into the water , so that she drowned . However , he always maintained she hit her head after upsetting the boat , on the overturned boat . We just don't know . Chester's behavior after the accident was that of a skulking coward , not revealing himself to the authorities or seeking assistance , but trying to get back to his room at a local hotel to get his luggage . He was arrested within a few days , and a trial took place that became nationally prominent . At the end of the trial , Chester Gillette was convicted of first degree murder . After an appeal failed , Chester was electrocuted in 1908 . Roughly seventeen years later , Theodore Dreiser was considering his next literary project . Dreiser's social views were left of center , and he wanted to write a novel that tore open the materialist center of American social values . It was to be based on a famous homicide case that was based on misguided attempts at social advancement . Dreiser looked at several cases ( another one was a notorious 1911 case , the murder of Avis Linnell in Massachusetts , by Reverend Charles Richeson - the Reverend poisoned Miss Linnell who stood in his way to an advantageous marriage ) . Dreiser decided the story of Chester Gillette fit the bill . It was to tell ( in fictional form , of course ) the background of the case , the social pressures that lead to the main event , and the trial of the hero as well as his condemnation and execution . Changing the name of the hero to Clyde Griffiths ( note the same initials as Chester's ) , published the novel as an attack on the misguided social clawing and status seeking in our capitalist society . As such it was entitled " An American Tragedy " . The novel was a success ( perhaps Dreiser's masterpiece ) . He helped dramatize it in the late 1920s , and in 1931 it was filmed for the first time as by Joseph Von Sternberg . But much was cut out of that version , and Dreiser was so upset he sued Paramount and Von Sternberg ( and lost the case ) . That film version , with Phillips Holmes as Clyde , and Sylvia Sidney as the doomed girl , was actually quite good on its own merits . In 1947 Dreiser died . In 1951 George Stevens assembled the production staff and cast , including Monty Cliff , Shelley Winters , Elizabeth Taylor , Raymond Burr , Fred Clark , and Keefe Brazzell . It is a wonderfully rich and good film , showing the shocking underside of the American dream ( just as Dreiser would have hoped ) . The central figure is no longer Clyde Griffiths but George Eastman , but Monty Cliff shows how a basically hard working young man is destroyed pursuing his dream of success . And again , the film properly leaves the central issue - did Chester / Clyde / George kill his girlfriend , and try to make it look like an accident , or did he change his mind , but there was an accident , or did he panic when in the water , and fail to save her . Was it a moral crime rather than a factual one ? Raymond Burr's performance , in the part of the local district attorney , is one of the two movie roles ( the other is Lars Thorwald in REAR WINDOW ) that people recall if not thinking of his great television career . As the District Attorney , Burr ( usually typecast as villains ) actually is a heavy , but one with a moral mission . He is certain that this was murder , pure and simple , and he is going to avenge poor Shelley Winters . His performance when cross examining Cliff is a marvel , particularly the moment he bares down on the spot Winters was sitting at with an oar and smashes it . It has been called over the top , but it is deservedly over the top . And I suspect it was also important for Burr's future career as well . It was a great way for him to demonstrate his strength appearing as a courtroom gladiator . I am certain that when casting for the Perry Mason series occurred a few years later , the producers recalled what a splendid job Burr did here when considering hiring him . The rest was television history .
One King's Family : 1183	It is very rare to find an actor who has played the same historical figure twice . Charleton Heston was Andrew Jackson in THE PRESIDENT'S LADY and THE BUCCANNEER ( 1958 ) . Edward Arnold was Diamond Jim Brady in DIAMOND JIM and LILIAN RUSSELL . Reginald Owen was Louis XV in VOLTAIRE and MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE . Raymond Massey was John Brown in SANTA FE TRAIL and SEVEN ANGRY MEN . But only Peter O'Toole played the same historical figure in two major productions that were made only four years apart , and that showed the character seriously aging . O'Toole had played King Henry II of England in BECKET ( 1964 ) as a young , vibrant monarch who makes the serious mistake of appointing his best friend to the one post that will make them enemies . The period that BECKET encompasses was roughly 1165 to 1171 ( when Henry allowed himself to be whipped for the murder of Becket the year before - apparently at his orders ) . In THE LION IN WINTER ( 1968 ) he was King Henry some twelve years later . Henry is now the most powerful monarch in Western Europe , but he has problems of dynastic and political natures . His power structure in 1183 is dependent on his hold of the marriage dower of his wife Eleanor of Aquitaine . In BECKET , Pamela Brown played Eleanor as a sharp tongued and jealous woman who arranged the murder of her rival Gwendolen ( Sian Phillips ) , on the night Henry was going to have sex with her . Henry ( who hates the sight of blood ) has a nervous collapse upon seeing the results of Eleanor's activities . In THE LION IN WINTER Eleanor was played by Katherine Hepburn . Now older , she is still a match in terms of political abilities to her husband . He has let her out of her castle prison to visit him and their three surviving sons ( Richard , Geoffrey , and John ) as well as Princess Alais of France and her brother King Phiip Augustus of France . Henry's family get-together is not for holiday reasons ( although it is occurring at Christmas ) . He has taken a dower from King Philip's father King Louis for Pincess Alais ( Jane Merrow ) to marry his oldest son Richard ( Anthony Hopkins ) . But Alais has become the mistress of the monarch , who is considering divorcing Eleanor and starting a " proper " family with his second wife Alais . Richard and his two brothers ( John Castle and Nigel Terry ) are not happy with this prospect - nor with dynastic ambitions of each other . Of the three sons , Henry favors John ( Terry ) over Richard , although Richard is the better fighter . The reason is that Richard is the favorite of his mother , and has been implicated in some of her attempts to stir up civil war against Henry . Geoffrey ( Castle ) has brains but he is untrustworthy and finds that he is constantly dismissed by both parents . And King Philip ( Timothy Dalton ) is furious that due to the highhanded actions of Henry his father was reduced in power in Europe , and he is forced to report to a man who is technically his vassal due to the French lands that Henry controls . THE LION IN WINTER had been a Broadway success in the middle 1960s , starring Robert Preston as Henry . The film is a successful transition , with the elderly monarch and his elderly consort tearing at each other in a kind of medieval WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF . O'Toole is wonderful as the still intelligent , vigorous , and bullying monarch he was in BECKET , except now he is facing his own mortality . Hepburn ( who won her third Oscar for this film - one year after winning her second for GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER and tying this time with Barbara Streisand for FUNNY GIRL ) is able to display a woman capable of any political damage be it encouraging her sons to revolt or threatening future harm to Alais and any child she and Henry may have to torturing Henry with the suggestion that she ( Eleanor ) slept with Henry's father before they met . Hopkins ' hapless Richard is the most sympathetic of the three sons , with his humiliation when Philip maliciously reveals that Richard is a homosexual ( the first time this trait was revealed in any film about Richard the Lion Hearted ) . Terry's John is properly " pimple faced " and immature on the surface , but showing when he betrays his father that two-faced ability that would lead to his disasters as King . Castle is properly sinister throughout - one realizes that both parents will not suggest him as heir because he'd kill them as soon as he could safely plan it out afterward . Dalton's Philip is galling to O'Toole , as he keeps showing that unlike his father he knows how to harm the British monarchy - by disgracing it's leading hero ( Richard ) , and by simply waiting for time to take it's toll on his enemy Henry . And Merrow is the most sympathetic figure in the film , genuinely loving Henry but finding even he regards her as a dynastic pawn in the end . The movie was that rarity , a sequel as thoughtful and intelligent as the first film had been , and filling in the results of that first film's background and story very well indeed .
The Final " Voyage of Discovery " of Lewis and Clark	Neil Simon's THE ODD COUPLE set up a model for many of his later plays . Felix Unger and Oscar Madison were the unsuitably paired roommates in the original , the former being picky and neat , the latter being slovenly and loose . Simon would rewrite ( less successfully ) the play in the 1990s as THE NEW ODD COUPLE , with female roommates . He made it a mixed couple ( a woman with her daughter , and a man ) in THE GOODBYE GIRLS . He also gave it an additional twist in 1973 with THE SUNSHINE BOYS , a Broadway hit starring Jack Alberson and Sam Levine as Al Lewis and Willie Clark , the aged , semi-retired Vaudevillians . Here the " apartment " problem is reduced to a teaming of two men who can't stand each other . The 1976 film starred Walter Matthau as Willie , and George Burns as Al . In actuality , Al probably does not think totally badly of Willie - Willie is pathological on the subject of Al . First Al had little habits , such as accidentally spitting slightly when pronouncing words beginning with the letter " t " , and slightly jabbing Willie with his index finger , on stage . Secondly , Al retired when his wife died . Willie was not ready to retire ( and has been forcing his nephew and agent , Ben ( Richard Benjamin ) to try to get him jobs in commercials . But Willie can't remember lines unless they are funny , and keeps flubbing them . So he rarely is able to stay to the end of a rehearsal for a commercial . Ben is asked to get the two back together for a live scene of their most famous sketch on a television show about American Comedy . He does bring Al to see Willie , and the sparks begin flying , as neither can figure out what the other is doing ( and this is just in rehearsal . On top of that , Willie is insisting on changes ( minor ones , but they throw off Al ) such as saying " ENTER ! ! ! " when Al knocks on the door . The initial rehearsal is a failure , but Ben manages to get them to the taping of the show . The question is if they will complete the scene in the finished program or will Willie wring Al's neck ? The three leads , Matthau , Burns , and Benjamin , do very well with the one-liners , frequently reminiscent of vaudeville patter ( example : " Chest pains . . . I'm getting chest pains Uncle Willie . Every Thursday I come here and get chest pains ! " " So , come on Fridays ! " ) . Benjamin strives to prove his deep affection for his uncle , although Matthau's rough outer shell makes it difficult ( he only smooths down when he discusses the glory days of vaudeville ) . Matthau has a little better grasp on reality ( at first ) than Burns , who seems senile by his repeating himself - but in actuality Matthau's sense of rejection by the world that once applauded him make him less willing to behave properly . Burns is not senile - he takes things slowly . But he seems far happier in accepting his retirement . I call this a final " Voyage of Discovery " for our modern Lewis and Clark . Al and Willie transcend their old skits , as they gradually end up realizing that they have more in common in their old age than they thought . Even the irascible Willie admits that Al may be ( to him ) a pain in the ass , but he was a funny man . Burns was not the original choice for the part of " Al Lewis " ( supposedly Dale of the team Smith and Dale ) . Jack Benny was . Benny probably would have done a good job , but ill-health forced him out ( he died in 1975 ) . Burns ( whose last involvement in any film was in THE SOLID GOLD CADILLAC in 1956 as the narrator ) turned in such a fine performance that he got the " Oscar " for best supporting actor , and was to have a career in movies in the next decade in such films as OH GOD ! ; OH GOD , YOU DEVIL ; and GOING IN STYLE . He died in 1996 age 100 , having proved that he was more than just a brilliant straight man for his wife Gracie Allan .
A " House Divided " Literally : Apartheid in South Africa in 1948	I read CRY , THE BELOVED COUNTRY in high school , and was quite impressed by it's dignified and somber retelling of the tragedy of modern South Africa under the apartheid system that was in place at the time . Alan Paton had a literary and political career in the Union of South Africa , and was opposed to the system that kept down the native Black Africans while the native white Africans ruled them . His novel was quite shocking in his home country , and led to his being forbidden to be published there . Now he seems remarkably prescient . The novel was made into a film in 1951 , which I never saw . But I have finally seen this version today and while it whittles down the plot a bit , it's emphasis on the dual tragedy of the Kumalo and Jarvis families actually enhances the effect . James Earl Jones plays Rev . Stephen Kumalo , an honorable man from the countryside who goes to Johannisburg to find his son Absolom . From the start we see contrasts . The beauties and glories of the magnificent veld v . the dirt and grime of the city . The large home of the Jarvis family as opposed to the poor homes of Rev . Kumalo . Rev . Kumalo goes to an address in one of the slums of Johannisburg that the Blacks were forced to live in . He tries to trace his son , with the assistance of a fellow minister , Rev . Msimangu ( Vasi Kunene ) and gets less helpful assistance from his brother John Kumalo ( Charles S . Dutton ) . The latter is a local politician , but is soon revealed to be an opportunist and crook . Eventually Rev . Kumalo finds his son has been in trouble with the police , and recently released from a reformatory . This was due to Absolom having a pregnant girlfriend . The Reverend traces his son to the girlfriend , but she has not heard from him for a few days . The next thing that the Reverend hears is that Absolom and two others ( including the son of John Kumalo ) were involved in a burglary murder that resulted in the death of Ian Jarvis . Tom Jarvis , long used to accept the harsh separation of the races as natural , comes to a stunning discovery - his son's posthumous condemnation of the social system of South Africa as one to abhor as it breeds crime and hatred . The discovery of this side to his son leads him to slowly find a bridge uniting him with Rev . Kumalo , as they both find the system destroy their boys . One has to see the film to understand this bridging of the the lives of the fathers ( ironically neighbors who rarely knew each other or each other's families in the " normal " period ) . One also sees the warning that Paton instilled in his readers : Rev . Msimangu's fear that when the White race finally turns to love the Black race will only accept hate . Much is dropped of the four hundred fifty page novel , such as Paton's ritualistic use of descriptions again and again ( which can't be translated to film successfully ) or plot threads regarding the final break between the Reverend and his brother John , or the Reverend trying to trace other lost children from the town ( one is mentioned briefly ) . But the somberness of the tragedy of Absolom , who with Ian become joint blood sacrifices to a racist state is total . The performances of Jones and Harris are equally effective . Altogether a first rate film version of the novel .
One of the four great geographic races of the 19th Century	There are only two major motion films ( as of January 2006 ) about the events involved with the search for the Nile River's sources . One is THE MOUNTAINS OF THE MOON , which detailed the collapse of the friendship and partnership of explorers Richard Francis Burton and John Hanning Speke . The collapse was due to their different views on what was the source of the Nile ( Lake Tanganyika or Lake Victoria ) . The other was STANLEY AND LIVINGSTON , but that film concentrated on the search ( by Henry Morton Stanley ) for Dr . David Livingston , missionary and explorer in 1871 - the Nile venture was secondary . Besides those two films , the rest is silence . But in 1971 this six part series was created . Starring Kenneth Haigh as Burton , and Michael Gough as Livingston , it took the time to go through the careers of Burton , Speke , James Grant ( Speke's second partner in exploration ) , Livingston ( who got hung up seeing the source in some mythical huge fountains in central Africa ) , Samuel Baker ( who was the first European to find Lake Albert ) , and Stanley , who finally settled the main issues of the source of the Nile , and the source of the Congo ( Burton's Tanganyika ) . Added to the fine cast was the narration by James Mason , which kept the separate portions of the story straight . The series technically was about the sources of the White Nile ( the Blue Nile , which is also one of the two main branches of the Nile , was traced down by James Bruce , an 18th Century traveler in Ethiopia ( then called Abyssinia ) - but that was outside the scope of this series ) . Each hour followed the events that twisted and turned among the six leading explorers , in particular the tragedy of Speke ( who probably killed himself to avoid disgrace debating Burton ) , and Stanley who became possessed as it were to find Livingston , and then to settle the entire matter . It took him five years of travel to get it straight - and he lost a large number of the men on his exploration . Burton , blamed by many for the death of Speke , dropped out of the race after 1864 believing he had found the source - only to find he had not . But by the time he learned the truth , he was better known as a man of letters who had given the definitive translation of the classic THE ARABIAN NIGHTS with footnotes . The 19th Century had four great races : the search for the Northwest Passage , the race for the North Pole , the beginning of the race for the South Pole , and the search for the Nile . While these races did bring honor and glory to a handful of figures , they all brought tragedy to the same figures and others around them . To learn about the search for the sources of the White Nile , this well acted and written series is a great place to start .
Curious mixture of dated and advanced great newspaper film	First , why do I say it is dated ? It is a matter of acting tastes . While several of the leads ( the always good Robinson and Karloff , Aline MacMahon , and H . B . Warner ) give strong performances ( witness Warner's last three minutes in the film as the strain of his wife's tragedy finally destroys him ) , there is too much of the 1931 " staginess " of the acting style of that day in FIVE STAR FINAL . Put this way : my mother ( who watched the film with me ) enjoyed it , but laughed at that staginess - she was born in 1928 , so as a kid many movies of the early 1930s would have had that style of acting , and she found it archaic ) . Bernarr MacFadden is recalled ( if at all ) as a one time newspaper owner and food / diet / health faddist . The latter career is what most people remember ( one of his diet / health followers was Greta Garbo ) . Coming from the hinterlands , MacFadden looked like a hick but had tremendous energy , ego , and ambition . He bought the failing New York Evening Graphic in the 1920s and taking full advantage of that age of ballyhoo turned it into the raggiest newspaper of the day . As mentioned he made up " photographs " supposedly showing the crimes and punishments he was reporting . He did everything to scoop the rival Hearst and other papers of news dirt . His intention was ( as was Hearst's , with more plausibility ) to build himself into a national figure for political office - hoping to eventually become President . It did not work ( fortunately ) . I say that safely . I have read his editorials about the end of certain criminals , and he sounds not soporific but childish in the intensity of his dislike ( in one of them he actually wrote something like , " Now , he's dead , dead , dead . . . that'll show him ! " - I am not making that up ! ! ) . The depth of the Graphic's career really was in 1928 . A ridiculous marriage-divorce case , that of millionaire landlord Edward Browning ( age 70 ) and his young wife " Peaches " ( age under 20 ) broke out , and instead of ignoring it and concentrating on real news , MacFadden actually did his idiotic fake photos on the front page . Browning apparently ( like all husbands with their wives , or people with their sex companions ) had private language with Peaches that the court revealed . When he wanted sex but badgered his wife he ( supposedly ) said " Woof , woof , don't be a goof ! " , and if he described intercourse he'd say , " Honk , honk , it's the bonk ! " . MacFadden showed Browning and Peaches in bedclothes in their bedroom , with cartoon balloons with the expressions in them . The " goof " expression was coming from Browning , but the " bonk " expression came from a goose or duck that was transposed into the frame of the picture ( probably because the latter's " quack " is sometimes like a " honk " ) . FIVE STAR FINAL was one of the favorite of Eddie Robinson . Coming a year after his breakout success in LITTLE CAESAR he was glad ( for once ) not to have to be a gangster but a city room editor on a tabloid ready to blow up . Robinson's Joseph Taylor has been working for a New York City newspaper for 10 years as editor ( before that he worked on other papers , but none quite so sensational ) . The owner of this paper , Hinchcliffe ( Oscar Apfel ) is a respectable looking millionaire , but he is an arch-hypocrite . He likes higher and higher circulation and does not mind if he uses scandals to boost his paper . By the way , some of the best minor sequences in FIVE STAR FINAL show Hinchclffe and Robinson discussing items that have to be moved or dropped and the effects on the public . Apparently their dropping of some articles by former Black heavyweight champ Jack Johnson ( about his girlfriends ) caused a dip in the circulation sales in Harlem ( Robinson adds to this tidbit by mentioning that his housekeeper stopped buying the newspaper when that happened ! ) . The plot of the film is that a twenty year old homicide that resulted in the acquittal of the perpetrator is resurrected for circulation . The woman ( Marian Marsh ) has married ( H . B . Warner ) and has a daughter ( Frances Carr ) who is getting married to the son ( Anthony Bushnell ) of the a wealthy manufacturer . The revelation of the old scandal ( skillfully hidden by Marsh and Warner ) is threatened by the newspaper series . The older couple then compound the problem when they mistakenly trust Boris Karloff as a clergyman ( he was a defrocked theology student , who now is a sleazy reporter ) . The revelations lead to deeper and deeper problems , and eventual tragedy . Aline MacMahon is Robinson's secretary ( and girlfriend ) who knows he is better than his activities suggest . But it is not until the tragedy that Robinson's self-loathing for his activities emerges . It determines him on a showdown with Apfel , which is complicated by the arrival of another party who wants a confrontation and an explanation . The film is good , if some of the dialog turns to be too racy ( and even bigoted ) at times . The issue of the limits of a free press are always with us , and this presents it quite well up to Robinson's final commentary and actions to show his disgust with his job . How true is it that we do not forgive old felons or suspects in crimes ? It varies . Those who are pedophiles or sex criminals are rarely forgiven , especially as they have to register with the police in many jurisdictions . As for our murderers , well you have the example of O . J . Simpson , and how he may now be finally facing a delayed punishment in a different crime . On the other hand , you have the case of the successful detective story novelist Anne Perry , who went to prison as a juvenile for murder . There is no universal rule on accepting these people one way or another . It probably depends on the crime involved .
Another Noir triumph for Robert Ryan and Ida Lupino	It's funny how movie persona and real life are so different . Mr . William Henry Pratt , a quiet Englishman who liked cricket , turned into the master monster actor of the thirties to fifties , Boris Karloff , and found time to also be a leading spokesman for better contracts for movie people in the Screen Actors Guild . The urbane , suave Adolphe Menjou ( impeccable in manners and dress , as well as extremely gifted as an actor ) was an outspoken right wing political figure who fully supported McCarthyism . And Robert Ryan - one of the best actors to show hidden degrees of evil and danger in many film noir ? He was a leading civil libertarian , and an outspoken opponent of the same McCarthyism that Menjou championed . But unlike other similar figures ( who got smeared as a result ) , Ryan was a decorated war hero and a good Catholic ( that helped , and he was fully aware it was hard to attack him as a result ) . So while the public viewed his movie image as mostly that of a supremely evil man he actually was being a very useful , politically active citizen . Ryan gave so many good performances it is hard to pick out his best . One thinks of his aging ' pug in THE SET-UP , or the bigot who murders Sam Levine in CROSSFIRE , or the anti-Japanese town boss in BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK ( his scenes with Spencer Tracy give him an opponent who matches his own brand of screen heat there - I think that is my favorite Ryan performance ) . But occasionally Ryan was able to play an even better type of role . While he is the good guy in THE SET-UP ( he's honest in a very dishonest game ) , films like ON DANGEROUS GROUND gave him a role where his bad side could earn him a genuine degree of sympathy , and then he is forced to face down his bad side by finding somebody who makes his foibles look . . . well like foibles ! Ryan is a city cop who is ( on the whole ) a very good cop : smart , brave , resourceful . Unfortunately , in 1952 the public is becoming a little jittery about stories concerning police brutality ( only a few years earlier you had Kirk Douglas as a similar Detective brought down in DETECTIVE STORY ) . Having used his fists several times on suspects ( and even if they deserved it , they had not been proved guilty yet ) , Ryan is sent by his boss ( the police Captain is Ed Begley Sr . ) on an enforced sabbatical upstate to some " sleepy " village where they have been in need of some city cop to shape up their local police . Ryan is not happy but has no choice ( the alternative is " retirement " ) . Unfortunately for Begley's plans , this sleepy village has just awoken with a bang . For the first time in years a really hideous crime has happened . A farmer ( Ward Bond . . . also in a good performance ) is furious when his daughter is first raped and then stabbed to death , and the police can't seem to get a handle on the case . Not that it is a great mystery . They know who did it , but they can't catch him . Bond is ready to take the matter into his own hands , and the local police are glad that Ryan is there to put a muzzle ( if possible ) on Bond . The perpetrator is the younger brother of local farm owner Ida Lupino . Lupino too has a curiously different role here - normally an intense person who can't control her degrees of heat , here she is also handicapped : she's blind . Lupino is aware of what her brother did , and has given him some food and supplies since he went into hiding , but she desperately wants him properly captured - he's mentally ill , and if Bond gets him she knows he will be killed . If someone like Ryan finds him first he may have a chance for an insane asylum . The film then settles on the three principle stars : Ryan's initial feelings of rage and disgust towards the fugitive suddenly forced down as he faces ( in Bond ) someone who makes him look positively meek . Bond thinking that Ryan should be a natural ally , but finding him increasingly vexing . Lupino helpless by her physical condition to do more than try to explain to Ryan her fears . Then , on top of everything else , Ryan and Lupino ( because Ryan has to stay at the farm in the hopes of trapping the brother ) begin to fall in love . The film is set in the mountains in the winter , making the search even more pointed as footprints are so visible constantly of the fugitive's moves . The pressure cooker intensity of the plot situation is maintained by Nicholas Ray's direction because Bond keeps intruding into the small farmhouse and farm of Lupino , and frequently is in collision with Ryan and Lupino . All of which builds up to an inevitable tragedy . I won't go further into it . For Ryan and Lupino playing at war with their own usual types , and for Bond in a stunningly vicious ( if understandable ) performance this was one hell of a good noir film which should be shown more frequently .
First Rate Documentary Series on the Early History of the Movies	This 1980 series was made by Thames Television and then shown in the U . S . Narrated ( very urbanely ) by James Mason it told the story of the birth of motion pictures from 1895 to 1927 ( the entire silent film period ) . Episodes dealt with D . W . Griffith , the Westerns , Valentino , the Silent Comics , Fairbanks , the scandals of 1922-23 that led to the Hays Office , Clara Bow , Mary Pickford , Von Stroheim , Gloria Swanson , Garbo and Gilbert , and the last dealt with the coming of sound and it's violent side effects . Like BETWEEN THE WARS this series also had interviews with various survivors of the period ( Leatrice Joy , Bessie Love , Col . Tim McCoy , Byron Haskins among them ) . Again like BETWEEN THE WARS the early use of " talking heads " was intelligently done - the people knew what they were talking about because they were there when the films were made . The series was superb , and has been shown a few times since . I highly recommend it .
The Greatest Star	Few have been able to wake up one day and discover they are famous overnight . Lord Byron was one - he discovered that his poetry opened the floodgates to fame that his title had never opened ( Byron's family was prominent , but not of the aristocratic elite of the early 19th Century ) . For our purposes it was Barbara Streisand . She had worked hard in productions , most notably in I CAN GET IT FOR YOU WHOLESALE , where she sang " Miss Marblestein " . Then she got the role of Fanny Brice , the great Ziegfeld Follies comedienne and star of the turn of the century , and she was a star on Broadway . She got the role in the movies , and won ( in the only tie vote for " Best Actress " in Academy Award History ) the " Best Actress " Oscar with the same role . I may add , although she has won another Oscar for " Love Soft as an Easy Chair " in her version of A STAR IS BORN , she has never been the recipient of another Oscar for an acting award since then , nor has she been nominated for her three directing jobs ( YENTL , THE PRINCE OF TIDES , and THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES ) . Despite that she did become " the greatest star " . Streisand's insistence on doing her films her way has become legendary , and has built up a negative image legend of egomania gone amok . That her ideas have worked out to be successful more frequently than not is overlooked . It shouldn't be . FUNNY GIRL was directed by William Wyler , and Wyler was notorious for doing his films his way until they were gotten right . He would do and redo a scene for the closest thing to perfection he could get . It is notable that he and Streisand did not end up at loggerheads on the set but worked pretty nicely together . It is as though they understood precisely what would work for the film in the same way . Streisand is quite gifted in comedy as well as singing , so that her performance as Fanny is quite on target ( such as the sudden dropping into " Yiddish " sch tick - like referring to her " schwans " instead of " swans " in the mock ballet in the Follies ) . She happens to be better looking than Fanny , but that is not unexpected in any movie . For that matter the handsome Omar Shariff is far better looking than Nicky Arnstein was . Shariff , by the way , is given sufficient time on screen to fill out his character - a good natured man driven by humiliation and desperation to commit fraud . Kay Medford ( as Fanny's mother ) and Walter Pigeon ( as Flo Ziegfeld ) give very effective performances in the film as well . Not all the songs from the show are in the movie . " Cornet Man " is replaced by " I Want to be Blue " . The song " Find Yourself A Man " is reduced to a dance tune at Mrs . Brice's saloon . A song sung by Fanny's mother and her friend Eddie , " Who Taught Her Everything She Knows " was dropped ( one wonders if it was ever shot ) . And ( as pointed out on this thread ) " The Swan " replaced the World War I spoof " Rat-a-tat-tat " ( " I'm Private Schwartz bin Rockavay ! " ) . I only have one little comment to make . Nicky Arnstein was a professional gambler , and had worked closely with Arnold Rothstein on several jobs . Rothstein ( renamed Peterman here ) was responsible for the fraud that snared Nicky . But Nicky was fully aware of the fraud in the sale of the bonds . He was also aware that the powerful Rothstein was someone you did not threaten in a law court by blaming for a fraud . Rothstein would have retaliated - against Fanny and their daughter Frances . So it makes plenty of sense that Nicky took the blame for the fraud . Two years in prison versus potential physical danger to his loved ones - well I can fully appreciate why he made his choice in court .
England and the Caribbean , 1685 - 1688	This is remembered as Errol Flynn's great opening movie role - which is partly true . He had a nice career in Australian movies ( one a film about Fletcher Christian and the Bounty ) , but CAPTAIN BLOOD was his first Hollywood film as a star , and it was a brilliantly colorful opening role . Flynn plays Dr . Peter Blood , a physician who is the 1685 version of Dr . Samuel Mudd in the Assassination of Lincoln . Mudd , if you recall , treated John Wilkes Booth's broken leg , and was sentenced to life imprisonment as a result . Flynn treats some injured men not realizing they are soldiers in a revolt . When they are arrested so is he , and he ends up being transported as an indentured servant ( little better than a slave ) to Jamaica in the West Indies . The revolt , by the way , is that of James , Duke of Monmouth . The son of one Lucy Walters , his father was supposed to be King Charles II , one of several lovers Walters had when James was born . King Charles had ennobled Monmouth , and treated him well at court , but refused to legitimize him as the Whigs hoped ( they wanted the Protestant Monmouth on the throne , rather than the Catholic brother of Charles , James , Duke of York . In the end Monmouth led this ill-fated revolt , which was defeated at the battle of Sedgewick Moor . Monmouth was beheaded at the Tower of London . King James II ( the former Duke of York ) sent his most belligerent jurist , Judge George Jeffreys to the west country where hundreds were hanged at fast trials ( known forever after as " The Bloody Assizes " . Jeffreys appears in the film as the judge that orders Blood's transporting to the New World . However in the film Blood ( desperate to prove he is just a doctor ) says the judge is suffering from tuberculosis . Jeffeys actually suffered from kidney stones , and was a heavy drinker and curser as a result . King James II made him Lord Chancellor for his work . Flynn's real adventures begin in Jamaica , where he is working at the estate of Colonel Bishop ( Lionel Atwill ) and his niece Arabella ( Olivia De Haviland ) . It was the first film Flynn and De Haviland co-starred in . Atwill is a bully to these traitorous indentured servants , but Flynn's medical abilities raises him above the others . With the aid of two local doctors he plans an escape , and he and the other indentured servants ( Guy Kibbee , Ross Alexander , etc . ) escape after defeating a pirate attack on the island . They also have the pleasure of plundering and discomforting Atwill , who vows to hunt them down and destroy them . The only regret Flynn has in leaving is he and Arabella have fallen in love . We watch the rise of Peter Blood as a leading pirate , his temporary partnership with the French pirate Captain Lavasseur ( Basil Rathbone ) - which ends in a duel over De Haviland ( and the first time Rathbone had to die at Flynn's hand in a duel in their films ) , and his gradual emergence as a friend of a reformed England represented by Lord Willoughby ( Henry Stephenson ) after the " Glorious Revolution " of 1688 overthrows James II . Although not exactly the same , Blood's rise from Pirate king to Governor of Jamaica ( as the film ends ) is a mirror of the story ( a decade earlier ) of the rise of Pirate , Henry Morgan , to being Sir Henry Morgan , Lt . Governor / Governor of Jamaica . A closer acting job regarding Morgan was done by Laird Cregar in THE BLACK SWAN , where he played that Governor - and with a welsh accent . But Flynn does very nicely , with his charm , humor , good looks , and athletic grace . It was a good introduction to a Hollywood legend .
Musically and Dancing Grand Viewing - But the old story about screenplays	Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers were a wonderful , lively dance team - probably the best dance team in American film . And they are especially good here dancing to Jerome Kern's music . In particular two of my favorite pieces : A FINE ROMANCE and BOJANGLES OF HARLEM ( a unique event in the 1930s - a musical tribute to a great dancer who was 1 ) still living , and 2 ) an African American ( Bill " Bojangles " Robinson ) ) . The cast is fine , particularly Victor Moore as " Pop " Catnetti . He and Helen Broderick have a wonderful moment with Eric Blore ( a brief moment , unfortunately ) where Moore tries to get Blore to rehire Broderick by trying to copy the dancing that Astaire and Rogers just did . Moore is so inept as a dancer , that Blore just glares at them and says to Broderick , " You're still fired ! " Moore also has a funny moment with Astaire and an actor as a traffic cop . Moore and Astaire are down on their luck , and the cop is hassling them a little . Moore can't stand this , and while the audio portion of the film is basically covered by an overture of traffic noises ( horns beeping , etc . ) we see Moore's mouth moving up and down in a singularly angry , even nasty way . The cop looks up - he is close enough to Moore to realize that the latter has just muttered something that may be insulting to him . " What did you say ? " , asks the cop threateningly . Moore smiles and says something like he only hopes the cop will have fun and be rich . But the film is not a total success - George Metaxa's character is barely built up ( one wishes it was Astaire and Rogers old foe Eric Rhodes , who was never as bland as Metaxa is ) . Also the way that the screenplay is pushed is as weak as other musicals that sacrifice logic to getting to the next big number . Moore is a welcome sight , but his character " Pop " is too stupid to be tolerable . Having helped Astaire get into a position controlling Metaxa's contract by cheating ( the gamblers they were playing were also about to cheat them ) , Pop gets drunk and reveals what he did to assist Astaire in beating the gamblers . Naturally they force Astaire to play for Metaxa's contract again , only this time they win . As the jerry-crack plot is built up to depend on Astaire controlling Metaxa so he can dance with Rogers and woo her , this blunder leaves Astaire momentarily at a loss . He looks tired and discouraged , and Moore comes over and says , " Don't worry " Lucky " , you still have me ! " It's a comedy , and " Lucky " can't tell " Pop " , " Please stop bothering me ! " Still the musical numbers make the plot weaknesses and character weaknesses seem unimportant . So I still give the overall film a 10 for it's entertainment values .
The Last Real Men in a No-where's Land of Death	Recently my health took a turn for the worst , and on the 17th I ended watching two different films while recuperating . One was EXECUTIVE SUITE , and the other THE WILD BUNCH . Both were shown in commemoration of the birthday of Mr . William Franklin Beedle , one of the best movie actors of the period from 1940 and 1981 . Of course that birthday was given under his better known acting name : William Holden . I have seen it mentioned that the flinty / slightly rocky tones of Holden's voice gives it a quality for honesty that few other film actors shared . He certainly sounded more modern in the film industry than the leading men of the 1930s . Their voices have a superiority in them , as opposed to the reality that Holden adds to his voice . He is able to mouth a truth with a cutting edge ( frequently with bad results : witness his trying to get through to Norma Desmond ( Gloria Swanson ) in SUNSET BLVD . only ends in his murder ) . He seemed at his best when confronting the truth . In THE WILD BUNCH he is Pike Bishop , leader of a gang of train and bank robbers who work with such military precision , that they frequently pull themselves out of hopeless traps . At the beginning of the film Holden , Ernest Borgnine , Jaime Sanchez , Warren Oates , and Ben Johnson attempt a bank robbery , not realizing it was a trap set by Albert Dekker , wherein the bank is also surrounded by an " army " under Robert Ryan . A massacre of innocent civilians results that Dekker will not acknowledge as something he'll sweat over . Also most of the men given to Ryan have been killed ( Dekker is a high ranking railroad official - that's his key to settling everything and evading responsibility - and hires cheap psychotics and misfits like Strother Martin for his " army " ) . Peckinpaugh worked frequently on the fly - he would innovate as went along . This gives his best work it's bite . Sometimes though one wishes he would have had luck to do some plot development . We eventually learn that the smart Ryan was Holden's partner but was wounded and captured and whipped ( presumably at order of Dekker ) until he agreed to help end " the Wild Bunch " . This explains why the two never aim at each other , and also understand each other's perfect moves . But Dekker apparently hates Holden for some incident that left him looking like an ass . It's never explained what it was - because Dekker died ( in a grotesque hanging accident ) while the film was being made . I suspect the plot would have pulled him in a bit more ( and possibly a second type of retribution might have caught up with him ) . Instead , Mr . Dekker's character " Harrigan " eventually drifts out of the film . Pity . With Rogers and his mongrel dog soldiers following Holden and his men , the latter enter Mexico . They catch up with Holden's other gang member , Edmond O'Brien . A grizzled old guy , apparently his past is as violent as the other members of the gang . But what comes across is that Holden , Borgnine , O'Brien , Johnson , Oates , and Sanchez are more complex than just violent . They'll use violence to win or gain a point , but they have strong senses of honor . They believe in loyalty to each other . There is an early scene where Holden has to kill another member who is blind from the wounds of battle , and they don't have the time to bury the poor guy . Everyone is upset by this ( they'd like to do so ) but time is of the essence - so his corpse is left out for the buzzards . Another matter is their sense of right and wrong . The American Capitalists are no better in this part of the world with their armies of the creepy than the Mexican Warlords like General Mapache ( Emilio Fernandez - in an interesting villain part - he wants to beat Pancho Villa , making one appreciate that notorious " murderer and bigamist . " as a relative rationalist ) This quote on Villa is from Theodore Roosevelt , believe it or not ! It's a world of the dead , but one gets a vision that the hideousness of the world of 1916 ( with Pershing's troops adding their idiocies to the mess ; so do two members of the Imperial German Military Commission to Mexico - the " Zimmermann Telegram " is coming up in a year ) was headed that way from way back . Peckinpaugh frequently has Holden recall " happier times " ( even though Borgnine quickly wonders what was so happy about them ! ) . They were happy because everyone was younger , and had more time to smell the roses . Violence abounded in the 1890s , when Holden was nearly shot dead with his lover by her husband ( who got away with it ) . Justice is a vague ideal - although " the Wild Bunch " seeks it . The one who most seeks it is Sanchez , who has seen his family , friends , neighbors slaughtered and robbed by Fernandez ) . Sanchez is determined to destroy the warlord , and free the people . The others realize this is useless , but in the end he turns out to be the final catalyst of the conclusion of the film . Yes , Peckinpaugh's artistic , slow motion violence is there too , but that is only technique . The issue is how the last real men of the West go out with a clean sweep of the society . And in the end they enter legend - their bodies reclaimed from the Martins and jackals who seek to use them for " proof of bounty " .
Superior Adultery Tale with a Sociological Bent . . . and Ernie could act well .	It is interesting to compare this drama of adulterous passions in the suburbs with a brilliant comedy of the late 1940s . In 1948 Cary Grant and Myrna Loy had problems getting a country house in MR . BLANDINGS BUILDS HIS DREAMHOUSE . A dozen years later we have Ernie Kovacs approaching architect Kirk Douglas on building him a private home in California , while Douglas is approached by Kent Smith with at least one or two major projects . Grant , in the late 1940s was complaining about spending at least $15 , 000 . 00 on the entire project . That represented at least one third of Grant's income . In this film Douglas is getting the princely sum of $5 , 000 . 00 for building a modern plant for Smith , and gets 10 % of the total cost of the construction of the house for Kovacs . Today , of course , Douglas would be getting nothing less than $60 , 000 . 00 for his architectural planning , while the whole of the house for Kovacs would probably cost at least one million dollars . Boy , what does this tell us about inflation ? Evan Hunter's story STRANGERS WHEN WE MEET is set just when suburbia was becoming a permanent fixture in American society . The idea that the prosperity of the upper middle class could not bring true happiness was dimly perceived . The idea that one could be sexually starved , as Kim Novak is here by her husband ( John Bryant ) , or that a decent wife like Barbara Rush could be pushed aside by her decent husband ( Kirk Douglas ) struck us as incredible . Yet we see that the suburbs contain passions that can explode . At best they are controlled like that of Novak and Douglas for each other - when they carefully plan to meet occasionally at distant bars and hotels . At worse you have marvelously interesting character of Walter Matthau . Apparently a conservative type ( pipe smoking , hater of smutty jokes ) , Matthau actually is interested in sexual conquests all over the place - and actually tries to force himself on a humiliated ( and alone ) Rush when Douglas is out of the house . When Douglas reacts properly and socks Matthau , our Walter looks at him from the ground , smiles , and sneers , " How are we that different ? " Douglas is now the one who is humiliated . There is a hint at universal sexual desires here that are beyond marriage . Novaks mother ( Virginia Bruce ) has also apparently done something in her past that Novaks uses to silence her ( unfairly ) at times - but Bruce senses that Novak's relationship with Bryant is faulty because Bryant is such a stiff boy scout type ( Novak tries to get him to go to bed with her at one point when he returns from work - wearing easy to rip off clothes to entice him . His reaction is to say he wants to change his shirt ! ) . Even Kovacs shows a sexual urge that is not satisfied by a single lady - he has a series of different type of short-term girlfriends . But Kovacs is also wishing he could find a perfect lover . The acting in this story is actually quite good . Douglas is convincing as adulterous husband , lover , penitent , and architect ( the detail scenes regarding the construction of Kovacs ' home , and the discussions with Smith of his two schemes for Douglas are quite convincing , with talk of studying terrain and such showing they know what a gifted architect actually would do ) . Novak's failure ( despite having one of the most alluring of bodies in that movie period ) to get a proper response from Bryant is fascinating ( one recalls the reverse reaction she got from Jimmy Stewart in VERTIGO ) . One has to hand it to Bryant too in those scenes - a less than known actor he does show a tired husband who is truly tired . Rush manages to be convincing as a caring wife - she does not hesitate to be argumentative when she feels Douglas ' career ideas are wrong ( he wants to concentrate on his modern private houses , not on grandiose schemes ) . The sole weakness in the film is one of a debatable point . Having nearly been raped , she is aware the rapist based his views on Douglas ' behavior - and she ends her best scene insisting he leave her and their sons and never come back . But in three minutes ( supposedly after a couple of hours of crying ) she is ready to beg Douglas for a reconciliation . Is this a sop to audience tastes to preserve a " happy home " , or does Rush's character genuinely still love Douglas ? A nice question to consider . Then there is Ernie : Kovacs , the early television comic genius , made less than ten films in his lifetime . He only had two years left after STRANGERS before the auto crash and hairline fracture ended his remarkable career . This is his only really serious film in all of them . He was a western villain in NORTH TO ALASKA , but he was barely in control of events against John Wayne and Stewart Granger . Here he is not a villain , but a writer who is confronting a perennial problem : he has had great financial success with two best sellers that the public liked , and the critics panned . The novels are being turned into movies . Who can ask for anything more ? Well Ernie does - he wants to write what he really feels , but he is uncertain if it will be successful or not . Kirk and he , both of whom share an artistic desire to excel , become friends in the film , and the latter pushes Ernie to write his heartfelt novel . Kovacs carries out the project , and is successful at the end with the critics . Here Kovacs had few chances to joke about as in a film like OPERATION MADBALL or THE FIVE GOLDEN HOURS . But he carries off his role well indeed . It makes one realize that his car accident not only took away a comic genius , but possibly a fine dramatic actor as well .
" Iffy " History at it's best	Franklin D . Roosevelt was the man , believe it or not , who coined the term " iffy history " . He was being disparaging - he did not care what would have happened if certain great events were prevented by chances that did not occur in reality . To him it was meaningless speculation - and many agree with him . Yet it always fascinates us . It has been the source of many successful fictional novels . For example , PRINCE CHARLIE'S BLUFF , a novel written about thirty years ago , suggested that after the failure of the Jacobite Revolt of 1746 at Culloden , Bonnie Prince Charlie is living in Italy when approached ( in the 1760s ) by disgruntled Virginians in the wake of the Stamp Act Crisis . As a result Charlie succeeds in North America , recreating the Stuart Monarchy in the Kingdom of Virginia . Preposterous idea ? Well , probably , but Charlie might have been approached . Sometimes the effect is not done seriously but as comedy . James Thurber did a classic , " IF GRANT HAD BEEN DRINKING AT APPOMATOX " , where an intoxicated " Unconditional Surrender " annoys a typically neat and austere General Lee , but sadly hands the astonished " Master Robert " his saber , and says , " We almost licked you General . . . if we had been feeling better we would have licked you ! " Douglas C . Jones novel was a best seller of the late 1970s . In it , he does not alter the resulting tragedy of June 24 , 1876 . The Indians win the Battle of the Little Big Horn , but there is one major difference . Instead of killing " Yellow Hair " ( as they did ) , they tie him up and leave him alive for the Americans to find when the relief columns show up . Actually , had Crazy Horse , Gaul , and Sitting Bull thought of it , it would have been a far more devilish punishment for Custer than dying on the battlefield with his men , and gaining historical stature and immortality . Carefully Jones shows the resulting mess that the Government would have on it's hands . In June 1876 Custer was not a favorite of the Grant Administration because earlier in the year he had spoken out against the corruption in the War Department under Secretary of War General William Belknap . Belknap was in charge at that time of Indian Reservations , and he and his wife made a small fortune selling the trading posts to various people , who proceeded to cheat the Government and the Indians on the values of the various goods stocked at the posts . Custer's revelations helped lead to the resignation of Belknap ( the Secretary handed it in within hours of Congress considering impeaching him - they did impeach him , but they were told that if he resigned first the impeachment could not count because it was an indictment to present to the Senate to remove Belknap , who was now removed anyway ) . Belknap had been a friend of General William T . Sherman , Grant's closest friend and Civil War collaborator . Sherman was General in Chief . So Custer's service exposing Belknap made Sherman and Grant his enemies ( it is believed that his weakened position in the military may have affected his judgment on the campaign of 1876 , and that led to his mistakes at Little Big Horn ) . The cast given here is a little wrong and fails to note one actor . Sherman is played by J . D . Cannon in the film , and the reality of the tragedy and the irritation at what the Indians have left the Government with by sparing Custer are given full effect in typical Cannon fashion . He orders the trial to be held on Governor's Island , the headquarters of the Military Department of the East , by Major General Winfield Scott Hancock . Hancock , one of the best Corps Commanders of the Civil War ( and one of the few Democratic War Heroes from the North ) is in charge of the court-martial . The choice of the Democrat Hancock is typical of sneaky political considerations ( he is constantly suggested as a Presidential candidate by the Democrats - who do nominate him in 1880 ) . If he presides and a popular hero like Custer is condemned , it does not do Hancock's chances much good . Another mistake in the cast - Brian Keith was the defense counsel , not the prosecutor . Hired by Libby Custer ( Blythe Danner ) to defend her darling George , Keith finds things murkier and murkier the deeper he looks into the disaster . He thinks there is information of value that Anthony Zerbe may have , but Zerbe ( a cynical opportunist ) may not have anything after all . Worse is the defendant . Custer is not the gallant hero of a hundred Civil War battles , the youngest Northern General of the War . He is physically all right but mentally something is amiss . He behaves slightly outlandishly at the court martial sessions , and when he gives a written testimony of the battle speaks barely above a whisper as he reads his testimony at a fast pace . Other witnesses include one of the few Indian guides who survived the battle - and apparently warned Custer to be doubly careful before he reached the battlefield . Also , of course , is Major Marcus Reno ( William Daniels , in a splendid cameo appearance ) who is still mentally seeing that desperate struggle he and Benteen had miles from the main battlefield . The story reaches it's climax by reminding the viewers and the court of 1876 that to blame Custer is singularly unfair given larger slaughters and disasters of the war , and the fact that commanders like Burnside , Pope , Hooker , McClellan , were not tried for their errors of judgment . As it is fiction , I will say that the decision makes sense , as does the end of the story : sometimes a courtroom decision may not be the worst thing that can happen to a person . Certainly that proves to be the case here .
" She Gave Her Very First Kiss To You - It's Laura . . . But She's Only A Dream . . . . "	I guess LAURA will always make the top ten list of film noir because of it's wit and cast - in particular one actor who demonstrated a waspishness that had not been seen before in film except by his fellow homosexual actor Monty Wooley . I am speaking , of course , of Clifton Webb , who had been a great Broadway star of the 1920s and 1930s , and then ( when that career began to peter out ) got the nod to play Waldo Lydecker , and became a fixture of the movies from 20th Century Fox from 1944 to 1960 or so . Webb's carrying off the film's notices ( except for general approval of the work of Otto Preminger as director ) is ironic because the film's name centers on it's heroine : Laura , played by Gene Tierney . She is a career woman - a talented artist and advertising copy creator , who becomes a leading model - a fictional counterpart to say Grace Kelly a few years later . She does this when she gains the hard attention of Lydecker ( who initially rejects her attempts to talk to him ) but he has second thoughts . Later he admits it's due to his sexual fascination with her . The problem for Waldo is , of course , that no matter how much passion he does feel for Laura , he doesn't have the physical wherewithal to get an equal reaction from her . She sees him as a fine mentor and friend , but nothing else . And he feels this rejection keenly - too keenly . Today , a film version would show the sexual confusion of the man , as his personality shows his homosexual leanings ( they crop up occasionally towards Dana Andrews ' McPherson , who seems to have a muscularity that fascinates Waldo ) , and his definite wish to consummate with Laura . Poor fellow - it just was impossible . Yet it might have worked - a so-called " white marriage " like that of Cole and Linda Porter ( close friendship , but going their own ways sexually ) . When looking over Laura's attempts at a heterosexual boy-friend , Jacoby the artist ( whom Waldo maliciously destroys in his newspaper column ) and later Shelby Carpenter ( Vincent Price ) we see she wants a masculine hero . A case can be made , by the way , that Laura's interest in Jacoby was mere amusement ( we see her enjoying Waldo's column attack in the newspaper ) . As for Shelby , whatever was wrong with Waldo he certainly saw through the socialite as the questionable type he really was . In fact , McPherson ends up thoroughly agreeing on this with Waldo and in a physical way . The film ( as it is now ) gave her Dana Andrew's detective . He , it is , who rescues her in the end . But there will be a price . Leslie Halliwell , in discussing the film , pointed out that Waldo ( whatever his feelings about rivals ) respected Laura's true talents , and would have always encouraged her there , and assisted her in developing them . Andrew's McPherson expected his " dame " wife would be at home , cooking , cleaning , and ( presumably ) being ready for sex . Halliwell ended his discussion suggesting that Laura would have ended up missing Waldo's personality and support terribly . Curiously enough , the original film would have been quite different in it's resolution . McPherson goes back to Laura's apartment after he first meets all the suspects , and he sits on a sofa looking at her picture . He is supposed to meet Waldo , coming to assist on the investigation . The next forty minutes or so of the film is the heart of it , leading to the tragic conclusion as it now exists . But in the original script , we see McPherson being awaken by Waldo shaking him on the sofa . McPherson had dreamed the entire story the audience saw . He leaves with Waldo to jointly try to find the killer ( presumably it would have had to be Shelby ) . Whether or not it would have led to a " beautiful friendship " between effete newspaper / radio personality and detective is doubtful , but it probably would have led to some mutual sympathy .
" But Square-cut or Pear-shaped , These Rocks Don't Lose Their Shape ! "	As pointed out the film GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDES is really the first great movie role in the career of Marilyn Monroe . Given the brevity of her film career ( roughly a decade ) , one third of it passed without her being more than . . . well , let's face it " male eye candy " . Her sexiness and apparently " dumb blond " personality fit her just as a film decoration - an entertainment for drooling men to watch . This was hardly fair ( as Marilyn did eventually prove ; and as fellow movie bombshells like Jayne Mansfield rarely did ) . Marilyn had popped up in some films of interest : the last Marx Brother Movie ( as a Marx Brother Movie ) , LOVE HAPPY - but only for one wasted moment ; MONKEY BUSINESS ( as an imagined rival to Ginger Rogers - but again wasted , as she was playing opposite Cary Grant ) ; THE ASPHALT JUNGLE ( where she was Louis Calhern's mistress ) ; CLASH BY NIGHT ( where she essayed a serious part , but was again in support to Barbara Stanwyck ) . I suspect it was that her physical attributes dictated the sex appeal over anything else . But it wasted one third of her film career ! Marilyn was not seen to have a brain . Other blonds did show intelligence ( Doris Day and Kim Novak and Grace Kelly come to mind , and all three were getting meatier roles in this period ) . But Marilyn could only hope for some break to take her out of the background . Anita Loos had written her novella in the 1920s , and it was a smash hit then and ever since . One really ought to read the book to understand a small difference between Loos ' view of Lorelei Lee of Little Rock , Arkansas , and both the musical version of Carol Channing and the film version of Marilyn to see the improvement in the latter two . Loos was spoofing the dumb blond . Lorelei is dumb - she has no sense of the real world . She is telling her own story in the novella ( by the way , Carol Channing actually did a recording of the book that is worth listening to ) . Lorelei is the sort of idiot who insists she was an actress in film because she was in the Babylonian palace staircase shot ( with 10 , 000 other people ) in Griffiths ' INTOLERANCE . She is a good time girl - a modern flapper sans intelligence . Money and success fall into her lap ( quite literally ) due to her affect on men . She's aware of it , but she lacks the sense that the stage and screen versions add . Channing and Monroe both show they understand that CURRENTLY they are appealing to men , but that with aging they can't depend on this attraction to pay the bills . Monroe ( in the film ) may try to imagine what a tiara would look like on her in a childish way at a ship's dinner table , but she knows the security of owning such jewelry brings . The final moment that her cleverness is revealed is when she confronts Taylor Holmes ( the father of her fiancé Tommy Noonan ) in Paris . She openly says she is interested in Holmes ' money , and that men are hypocrites because they want their daughters to marry only rich men , and don't want their sons to wind up with " gold diggers " . Holmes has to admit that she is smarter than he was told , and she says she can be smart when she wants to be . The appealing thing of the film is the camaraderie between Monroe and Jane Russell . People hearing of the teaming thought the set would become a real war-zone between blonde and brunette bombshells . Instead the two actresses became lifelong friends , and their friendship translates well between that of Lorelie and Dorothy Shaw . They both are aware of their effect on men , and their need for a supporting sister figure . And they work fine as a team . Note how they handle Elliot Reid when they want to get the incriminating photos he's taken of Marilyn and Charles Coburn ( " Beakie " ) . The men do well in their parts , especially Noonan as the fretful Gus and Reid as the smart ( usually ) detective Ernie ( he does eventually prove himself to the satisfaction of Russell ) . George Winslow's " Henry Spofford III " has a wonderful moment warning Monroe about that old goat's ( Coburn's ) intentions . Coburn is fine , usually henpecked by his overbearing wife Norma Varden . As for the loss of the Julie Styne tunes , the musical is firmly set in the 1920s and many references ( to prohibition , and historically forgotten folks like actor Fiske O'Hara ) are quite dim . Modernizing the tale was not a bad idea . And the two Carmichael tunes - especially Russell's number with the Olympic team - are good . It was an excellent first major part for Monroe to step into .
Again a gem I caught on You Tube	The Second World War may be over sixty years old , but it still is quite alive as one of the most photographed and recorded conflicts of all time . The pictures caught by newsreels of the Blitz in London are among the most powerful images of that conflict - and may have done more to solidify American public opinion against the Axis than anything else before Pearl Harbor . But to the British it was not something to horrify an audience that would then turn around and go home to safe beds blessing the two large oceans that seemed to protect them . English , Welsh , Scots , and Irish were within bombing distance of German planes , and subject to months , even years , of attack . So this was a life-and-death matter . GO TO BLAZES is a brief comic short starring Will Hays , a name not too well known ( unfortunately ) in the U . S . But from 1933 or so up to the war he made a series of comedies with Graham Moffatt and Moore Marriott that critics have compared to the Marx Brothers - films like ASK A POLICEMAN or OH MR . PORTER ! . Hays is similar to Groucho in that he is always in a minor leadership post ( schoolmaster or cop ) which he bungles or uses for his own advantage , hampered by his even dumber two associates ( Moffatt is the fat young man , and Marriott is the elderly nincompoop ) . Somehow they ( like Groucho , Harpo , Chico , and Zeppo ) bungle their way to triumph in the end . In GO TO BLAZES , Hays is married to Muriel George , and they live with their grown up daughter Thora Hird . Hays is not too happy that George is not there to give him a hot dinner , but he's told it is in the stove . While his daughter is studying math , he tells her he has been asked to give a lecture on putting out fires from Nazi incendiary bombs . He is certain he's up to it , as he has read the pamphlet on the subject . We see him practicing before a mirror , and as he gives his speech we see the reality behind his expertise . He is dumb enough to try to carry his fire fighting equipment while still holding onto a pan of bacon he was cooking for his dinner . He keeps lucking out actually - he's so incompetent he can't stop one bomb going from the roof to the basement , accidentally landing into a bucket of water ( he claims he strategically placed it there . Ms George returns and she too is surprised that he is going to give this talk . Then they realize an incendiary has hit the house again , but while Hay acts with typical bumbling Ms George and Ms Hird act promptly and manage to control the fire quickly . At the end Ms George insists Hay take lessons on incendiary controls that the government is giving . He hesitates , until he learns where the classes are near . Less than ten minutes long it is an amusing comedy . Until now it is the only complete film of Hays I have been fortunate to see ( on You Tube , as I said above ) . I strongly recommend it as a way to see what this fine comedian was like . Also as a reminder of what the British public had to put up with from 1940 - 1945 in wartime .
Hitchcock's best war movie , and the ambiguities of behavior in wartime	He called it ( as did the critics ) an allegory - and it is but it's characters are so complex that they rise above the normal stick figures of allegory . This is no PILGRIM'S PROGRESS with characters named " Christian " , " Faithfull " , " Talkative " , " Envy " , and " Mr . Worldly Wiseman " . The characters represent economic and national types , such as labor ( John Hodiak ) , capital ( Henry Hull ) , the media and feminism ( Tallulah Bankhead ) , Canada and the Empire ( Hume Cronym ) , fuzzy headed American isolationism ( William Bendix ) , the third world watching ( Canada Lee ) , and the threat of German efficiency ( Walter Slezak - maybe his best performance ) . LIFEBOAT is the story of the survivors of the sinking of a steamer by a German u-boat ( the ship sinking is done in the opening credits , and we hear the explosion , and see smoke , but the only thing we see sink is the smokestack of the ship as it goes under - a typically brilliant sequence by Hitchcock ) . The submarine was hit by a shell from the ship's gun ( apparently one of those ships that the British merchant marine have as converted war vessels ) . As the survivors gather one mentions the sub was sunk . And sure enough an additional survivor turns up - a German ( Slezak ) . From the start there are frictions between the survivors . Hodiak , a member of the crew in the engine room , is very turned off by the way Bankhead commandeered the lifeboat for herself - and her luggage . She is a reporter , and instead of showing the gravity of the moment towards the dead , she boasts of how she photographed a dead baby . Hodiak is very happy when Bankhead loses her camera - the first of many things she loses . But as she loses her possessions she slowly picks up on her humanity again . Bankhead's movie career was very mixed , and this film is her zenith as a movie actress . Henry Hull and Bankhead get along better as Hull is Rittenhouse , a prominent capitalist . He actually is a decent sort , but as the film progresses his card games with Hodiak become a running commentary of capital v . labor , to the point where when he thinks he's beaten Hodiak a wind blows their cards away , and Hull angrily accuses Hodiak of cheating him . Hull has a unique symbol . Like Bankhead he grabbed the first box of cigars from his room that he could and raced to the deck and the lifeboats . Ironically the box only had one cigar in it . For the entire film Hull has to just keep that one cigar ( constantly in his mouth ) to satisfy himself . There is tragedy among the survivors . One of them is a Mrs . Higley ( a passenger played by Heather Angel ) who had a baby . The baby was lost in the disaster , and she is in a state of shock . The others try to comfort her , but she can't be . Eventually they find her missing - she went off in the night to join her baby . William Bendix is Gus Schmidt ( who has anglified his name as Smith , as an act of anger towards the Nazis ) . Gus has had a good marriage , but he and his wife pride themselves on their dancing . But his wounds ( from burning oil ) were such that he had to have his leg amputated in the lifeboat . He is in a messed situation because he wonders if his wife will remain with him now that he is crippled . And finally there is Willy . As I said before Walter Slezak probably never had a better part . It was also the only time he worked with Hitchcock . It is easy to demonize Willy - he is a Nazi submariner ( and - we eventually learn - it's Captain ) . He does work quietly to take the lifeboat to a rendezvous point with a Nazi ship . And ( SPOILER COMING UP ) he is responsible for the death of Gus . That scene though supports what I said earlier . If this was a pure allegory of the war against the Nazis , Slezak's killing of Bendix would be done without any conscience at all . Actually Willy shows a degree of humanity here that the " nicer " people fail to show . Gus is not doing well , and is physically suffering . He is also emotionally low because he suspects that he is not going to be finding his wife supportive now that he is a cripple . Willy speaks to him at night and Gus does show he's suicidal . Willy is not acting opportunistic about this . He knows that if Gus survives he will be miserable for the rest of his life . He does convince the groggy Gus to go over the side , and so it seems absolutely horrific ( especially as Bendix starts screaming for help after he goes over the side and can't float ) . So we tend to think that Slezak is heartless . But what really would have been poor Gus's future ? And if it is just a murder of an enemy in war ( hard to really build on that point ) , Slezak certainly would not have requested that Gus return to his using the original German name that he gave up . There would be no need for that . The fact is that it is a type of euthanasia killing - which the Nazis favored for people who were feeble minded or physically defective . The viewer may be horrified by Bendix last screams , but we would still wonder if his life would have been better if he had survived with the others .
Possibly Bette's peak , or close to it .	If any film role of Bette Davis got permanently identified in the minds of the public with her career it was that of Leslie Crosbie in THE LETTER . For years , if people wanted to do a quickie " imitation " of Davis , they just had to say the line " PETER . . . GIVE ME THE LETTER ! ! " In actuality Davis does not say that line anymore than Jimmy Cagney said , " You Dirty Rat ! " , Eddie Robinson said , " SEE ! ! . . . YAH ! ! ! " , or Cary Grant said , " Judy , Judy , Judy ! ! ! " . It was a capsule urban legend style commentary on a speech pattern ( supposedly ) and an image of the actor / actress in a typical role . Still the legend would not have begun except for the role and the film . THE LETTER is based on a Somerset Maugham short story , set in Malaysia in the 1930s . Leslie Crosbie is the wife of a hard working plantation overseer Robert Crosbie ( Herbert Marshall ) who one night shoots one Peter Hammond , a well known member of the local British social set in the colony . She claims she shot him in self-defense because he was going to rape her . The British colonials rally around Leslie , and she engages Howard Joyce ( James Stephenson ) as her barrister . Initially Joyce seems to feel this will be a simple case , but suddenly he finds that Leslie ( on some minor details ) is not consistent in her story about the shooting of the caddish Hammond . Then , Joyce's clerk ( Victor Sen Yung ) quietly drops a bomb of his own - the widow of Hammond , a local Malaysian woman ( Gale Sondergaard ) has some evidence that the defense may want : a letter written by Leslie to Hammond desperately asking him to come to Leslie's home that fatal night because she needed him . Stephenson taxes Leslie about this , and finds she has lied - she lured Hammond to the bungalow , he refused to desert his Asiatic wife for her , and she shot him in anger . It is a fascinating film to watch because of the rich tapestry of characters involved . Leslie maintaining a near hysterical control over her emotions in the face of the murder she committed and the resulting trial . Joyce trying to do extreme damage control by purchasing the damning letter ( and thereby ruining an unaware Robert Crosbie , not to mention threatening his own legal career by suborning evidence while an officer of the court ) . Mrs . Hammond , as controlled in her non-speaking as Leslie , but her face the face of retribution and hate . Maugham also showed a 20th Century realism in his handling of the relationships of the overlords of the colony with the Asiatics who live there . There is no real love for the colonial overlords , and the performance of Sen Yung is wonderful in it's polite but deadly malice . The film's story is so well known I won't have to mention it's conclusion . The great question regarding the film was the conclusion . The story ended originally with her rejection of Robert's forgiveness because Leslie still loved Peter , the man she killed . Davis wanted William Wyler to end the film with this conclusion . Instead , the Hollywood Code required Leslie make a larger personal payment for her sin of murder . I have never had a problem with the ending Wyler put on , but Davis was right - the other ending would have been just as effective emotionally . But neither of these conclusions would have been good at all , had the rest of this film not been so splendid to begin with .
Felix Aylmer's One Starring Turn	MR . EMMANUEL is the one example of a starring part for Sir Felix Aylmer . One of that group of delightful character actors who became so well known to American audiences from Britain in the 1930s - 1960s , they are best recalled for people like Alec Guiness , Peter Sellers , Peter Ustinov ( all of whom achieved real stardom ) , but included Robert Morley , Margaret Rutherford , Dennis Price , Terry-Thomas , Bernard Cribbins , Eric Sykes , Miles Malleson , Ernest Theisinger , Cecil Parker , Joan Greenwood , and Aylmer . There faces constantly popped up with regularity in comedy or dramas from Britain . Aylmer , with his precise , thin voice , sounded like a pedagogue ( and in real life did some studies that he published - like his book " The Drood Murder Mystery " ) . He actually did play teachers . In " Edward My Son " he is the house master who is blackmailed by Spencer Tracy into forgetting about expelling Tracy's selfish , trouble making son . But he could play doctors ( " The Doctor's Dilemma " , " The Citadel " ) , lawyers or Judges ( " The Chalk Garden " ) , or other professionals . All of these film roles were supporting parts . He gave his all to his roles - like in " Separate Tables " , when he is at first fairly neutral to Gladys Cooper's efforts to drive David Niven out of the residence hotel they reside in , but slowly gets fed up with her highhandedness and leads the switch of the other residence against Cooper's wishes . But here he is the title character - sent to get in touch with the daughter of an old friend who has not left her native Germany . But Aylmer is a Jewish gentleman , and one who barely understands what is going on in Nazi Germany . He heads there , aware that there is some degree of anti-Semitism ( when hasn't there been that ) , but not realizing it's virulence . Gradually he is made aware of it , due to his sloppy handling of his mission , and also that , although he is a naturalized English citizen the German regime is more than willing to overlook that point . He ends up mistreated , humiliated , and imprisoned in a 1930 style concentration camp ( which shows that they were known before the creation of " the final solution ) . Aylmer's key scene in all this is when one of the few local Jews who was willing to advise him , is taken out of a nearby cell , his face showing a degree of fear and horror that is unimaginable . Aylmer , looking through the bars of his cell door , and dozen of other prisoners yell defiance at the butchers who will shortly kill this poor man . One thing about the story that was particularly interesting is the character of Elsie Silver . Elsie is Jewish , but never emphasized that part of her history . In fact , when Emmanuel tries to contact her she is annoyed that he's raking up her past . And with reason - her boy friend is a high ranking young official in the S . S . It is rarely mentioned , due the incredible story of torture and evil practiced on the bulk of Germany and Europe's Jews by the Nazis and their allies , that there were " quislings " among the Jews as among other groups . Maybe " quislings " is too harsh , but protected exceptions is not too harsh . The most notable example of Jews who were not bothered were in France and Italy . Gertrude Stein , who was Jewish and American , was such an important figure in the world of French cultural circles she was let alone . So was Bernard Berenson the Renaissance art expert ( whom Mussolini's regime did not bother ) . On the other hand , the Jewish French Historian Marc Bloch joined the underground , was captured , and tortured to death . The German , Stephan Zweig , fled to Latin America , and committed suicide because of the hostility and indifference he met abroad . Therefore the picture of Elsie's special relationship to the regime is unique for 1944 in any movie . I doubt if it would have occurred in an American film of the period ( although in " The Pied Piper " , Monte Wooley does find that Nazi officer Otto Preminger wants him to get his half-Jewish niece out of the continent to England - Wooley does do it ) . But an Elsie Silver was too hard to swallow , as rumors of massive slaughter began to come through . By 1945 it would have been next to impossible to discuss it . For an early , and good view of the state of horror in Nazi Germany for the Jews , and for the performances of Aylmer and Greta Gynt , I give the film a 10 .
" I Am An Actor ! "	This film proves with JUST TELL ME WHAT YOU WANT that Alan King was capable of a good film career . The story here does not deal with secretive billionaires and their angry mistresses , but with a man who left his family in New York City decades before to pursue a career in Hollywood . But Abe has never been more than a background extra . When his son Abie ( Billy Chrystal ) is recovering from a heart attack , he goes to Hollywood to see his father for the first time in years . Abie discovers that his father has never even had a real speaking part ( the closest is when he was the sixth or seventh man in SPARTACUS to yell " I am Spartacus ! " ) . Naturally , given the shattering effect that Abe's abandonment of the family had , it does not seem to Abie that his father had much to show for it . Abe , who has become part of the Hollywood community ( he is usually seen with his fellow extras , but we see he does know Sean Connery by first names ) . He is reasonably happy - but Abie keeps dismissing him as a hack , not an artist . The arrival of Abie's girlfriend Lisa ( JoBeth Williams ) does not help matters at first , but she manages to bridge the anger and contempt that the son feels for his father , and slowly they do find some degrees of similarities . Abie loves playing the trumpet , for example , and does it well . But Abie discovers that there is something physically wrong about his father - a sudden memory problem causing the father to recite a scene he liked from INHERIT THE WIND . The prognosis is grim . So Abie decides to help his father accomplish his greatest wish : get a full scene in a movie with actual dialog . Most of the comments here have been fairly negative , insisting that it is a very lachrymose and overly sentimental tale . There is no denying that it is ( ultimately ) a tragic story - but the performances ( particularly King as a proud and touchy man , who will not admit that his life has been less than a success ) are good for the three leads . King's performance mingled pathos and comedy quite well . Witness the scene where he was trying to choose among his friends for the extras in a science fiction film , where he is dressed in a lobster costume . King shows his sauciness at a self-important assistant director , but he also shows the start of his mental / physical collapse in the same sequence ( quite a change of pace ) . Similarly his interview with the casting director for the speaking part that Abie sneaks into is done with great charm and dignity . It was a first rate performance - and proved that King was an actor .
For Mr . Laurel and Mr . Hardy	I wish I could answer this - THE GREAT RACE and THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN IN THEIR FLYING MACHINES both came out in 1965 . It would be interesting to know who came up first with the idea of the car and / or the airplane film . Fortunately , aside from some brief cross-referenced scenes , THOSE MAGNIFICENT MEN remained bound to the sky as THE GREAT RACE was bound to the earth . In 1907 the world's first really great automobile race occurred : the Peking to Paris road race . It was such a success that it was hoped that a similar long race would be tried soon after . The result was the 1908 New York to Paris road race , which is the factual basis of THE GREAT RACE . It was won by a Thomas Flyabout , which had an appearance very much like the car driven by the Great Leslie . The cars in the 1908 race were to drive from New York City to Seattle , Washington , then get shipped by steamer to Vladivostok , and then to transverse the Russian Empire , Europe , and finally reach Paris . So keep in mind , there was no use of icebergs as in the film . Blake Edwards always has enjoyed playing around in his comedies and musicals with images from the times of the story . For example , in THOROUGHLY MODERN MILLY one of the two male leads wears eyeglasses , and ( to see his girlfriend ) climbs the side of an office building - in short ( as the story takes place in the 1920s ) he is imitating Harold Lloyd in SAFETY LAST . He dedicates this film to Laurel and Hardy , although it is set before the 1920s . In THE GREAT RACE he uses the forgotten 1908 race to build upon many different social events of the day like the suffragette movement that involves Natalie Wood ( as the Nellie Bly like reporter Maggie ) and her friend Vivian Vance as the wife ( and temporary successor ) of husband Arthur O'Connor a newspaper editor . There is also the final days of the American frontier , as seen in the sequences involving the town of Borracho and Tony Curtis ' confrontation with Larry Storch over Dorothy Provine . There is ( finally ) the unsettled state of Balkan Europe , wherein the plot of Anthony Hope's THE PRISONER OF ZENDA is lampooned , concluding with a pie fight . The film marked the reunion of Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon after their first pairing in SOME LIKE IT HOT , but Lemmon's character there was not as comically sinister as Professor Fate is here . Fate is totally captivated by his own ego . He certainly has engineering ability , but he is incapable of being friendly ( when he is about to test out a rocket device early in the film his picture is being taken - some kids are touching the rocket , and he angrily yells at them to go away ) . He also is stuck with having the faithful but totally inept assistant Max ( Peter Falk - who comes close to stealing the film ) who constantly is pushing the wrong buttons on Fate's machines , with disastrous effects . And he is constantly trounced by the handsome , accessible , " Frank Merriwell " like " Great Leslie " ( Curtis ) who is far better organized , and a hell of a deal luckier . Not that Leslie is without flaws . A man of the Edwardian period , he does not think woman are fully the equal of men . Notice that Leslie's most fair minded complement to Maggie is that her choice of a Stanley Steamer for the race was the wrong car . It is , he says , meant for picnics and Sunday drives . But , he adds , her success in getting it across half of the U . S . before the boiler gave out was quite an accomplishment . . . and she should be proud . The self-satisfaction is annoying as Maggie shows . I might add that in the period of the film , Stanley Steamers won several races - steam engines can build up tremendous amounts of power but they have to be replenished more frequently than gasoline engines . Besides the four leads ( five if you count the under-used Keenan Wynn ) the performances of Storch and Provine were good ( Provine being allowed a lively dance hall tune - " He Shouldn'ta , Hadn'ta , Oughtn'ta Swung On Me ! " , with Storch being unable to get the right amount of room he needs to cut loose on Curtis without falling on his face . Wood ( like Provine ) was given a nice tune - the charming , " Sweetheart Tree " . And in the Balkan section , besides a second role for Lemmon , the conspirators George Macready and Ross Martin make the most of the " Ruritania " story - and demonstrate their own flair comedy ( a rarity for Macready ) . For Martin it is particularly welcome , as his last appearance under Edwards ' direction was as the evil criminal in EXPERIMENT IN TERROR three years earlier . While Baron Von Stuppe ( what a name - possibly a cousin to Lily Von Stuppe ( Madeleine Kahn ) in BLAZING SADDLES ) is a villain , he is shown to be confused sometimes - see Wood threaten him with President Theodore Roosevelt's wrath , and start singing the " Star Spangled Banner " . Martin doesn't know what to do with this female nut .
Stanlio and Ollio and " the Marquis of San Marco "	Laurel & Hardy could very easily have slid into musical comedies , as could the Marx Brothers . Hardy had a tenor voice , put to good use in WAY OUT WEST , and Stan ( while he was not as good a singer ) could talk sing quite nicely ( and was prepared to do comic singing - his change of voice in singing " In the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia " in WAY OUT WEST is an example ) . As a result a musical number will frequently pop up in their movies . In SONS OF THE DESERT it's the HONALULU , BABY ! number . In SWISS MISS there were several ( even a ditty , supposedly composed by Walter Woolf King , entitled " Crick , crick , crick goes the cricket " ) . Even in their earliest features numbers appear ( in PARDON US we hear " MICHIGAN " ) . So it was not unexpected that Hal Roach and Stan Laurel would do full scale musicals . They turned to operettas ( or spoofs of operas like FRA DIAVOLO ) because the costumes and settings gave opportunities for Stan to come up with new pieces of business for himself and Babe Hardy . The actual opera by Auber is more dramatic than this comedy . Fra Diavola dies at the end ( he is , after all , a villain ) . But here there is a light hearted element that overcomes the original . Stan and Ollie ( or Stanlio and Ollio ) are robbed by brigands on the road and decide to turn brigand themselves . Naturally , Ollie decides that he will protect them from discovery by claiming to be the infamous Fra Diavalo . Their initial attempt at theft is hardly successful . They confront a man with a hard luck story , and end up giving him money . Then they seem to be more successful confronting a younger man , until Ollie brags that he is Fra Diavolo . The younger man demands proof . Diavolo always sings a theme song , and everyone knows his voice . Ollie starts singing the tune , and the man ( you've guessed it - it's Dennis King ) continues singing it . They almost get hanged for that , but King decides to use them as minions in a plot to rob an English mi-lord and his wife ( James Finlayson and Thelma Todd ) . ( Finlayson's name , as a joke , is Lord Rocburg . In reality , the character in the opera was Lord Cockburn . ) The bulk of the film deals with King and the boys in the inn run by Henry Armetta , where Finlayson and Todd are residing on their trip . King is romancing the frivolous and bored Todd , and hoping to get her jewelry . Finlayson is suspicious of her activities , but is not swift enough to catch King in action ( at one point , he is mistaken for King by Ollie and Stan , who lock him up after beating him , and start telling him off - they think of course he's King , who listens to them annoyed but amused ) . The music is actually not overdone , and King ( who had a fine trained voice ) gets several opportunities to sing . He was not the first major Broadway star to work with the boys ( Lawrence Tibbett had in ROGUE SONG ) nor the last headliner to do so ( Dante the Magician would in A-HAUNTING WE WILL GO ) . But he seems to work quite nicely with them , sharing screen time , and even showing elements of comic timing and reactions . In one song number , he even shudders and turns away from an ugly woman while addressing a romantic passage in the tune . For an early example of their use of operetta , THE DEVIL'S BROTHER is ( as Stan Laurel said ) one of their best films . Of course , to most people , it will always be recalled as the film where Stan drives both Ollie and Henry Armetta to distraction with his " finger wiggle " and his " earsie - eyesie - nosie " games that he can handle with ease but the other two can't quite coordinate . It is fun to watch here , and would later be subject to a rare repeat comment : in BABES IN TOYLAND , when Ollie insists that anything Stan can do Ollie can , Stan smiles and shakes his head . He then does " earsie - eyesie - nosie " , much to Ollie's annoyance .
Gilda , Tom , and George . . . . but not Max	Not all of the plays by Noel Coward have been put on the screen . PRIVATE LIVES was ( Robert Montgomery and Norma Shearer ) . So was BLYTHE SPIRIT ( Rex Harrison and Margaret Rutherford ) . So was CAVALCADE ( which actually won the best picture award in 1933 - but did it really deserve it ? ) . HAY FEVER has not popped up , nor PERIOD PIECE , nor SOUTH SEA BUBBLE . And DESIGN FOR LIVING has popped up ( the same year CAVALCADE did ) , but in a bowdlerized version . Still Ernst Lubitsch's DESIGN FOR LIVING was a highly amusing comedy , even if part of the " design for living " was seriously missing . Tom ( Fredric March ) is a writer - a dramatist . His closest friend is George ( Gary Cooper ) an artist . On a train trip they share a compartment with Gilda ( Miriam Hopkins ) , also an artist - but one who works for an advertising firm run by Max Plunkett ( Edward Everett Horton ) . Both young men are seriously smitten with her , and she fully appreciates them . So they have a dilemma - who would she rather be with . She solves it by making an agreement to live with them as their " muse - den mother " . In short she will be keeping them from turning out shoddy work - telling them what she finds is " ROTTEN ! ! " ( Hopkins ' pronunciation of that word is quite memorable ) . She will also continue working for Max . All three find this an agreeable idea , although Max does not . He may be a good businessman himself , but he finds Gilda quite a sexual turn-on too . So Max hates Tom and George . This odd menage-a-trois cannot work . The three partners are all good looking , and their hormones are active . Soon Gilda runs off with George , leaving a teary note for Tom . He follows , and spends a highly pleasant afternoon with Gilda , until George returns and has a fit . Then she decides to save their friendship by leaving - and accepting Max's businesslike proposal of marriage . Tom and George go on a long foreign trip , missing Gilda's wedding . Max and Gilda go to a four star hotel , enter the bridal sweet , and shortly afterward Max realizes that he is missing the honey moon ! Still , Max can always hope . Gilda is plenty willing to be a good sport and help build up his business . When entertaining important clients like Mr . and Mrs . Egelbauer ( the cement king ) , Gilda will willingly ( if haltingly ) lead the stuffy guests in a pleasant parlor game of " Twenty - Questions " ( Hopkins reluctant sounding , " Is it animal , vegetable , or mineral ? " at the start is heart-breaking ) . But Tom and George return to free her spirit from durance vile . And Max . . . he is reminded that the Egelbauers of the world never cared for Gilda , so when he announces his divorce it will double or triple his business . When Noel Coward wrote DESIGN FOR LIVING , in 1930-31 , he did plan for it to be performed with his friends Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontane . Lunt and Fontane were the leading " married couple " stars of the American theater at that time . People in the know realized that Lunt was gay and ( rumor had it ) Fontane was a lesbian , but the marriage worked because of mutual artistic respect and partnership ( oddly enough not so much in film - only one movie , THE GUARDSMAN - but in stage work and later television ) . With this in mind , Coward actually constructed the menage-a-trois of the play to be two bi-sexual men and the woman they jointly love . The bi-sexuality of Tom and George is not really developed in this film ( Lubitsch would not have minded putting it in , but the powers that were at Paramount would have had fits ) . If you think of the central situation , though , and Gilda's reluctance to split the two " boys " there is a trace of Coward's original idea there . The odd man out here is Max . It's ironic that Horton played Max , for in real life he was gay ( Cooper was notorious , despite his marriage , for affairs with Marlene Dietrch , Patricia Neal , and several other women ; although March had a long marriage to Florence Eldritch , he had a reputation as being a real " letch " ) . Horton's Max is quite sympathetic , despite his self-importance and no-nonsense view of things . He does have one of the most memorable moments in " Lubitsch Touch " cinema , when we see him and Hopkins go into the bed chamber on their wedding night . There is a long pause to represent a sizable passage of time . Then a disgruntled Max leaves the bed-room ( obviously he has not gotten anything ) , spots a floral gift from " the boys " , and kicks it viciously ! Max does one other thing that I find endearing - unintentionally he gives a good line of dialog ( " Immorality may be fun , but . . . . " ) to Tom , who sees what a good line of dialog it is . Subsequently , while attending Tom's smash comedy , Max is amazed to hear the line sprouted by a pompous figure on stage . More reason to hate Tom there !
Colorful , seasonal remake of HOLIDAY INN	This was one of the last successful projects involving Irving Berlin . In 1943 he had made the film " Holiday Inn " with Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire , as song and dance partners who split when Crosby decides to leave the act , and Astaire tries to settle down with the woman in the act that both men loved . Crosby turns his farm in Connecticut into an occasional bed and breakfast inn that is opened only on twelve national holidays , and produces special shows for the guests on those nights , with Marjorie Reynolds as his new partner . Astaire ( after getting the heave-ho from his girlfriend ) shows up with their agent ( Walter Abel ) and tries to romance Reynolds away from the inn and Crosby . Eleven years later Berlin decided the time was ripe for a remake , and originally planned to have Astaire in it again ( it would have been the third Crosby-Astaire film , with " Blue Skies " as the center one ) . Astaire could not be in the film , and eventually the role went to Danny Kaye . One wonders if the original script of " Holiday Inn " would have been used or a version of it . As it was , the new film was also set in a New England inn ( in Vermont this time ) , and the story borrows a shade or two from Berlin's World War I musical " Yip Yip Yaphank as well as his World War II war morale film " This Is The Army " . Now Crosby is prominent singer and performer who was drafted and is a Captain in a regiment near the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944 . The Major General commanding is Dean Jagger , although as the film begins he is on the verge of retiring . However , Jagger is present when the men , led by Crosby and assisted by energetic and talented private Danny Kaye , put on a Christmas show . Shortly afterward , Kaye saves Crosby's life when he knocks him out of the way of a collapsing brick wall , and suffers an injury . Crosby , as a promise , agrees to sing a song Kaye composed ( as a duet - so Kaye has to sing it too ) in his first performance after the war . As a result Crosby and Kaye become partners - eventually becoming like Rodgers and Hammerstein producers of shows as well . They meet a pair of singing and dancing sisters ( Vera-Ellen and Rosemary Clooney ) in Florida , and end up with the girls in the latter's next booking at an inn in Vermont . The inn looks like it should be a success , but it is on the verge of bankruptcy , especially as the temperature has been too hot for snow in December . Also the inn is run by Jagger , assisted by a young granddaughter and Mary Wickes . The plot of the film runs into two slots - will Crosby and Clooney and Kaye and Vera-Ellen get together , and will they be able to Jagger become successful without hurting his pride . The film may have started as a clone of " Holiday Inn " , but it stands on it's own feet well . There is a nasty taste left in viewing " Holiday Inn " , with Astaire as bounder - villain willing to break up Crosby's romances because of his own needs . WHITE Christmas does not have that . Kaye is willing to remind Crosby about the act of saving his life from time to time , but he actually is quite protective of Crosby's interests , including hoping to help Crosby settle down with a proper wife ( though , oddly enough , he never thinks of marriage himself ) . Their care for Jagger's plight is also well accepted by the audience . Compare it with Walter Abel's constant looking for some type of long term show-biz contract to take to his clients ( especially Astaire : in fact Abel continuously works for Astaire's benefit at the expense of Crosby in " Holiday Inn " ) . In short , the motivation of the leads in " White Christmas " is far more admirable . The tunes in " White Christmas " were actually far more memorable than the ones in " Holiday Inn " , except for " Easter Parade " and " White Christmas " . They include a revival of the song " Mandy " which had been sung in Eddie Cantor's film " Kid Millions " in 1937 . The one real negative I found was that in " White Christmas " the lead-in to " Mandy " was a number glorifying minstrel shows . I doubt that African-American today would appreciate that number very much . But at least it was not done in black-face , as the " Abraham " number in " Holiday Inn " was . Somehow both films would have been different regarding those film sequences today if they were being remade .
The Need To Remember . . . For All Of Us	I can't make up my mind about the best TWILIGHT ZONE episodes , but this one is up there . It was one of the few where Serling ( whose stories broke down the fourth wall of imagination and reality for his characters ) broke down a fifth wall ( if you will ) by explaining the need to remember , even if the item used to remember was something hideous . In this case it was the death camps that exist throughout middle Europe since World War II , and are now museums dedicated to their millions of victims . Oscar Beregi made a career as a general type of character actor , frequently in comic parts , but equally in villains . And as a villain he was never more superb than in this episode as an unrepentant Nazi S . S . man . Assigned to Dachau during World War II , he lorded over the inmates , killing them at his various whims . Somehow he has managed to avoid a date with an execution shed , and now ( sixteen years after the war ended ) he has returned to see the place where he was a king . It's obvious that he is full of contempt to everyone who is in his way . He forces a landlady of an inn ( Kaaren Verne ) to reveal the hateful name of the camp nearby ( enjoying her discomfort ) . At the camp ( oddly enough pretty empty - usually there are tourists at these camps examining the crematorium and gas chambers and such ) he is strutting about as though still in his Nazi military uniform and jack boots . Then he comes across a familiar person : one Becker ( Joseph Schildkraut ) , a former Jewish prisoner . But Becker is still in his prison clothes . Delight at finding Becker - a victim still in his victim uniform - slowly changes to dismay and fear . Beregi is soon imprisoned and facing a trial for his life from a jury of the spirits of his victims ( led by the long dead Becker ) . They present the history of his cruelty , and he meets it with arrogance and pride but it gradually crumbles . Soon he is mumbling the same arguments used at Nuremburg by the Nazis , and with no better effect . At the end he is struck down as guilty . He is found in great pain and incoherent - obviously insane but feeling more pain than anyone can stand . At the end the doctor ( Ben Wright ) who sees Beregi is taken to an asylum looks at the camp . He wonders when they will tear down this awful place . As he leaves we hear Serling speaking to us - that we can never tear down places like Dachau and Auschwitz , because of the lesson they teach that once a bunch of people tried to turn the world into a graveyard . . . and nearly succeeded . It is a powerful commentary on a fascinating situation .
The Louisiana Puchase Exposition of 1904	This is a nearly flawless musical film by Vincent Minelli based on a series of writings by Sally Benson about her real life family from St . Louis , Missouri at the turn of the 20th Century . Although the most famous sequence ( and a real heart-breaker at one point ) deals with the current Christmas season , the film really looks at the events in the Smith family from Spring 1903 to Spring 1904 , culminating in their attending the above mentioned Louisiana Puchase Exposition that was under construction at the time . It was one of many Worlds Fairs that were frequently occurring in the 19th Century , the most notable previous ones in the U . S . being the 1876 Philadelphia Worlds Fair ( the movie CENTENNIAL SUMMER is about that one ) , the 1893 Chicago World's Fair ( subject of a few movies ) , and the 1901 Pan American Exposition at Buffalo , New York ( which is involved in the plot of the film THIS IS MY AFFAIR , because President William McKinley was assassinated there ) . The Louisiana Purchase Exposition was best remembered for the invention ( by accident ) of the hot dog and the ice cream cone , the latter when a vendor ran out of paper mittens for holding the frankfurters and sausages and bought some roles , the latter when a vendor ran out of paper plates for ice cream and used some soft waffles as cones . But in it's day it was an exciting place and it was a very successful world's fair . The Smith family is made up of the father ( Leon Ames ) , the mother ( Mary Astor ) , the grandfather ( Harry Davenport ) , the son ( Henry Daniel Jr . ) , and the four daughters ( Lucille Bremer , Judy Garland , Joan Caroll , and Margaret O'Brien ) , and their cook ( Marjorie Main ) . Bremer has a boyfriend studying at Princeton ( Robert Sully ) and Garland is fascinated by the next door neighbor ( Tom Drake ) . In the course of the year we watch the family enjoying their close friendships with other St . Louis residence ( even little Tootie - Margaret O'Brien - likes to ride and help the iceman Mr . Neeley ( Chill Wills ) ) . We see them having social parties with singing ( Minelli includes many songs in the film , but he does maintain period music - one hears Ethelbert Nevin's " Narcissa White " and the popular tune " Under the Bamboo Tree " that is sung and danced by Garland and O'Brien ) . Even some of the songs for the film are set in that period , most notably " The Trolley Song " . The trouble in the story is the decision by Ames to move to New York and begin a New York City office of his large St . Louis law firm . This shakes up the family , who are used to living in St . Louis , and think of New York ( in the warning words of Marjorie Main ) as a place where people live in tenements ! While this film has great , sweet comic moments ( O'Brien in Halloween disguise playing pranks on neighbors with flour and fake bodies ) , it also has one truly gut wrenching moment . If any film belongs to two players ( despite ensemble excellence ) it is MEET ME IN ST . LOUIS . Garland's songs ( THE TROLLEY SONG , THE BOY NEXT DOOR , HAVE YOURSELF A MERRY LITTLE Christmas ) all are wonderful and became part of her legendary repertoire . But O'Brien stole the heart of the audience as " Tootie " , not just by her funny antics ( she looks so cute and little in this film ) but in her dramatic scene - when she breaks down at the thought of leaving St . Louis and destroys her snowmen family so nobody else can have them when they move . The sequence always brings tears to my eyes as it is perfectly done . This comment does not ignore the other players . Ames turns in a gilt edge performance as a father who learns a valuable lesson in what is important to his family above larger salaries . Astor is properly loyal to her mate , even if she disagrees with his initial decision . Davenport spices the film ( particularly at the Christmas dance scene , where he rescues Garland ) , and Main has her normal salty comments about the activities around her . It is one of the greatest of MGM musicals and a wonderful look at the lost world of Teddy Roosevelt's America .
A Glorious Film About a Disastrous Dinner Party	This film was the follow-up to 1932's best film GRAND HOTEL . MGM had discovered that there was tremendous box office appeal if they had a film with a roster of stars in all the main roles . In this case the roles are played by Lionel and John Barrymore , Wallace Beery , Lee Tracy , Edmund Lowe , Philips Holmes , Jean Hersholt , Marie Dressler , Jean Harlow , Billie Burke , Madge Blake , Karen Morley , Louise Closser Hale , and Grant Mitchell . Mitchell adds a nice touch of brief asperity to the proceedings as a relative by marriage dragged to the dreary dinner party on the night he was planning to see a Greta Garbo movie . I take it that George Kaufman was responsible for that little jab . Kaufman wrote this screenplay with Edna Ferber ( SO BIG , SHOWBOAT ) from their Broadway play - later they would do the masterly STAGEDOOR . The director was George Cukor , who managed to get the best performances from all of the players . Lionel Barrymore is Oliver Jordan , married to Billie Burke ( Millicent Jordan ) and father to Madge Blake ( Paula Jordan ) . Barrymore is the owner of a steamship line that is suddenly having financial difficulties . He is facing bankruptcy unless he can get help . He is also suffering from heart disease , and is keeping this from his family . Barrymore turns to Dan Packard ( Wallace Beery ) , a wealthy stock manipulator with political ambitions ( he has been mentioned for a possible cabinet post ) . Packard is actually undermining Jordan's company to take it over . Barrymore is also checking into some of the stockholders . One is an old flame of his , Carlotta Vance - a great stage star of the teens ( Marie Dressler ) . Carlotta is socially a success , but her financial security is not as good ( this is the depression ) and she may have to sell the stock for her own sake . Burke is planning a large dinner party for the richest man in England , a steamship tycoon . Barrymore could really not care that much , but it might help his business . Packard is interested in the dinner party - his dreams of a large steamship empire could stand an English partner . So he wrangles an invitation for himself and his wife Kitty ( Jean Harlow ) . Harlow is a toy wife ( Packard's first wife died ) , and is a low class type who looks terrific . But she and Beery are constantly at odds about almost everything . She too is interested in attending the party because she wants to be socially accepted by the wealthy set . Also , her physician , Dr . Wayne Talbot ( Edmund Lowe ) is attending with his nurse / wife Lucy ( Karen Morley ) . Harlow is happy about that - she has been having an affair with Dr . Talbot . Madge Blake has been engaged to Ernest DeGraff ( Philips Holmes ) , but has wrangled a dinner invitation for Larry Renault ( John Barrymore ) a once great leading man , now headed for oblivion due to his alcoholism . Blake has been secretly having an affair with him . Renault's career is at a nadir , despite the work of his agent Max Kane ( Lee Tracy ) . But Tracy has a last opportunity to save Renault with a small role in a play produced by Jo Stengel ( Jean Hersholt ) . If the job is secured , Renault may not face eviction from the hotel he is currently in ( managed by Edwin Maxwell ) . All these elements come together in the last act , as chance , comic misunderstanding and farce , and tragedy are blended together to prevent some people from attending the dinner and others are invited in their place . Relationships are ended , and others are reinforced ( for better or worse ) . The funniest performances are Dressler , Beery and Harlow as the battling Packards , and Burke ( when she explodes in anger about her guests ) . The saddest is John Barrymore , who with the assistance of Cukor uses that great profile of his in a macabre final scene . But the dinner is still served to the guests who show up at 8 : 00 P . M . on the dot , and the final moment is gloriously shared by Mrs . Packard and Carlotta discussing literature and the future of man . . . and women .
Life inside an abstract prison	This is one of the classic TWILIGHT ZONE episodes , where with the simplest of situations the viewer was drawn into a seemingly symbolic conflict , only to find the solution surprising and strangely acceptable . Five figures are inside a container / prison : a Major , a ballerina , a bagpiper , a clown , and a tramp . They are certainly an odd choice of types to be in this isolation chamber , but they are all in it ( nevertheless ) and they are trying to figure out why they are there . What have they in common ? None can figure it out . But gradually the Major organizes them into working to bet out by standing on each other's shoulders . And the Major , going to the top of the line of figures does reach the entrance , and . . . . I'll leave it like that , although one of the other critiques on this thread actually gives the story away . The title seems to be suggested by SIX CHARACTERS IN SEARCH OF AN AUTHOR , Pirandello's famous play . Whether the actual purpose to the show was to spoof that play is questionable : Pirandello's characters analyze their roles and relations with each other . But the five characters here , while they try to understand their situation , are totally in the dark - they are not in the situation of the six characters in Pirandello who know their current situations . This uncertainty of what is going on allows the viewers to think it is an abstract drama . The actors , William Windon as the Major and Murray Mattheson as the Clown in particular , give good accounts of themselves . And the conclusion , whether planned as a spoof or not , is quite effective .
Nothing Ever Happens on a Steamer in the China Seas	The studios in the " Golden Age " of films loved to stick to successful formulas that worked for their actors and directors . Just go down the list of performers that you can recall : A fine actor like Basil Rathbone is either the heavy or villain , or Sherlock Holmes ( but not , as he wished , Rhett Butler ) . Jean Harlow and Marlene Dietrich could not play normal housewives , nor could Joan Crawford play a stupid woman . Oliver Hardy could always have a wife , but never a happy marriage ( and if it approached happiness , Stan Laurel would help destroy that ) . Lewis Stone , sterling character actor , only achieved permanent stardom when he inherited the role of Judge Hardy from Lionel Barrymore , and he would remain the perfect , wise father to Mickey Rooney in a dozen films . As for Barrymore , while he had a higher degree of stardom than Stone , he fell nicely into a niche as the original Dr . Leonard Gilespie , opposite Lew Ayres as Dr . Kildare . In 1932 MGM got the bright idea of making a dramatic film of Vicki Baum's " Grand Hotel " with an all star cast ( John and Lionel Barrymore , Greta Garbo , Joan Crawford , Wallace Beery , Lewis Stone , Jean Hersholt , and Tully Marshall ) . The film won the best picture Oscar , so it became a standard for other MGM projects to copy . The best known is " Dinner At Eight " ( both Barrymore brothers again , Beery again , Jean Harlow , Marie Dressler , Billy Burke , Edmund Lowe , Lee Tracy , Hersholt again ) . But " David Copperfield " , " The Prisoner OF Zenda " , and several other Selznick films , and " The Women " ( with only a cast of actresses - Crawford , Shearer , Russell , Fontaine , Goddard , and Boland ) followed the same formula with variants by the settings and plots of the films . " China Seas " was an early example of the formula " all star " film , a " Grand Hotel " set at sea . The plot is varied : C . Aubrey Smith is having a cargo of gold shipped by his ship captained by Gable . The passengers include Harlow ( who has had a long standing on-again , off-again romance with Gable ) , Russell ( Gable's current love interest - a real English lady type ) , Beery ( an untrustworthy gambler and thief - he may be planning to steal the gold ) , Robert Benchley ( an American novelist on a permanent toot ) , Edward Brophy and Lillian Bond as a married couple on a tour ( Ms Bond has her secrets from her husband ) , Akim Tamiroff ( a man who knows how to take advantage of secrets ) , Dudley Digges ( a self-satisfied and smug chief executive officer ) , and Lewis Stone ( a former sea captain , now reduced in rank and a pariah due to an act of cowardice ) . The film is a lively mixture of comedy and tragedy , including the death of one of the villains . Harlow demonstrates an interesting way of playing cards and drinking that suggests more than the film shows . Benchley never appears clear eyed and sober throughout all the film . Stone , in a powerful moment , leaves the self-righteous Digges with a permanent black mark on his self-esteem . Gable and Beery show what the " boot " is , and how effective it is . This is a film where the activities of the cast are so involving you never get bored even when you see the film another time . And at the end , as the ship reaches port ( as in " Grand Hotel " ) , life goes on as though nothing ( including a pirate attack ) ever even occurred .
That Curse of Capistrano	I wonder when Johnston McCully wrote a short tale called THE CURSE OF CAPISTRANO he realized that he created a literary figure who would create a line of movie , television , and radio stories that are the equal of Tarzan , Sherlock Holmes , Batman ( a type of accidental spin-off , belatedly ) , and Superman . Add to that list Diego De La Vega , who as " Zorro " is the secret hero of the story , and with his wits and swordsmanship takes on and overturns a local tyrant governor and his military aide in old California . The role would be played by many people starting with Douglas Fairbanks Sr . , and going to Tyrone Power , George Hamilton , and Antonio Banderas . Indeed now , to keep up with current trends , Zorro's wife is as good a swords-person as he is . The version in this 1940 production was directed by Rouben Mamoulian , and it has been criticized ( why , I have never understood ) as being too still . Certainly it lacks some of the athletic tricks the 1920 silent version had due to Doug Fairbanks , but the action is fast enough . And it presented a fascinating dual role for star Tyrone Power , and gave enough early 19th Century Spanish-American / Mexican-American background to satisfy Mamoulian's love of stylistic sets and direction . Power is the son of Montague Love , and has been sent to Spain for his education . Love was the Alcalde of the town Power came from in California , but when he returns he discovers Love was replaced ( we never exactly learn how ) , and the new governor ( J . Edward Bromberg ) and his wife ( Gale Sondergaard ) are a pair of vultures who are stealing everything they can from the local population through heavy taxes - with a large share going to their military aide ( Basil Rathbone ) . Rathbone is quite a good swordsman , and quite ruthless . He sees no reason not to use force on the locals to tow the line . And nobody is around to stop him . The only possible brake on them is Eugene Palette , the local mission father - thus representing the Roman Catholic Church , but while they can't act against him they can ignore his anger . Love and his cronies have to keep quiet or their lands will be seized . Nobody knows that Power became a brilliant swordsman in Spain , and was even offered a military post there . When he returns he decides to fully pretend that Spain " emasculated " the splendid boy he once was as a young kid , and left him a tepid and tired fop . His biggest social claim is a tired joke about his handkerchief . This relieves ( or is dismissed by ) the villains . Rathbone , in particular , would love to face a worthy sword foe-man ( we constantly see Basil prepping himself for fighting , and at one point he anxiously inquires if Power fancies the sword as a weapon ) . Love is disappointed by this worthless fop who has returned , as is Palette . Then , a mysterious night rider comes around the area and starts beating up and running through various troops sent to collect taxes or other forms of extortion . The masked rider calls himself " Zorro " , and only Palette learns it is Power . He goes from one escapade to another , including robbing Bromberg and Sondergaard in their coach . At the same time , while goading Esteban ( Rathbone ) by showing how ineffective the latter is in keeping the lid on the kettle , Power also twits the latter by becoming a romantic rival to the latter over the niece of Bromberg and Sondergaard ( Linda Darnell ) . Nice touches abound in this film . This is the swordsmanship film where Power uses his sword to cut a set of candles in half without them apparently moving ( Rathbone supposedly cut them in half but his halves fell to the floor ) . It also has moments of comedy - Rathbone finding Bromberg in his office tied up and blindfolded with a sword at his throat ( placed there by Power before he left ) , asks the alcalde if he is trying to commit suicide ! Altogether a very superior adventure story .
First the novel , then the straight dramatic film , then the musical - and the best picture " Oscar "	OLIVER TWIST was to have controversy as well as success following it after Dickens published it in 1837 . His picture of life in the urban ghettos was something shocking and new , and his making the central figures of the novel include criminals was another innovation . One day he was walking in London and passed a young woman he had been friendly with . He said hello , but she was rather stiff with him . He could not understand this . A few days later they met again , and he asked what he had done to upset her . " Well , if you must know , I did not like your last novel . " , she said . " Really , everyone else thinks highly of it . " He was puzzled : " What's wrong with it ? " " Oh , Charles , " she said , " I'm Jewish . How could you make up such a character like Fagin ? ! " He had not expected this : " Well . . . you know that trial last year of Ikey Solomon , the thief trainer . He's a model for Fagin and he was Jewish . " Dickens found that did not settle things . " Yes , " she replied , " He got what he deserved . But Charles , they did not call him " Solomon the Jew " like you call Fagin " the Jew " ! Moreover , Solomon did not plan a murder . Fagin does . " Dickens had to admit that he might have gotten carried away . He left thinking about what she said . Oliver Twist was published in several editions . Dickens tried to improve on Fagin a bit . Then he got an idea . He reworked the chapter called " Fagin's Last Night Alive " , showing the fears in the man as he faced hanging . He also added some additional details . He let his female friend know about his resolve to change Fagin . A day or so later he met her at a friend's house . She looked at him as though he was crazy . " Didn't you like the changes ? " , he asked . " Charles , what changes - he's still a vile villain called " the Jew " ! " , she replied . " Yes , I did keep those in , but didn't you see how frightened he was in the death cell in prison . " The young woman had noticed this , but felt that he was so vile he deserved to be suffering such fears . " Ah . . . then I was right about that . . . and did you see the little details I added ? " , he asked . " What details ? " , she replied . " When you first see Fagin now he is cooking himself dinner . . . you read that ? " , Dickens looked at her expecting a sign of recognition . Instead the lady looked confused . " I read he was at the fireplace , but I must have skimmed the passage . " Dickens smiled as though he was brilliant , " He is cooking a pork sausage for his dinner . " " A what ! " she exclaimed . " He's eating pork , my dear . . . see - he's not a good Jew ! " His friend looked at him , shook her head , and to his dismay left their friend's house . She didn't speak to him for years . Dickens never totally shook off his own bigotries , but the situation did lead to a partial attempt at amends in his last completed novel . In OUR MUTUAL FRIEND ( 1865 ) he has a minor character , Mr . Riah , who is used by an unscrupulous landlord to collect high rents from poor tenants . The landlord figures that Mr . Riah will be blamed because he is Jewish . But Mr . Riah is a good man . He is a very good man . He is a very , very , very , very good man - so good as to be unbelievable . If Fagin saw Mr . Riah in action he'd probably chase him away with a stick . The anti-Semitic image of Fagin lingers to this day . It is a measure of Dickens ' genius as a writer that the novel overcomes it . However , in presenting the story on film it still causes problems for screenplay writers and directors : how , after the Holocaust , can one do a film treatment of a worthy novel without inflaming bigotry ? David Lean showed how by having Alec Guiness appear in one or two scenes showing a human side and in confronting a mob at the end with true dignity . Sir Carol Reed , in his musical version of the novel did it better yet , due to a rewrite in the original musical's script . OLIVER had been made into a West End musical hit in the middle 1960s , and then taken to Broadway where it was again a hit . With a wonderful score by Lionel Bart , including " Food Glorious Food " , " I Am Reviewing the Situation " , " Consider Yourself " , " Boy For Sale " , " Who Will Buy " , " As Long As He Needs Me " , it deserved it's success . Reed did well in his casting the roles , including his nephew Oliver Reed as Sykes , Ron Moody as Fagin , Mark Lester as Oliver , Jack Wild as the Dodger , Shani Wallis as Nancy , and Harry Secombe as Mr . Bumble . There had been no big musical successes in Hollywood for a decade - the last musical to win the Best Picture Oscar had been GIGI in 1958 . OLIVER won it in 1968 . And Fagin - how to handle the eternal problem of the caricature ? Well in the musical Fagin is not captured , tried and executed for the murder that is committed . After all , even Lean showed Fagin tried to control his confederate in his actions . But here Fagin realizes that he is getting too old to depend on this kind of chancy life . Although he loses his treasures ( those stolen items he kept because he knew their value , and admired their beauty ) , he decides he can reform . He is allowed to do so , accompanied by his faithful acolyte , the Artful Dodger . I don't think Dickens would have appreciated the change ( his female friend might have ) , but a modern audience certainly accepts it as fitting .
The Duke's First Big Airplane Disaster Film	In the 1950s there were two first rate novelists who touched upon ( or concentrated on ) aviation as their theme . The Australian - English one was Nevil Shute ( Norway ) , who was an aviation engineer . His novel was NO HIGHWAY , made into a 1950 film with Jimmy Steward , Glynis Johns , Marlene Dietrich , and Jack Hawkins - about the danger of metal fatigue on airplanes . He also wrote an interesting memoir of his early years in aviation SLIDE-RULE , but later left the aviation theme for his best novels , A TOWN NAMED ALICE and ON THE BEACH . His American counterpart was Ernest K . Gann , who wrote ISLAND IN THE SKY and THE HIGH AND THE MIGHTY , both dealing with planes in trouble . Both were also made into films produced and starring John Wayne , and directed by former World War I ace William Wellman . THE HIGH AND THE MIGHTY dealt with an airliner in trouble over the Pacific on a flight from Hawaii to San Francisco , and how the crew and passengers react to the danger . Similarly , ISLAND IN THE SKY deals with a cargo plane that crash lands in Labrador and how the crew has to fend for itself against the harsh Arctic tundra ( the temperature is between 40 and 70 degrees below zero Fahrenheit , and the area is devoid of any edible vegetation or animals ) . The problem is extended due to the fact that the plane is in unexplored Arctic territory , and the crew has dwindling power to try to keep in touch with their rescuers . John Wayne plays the pilot in ISLAND IN THE SKY , of a crew of four others ( Sean McClory , Jimmy Lyden , Hal Baylor , and Wally Cassell ) . His leadership skills are tested as never before because of the hostile , deadly environment that they are in . In fact the Duke on several occasions displays a degree of despair in his face that one rarely sees , when rescue planes keep missing him or when equipment seems to fail . If one really doubts the cinematic acting abilities of John Wayne , one has to watch his performance here . He is more fragile here than in any other film , including THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE . The others in the crew , such as Cassell as the radio operator - struggling in that numbing cold to try to keep the electric generator working while he sends out a signal - are good . Another reviewer singled out Sean McClory , as Wayne's co-pilot , who does find the worst effects of the environment when trying to return to the camp . The other members of the cast do well , in what is primarily a male cast ( there are three women in the cast who play the love interests or wives of some of the men ) . Single out young James Arness as a South Carolinian who hates air force red tape ( and shows it forcibly to a silly officer by eating a military memo ) . Andy Devine gives a surprisingly effective performance in a serious part ( usually playing comic relief , as in STAGECOACH or LIBERTY VALANCE ) . Here he cuts short a vacation to help lead the search for his friend Wayne - and his grim face shows his helplessness when Wayne seems more lost than expected . Lloyd Nolan and his co-pilot , Carl Switzer , make an effective pair in the final search . Also on hand is Allan Joslyn , Louis Jean Heydt , Bob Steele , Regis Toomey and ( as the commanding officer heading the search organizing ) Walter Abel . These , with Wellman's fine detail for aviation situations make ISLAND IN THE SKY one of the most fascinating films in Wayne's long career .
Great Marx Film - but we'll always regret " Always " .	Unless the legendary " HUMORISK " ever shows up , COCONUTS will have the honor of being the first Marx Brother comedy . It is set in Florida , during the 1920s land boom down there ( by the time the show opened in 1928 , a hurricane had destroyed the land boom ) . Groucho runs a seedy hotel , where Mrs . Potter and her daughter Polly ( Margaret Dumont and Mary Eaton ) are residing . So is Polly's boy friend , the architect Bob Adams ( Oscar Shaw ) , as well as black sheep socialite Harvey Yates ( Cyril Ring ) and Penelope ( Kay Francis ) . Yates needs money , and is trying to marry Polly . Penelope is willing to assist him , as she wants to steal Mrs . Potter's jewelry . Mrs . Potter is favorable to Yates because he is one of " the Boston Yates " , but Polly favors Bob - who is still struggling to get any backers for his architectural ideas . Because he is not making money ( or from money ) Mrs . Potter dislikes his attentions to Polly . Groucho's Mr . Hammer ( and his assistant Jamison - Zeppo ) are hoping to sell various lots of real estate to their hotel guests at an auction . Then two new guests arrive : Chico and Harpo . Groucho notices their luggage is empty . " That's okay , " says Chico , " It will be full when we leave . " Naturally the arrival of Chico and Harpo excites the suspicions of the local sheriff , Hennesy ( Basil Ruysdaal ) . It is impossible to sensibly discuss the humor of the Marx Brothers , in this their first sound film and one of their zaniest . Just a few choice moments : Groucho and Chico ( as a plant ) at the auction , where Chico knows he has to raise the bids . Unfortunately he does not realize when to stop doing so , so that when Hammer frantically tries to stop him from preventing someone with money from buying a lot , Chico keeps ignoring . " I go higher . . . higher . . . I have plenty of numbers left ! " , he says . Groucho , Chico , and Harpo playing musical rooms with Dumont and Kay Francis , on the night of the jewel robbery . And Francis discovering that her " come-on " line , " Has anyone ever told you you look like the Prince of Wales ? " , is being used by everyone else . Even a slightly sad moment is memorable . When Bob is arrested at one point , a tearful Mary Eaton watches this - Harpo walks over to her and hands her a flower . She embraces the silent brother , who just looks perplexed about what else to do . It is constantly brought up that Eaton and Shaw are drags on the film . Actually Ms Eaton was quite lively when given a chance , and Shaw is game in one of the routines with Groucho and Harpo . Kay Francis would later show a comic flair in movies too , but here she is relatively subdued as far as comedy is concerned ( until her last shot with Cyril Ring ) . Ring is a non-entity . Ruysdaal has one really glorious moment ( when he demands his shirt - he can't be happy without his shirt ! ) . And of course , Margaret Dumont got her first chance to show what an asset she was to the Marx Brothers in seven films . For a musical comedy the surviving songs , mostly by Irving Berlin ( one is by Victor Herbert ! ) are passable only . " When My Dream Comes True " can linger in the memory , but it is not grade-A Berlin . Sadly , Irving composed " Always " for the show , but George Kaufman showed his contempt for the tune and and angry Berlin took it back . A case of pearls before swine there .
The Victor of Blenheim and his Spouse	The name most people think of as best associated with the term PRIME MINISTER OF ENGLAND is Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill . After all , he was the Prime Minister who was ( with FDR and Stalin ) the Big Three who won World War II , and he was also a man who was in the public eye as a political figure of the first rank from 1905 to 1955 . Churchill was a great lover of tradition , and he would write several books of biography and history which eventually won him the Nobel Prize for Literature . His reputation as a historian is for his Memoirs of the First and Second World Wars and his biography of his ancestors John and Sarah Churchill , First Duke and Duchess of Marleborough . It is this biography , MARLEBOROUGH : HIS LIFE AND TIMES , that is the basis for this series . The positive virtues are that it is well acted and produced , and well written . John Neville gave a sterling performance as the military genius who stopped Louis XIV's armies , and Susan Hampshire and Margaret Tyzack ( reunited from THE FORTSYTE SAGA ) were first rate as Sarah , the wife of Marleborough , who became the closest friend and adviser to Princess ( later Queen ) Anne of England , and as that monarch . The story describes how the three reach the apogee of power together , until Marleborough's enemies bring him down , even replacing Sarah with her cousin Abigail Masham ( Jill Balcom ) as the Queen's closest confidant . Assisting them in their rise was Marleborough's closest friend Sidney Godolphin ( John Standing ) , who would be the Chancellor of Exchequer . The story would also detail the history of British politics from 1678 to 1714 , through the reigns of Charles II ( James Villiers ) , James II ( James Westbrook ) , William III and Mary II ( Alan Rowe and Lisa Danieli ) , and Anne ( Tyzack ) . This would include events that the Churchills , Godolphin , Anne , and others had to evade , like the Popish Plot , the revolt of the Duke of Monmouth ( James Kerry ) , the 1696 Assassination scheme of Sir John Fenwick ( which implicated Marleborough ) , and the wars of Europe caused by Louis XIV that led to the War of the Spanish Succession ( 1702 - 1714 ) which left England ( barely ) the most powerful state in Europe . Marleborough's strategic and diplomatic brilliance gave England the margin to beat France - but Louis was able to take advantage of serious political schisms in Britain between Marleborough and his followers , Robert Harley ( Richard Pearson ) , Harley's ally and later rival Henry St . John ( Michael Attwell ) , and the Duke of Shrewsberry to pull some of France's chestnuts out of the fire . This was a weighty piece of history , and the performances were quite delightful ( James Villiers gave Charles II just the right lightness of touch to make one realize how formidable a political opponent he really was ) . But the problem is that John and Sarah are shown to be always right and always looking out for Britain's best interests . In fact , the Tories were quite critical of John Churchill as an opportunist who knew when to switch sides in time ( like his predecessor , General George Monk in 1660 , or the future French statesman , Charles Talleyrand ) . He was also exceptionally gifted at feathering his nest ( Sarah got him a lot of money through her contacts with Anne , and he was willing to take " gifts " from various European allies ) . Sir Winston evades this - feeling it is so much " propaganda " by Marleborough's enemies . If so , the propaganda has not been totally dismissed by historians since the 1930s ( when the biography was written ) . Nor was it dismissed by Whig historians prior to Churchill writing his biography . Thomas Macauley's A HISTORY OF ENGLAND is quite open about John Churchill's greed - but he died before he really discussed Churcill's military victories at Ramilies , Blenheim . Maplaquet , Oudenarde , etc . By all means , if you see the series enjoy it . But do some personal reading on your own to see the other side of the coin regarding John and Sarah .
A Wonderful Case of Revenge	LONG-HAIRED HARE is one of a number of Warners Cartoon that made in the late 1940s and into the 1950s that spoofed high culture - the best being WHAT'S OPERA DOC ? But this one is also like several other Warner cartoons when Bugs confronted authoritarian types ( a floor walker in a department store , a magician named Ala Bama ) , and trounced them in confrontations . Here his opponent is a temperamental opera singer named Giovanni Jones . We see Bugs in the hills above Hollywood strumming a banjo singing a jaunty tune ( " What do they do on a rainy day in Rio ? " ) and below in a mansion is Jones practicing Figaro's famous introductory aria from THE BARBER OF SEVILLE ( which he will be performing that night ) . But every time he is rehearsing he is hearing Bugs singing that jaunty song . He retaliates by destroying the banjo . Then he goes back to rehearsing , but Bugs has started playing the tune on a harp . Jones begins singing and dancing to the words of Bugs ' tune , when he realizes what has happened . He proceeds to destroy the harp . Then he hears Bugs on a tuba , and pulls Bugs up through the tuba and ties him to a tree branch by his ears , pulling him down so that Bugs ' head hits the branch several times ( like a rubber band being snapped ) . Bugs says that this means war - and carries it to the Hollywood Bowl . He tests the fabled acoustics of the bowl by hitting the dome with a mallet causing the dome and stage to vibrate like an earthquake is occurring . He causes Giovanni to swallow alum , so that his voice and head shrink . He has the pompous singer sign a teeny-bopper's autograph , with a stick of dynamite as a pen . And finally he takes over the orchestra as " Leopold " ( his hair is whitened as Stowkowski's is ) to conduct the conclusion . Now I saw the entire ten minute cartoon on YOU TUBE . In the past I have seen a truncated version on television that cut out most of the damage Bugs does to Giovanni prior to the arrival of " Leopold " . I did not realize that much more was done in the course of the cartoon than the shattering conclusion . There is a lot that television editing owes the television audience an apology for - certainly for weakening the full effect of an entertaining piece of work like this is one thing that a real apology is needed for . By shortening it , it made less sense to the viewer - as Bugs just seems to be there for that one long final act of his . We know Bugs . When he gets even - he gets even !
How dare he claim to be an expert on writing and not know " Myrtle Tippett " !	This gem was shown twice last night on Channel 13 , and I caught the second viewing . Joseph Mankiewicz is a remarkably maverick director from Hollywood . Unlike many who concentrated on special spectacles and effects ( Griffiths , De Mille ) or on camera use and shots ( Welles ) or on genre mythology ( Ford ) or suspense ( Hitchcock , Lang ) , Mankiewicz loved the literary wordplay of his scripts . The best of these were his two finest films A LETTER TO THREE WIVES and ALL ABOUT EVE ( but it also emerges in other films , like CLEOPATRA or SLEUTH or PEOPLE WILL TALK ) . The plot here is simple . In a small town there are three couples : Jeffrey Lynn and Jeanne Crain , Kirk Douglas and Ann Southern , and Paul Douglas and Linda Darnell . They all apparently married for love , but in the background is a malevolent rival to the ladies named " Addie Ross " ( we never see her , but the character's voice is Celeste Holm ) . She is perfection to the three men : charming , witty , intelligent , beautiful . She grew up with the three men , and has kept them on her invisible chains ever since . The three wives are not like Addie . Crain was from a farm . Southern has an intellectual background like her teaching husband Douglas , but she writes radio scripts ( very successfully too ) so she makes more money than he - and senses he resents this . Darnell is from the wrong side of the tracks ( literally on the tracks - her house shakes every time the train runs past it ) . Darnell has married the richest of the three men , Douglas , who owns the largest department store chain in the state . All three women are aware of the effect the very name of " Addie Ross " has on their men , and they hate her ( and , as she is aware of this and that they are married to HER men she hates them equally ) . They have gone on a picnic with some children , when a message arrives from Addie for them . It basically says that she is running off with one of their husbands . The film follows their private thoughts as they go through the problems and uncertainties of their marriages . The film could have been far darker than it is - and some of the scenes actually are dark , particularly some very serious arguments between Kirk Douglas and Southern , and Paul Douglas and Darnell . But the thing that is great about this film is the social pressures and reality of the problems in the three marriages . Lynn is too blind about what he accepts as his " silver spoon " upbringing to realize how his poor wife Crain just barely feels she fits in ( her friendships with Darnell and Southern help her in this depression ) . Kirk Douglas certainly represents a point of view regarding the value of education and culture that is at once admirable and blind . He teaches at a college , so he ( rightly ) concentrates on Keats , Shelley , and Byron , but he is upset that the breadwinner is Southern who writes popular pap for the radio . The highpoint of the confrontation here is a disastrous dinner party where Douglas learns he knows nothing about modern culture ( he is lectured by that marvelous controlling dragon Florence Bates , a radio executive ) because he failed to know the great " Myrtle Tippett " who is America's leading radio script writer ! . Bates reveals this after breaking a new recording of some classical music that " Addie " sent to Douglas . As for Porter and Lora Mae Holligsway , the story of their courtship and marriage ( and the mutual pummeling they are giving each other over three years ) is in some ways the best section of the film . They are crazy about each other , but Porter ( Paul Douglas ) was hurt in a previous marriage that failed , and likes being at ease and free . Lora Mae ( Darnell ) is not willing to be his sidekick romantic partner - she has to have a ring because in her social class that is a final sign of security and making it . They finally agree to marriage , but she erroneously thinks this is how he pays to sleep with her , and he thinks that she agrees to this as a business proposition . The film ends pretty well on the right note , with one of the males showing a strength of character that one did not fully expect , and his wife showing a matching strength of character that is fully deserved . Best of all is the final shot - wherein " Addie " shows the full effect of all her " perfection " and all her scheming . In a way " Addie " is a distant blood cousin ( and I emphasize " blood " ) to " Eve Harrington " in ALL ABOUT EVE . But " Eve " ( at the end ) has achieved her goals , whereas " Addie " did not . But both are still alone at the end ( " Eve " does have " Addison " - though he is wisely resizing her up and finding her wanting ) . Somehow one can make a case that " Addie " and " Eve " are soul mates - they are both so locked into their roles they have to play them all the time !
Grant's Coming of Age As An Actor - His " Nightmare Alley "	Throughout his career , Cary Grant tried to shake off the comic leading man - sophisticate roles that he fell into . He eventually did get parts in thrillers like NORTH BY NORTHWEST and CHARADES , or serious films like PENNY SERENADE and AN AFFAIR TO REMEMBER showing a bit of edge , but up to his last film WALK DON'T RUN , he performed films that were mostly likable sophisticated comedies like INDISCREET . I suppose it was the flip side of being one of the best looking men in movies . Hitchcock had tried to get him a villainous role in the original concept of SUSPICION , and the studio and Grant's agent vetoed it - so the plot of that film was rewritten to make him look innocent of Joan Fontaine's deepest suspicions . The nearest he got was in the film MR . LUCKY , where he is a shady gambler and swindler , and even can be really violent in a fight scene , but still turns up being more honorable than he originally intended to be . In 1944 Grant was finally able ( uniquely for his whole career ) to play a movie role which , while hardly villainous , was far more realistic and tragic than anything else he ever played . Ernie Mott is his equivalent to Tyrone Power's " the Great Stanton " in NIGHTMARE ALLEY , the box office failure Darryl Zanuck allowed Power to make that showed he too was a fine actor . After NONE BUT THE LONELY HEART and NIGHTMARE ALLEY Grant and Power were taken seriously as performers by the theater going public . Ernie Mott is a London cockney ( which Grant originally was - but rarely got a chance to show on film ) , who lives with his mother Ma Mott ( Ethel Barrymore - in her " Oscar " winning performance ) in a second hands goods / minor pawn broker store . Ernie has been rather light hearted and thoughtless , never settling down to a profession . But there are few good professions for such as him . He's in an East London slum ( a reference to Whitechapel in the film reminds me that this story of the 1930s is only half a century from Jack the Ripper's rampages ) . He has two girls in his life - the glamorous Ada ( June Duprez ) and Aggie , a cellist ( Jane Wyatt ) . Both like him very much , but he admits to Aggie that he favors Ada a bit more . Richard Llewelyn , who wrote HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY , wrote the novel for this film ( screenplay version by dramatist Clifford Odets ) , and captures the spirit of that slum quite well . Ernie hates it , and wants something better , but can't concentrate . One day a family friend ( Jewish pawnbroker Ike Weber - Konstantine Shane ( THE STRANGER , VERTIGO ) ) tips off Ernie that his mother is dying of cancer . Ernie cleans up his act ( he was about to see about prospects in Liverpool ) , and he starts taking over work from his surprised mother . But although the reforms bring him and the dying woman together , both worry about each other - and fall prey to temptations they really don't want to return to . In Ma's case , she had been a leading fence for stolen goods for many years . If she will handle some more she can earn 500 pounds ( in 1939 England a very tidy sum ) to leave to Ernie . Ernie , as he dates the luxury loving Ada , finds he needs more money too . There is a snag here - Ernie's opportunity involves him with the local criminal gang boss Jim Mordinoy ( George Coulouris ) . Mordinoy has always considered Ernie a potential gang member , but Ernie has showed little interest . Now Ernie's interested , but Mordinoy has close personal interests in Ada too - and is determined to maintain them whatever anyone ( including Ada or Ernie ) wants . The film holds up very nicely , with Grant giving the best performance of his career ( which did not even get noticed for an Oscar nomination ) . As mentioned Barrymore did get nominated as the loving but fearful Ma , and won her Oscar ( making her and brother Lionel - A FREE SOUL - the only brother and sister " Oscar " winners in movie history to the present ) . Duprez is painful as a woman torn between real love for Grant and fear of Coulouris ' vengeance . Wyatt is painful too , as she has to accept Grant's positioning her as " best friend " rather than girlfriend . Barry Fitzgerald comes into the film in it's middle as Henry Twite , a wise old fellow who does odd jobs and becomes a missing father figure to Grant ( Ernie's father was killed at Verdun ) . Shayne , an actor of considerable strength , had a wonderful part here . Jewish pawn brokers were usually still subjects of humor in movies in 1944 , but with rumors of the death camps coming up this was changing . His role of Ike is that of a decent human being in that area , who has to face Coulouris and his thugs at one point - and maintains our full sympathy . I have to make a separate comment about George Coulouris here . I always like watching him , but too frequently his nervousness and short temper or his mental condition made his roles " over - the - top " . I don't think Jim Mordinoy is anywhere near that - in fact , with Teck in WATCH ON THE RHINE this is his best performance . Mordinoy is not a ranter - he is quiet and direct and totally without scruple . He is far more dangerous ( and smart ) than the average thug , and one imagines that even at the end of the film he won't get touched by what happens to his minions . Grant's performance and Barrymore's are the best here , but Coulouris is equally good . The title by the way comes from a song with music by Tschaikowski and words from a poem by Goethe . It was also played by Paul Lukas to Katherine Hepburn in LITTLE WOMEN .
" Be Elegant , Be Arrogant , Be Smart ! ! "	Danny Kaye's films with Samuel Goldwyn established him as a leading movie comedian - singer from 1944 through the late 1940s . For a number of years after he continued his popularity without Goldwyn in films like " Knock on Wood " , " The Court Jester " and " Merry Andrew " . It is likely that " The Court Jester " is his best film , but " The Inspector General " is close to the top . Based on a 19th Century satiric play by Nicolai Gogol , Kaye plays Georgi , a decent fellow who works for the bullying Yakov ( Walter Slezak ) . Yakov and Georgi travel around the countryside selling " Yakov's elixir " which is supposed to cure all kinds of illnesses ( that Kaye sings in a tongue-twisting song by Sylvia Fine , his wife ) . But they are forced to flee when Georgi tries to stop an elderly woman from wasting her money on the elixir . Naturally Yakov is upset , and sends Georgi away until he learns to be crooked . Yakov has been using a fake official document signed by Napoleon as a come on in his sales pitch . Georgi is carrying it . He is arrested by the town constable ( Alan Hale Sr . ) for vagrancy , but the latter reads the letter . As the Mayor ( Gene Lockhart ) and his cohorts are awaiting ( with dread ) a visit by Napoleon's Inspector General to check their records ( they have been feathering their nests ) , they think that Georgi is this Inspector General . When Yakov comes to town he quickly grasps the situation , and pretends he is the " Inspector's " servant . Slezak knows that there are real opportunities here . The funny thing is that Gogol's play is not quite like the film . First of all , Gogol was writing a critique of government corruption in the Russian Empire under Tsar Nicholas I ( 1825-1855 ) . Gogol was a religious mystic and satirist ( best recalled for his unfinished novel about serfdom , " Dead Souls " , and his novellas " The Diary of a Madman " and " The Overcoat " ) . Normally Nicholas was a humorless despot , who hated intellectuals . But he liked THE INSPECTOR GENERAL , which attacked the worst aspects of Russian local government corruptions that the Tsar did want to see eradicated . Because he approved , the play was a great success , and became one of the few 19th Century plays that became part of the permanent world repertory . But Gogol's targets were Russian , not French . Napoleon is not a background figure in the play . The Inspector General ( actually the title is " The Government Inspector " in Russian ) is from the Tsar . They have heard rumors of the corrupt practices , and are checking them . Georgi's character is not such a well-intentioned type in the play as he is in the movie . He is as willing to feather his nest as Yakob is , and they prove to be a highly successful team . This is because the Mayor and his cohorts are quite willing to bribe their way out of the current investigation . This includes selling the Mayor's wife for sex , and paying out much in bribes and " gifts " . And in the end , after " Georgi " and Yakob leave with their loot , the Mayor thinks he will be called to St . Petersburg for some really important post . But months later they hear of a letter circulating in the capital from " Georgi " boasting of how he fooled the Mayor and his cohorts . Then , just as things couldn't get worse , a servant announces the arrival of " a Government Inspector " to review the books . Everyone freezes in terror as the curtain falls . The film softens " Georgi's " character , leaving Yakov as the greedy one ( although Slezak does redeem himself at the end ) . The Mayor and his cohorts ( who do things like collecting for a church bell but pocketing the money themselves ) do try to kill off the Inspector General - there is a funny sequence at a party where " Georgi " sings a song about " sing Gypsy , dance Gypsy " , and keeps on just avoiding drinking his doctored drink during the song . Georgi's guardian angel protects him . He also meets Leza , a servant ( Barbara Bates ) and falls for her . He debates how to appear before her as a General - should he be elegant like an Englishman , arrogant like a Russian , or smart like a German . In some ways " Soliloquy for Three heads " may be the best of the numbers in the film . Although watered down from Gogol's stunning comic play , enough entertainment value remains in the film to make it worthwhile viewing , and a highpoint in appreciating Kaye's movie career .
" It's not the coffee . It's the bunk ! "	As the follow up to " The Great McGinty " Preston Sturgis returned to an old play of his that was written in 1931 and called " A Cup Of Coffee " . Sturgis , for all of his cynical slant in his comedies and screenplays , had a pretty accurate view of the American Dream . In " Christmas In July " the hero is trying to make it to fame and fortune overnight - by winning a jingle / slogan contest on the radio . And the truth of the situation is far more complicated than we credit it in being . Powell has entered every contest he can , figuring that the law of averages will eventually come to his assistance and win him the big prize . He doesn't stop to think that the same viewpoint is held by everyone else who is competing against him . He also does not like the regular hard work ethic that is pushed by his office manager ( Harry Hayden ) to concentrate on his job and you will be a success - not spectacular but one who meets his debts and looks the world in the eye . Powell is not opposed to hard work , but he hates being one of the herd of numberless drudges like most of us . He has gotten three of his office friends so fed up with his constant sweep-stake fantasies that they decide to send him a fake telegram that he has won the Maxford House Coffee sweepstakes . He has a slogan " If you find you can't sleep at night , it is not the coffee , it's the bunk ! " Cute ( a pun of course ) , he keeps explaining it to everyone who couldn't care less . But the Maxford House Radio show which was supposed to find a winner is unable to reach a timely decision ( William Demerest is trying to convince them to favor one that he thinks is a snappy slogan , and Robert Warwick wants a more formal and dignified short slogan ) . Taking advantage of this impossible tie situation , the trio send their false telegram - and Powell and his girlfriend Ellen Drew go crazy . But that's just it - everyone goes crazy . Powell's boss Ernest Truex , who has rarely given him a second glance , when he hears about this thinks Powell is a business genius and starts considering promoting him . The staff of his accounting firm and various businessmen all bow and scrape to him . The three friends who play the joke find it has gotten so out-of-control that they can't stop it ( they don't dare to ) . The joke even is pulled over the coffee company owner , Dr . Maxford ( Raymond Walburn , who almost steals the film from Powell ) . Maxford is disgusted by the way the slogan jury under Demerest won't do as he orders , and he is totally prepared to accept the fake telegram as proof that the same committee didn't even bother to notify their employer first ! The film is pretty funny throughout , as Powell enjoys the height of glory and the depth of despair as the truth about the telegram hits Maxford and the people from whom Powell has been buying goods ( gifts for his family and friends - since it is summer the title of the film makes sense ) . But in a society that worships success , should it penalize someone who innocently seemed to be successful but wasn't ? The conclusion of the film suggests that some trial and error is required , but Sturgis still finds that the hand of fate may be necessary to allow someone to show his or her full potential .
The Mysterious Disappearance and Reamergence of Lord Paddington	As mentioned earlier except for BLOCK-HEADS most aficionados might consider A CHUMP AT OXFORD to be the final great Laurel & Hardy feature length comedy . It's main weakness is it's structure - BLOCK-HEADS is a series of disasters rising to a crescendo from Stan to Ollie to everyone around them . A CHUMP is really two or three shorts ( all very funny ) that are united by the thinnest of plot threads . In fact it can be split into three shorts without difficulty . First there is the repeat of the story from FROM SOUP TO NUTS ( then a long forgotten silent short they made in 1928 ) , where they are hired to serve a dinner at Jimmy Finleyson's home one evening and destroy the dinner . The high point is when Stan is told to serve the salad undressed and does so - of course too literally for Finleyson's taste . He chases the two of them out with a rifle ( shades of Billy Gilbert in PACK UP YOUR TROUBLES and BLOCK-HEADS ) . Finn fires his rifle , and then an angry policeman shows up warning him to be careful or he will go to jail - " You could have blown somebody's brains out ! " Unfortunately , the policemen turns around and we see that Finn shot a big hole into the cop's pants . Next we see the boys at a new job as street cleaners , and Hardy launches into one of those semi-sensible speeches he gives , " Well we've reached bottom now ! . . . What's wrong with us ? " Ollie figures it's a lack of education ( partly it is - though it's hard to see how Stan could comprehend any book ) . They foil a bank robbery ( the bank is called the FINLEYSON NATIONAL , which sounds reasonable as Finn was a canny Scotsman usually ) . As a reward they get their wish - they get the finest education possible at Oxford . The final segment is when they reach Oxford and fall victims to a series of pranks played by the students ( led by Peter Cushing - far from his future as Dr . Frankenstein - and Charlie Hall ) . The best part of this is the business of the boys getting lost ( even from each other ) in the maze at Oxford , where Ollie is carrying their trunk on his back , and yelling for Stan , who is yelling back , just around the corner ! There is also the student dressed as the bogeyman and sitting between Stan and Ollie on the trunk . There is also the boys settling into their rooms ( actually the rooms of the Dean of Oxford , Wilfred Lucas ) , ending with them shooting soda water into what they think is the face of an old goat in a portrait , and end up hitting the original face ( Lucas , of course ) . A battle of the expelled students ( the Dean catches them trying to leave his rooms ) and the boys ( " dirty rotten snitches " Cushing and Hall call them ) completes this segment - but introduces us to the biggest change in the history of Laurel & Hardy : Stan's revelation of his " real " personality . A tremendously creative and brilliant comic genius , Stan Laurel ( when busy constructing his films ) was all serious business - like Chaplin , Keaton , Lloyd , Fields , the Marxes , and Lou Costello , his peers . In this mode he was not the nincompoop he played opposite Hardy . He was very serious and intelligent sounding . This is his persona , with a degree of haughtiness , when playing his alter ego , Lord Paddington . Paddington was Oxford's greatest scholar and athlete . He proves the latter by throwing Cushing and the others ( unfortunately including Hardy and Lucas ) out his window one after another . He also demonstrates his brilliance quickly ( all these awards and trophies are on display shortly after his restoration - and worse when his new butler , Ollie , is overwhelmed hearing that Einstein is coming to discuss a problem about the relativity theory that Paddington can settle ! ) . Stan never tried this revelation again - and probably wisely . Stan and Ollie ( to work ) needs Ollie to be a bit more with it in terms of what the world expects - Stan follows , and upsets the easily toppled Ollie . It is similar to their silent film short , EARLY TO BED , where Ollie becomes a wealthy man about town , tormenting his butler Stan - we don't like this Ollie that much , and approve when Stan starts smashing Ollie's brick-a-bra-ck . The " Paddington " bit was better than the man-about-town Ollie in the earlier film . Wisely , Paddington leaves before the film ends , and Stan returns . We are glad to have him back .
How to Wreck a Masterwork - Hollywood Style	The story of the destruction of Orson Welles ' second " Mercury " film THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS is pretty well described in these remarks on this thread . Although it is extremely doubtful ( as doubtful as ever finding traces of the missing holy grail ) I too wish that a longer version that was similar to Welles ' vision did turn up . But if it did , I wonder if we would end up siding with the powers that be at RKO or with Welles . About three or four years back a television version of THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS was made on cable television , which contained far more of the novel than the deconstructed Welles ' film currently does . The critics were not too happy with it . They found it too long , and they seemed to stress the need for cutting it to a shorter length . My guess is that Welles would have had to cut the film too , though not as much as only 88 or so minutes . KANE had been 119 minutes long ( only one scene - in a brothel - was cut ) . That was a pretty long film for 1941 . My guess is that a 120 odd minute AMBERSONS would have been too long too . But of course , Welles would have been in a position to judge what cuts would not destroy the film , and what cuts would . He did not like the cuts that reduced the Ambersons ball sequence ( a seemingly meaningless passage about olives ) . Was that really such an important passage ? More important is how the role of Wilbur Minafer was reduced , as were passages concerning poor investment recommendations to Wilbur , Fanny , and Jack were cut ( one would have thought they were important ) . Was it done as part of a plan to make the movie salvageable , or to destroy Welles ' bank-ability in Hollywood ? One suspects the latter . KANE made a small profit , but was no blockbuster . The powers that be in Hollywood saw Welles as a threat to their system of control , as his style of contract made him both director and producer . It was not just the attack on Hearst in the first film , but a general assault on the studio system that brought the Hollywood honchos down on Welles ' head . It is interesting to note the degree of defensiveness that has crept up in the years since Welles ' death in 1985 regarding the fate of his various projects in Hollywood . Robert Wise , who edited AMBERSONS , came out with a statement that he did not think the present film was so terrible , as it is considered a classic . Wise was assigned to finish the film with new scenes he and others directed , and to cut the Welles ' material . It was in Wise's interest to deflect any negative views about the butchering of the film for the sake of his own reputation ( and it is interesting that in the years after he made that comment , Wise was given an Oscar for his life's contributions to movies - he gave some good ones , but he helped to destroy one great one ) . I think that if AMBERSONS had been a comedy Welles would not have had the same problem . Instead , it was a bitter tragedy , for Welles did not end the film version he shot with George being united to Lucy with Eugene's blessing . Lucy rejected the impoverished , crippled George at the end of Welles ' version , and Eugene visited Fanny in a boarding house where she was reduced to being a cook . Hardly optimistic fare in World War II America , and all the studios wanted optimism then . Another reason to change the film to the idiotic conclusion we have today . Interestingly the recent television remake follows the novel - Lucy unites with the unrepentant , still arrogant George , while Eugene has to accept this . Even that would not have been acceptable to the studios in 1942 .
Two drifters off to see the world	It's a little odd watching BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S and realizing that of it's main stars only Patricia Neal , Mickey Rooney , and Jose Luis de Villalonga ( who played the wealthy Brazilian in the movie ) are still alive , as is the director Blake Edwards . Audrey Hepburn , George Peppard , Buddy Ebsen , Martin Balsam , John McGiver , Alan Reed Jr . , Stanley Adams , and Dorothy Whitney are all gone , as is Truman Capote and George Axelrod and the cats who played " Cat " . The city of New York is still a fascinating one , but much of it has changed . For instance , the card catalogs of the 42nd Street Public Library that Holly Golightly and Paul Varjak visit are not in those card drawers as they showed in the film scene . They were photocopied into multi-volume sets of card catalog volumes in the early 1970s , and since then the remainder have been put on computers . Even in the late 1960s and early 1970s the reading room did not have any sculptures in them - just desks and library shelves and the central area to pick up the books you ordered . The period of the film is quite set in New York City in 1959 - 61 . Take a look at the " Halloween masks " on sale in the Woolworth's that Holly and Paul steal . Among the masks they try on is one of Huckleberry Hound , the Hanna-Barbera cartoon character who was popular in 1960 . It is mentioned on this thread that the mask reminds us of the lyrics in " MOON RIVER " regarding " my huckleberry friend " . But that reference was to " Huckleberry Finn " , and his being found on the Mississippi River ( possibly the original for the " Moon River " of the song ) . It had nothing to do with the cartoon character . ( Come to think of it , Woolworth's itself is a thing of the past - it having gone out of business five years ago . ) But the story is still quite compelling , and Holly remains Audrey Hepburn's best remembered performance ( even more than her Royal Princess in ROMAN HOLIDAY ) . Only her performance as Eliza Doolittle in MY FAIR LADY is as recalled by name , and Holly is more glamorous from the start . Holly is not really " Holly " but Lula Mae Barnes Golightly - one time second wife of Doc Golightly ( Ebsen ) , who tired of country living and got an annulment , and has only tried to get some financial footing to help herself and her brother Fred ( who is currently in the army ) . She has always found life hard ( Doc tells Paul that Lula and Fred were caught by him stealing turkey eggs when kids ) . So Holly discovers that only if she can be a sophisticate can she break her poverty routes . She is " discovered " by Hollywood movie boss O . J . Berman ( Balsam ) who classifies her as " a real phony " , meaning that she really buys the glitz and color he has taught her . But Holly is a call girl , and she has not found the man who can rescue her ( and brother Fred ) from poverty . She does find a fellow drifter - Paul Varjak , a writer and kept man for wealthy ( Mrs . Failenson ) . He is living in the apartment above Holly's , and the two do become close ( in the original story they only become confidants - Paul in the novel is gay ) . Slowly , in the film Paul finds that Holly is such a fragile type that he falls in love with her - unlike himself she needs protection . But she is determined to hook her millionaire - so she goes after " Rusty Trawler " the ninth richest man in the world , and " Jose Da Silva Pereira " - the wealthy Brazilian ) . In the meantime , to pay the rent between her " dates " Holly agrees to deliver " weather reports " from Sing Sing prison , where she visits mobster Sally Tomato ( Alan Reed in a really nice little cameo ) . She is unaware of the meaning of those messages . Holly is something of a classy feather-head , not being able to understand the reports of " snow " in New Orleans from Uncle Sally , nor being able to understand how she gets under the skin of her neighbor , the photographer Mr . Yunioshi ( Mickey Rooney ) . She drives the latter crazy by her constantly waking him up to let her into the apartment when she forgets her passkey , and also by her loud parties . Yet even Yunioshi is secretly captivated by this annoying neighbor : notice how she gets him to calm down by promising to allow him he'll photograph her in the buff . All the performances are fine ( of note see Ebsen in his saddest part , as the broken-hearted Doc , but notice too John McGiver's fine salesman at Tiffany's ) . Rooney's Yunioshi is now considered racist , but it was not seen as such in 1961 - in fact it was normal ( compare to Marlon Brando in TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON ) . On the whole the film still is well worth watching .
The Better Version of Stevenson's Classic	While nothing can approach reading the actual novel , this television film version of THE MASTER OF BALLENTRAE is far better than the 1953 film version . At the very least it managed to recreate the real personality problems that appear in that egoist James Durrie . Michael York is shown to be an amoral , selfish human being from the start , when he is carrying on an affair with a poor girl of the local village - an affair that leaves the girl with a child that his family has to help support . York never shows any redeeming quality in his James Durrie . In fact one moment I recall ( which is not in the novel , but should have been ) is when he and his friend Col . Burke ( here Timothy Dalton ) are commenting on requests from the Durrie family to try to economize while they are living in Paris . York smiles and laughs that they will stop drinking so much brandy and only drink champaign from now on . Richard Thomas plays Henry far better than Anthony Steel did . Steel was too young in the role - he never grew into the money obsessed ant to York's spendthrift grasshopper that Thomas could grown into . But the writers watered it down a little , allowing Thomas to be a bit warmer than Henry is in the novel ( and allowing a genuine affection to grow between Thomas and his wife ) . It is a bearable change in the story . Similarly commendable is the worldwide scope of this film version : there are scenes in the novel in the Caribbean , Europe , and India , which are picked up on as we watch James traveling around the world with Burke . The only difference here is that Burke dies in India ( but significantly his death barely fazes his so-called friend James ) . The pirate section in the Caribbean is also changed because the pirate is Blackbeard ( called Captain Teach - Brian Blessed in a nice performance ) . I don't think that Blackbeard would have killed off his own crew as Blessed did , but it was an interesting section of the film . The finale of the novel in the upstate section of the colony of New York maintains the fantastic trick that Stevenson used in the novel - a trick which may be too fantastic . However , it's results are also watered down here , as only one fatality results . With all these alterations the story's bitterness is handled quite well . It certainly is a worthy addition to the films that have appeared based on Stevenson's works in the movies and on television .
Wilder's Directing Debut - " Su-Su you're a knockout ! "	Billy Wilder , like his contemporary Preston Sturgis , gained attention in Hollywood at Paramount Studio as a screen writer . And oddly enough both decided to become directors because of unfair feelings towards the work of director Mitchell Leisin with their scripts . Wilder did not like Leisin's work with MIDNIGHT , and Sturgis did not like his work with REMEMBER THE NIGHT . It was unfair because Leisin did not have the cynical edge of Wilder and Sturgis , but Leisin was into bringing a more human element into his films ( oddly enough , in later years , Wilder would too ) . They both got permission from Paramount to direct - Wilder a little after Sturgis did , because Sturgis had demonstrated he could be quite successful as a director . THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR is Wilder's first film as director , and his first comedy . He demonstrated in it that he was above average in his ability to direct , getting the first good performance he got out of Ray Milland and an equally good one out of Ginger Rogers . He and his partner Charles Brackett did the screenplay here - a simple story of a woman who gets fed up with her failing life in New York City , and decides to return ( however regretfully it may seem ) to her small mid-western town . But Susan Applegate has a problem - she hasn't enough money for her ticket by train . Then she discovers she does have enough for her ticket if she can convince everyone she is a very tall teenager . So she does , as twelve year old " Su Su Applegate " . Complete with pig-tales and a balloon ( and temporarily accompanied by Tom Dugan , who agrees to be her " father " for a price ) " Su Su " gets her ticket , only to be cheated by Dugan out of most of the remaining money she was carrying ( she does kick him though ! ) . She ends up hiding from suspicious conductors in a private sleeping compartment with Major Philip Kirby ( Milland ) , who is returning to his job at a military academy after a fruitless attempt to get into the war effort ( it is 1942 ) . Kirby is engaged to the daughter of the commandant of the academy , Pamela Hill ( Rita Johnson ) . What he doesn't know is that Pamela is determined to undermine every attempt he makes to get a war job . She has connections through her father's friends , which she uses like an expert . It helps that Philip has an eye problem ( though not a major one ) . Because she is traveling alone , Philip takes Su-Su to the academy until they can have her picked up or driven to her home . She becomes an instant social success with all of the cadets - most of whom test out their young libidos on her by demonstrating how the Nazi blitzkrieg by-passed the Maginot Line ( you have to see it to believe it ) . Only one person is not taken in - Pamela's sister Lucy ( Diana Lynn ) . Lucy is going to be a scientist , and she can tell that Su-Su is just too well developed to be her age . But Lucy and Su-Su soon develop a close friendship ( as Lucy eventually admits , Susan is far more of a sister to her than Pamela ever was ) . So Su-Su's secret is safe - and she and Lucy soon are trying to figure out how to counteract Pamela's efforts against Philip . The film has many lovely touches , like Su-Su taking over the switch board ( the cadet who is caught as a result , and who has been listening to " My Mother Done Told Me " , looks angrily at her and yells out " A woman's a two-face ! " ) . There are also the appearances of Robert Benchley as the amorous Mr . Osborne , who knew Susan as Susan in New York , but meets Su-Su at a dance at the military academy ( Benchley's son is a cadet there ) . He goes crazy trying to figure out where he met this girl before . But best is the interaction between Milland and Rogers , one highlight of which shows Wilder at his wickedest ( and would not be repeated in 1940s comedies again ) . Trying to get little Su-Su to be careful with the cadets , " Uncle Philip " gives her a " birds and the bees " lecture . She asks him if he thinks she is attractive . He looks carefully at her , and says , " Why Su-Su you're a knockout ! ' She leaves , and he shuts the door smiling . The smile has a touch too much teeth in it - almost a sensual smile . And Milland realizes it . . . and a moment later he cringes thinking that he is becoming a potential child molester . Will Philip get his wartime commission ? Will Pamela get defeated , and Susan eventually reveal herself to Philip as a grown woman ( she likes him very much ) ? You have to see the film to see how it works out . It also has the added attraction of Ginger Roger's mother Leila playing Susan's mother . Altogether a capital film , and a good directorial debut for Wilder .
A film both amusing and touching	I saw this film yesterday , and enjoyed every minute of it . Cameron Diaz and Toni Collette are sisters who have had a bumpy relationship . Their mother died in an auto accident years before , and their father married a shrewish woman who has always favored her own daughter over her step-daughters . Collette was able to graduate law school and build up a good career in a law firm . Diaz , the more attractive sister , has always seemed a chronic failure and good time type . She also has other problems , including a learning disability and a habit of stealing ( especially from Collette ) . After a series of particular blunders and escapades that injure Collette ( who is feeling low for her own reasons ) there is an explosion that leads to the sisters splitting . Collette also leaves her regular job , in order to re-evaluate her options . Diaz , in the meantime , discovers the existence of their surviving grandmother ( Shirley MacLaine ) and goes to visit her ( she has no alternative ) . At that point I will not explain anymore plot . The acting is superb , as the two estranged sisters end up how much they really rely on each other as their closest friend and ally . MacLaine plays an intelligent grandparent , who slowly reveals her own tragic ghosts , and how it has helped hurt the two girls growing up . The other members of the cast do fantastic jobs , in particular Norman Lloyd as an elderly patient in the local hospital : he helps Diaz regain her self-confidence regarding her brains in a moving segment . Although the ladies dominate the film , it really is better than to call it a " chick flick " . It's an intelligent , even funny , movie .
Banking in Little Italy in the 1930s	Edward G . Robinson played many ethnic types in his career , including sinister Chinese types in THE HATCHET MAN and Greek seamen in TIGER SHARK . But he played many Italian - Americans , mostly involved in criminal activities . Best known is his Rico Bandello in LITTLE CAESAR , but he also did Remy Marko in A SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER . And there is the more respectable , but still illegal gentleman in this film , Gino Monetti . Living in the middle of Little Italy in a mansion , Monetti started out as a barber , living in a single room with his wife Theresa ( Esther Minciotti ) , and his four sons . They grow up to be Joe ( Luther Adler ) , Max ( Richard Conte ) , Tony ( Efrem Zimberlist Jr . ) , and Pietro ( Paul Valentine ) . Monetti's views of his Italian heritage and his adopted land's culture are mixed . He loves the music of his homeland - he's frequently playing opera ( Rossini's THE BARBER OF SEVILLE sung by Lawrence Tibbett is heard at one point on his record player ) . He does have a sense of tradition : every Wednesday Theresa cooks a big dinner for the family , and everyone has to come ( including Max's fiancé Maria Domenico - Debra Paget - and her mother Helena Domenico - Hope Emerson - and Joe's wife Elena - Diana Douglas ) . Gino will talk about how different life in America is , where a man does not have to forever be in the same job as his father , or where cities grow upward due to skyscrapers . But he treats three of his sons as servants . Joe , who is his oldest , is asked to scrub Gino's back in the bathtub , or has to chauffeur his father around , and is only a clerk in the bank ( although called first Vice President ) . Pietro is referred to as " dumb-head " because he likes to work on a boxing career rather than an office job . Tony is a lady's man , always quiet and well dressed , and dismissed by his father as a weakling . Only Max has gained the old man's respect - he became an attorney ( and a pretty good one ) . The bank itself is a mixed concern . When Frank Puglia asks for a $150 . 00 loan to buy a horse , he only gets $120 . 00 as $30 . 00 is taken off the top as interest on the new loan ( later the loan has escalated to being $280 . 00 ) . A poor woman needing money , however , gets the money without any interest being given . It later develops that Gino is lousy with bookkeeping , and resents government interest in his bank , but he is an intelligent banker , on the whole a decent guy , but he occasionally turns into a usurer . Max , although engaged to Maria , meets a socialite named Irene Bennett ( Susan Hayward ) , who initially hires him to help an ex-boyfriend who robbed her . They gradually get into an affair , which threatens the engagement to Maria . Hayward's jealousy eventually leads to a break in it . At just that time , government actions close the bank and lead to a trial for Gino on serious fraud charges . Max tries to defend him , but he finds Gino too hot-tempered on the witness stand . He talks about the case with Joe ( who is not too interested in whether the old man goes to jail or not ) , and says that possibly if they bribe a juror they can save Gino . Joe refuses to help . Max tries to bribe the juror , but finds himself arrested instead . It results in his disbarment and seven years in prison . Gino is not sent to prison , but finds the bank reorganized by Joe , Tony , and Pietro , and he is put out to pasture . Still Gino encourages hatred in Max to his brothers , pointing out that Joe probably tipped off the police about the bribery attempt . So Max leaves prison to confront his three siblings , and to see if he can resume life with Irene . And Joe , Tony ( who has married Maria ) , and Pietro wonder if Max is going to be a troublemaker . The film captured an aspect of life on the lower East side rarely shown in films - how did banks work in those immigrant enclaves ? This was before major banks had branches around the cities , and small local banks ( like Monetti's ) were common . And were run in the same haphazard manner until the Depression made the government take a closer look . The film , directed by Joseph Mankiewicz , crackles with good dialog ( and steamy lines too - particularly between Conte and Hayward ) . Robinson's Gino is memorable - not a really bad man , but one who forgot certain simple family rules regarding his sons . Even minor characters have good moments : Hope Emerson's fury at Conte's flaunting his affair with Hayward leads to a confrontation scene , and the dinner at the Monetti's reveals how Diana Douglas ( Kirk's wife ) is a non-Italian mainliner that Luther Adler married , who barely likes her in-laws ( she can't stand spaghetti dinners , and wants him to have a promised raise so she can entertain HER friends ) . It is a rewarding movie about social mobility and it's pitfalls in the urban immigrant circles .
As Promising as Moonlight in a Martini	I don't think that many films ( especially comedies ) have added memorable , quotable dialog like MOONSTRUCK . I won't illustrate it - you can see a remarkably long list of quotes on this thread - but any film that can make subjects like the defense of using expensive copper piping rather than brass for plumbing purposes into memorable dialog is amazing to me . It is not the only line that pops up and makes an imprint on our memory . How about a restaurant waiter who regrets a planned marriage proposal because it will mean the loss of an old bachelor client ? Or a nice , elderly dog fancier encouraging his pack to howl at he moon ? Or Perry ( John Mahoney's ) description of a female student's youthful promise as " moonlight in a martini " ( my favorite line ) . MOONSTRUCK is a wonderful example of brilliant script , first rate direction , and a good ensemble cast that fits perfectly . There are other examples ( the drama THE OX-BOW INCIDENT is another example , but a grimmer one ) . Cher , Olympia Dukakis , Vincent Gardenia , Nicholas Cage , John Mahoney , and Danny Aiello are all involved in plots and cross purposes that examine the nature of love , and how to handle it . Is it a good thing to be totally in love ? Cher and Cage , at the end , seem to think so , but Dukakis knows that real love drives the individual crazy ( and Cage gets a glimmer of realization of this too , when he and Cher argue outside his home after they return from the opera La Boheme ) . Is infidelity by men a way of avoiding thoughts of death . Dukakis believes so , and ( oddly enough - although he is not totally convinced ) Aiello . Chance reveals infidelity - Dukakis realizes early that Gardenia's odd behavior is tied to unfaithfulness , and Cher literally stumbles onto Gardenia and his girlfriend at the opera ( but Gardenia also stumbles onto Cher's similar unfaithfulness to Aiello ) . But chance also causes misunderstandings : Fyodor Chaliapin stumbles on Dukakis walking with John Mahoney and thinks that she is having an affair . There are lovely little moments in the film too . Cher's observation about flowers leading to receiving one . Her hearing the argument in the liquor shop and it's resolution . But best is the sequence of Louis Guss and Julie Bovasso as Cher's uncle and aunt Raymond and Rita Cappomaggi and Rita's charming and kind comment to Raymond about the effect of the moonlight on him . It is the sweetest moment of the entire film . It is close to a flawless film . After seeing it over a dozen times in as many years I can only find two points that do not seem as smooth as they should be . When Cher is at Cage's bakery , his assistant Chrissy ( Nada Despotovich ) mentions how she is secretly in love with Cage , but has been afraid to tell him . Earlier she was slightly snippy towards Cher , who put her in her place quickly . Yet nothing seems done with this potential rivalry . At the same time , the fact that Cher forgets to deposit her uncle and aunt's daily business profits is brought in momentarily in the concluding seven minutes of the film - but just as quickly dropped . Was there supposed to be some plot lines that were dropped , besides one about Cher and Vincent Gardenia working at a homeless man's shelter as penance ? It is a small annoyance , but I think it is just based on a desire to see more of this film because it is so very good .
Doings in Dawson in ' 96	Anthony Mann's westerns with Jimmy Stewart are slowly gaining for that director a position with John Ford and Howard Hawks as the best film director in that genre . He certainly knows how to give dimension to nice guy Stewart - in Mann's films there is an edge to Jimmy that is slowly demonstrated to the audience . In WINCHESTER ' 73 it was the relationship of Stewart to his brother and how it twists him into a figure of vengeance . Here it is a " I trust only myself " attitude , which leads to one complication after another . Even before the film properly begins he ( as Jeff Webster ) kills two of his hired cowboys who were helping on a cattle drive to Seattle because of some dispute ( we never are clear about it - either they wanted to leave the cattle drive , or they tried to steal the cattle ) . He meets his match in Skagway , the port he has to get to in order to take his herd to Dawson . Skagway's boss is a so-called law man named Gannon ( John McIntyre ) who reminds one of the real boss of Skagway in the " Gold Rush " Jefferson " Soapy " Smith and Judge Roy Bean . The problem is that neither Smith nor Bean would have gotten quite as sleazy as Gannon in turning every opportunity into a chance to make some money . Stewart's herd interrupted a public hanging - so ( as a penalty fine ) the herd is confiscated ( to be sold later for Gannon's profit ) . Stewart is partner with Ben ( Walter Brennan - who oddly enough won his last Oscar playing Judge Roy Bean ) . They are also joined by Rube Morris ( Jay C . Flippen ) and also meet two women , the sophisticated Rhonda Castle ( Ruth Roman ) and the friendly and helpful Renee Vallon ( Corinne Calvert ) . Rhonda works closely with Gannon , but had helped Jeff earlier in fleeing the authorities in Seattle . However , she has a similar " I only trust myself " attitude to Jeff . She does offer him employment to get supplies for herself to Dawson . He , Ben , and Rube go but at night ( while the others are asleep ) they go back and steal back their cattle . Renee follows and warns them that Gannon and his associates are following . Jeff holds off Gannon long enough for the cattle herd to be brought over the Canadian border , although Gannon points out that since Jeff has to return by way of Skagway Gannon can wait until he does to hang him . The reunited party of Rhonda and Jeff split over the trail to take to Dawson , Jeff opting for a longer and safer route . After he is proved right , they go by his route and reach Dawson only to find there is a lawless element threatening the community due to the gold fields . The herd is sold to Rhonda , and Jeff , Ben , Rube , and Renee start prospecting . There is soon two groups in the town of Dawson . One led by Connie Gilchrist and Chubby Johnson want to build a decent town . But the Mounties won't be setting up a station in Dawson for months . The other , centering around the " dancehall " run by Rhonda , are in cahoots with Gannon who has a vast claim jumping scheme using his gang of gunslingers ( Robert J . Wilke - really scary in one sequence with Chubby Johnson and Jay C . Flippen , Jack Elam , and Harry Morgan ) . Jeff wishes to steer clear of both , and head with his new wealth and Ben for a ranch they want in Utah . But will they get there ? And will Jeff remain neutral ? The performances are dandy here , including Stewart as a man who is willing to face all comers , but would otherwise be peaceful enough . Brennan is playing one of his patented old codgers , whose love of good coffee has unexpectedly bad results . Flippen is a drunk at first , but tragedy and responsibility shake him into a better frame of mind - and one who has a chance to verbally stab Stewart in the heart using Stewart's own words against him . McIntyre would achieve stardom on television in WAGON TRAIN replacing Ward Bond , but his work in Mann's films show his abilities as a villain ( such as his trade post opportunist who outsmarts himself in WINCHESTER ' 73 ) . He is , as is said elsewhere on this thread , really sleazy - but he has a sense of humor . Roman is an interesting blend of opportunist and human being , whose fate is determined by her better feelings . And Calvert is both a voice of conscience and a frontier " Gigi " aware that she is more than a young girl but a budding woman . Best of all is the Canadian Rockies background - as wonderful in its way as the use of Monument Valley by John Ford . Mann certainly did a first rate job directing this film , and the viewer will appreciate the results .
An American Auschwitz ?	Based on a Broadway play , THE ANDERSONVILLE TRIAL was a made for television production directed by George C . Scott with a number of major performances , led by William Schatner as the Union Prosecutor , and Jack Cassidy as the Southern born defense counsel for Confederate Captain Henry Wirtz ( Richard Basehart ) . The court-martial is headed by General Lew Wallace ( Cameron Mitchell ) , who is determined to bring in a speedy , clean-cut verdict as quickly as possible . Among the witnesses is Albert Salmi , a Union soldier who survived the camp , but who has a dirty secret that clever Jack Cassidy pushes into the faces of the court-martial judges . Historically some 49 , 000 Union prisoners were sent to Andersonville , and 13 , 000 died there under hideous conditions . Food was scarce . They had little in the way of proper shelter . The camp's sanitation was non-existent . Who was to blame ? Well , at the time blame was on Captain Wirtz , who was commander of the camp . All decisions for the sake of the men were in his hands , and the number of dead was too large to ignore . However , the Confederacy in 1863-65 was having trouble feeding it's troops and it's people . Wirtz actually tried to get supplies , but couldn't get far on that . Also , Northern prisons for Confederate prisons , such as Elmira in New York State , were equally vile . Finally , attempts by the South to get a trade of captured soldiers with the North ground to a halt due to the combined refusal of General Grant or Secretary of War Stanton to agree to it ( they reasoned the released trained southern soldiers would resume war work , and lengthen the course of the war ) . Wirtz would be found guilty , and would be hanged in November 1865 . He was the only Confedrate hanged for a war crime ( unless you count the four Lincoln Assassination defendants ) . The play tries to show the impossible situation that fell on Wirtz's shoulders , with him trying to balance his duty to the southern cause , his duty to his prisoners , and his fears of those prisoners . Basehart's agonizing testimony on the stand , where he keeps thinking of the prisoners tunneling and tunneling out of the camp , is still a memory to me yet , thirty five years after I saw it the first time . But there is more than that in the play . The scene where Mitchell is trying to get the prosecution to concentrate only on the facts , and not give rise to a theory of unchecked universal evils ( " A world of Andersonvilles " , as Shatner puts it ) is wonderful . Mitchell is trying to remind Shatner that all he has to do is prove a case against this defendant . Finally , in disgust , Mitchell asks a hypothetical question to test the loyalty of Shatner to the U . S . : What if the U . S . had supported slavery in 1860 and the South supported abolition ? Shatner shatters Mitchell by insisting a greater loyalty would dictate supporting the Confederacy . Jack Cassidy has some terrific moments attacking the prosecution , which he rightly considers a show trial and an act of hypocrisy . He even gets under Shatner's skin at one point by showing how Shatner - if he gets a conviction - will have something to build a political career on . All in all it was a terrific moment of televised drama . It has been shown occasionally and it should be shown more . Oh , by the way . I mentioned the Northern Prison Camp at Elmira , NY . It's commander was Benjamin Tracy . In the post war eras ( he died in 1917 ) , Mr . Tracy became a successful corporate lawyer , leading New York State Republican , and Secretary of the Navy under President Benjamin Harrison ( 1889 - 1893 ) . He is considered by some the father of the modern U . S . Navy . Wirtz , his opposite number , was hanged . Sometime in the 1950s or so , his grave received a new tombstone from some unknown supporter . It gives his name , dates of birth and death , and puts under it , " C . S . A . Martyr " . I leave it for the reader to decide what was justice or what wasn't .
The World's Oldest Chorus Boy	Frequently in Bob Hope films he portrays inept stage artists . In MY FAVORITE SPY he's a third rate burlesque comic , Peanuts White . In FANCY PANTS he is Arthur Tyler , who has learned too much about cue lines in plays ( he keeps jumping slightly ahead of them - which is pretty bad usually , but worse in a stage melodrama like the play we see him in ) . He does play the great vaudevillian Eddie Foy Sr . in THE SEVEN LITTLE FOYS , but to keep his kids near him all the time Eddie has to incorporate them into an act that is so bad it is entertaining in an unintentional way . In HERE COME THE GIRLS he remains his normal inept self . He is Stanley Snodgrass , a woefully bad chorus boy who has been working in a small New York theater for years , much to the annoyance of the theater owner-producer Harry Fraser ( Fred Clark ) . Not only is Stanley a bad dancer ( lousing up the choreography ) but he is annoying the leading lady Irene Bailey ( Arlene Dahl ) with his attentions . This is also annoying to her boyfriend and co-star Allen Trent ( Tony Martin ) , and also unsettling to the one person in the cast who likes Stanley , chorus girl Daisy Crockett ( Rosemary Clooney ) . Daisy ( level headed girl that she appears ) actually loves Stanley . Although he appreciates her interest he's too tied up throwing himself ( sometimes literally ) before the fed up Irene to really consider it . I may add that while Stanley's mother is all for Stanley's artistic efforts , his father Albert ( Millard Mitchell ) wants Stanley to settle down and take over his coal transporting business ( the film is set in 1900 - coal is used for heating homes and buildings ) . Stanley will have none of it . One day Stanley louses up so badly that a happy Fraser fires him . Except for Clooney the cast and company are quite happy at this decision . Unfortunately for Fraser's peace of mind Irene has won a second unwanted conquest - a local psychopathic type known as " Jack the Slasher " ( Robert Strauss ) . He has killed several men and women for various reasons , and he now sends a message that he will kill his rival for Irene . This is a threat directed at Trent , so Fraser is beside himself : not only is the performer's life in danger , but he may lose a good leading man ( Clark's characters are always " quite sentimental " ) . The New York Detective on the case , Dennis Logan ( William Demerest ) suggests that they set a trap using another patsy for the bait . Biting back his bile , Fraser rehires Stanley , and promotes him to the lead ( with Trent as his understudy ) . The results are quite funny , with the still inept Stanley holding center stage now of what is supposed to be a hit musical comedy . But why are so many odd things happening to him - close calls and near calamities . Daisy is concerned about this , and tries to inquire , only to be put off by Fraser and Logan . As for Stanley , he is more concerned about following through with his approach to Irene , who is sick of fighting him off ( at one point she manages to knock him out ) . Allen , of course is not thrilled about that , nor of getting lectured about acting and singing from the new lead . There are some great moments in the film , including a brief telephone sequence where a hopeful Fred Clark asks if Strauss has killed Hope , only to learn no such luck . A disaster with a Chinese-owned business shows Mitchell the wisdom of his son being involved in the family business . The conclusion , with Hope running amok on stage to avoid an infuriated Strauss is one of the best conclusions in Hope's films , as is the epilogue pay-off that Clooney manages to set up for Hope's benefit . Definitely one of the best of Hope's films
Sturgis showing his comic abilities - but still in the wings	Before " Christmas In July " and " The Great McGinty " Preston Sturgis was a screenplay writer - one of the two great screenplay writers of the 1930s who graduated into very respectable directorial careers ( the other being Billy Wilder , of course ) . Oddly both men cut their abilities at Paramount , not MGM . And both claimed that they were dissatisfied with the ways two of their best scripts were shot ( " Easy Living " and " Remember The Night " ) , butchered ( in their opinion ) by the same director : Mitchell Leisin . Actually this was hardly fair to Leisin . If he did not have quite the cynical bite of either Sturgis or Wilder , he did not ruin their screenplays . He tended to make characters more human . Moreover , it is hard to support the comment about " Easy Living " , when Leisin is credited ( not Wilder and Charles Brackett his partner ) with the most famous scene in that film : Leisin created the Automat scene where all the doors of the Automat food compartment fly open and all the bums in New York City run amok getting free food ! This was not ruining a film , but improving it . Sturgis ' screenplays were an interesting group . He wrote the screenplay for the Edward Arnold biography " Diamond Jim " . He also did the Ronald Colman - Basil Rathbone film " If I Were King " . He also did the Bob Hope - Martha Raye - Andy Devine comedy " Never Say Die " . His screenplay work was generally quite sharp , and never sharper ( prior to his own directing ) than in " The Good Fairy " . Margaret Sullavan plays Luisa Ginglebusher , who has just come of age , and has to leave the convent school presided over by Beulah Bondi . Luisa has been well brought up , and she is determined to live up to the best traditions . One thing is her determination to do good . Naturally , she is like a wide eyed lamb in a world of wolves . Sure enough she soon is taken ( briefly ) under the wing of an arch-wolf , Cesar Romero . But she finds she has attracted a good fairy of her own , Detlaff the waiter ( Reginald Owen ) . If one thinks of Owen solely from his nice performance as Ebenezer Scrooge , it is wonderful to see him kick off his comic shoes and timing in a film like this . He sees Luisa as a decent girl , and she is making sure she remains that way in the wilds of the wicked city of Budapesth . But Luisa sees herself as a good fairy , and she picks , out of a telephone book , a name of a person to help . It is a lawyer , Dr . Max Sporum ( Herbert Marshall - complete with chin whiskers ) . Sporum is a fiercely honest attorney ( which explains the lack of clients ) . Luisa , when she discovers this , decides to encourage customers . She has attracted one old goat : Konrad a rich meat factory owner ( Frank Morgan ) . She manages to convince him that she is married to the struggling Sporum , and that she would do anything to help her " husband " make a success . Konrad takes the hint , and goes to Sporum to make him his lawyer . Sporum is amazed but thinks Konrad was told about him by an old law professor , Dr . Stanislav Metz ( Eric Blore ) . When Luisa talks to him about his success afterward Sporum is still in a state of euphoria ( he took some of the first retainer money to buy a pencil sharpener ) . Luisa does suggest some new clothing and he shave off his whiskers . Eventually Luisa is in over her head , as she tries to balance Sporum ( who she is falling for ) , Konrad , and the guardian angel Detlaff . And it's done quite well . Look at the scene where Detlaff is serving Konrad and Luisa in the restaurant and keeps knocking every possible dish Konrad suggests they order ( " What kind of restaurant is this ? " , a perplexed Konrad / Morgan asks ) . The scene where Marshall has to shave his beard ( Luis Alberni is the barber - also with a beard ) is brief but funny , as Alberni tries to talk Marshall out of the sacrifice . He just barely loses . It was a wonderful comedy , hinting at what the writer was capable of . And with names like Sporum and Ginglebusher future Sturgis names like Kockenlocker and Hackensacker were just around the corner . One only regrets that none of the leads , except Cesar Romero , ever appeared in a Sturgis film when he was directing them .
Hume Cronym's Best Remembered Role Before Old Age	Tonight Turner Classic Films were showing five films in honor of actor writer Hume Cronym ( whose birthday is July 18 ) . Cronym has only been dead now for five years , but he was an impressive character actor in comedy and in drama . I was lucky twenty years ago to see the Broadway production of THE PETITION a two person play Cronym played with his wife and partner Jessica Tandy , and I can vouch he was a crisp and fine a performer on stage as he was in his films . Captain Muncey is one of the most detestable villains in motion pictures , turning his prison into a private torture chamber , with the apparent acquiescence of his guards ( note Ray Teal , his personal guard and assistant ) . He has his way in the prison due to the weakness of the burned out warden Roman Bohman and the bullying of a political hack from the Governor's office ( Richard Gaines ) who is impressed by Muncey's claims of the need for discipline . But as the wise but alcoholic doctor ( Art Smith ) points out , while discipline has a place the Warden has never given an order to Muncey telling him to crucify the prisoners . It's a rather pitiful prison system we see here , and sad to say it remains a problem . The warden keeps bemoaning his failure to come to grips with rehabilitation and punishment , but he has no real suggestions in him , and he is really more upset about what he will do when he is forced out for the rest of his life . The doctor tries to give a degree of humanity to the prisoners lives ( interestingly enough , like the alcoholic doctor played by Dudley Digges in MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY ) , but he is aware that he has no place to work outside the prison he is in either . Muncey , in fact , taunts him as a surgical butcher , suggesting something he did went terribly wrong . Muncey and his guards seem to fall into dominating and assaulting the prisoners at the drop of a hat . When Whit Bissell is walked into accidentally by Cronym in the lunchroom , Teal starts clubbing him until even Cronym points out it was his own fault not Bissell's . Only at one late point in the film , when Cronym is beating up Sam Levene in his locked office , do we see some of the guards react - but none intervene . The film ( well directed by noir specialist Jules Dassin ) follows the last week of Cronym's system before it collapses . There have been increasing numbers of prisoners dying because Cronym has purposely put them into unsanitary and deadly work , especially in the main drains of the prison . One prisoner , Burt Lancaster , has refused to crack so far ( he has been put in solitary due to a " shiv " being planted on him , with the connivance of Cronym and Teal ) . He returns to his cell and the prisoner who was the collaborator on this is killed later on in a stunningly good scene in the prison workshop . Lancaster is determined to escape and learns from a dying prisoner that there is a route through the drain . It has to be used in a timed escape that requires a riot in the prison yard and the use of an armed truck . To coordinate Lancaster need the help of the prison trustee ( Charles Bickford ) , but the latter is up for parole . Lancaster plans the escape with his cell mates ( Howard Duff - in his first film , John Hoyt , Whit Bissell , Jack Overman , and Jeff Corey ) . In the course of their discussions they each tell stories about their lives , showing that the economic forces of the world frequently force them into crime ( Bissell embezzles to help him and his wife ; Duff takes the blame for a murder his wife - Yvonne De Carlo - committed to help him when he was being arrested for giving food to the Italians in the war ; Hoyt , a colorful confidence man , is robbed with his own gun of the proceeds of a swindle and a visit to the gambling tables by an attractive woman who also steals his car ; Lancaster has been keeping his crippled , cancer ridden wife ( Ann Blythe ) from knowing he is a criminal and prisoner ) . One gets a feeling that these men did not have to become criminals but were forced into it . This is the weakness of the film , forgetting how many criminals in prison deserve to be in prison for their actions . As was pointed out in another review on this thread , there are sexual criminals who we never see , and the ones sentenced to death ( the film is set in 1947 ) are never even mentioned . Nor are problems among male or female prisoners in their own prisons dealing with sexual predators among their fellow prisoners ( and the guards sometimes ) . However , one can safely say that no prisoner deserves a set of guards controlled by an ego-maniacal sadist like Cronym's Muncey . The film was shot shortly after World War II , so it is notable that Muncey likes to play Wagnerian music ( so long established as music for Nazis ) in his office . In fact , when he beats Sam Levene in his office he has the Wagner music playing loudly to drown Levene's screams ( oddly enough the music is not from the " RING " Cycle , but from TANNHAUSER , and it is the " Venusburg " music which was supposed to be sensual ! ) . Still the film shows the cruel , power-mad Captain as an unforgettable villain . He is as aware at the end of Lancaster's plans as he can be - but he is also aware of the warning Art Smith gives him - that power mad people end up being destroyed by their power . In his last few moments ( as one sees in the film ) Captain Muncey does find out how true this comment is .
Welcome to Marx , Engels , Lenin , Stalin , and TXXXXsky Street	It is the forgotten Brooks movie . Probably because it has the most controlled script story , and had the least wild , satyric inventiveness of any of his films . After he wrote and directed the original THE PRODUCERS , Brooks did not do another film for a few years . The second one was this one set in the post-Russian Revolution period in the Soviet Union . Ron Moody ( Fagin in the musical OLIVER ) is a minor Tsarist nobleman who discovers , when attending his mother-in-law on her death bed , that she hid her fortune in jewelry in one of the dining room chairs . There were a set of twelve chairs , and they were appropriated by the government to be given to deserving members of the proletariat . Moody discovers that his mother-in-law did confess this to one person besides him : the local Russian Orthodox Priest ( Dom DeLuise ) . Moody finds the latter a difficult opponent to beat to the fortune first . By chance he falls in with a young swindler ( Frank Langella ) and he and Langella pursue the chairs , and also send DeLuise on a wild goose chase following a second set of similar chairs . What we get is a view of the Soviet Union in 1928 , as the Civil Wars died out and the regime consolidated power . Trotsky's name is now dismissed ( as a street shows ) . The stage is dominated by the state oriented drama that is anti-capitalist . Witness the performance of Andreas Voutsinas - the original " Carmen Ghia " in the first PRODUCERS , as the government backed manager of the theater group that Moody and Langella join . There is a life and death threat behind comments he gives to one of the stage crew he controls . We also see how the common people try to cope with the changes - being sent across country on government sponsored jobs - to houses that the government may furnish . Brooks has his first role in his own films in this one - as Tikhon , the drunken , ex-servant of Moody . He receives a slap from the latter , and considers it exactly like a hug . Like IT'S A MAD , MAD , MAD , MAD WORLD , THE TWELVE CHAIRS looks at the antics people will go through for hidden wealth . Langella , who is a street criminal anyway , is the only sane member of the three treasure seekers . He is a realist ( the first really serious one in Brooks ' films ) , and has adapted to the new conditions fairly easily by living on his considerably keen wits . He realizes that he is hampered as well as helped by his alliance with Moody , but manages to figure out how to live with Moody as best as possible . Moody has become a bureaucrat to survive in the new regime ( he's suspect as an aristocrat ) , but he still has his pretenses . It takes the events he shares with Langella for him to finally give up his pretenses . Together both men find out what is really worthwhile about living . DeLuise is less lucky . He just discovers the perils of being a loner .
" The Bronx is Up and the Battery's Down . . . "	This is a really great musical , and that is an odd thing to admit . Because , for a great musical it has little in the way of great music . The reputation of Leonard Bernstein as a composer is one of the stickiest points about his career to discuss among lovers of American music and musicals . Bernstein was a great conductor . He was also a great teacher of music appreciation , as his series of " Young People's Concerts " on television showed . But was he a great composer ? He tried to be , composing serious music that was for the concert hall , most of which has never caught on with the public . As for his music for the theater , the results are mixed . " On The Town " ( based on the music for his ballet about sailors in New York , " Fancy Free " ) , " Trouble In Tahiti " , " Candide " , " Wonderful Town " and ( best of all ) " West Side Story " were popular hits of the 1940s and 1950s . But how successful do they remain . Forgetting " West Side Story " - which has his best , truly memorable score , " Candide " manages to get revived , but there are problems with the book ( will they use Lillian Hellman's version or Hugh Wheeler's ) . " Come and be Gay " is a semi-standard , but how frequently does one hear " This is the best of all possible worlds " . Same problem happens with " Trouble In Tahiti " , which is revived even less than " Candide " . " On The Town " had a successful revival in New York four years back , but it's sole semi-standard ( hardly sung by singers in concert or nightclubs ) is " It's a Wonderful Town " . " Wonderful Town " has a good book ( based on " My Sister Eileen " ) but the tunes like " That's the Way to Lose a Man " and " Ohio " are serviceable but not permanent repertory . Those are the memorable musicals . His last one about the Presidency , " 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue " , was a flop from the first day ( care to hear " The Thomas Jefferson March " ? ) . The music in " On The Town " is , again , serviceable . Some of it is sprightly - like the duet between Sinatra and Betty Garrett , " Come to My Place " . But it is basically music that was written for the purpose of dance numbers ( which it serves quite well - especially for Kelly and Vera-Ellen ) . Note the number about " Miss Turnstyles " , wherein Kelly is reading Vera-Ellen's biographical information , and we see her dancing in matching sequences to the descriptions . Or the ballet where Kelly finds himself abandoned by her when she fails to show up for a date ( which I suspect influenced him and maybe Vincent Minnelli in the better ballet at the end of " An American In Paris " where Kelly dreams of the loss of Leslie Caron ) . The story of three sailors on shore leave in New York City for twenty four hours , and how they each meet the woman of their dreams is quite enchanting ( if impossible ) to watch . The parings are fascinating : Kelly and Vera-Ellen both dancing into each other's life . Garrett ( as " Brunhilde Esterhazy " ) as a man hunting cab driver , pursuing and winning a frightened Sinatra ( still in that annoying naive dimwit series of roles - though less annoying than in " Anchors Aweigh " ) . Miller as an anthropology student attracted to the Neanderthal looking Munshin is quite funny . Yet there is a missing element here from the musical not found in the film . Miller has a boyfriend , mentioned once or twice but never seen in the film . He is financing her education . In the musical , he does appear - a judge named Pitkin . Pitkin is a sweet , nebbish , who lets Miller's character " Claire " twist him around his finger for much of the musical . They are supposed to be going out to dinner that night , and she keeps putting him off , telling him to meet her later ( she is busy with " Ozzie " ( Munshin's character ) at a variety of nightclubs ) . At the same time , in the musical , Alice Pearce's character Lucy Shmeeler is being pulled around by Gabey ( Gene Kelly's character ) while he is trying to romance Ivy Smith ( Vera-Ellen's character ) . But after the fourth time , Pitkin gets tired of this mistreatment . He sings a song ( cut with his character in the movie ) showing that the hidden lion in his personality has been aroused in anger at Claire's selfishness . He has been always too docile ( with his mother , his brother , Claire ) and he has suffered for too long as a result . But the only person who hears this is Lucy ( the other six have gone off together ) . Grabbing Lucy , Pitkin chases the sailors and the three girls , and is there at the conclusion - to help humiliate Claire and to renounce her . The lion has arrived . And there is a hint as he leaves with Lucy that possibly they might become a fourth couple . Pity this was not in the movie version , as Alice Pearce's character is treated by Kelly and the others as a good sport , but sent home alone . My comment may seem a trifle harsh , but in fact the musical is terrific as an entertainment for all the flaws I point out . But rarely has a great movie musical had so little reason to have been so successful .
Their Masterpiece Operetta	In 1884 William Schwenk Gilbert came up with the idea for a new operetta which he took to his partners Richard D'Oyly Carte and Sir Arthur Sullivan . It was about a lozenge or a drink which if taken could change the party digesting it into any person he or she wanted . Gilbert had ideas about how to develop this idea into a full story , but as he outlined the idea he was told by his partners it would not do . His only alternative was his first " medieval " Savoy Opera . In 1882 Lord Tennyson had created a verse play called THE PRINCESS . It , like all Tennyson's plays , was politely successful because of their creator's popularity . Like his fellow poet , Robert Browning , Tennyson was a good poet but a third - rate dramatist . THE PRINCESS dealt with a princess running a school only for women . Gilbert , no feminist , saw some possibilities for a spoof . So he created PRINCESS IDA , taking Tennyson's basic work and twisting it into a satire on education , feminism , and medieval romances . There would even be a dig at Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory in the song " The Lady and the Ape " . In retrospect it looks odd that Sullivan and Carte accepted it - it was a two act operetta with a prelude ( today it is known as the only three act Savoy Opera ) . Reading it , even with allowance for predominant views of women in 1884 , it is hard to understand why they felt it was suitable or would be popular . My guess is that the medieval background appealed to Sullivan's desire for a grand opera work . PRINCESS IDA ran about eight months . Given that from 1877 to 1884 the average Savoy work ran a year and then some , this was a flop ( it remains something of a flop even now - revivals of PRINCESS IDA are less likely than any of the completed operettas except for THE SORCEROR , UTOPIA LTD . , and THE GRAND DUKE ) . Sullivan actually was better in doing his share in this work than Gilbert was than in any other of their works but THE GRAND DUKE - Gilbert's heart really wasn't in PRINCESS IDA . As a result of this , and Sullivan's knighthood that year , Gilbert was in a weak position . His first offer was to let Sullivan do an operetta with another writer ( Bret Harte was mentioned , interestingly enough ) . Then he offered the lozenge plot . Sullivan refused it again . He wanted a plot with real people and real situations . Actually that Sullivan said this at all shows how little he ever understood of his partner . Gilbert was not a realist , but went to town spoofing logic . At the behest of his wife , Gilbert went to Knightsbridge , where a model Japanese village was exhibited . He found it fascinating , even buying a Japanese ceremonial sword as a souvenir . It was hanging on a wall in his study , where Gilbert was racking his brains for a new idea , when it fell . Gilbert walked to it , picked it up , and began thinking . And theatrical history was made as a result . TOPSY-TURVEY follows the story of how Gilbert presented Sullivan and Carte with their greatest work , THE MIKADO , or THE TOWN OF TITIPOO ( to give it it's complete title ) . It gives more details of the lifestyles and problems of both men ( Gilbert's poisonous relationship with his mother ; his failure to have children with his wife ; Sullivan's relationship with Mrs . Ronalds - his American born lover ) . It looks more deeply into the lives and problems of Jessie Bond , George Grossmith , Rutland Barrignton , Richard Temple , and the other members of the cast and orchestra . As such it is more detailed than THE GREAT GILBERT AND SULLIVAN was , but it only concentrates on the year 1884 to 85 . While all the performances are on target , and touching in their ways , Jim Broadbent as the stern but reliable dramatist gave his first film performance of international stature . He captures the lack of nonsense in the everyday Gilbert , the thorough craftsman of plays and productions standards ( watch him when he rehearses Grossmith and the others - he fully knows the effects he wants ) . He missed out the Oscar that he was nominated for in 1999 , but would get one a few years after for IRIS . His reputation is firmly established now . Oh , about the lozenge plot . Over the years after 1885 Gilbert brought it up again and again in 1887 , 1888 , 1889 . Each time he was shouted down . When the partners went their separate ways briefly after THE GONDELIERS , in 1890 , Gilbert approached Alfred Cellier with the idea . Cellier said yes . Sullivan finally produced his opera , IVANHOE at this time . It ran for four months , and then fell into oblivion . Gilbert and Cellier's THE MOUNTEBANKS ran for about as long as PRINCESS IDA did , and since it was not a Gilbert and Sullivan work that was terrific . It can be revived on occasion . Gilbert had been right about the lozenge plot after all .
The problem was that things seemed to be same but they looked different . . . but things can return to normal if she accepts a little difference !	Leo McCarey's " The Awful Truth " is among the best of the " screwball " comedies of the 1930s . It is also one of the simplest in plots and screenplays , because it does not require any attempts at conspiracy or hidden identities or mystery ( say as in the comic mystery " The Thin Man " , or in " His Gal Friday " - which also co-starred Cary Grant and Ralph Bellamy in somewhat similar character types ) . The plot of " The Awful Truth " is reminiscent of what Jimmy Cagney and Pat O'Brien always are arguing about as screenplay writers in " Boy Meets Girl " . There the plot is " Boy meets girl , boy loses girl , boy finds girl again ! " Here it would be , " Husband and wife split , husband and wife sabotage each other's love affairs , husband and wife reconcile ! " Grant and Irene Dunne have been married for awhile ( we later learn in court that they met when both fell in love with a puppy in a pet shop ) , but both jump to the conclusion that the other has been having extra-marital affairs ( Grant , in particular , is funny growing disgusted and angrier at Dunne's fairly blameless voice teacher Alex D'Arcy ) . They agree to separate and eventually divorce ( their only bone of contention is the puppy - " Asta " from " The Thin Man " series - who Dunne wins by a slightly sneaky trick . Dunne is introduced by her aunt ( Cecily Courtneigh ) to a neighbor in her luxury apartment house - Bellamy . He's a very wealthy oil man from Oklahoma . Grant tries to pick up a romance with a nightclub dancer ( Joyce Compton ) , but he finds he delights in humiliating Dunne with her ham-handed new beau . The scene in the nightclub is funny because of how Compton's act embarrasses Grant , but he watches Bellamy jitterbug Dunne off the dance floor . Grant manages , without fully planning it , in wrecking Dunne's romance . Then he starts showing a serious interest in snobby socialite Molly Lamont . Dunne , following this romance in the social columns , shows up at the home of Lamont's parents as Grant's drunken younger sister - and proceeds to demolish his engagement before his shocked fiancé and her parents . The reconciliation is at the end , although it seems hinted that Dunne comes out a little ahead of Grant in looking less absurd at the conclusion . The dialog is worth listening to here . A disgusted Bellamy announcing that a boy's best friend is his mother ( here Esther Dale ) . D'Arcy weakly agreeing to help Dunne make Grant look foolish - but inquiring if Grant carries a gun ( oddly enough Ingrid Bergman's servant " Carl " is used in a similar way in " Indiscreet " , and worries about getting shot by Grant too ! ) . Grant reassuring a dismal looking Dunne that if she gets tired of the nightlife of Oklahoma City , she can always go with Bellamy to swinging Tulsa . If not as somewhat meaningful as " My Man Godfrey " or as dramatically balanced as " The Thin Man " , " The Awful Truth " ends up being sweetly mirthful to the conclusion . It is a comedy that never fails to entertain .
An Early Green Masterpiece About Pure Evil	It was written by Graham Greene in the 1930s , shortly after a notorious murder case ( or cases ) in 1934 wherein two women's bodies were found in trunks in the Brighton Railway Station . One of the women was identified , and her lover / husband Tony Mancini ( who accidentally killed her in a freak accident during an argument ) barely got acquitted due to his lawyer Norman Birkett . The other woman was traced , but an ambitious local policeman wrecked the nearly completed case against a socially well connected abortionist . That Brighton , the so-called fun center for vacationing Brits , was soiled by this double tragedy goes without saying . Greene added to it the growing problem of rival criminal gangs working at race tracks and in various rackets . Big time crime is not only an American problem but is in every country . The figure of the successful thug Colleoni ( Charles Goldner ) is a good 1930 style version of the Krays of the 1960s . BRIGHTON ROCK as a film ( with screenplay by Greene and Terrance Rattigan ) actually sticks pretty close to the novel , except perhaps in the characterization of Ida Arnold ( Hermoine Baddeley - later Mrs . Naugatuck on the television comedy MAUDE ) and in the conclusion concerning the record that is left by Pinkie ( Richard Attenborough ) with his overly fixated wife Rose ( Carol Marsh ) . Greene was always using his novels to push his Catholicism , but he was a tragic realist at the bottom . Ida is shown to be determined to get justice for the dead newsman Fred Hale / " Kolley Kibber " ( Alan Wheatley ) . But Greene never likes this avenger - he finds that she unconsciously stirs up more trouble for others ( including the unfortunate Spicer ( Wylie Watson ) than her actions are worth . As for the record , at the end of the film it is broken due to Pinkie's attempt to destroy it . So it ( ironically ) only repeats him saying " I love you " . In the novel poor Rose plays it as the book ends and as the readers depart - it probably spews forth his actual message of hatred to her . Pinkie may be the worst villain in Greene's novels . He was the loyal young lieutenant of the original gang leader Kite ( whose death is mentioned at the start of the film - and is due to an expose that Hale published ) . Pinkie is ruthless and smart , so he has assumed leadership of the gang over the aging Spicer , the more rational Cubitt ( Nigel Stock ) , and Dallow ( William Hartnell , in a typically well done underplayed role - which surprises us at the end ) . However Pinkie is immature and ruthless . He sees himself as the equal of Colleoni , who is capable of spitting out enough " torpedoes " and " goons " in an hour to threaten Pinkie than the latter realizes . Pinkie never wavers from his target or goal , and we watch the steps he uses to follow the frightened Hale to the latter's end in the films first twenty minutes . He uses similar concentration on results to kill one other character , blackmail one other person , and manipulate the love besotted Rose throughout the film . But his actions are never carefully thought through . Several times he actually has all the cards in his hands to win or get away with the murder , but his immaturity and temper keep ruining his success . Rose is equally interesting - a thoroughly decent and sweet girl . Like Pinkie she is a Catholic , but a better one ( ironically he once thought of being a priest ) . She finds him threatening but also reassuring ( once he is aware he can control her he sees little real reason to do her harm - until the conclusion of the film ) . She even speaks up for him against Ida , trying to warn her about the threat to her because Rose accidentally can trip up the perfection of Pinkie's alibi for Hale's death . The murder of Hale ( in a " Dante's Inferno " " Fun House " on Brighton Pier ) is wonderfully done , using the faces of the evil spirits in the darkened tunnel to counterpoint the helplessness of Hale's situation . But the murder in the book is different . Hale is lured to an isolated spot , and he choked to death by Pinkie using a popular candy called a " Brighton Rock " thrust down the journalist throat . That was the reason for the title ( an ironic counterpoint to the holiday atmosphere of the town and the murder itself ) . Instead we see Hale is drowned in the film . Still it is an very effective sequence . The other actors are pretty good . Watson is best recalled for another sad victim he played a decade earlier : he was the unfortunate " Mr . Memory " in Hitchcock's THE THIRTY NINE STEPS . Also there is Harcourt Williams as Pinkie's lawyer , Pruitt . Williams ( best remembered for some of his roles in the Olivier Shakespeare films ) plays the elderly , crooked lawyer as a figure of some pathos : he realizes he is a ruin of the man he should have been , pointing out to Ida his photograph as a public school boy decades before . The film is a rich one , and time prevents from mentioning other points in it . Suffice to say that to keep his alibi and perfect crime perfect Pinkie must marry Rose , and must seek the moment to get rid of her , while Ida tries to get the authorities to reopen the murder . But in the end he finds ( literally ) his plans collapse to destroy him . One last point : the death of Kite was an event that Greene mentions in another novel of the period , that also was turned into a popular film . Another member of the gang was Raven , the killer who leaves the gang and becomes a hit-man in THIS GUN FOR HIRE . Probably had he stayed in Brighton , he ( not Pinkie ) would have led the gang . That would have been a different story .
A Scottish Canterville Ghost Story	Robert Donat was capable of being a humorous actor - in THE THIRTY NINE STEPS he does the impromptu campaign speech for a man he knows nothing about , introducing the character as " McCrockodile " because he can't see the man's name upside down , and then recouping his error by saying that is the candidate's nickname in Parliamentary circles . In THE ADVENTURES OF TARTU he plays an overly eccentric Iron Guardist ( Roumanian fascist ) in Nazi Germany , who annoys his hosts by his antics . But in his film career most of his films were serious ones . He was a great serious actor and his fans ( who exist to this day ) are not upset that he rarely was frivolous . Ironically his one chance to demonstrate comedy ( outside the current movie I am reviewing ) was never shot with him due to his asthmatic condition : he was supposed to play Will Mossop in HOBSON'S CHOICE , opposite his old film associate Charles Laughton , but instead his role was played by John Mills . THE GHOST GOES WILD is about a family ghost that has to redeem himself over 190 years after he disgraced his family . Murdoch Glourie ( on the surface ) resembles James Durie in THE MASTER OF BALLENTRAE . He is a carefree son of a laird ( Morton Selden - known as " the Glourie " ) who is usually romancing the local girls more than making his father proud . The difference , of course , is that James Durie is far more cynical and selfish in the Stevenson story than poor Murdoch . It is 1746 , and the Glourie ( like all good highlanders ) has gone out to support Bonnie Prince Charlie . He calls for his son Murdoch to likewise come , and do his duty . Murdoch is not too thrilled about this , but actually does show up ( unlike James Durie , who pretended to show up ) . He tries to be martial and brave , but the sons of a rival highland chief humiliate him , and in running away to hide , poor Murdoch gets blown up . Before his father dies of a broken heart , he puts a curse on the spirit of his son . Later we hear that the spirit of the father has partly forgiven the ghost of Murdoch , but he insists that Murdoch will ne'er find true peace until he demonstrates his real spirit , and humiliates the descendants of the rival laird . Generations pass , and the current owner of the castle is Donald Glourie . He is not a rich laird ( as his family supported the losing side in 1746 they are lucky they were left with the pittance of their estate that they still have ) . However , the castle attracts the attention of wealthy American Mr . Martin ( Eugene Palette ) , who is interested in buying it and moving it to America . Donald is willing but he has to tell Murdoch , who is the resident ghost . Murdoch is not too happy , although ( like Donald ) he is attracted to Peggy Martin ( Jean Parker ) , the daughter of the new owner . The film shows how the castle is taken apart and moved to the Florida estate of Mr . Martin , exciting the envy of a rival millionaire Ed Bigelow ( Ralph Bunker ) . Bigelow is determined to wreck the happiness and boasting of Martin about his owning the castle ( with it's own ghost ) and of his daughter's impending marriage to Donald . And in setting up the planned debunking of the story of the ghost in the castle , Bigelow unwittingly sets up the situation for Murdoch's own redemption . The film is quite amusing , especially as Murdoch discovers that 20th Century America is quite as frightening to him as the Highland army camp of 1746 . But he does try to overcome his fears - and in the conclusion definitely succeeds just when it is needed . The story does bear comparison to Oscar Wilde's THE CANTERVILLE GHOST , with a coward who is cursed by his father but redeems himself at the end . The performances of Donat , Palette , Selden ( splendid as ever ) , Parker , and Bunker are all quite good : Donat , in particular , playing two roles - one a fantastic type of character - with their own differences in personality and viewpoints ( Donald being more willing to consider the positive side of the castle sale than poor tradition bound Murdoch ) . The parts of the film work quite well together , fantasy balancing nicely with modern satire on oneupmanship and social prestige . How true was this type of thing ? Well , one finds it was true . If you visit William Randolph Hearst's San Simeon in California , you will be told of how portions of castles were purchased by Hearst in his European travels and used in building his American palace . Other millionaires did the same thing . It was conspicuous consumption , but given the damage to castles and palaces in Europe in two world wars , such spending habits actually were beneficial for preserving these structures . Whether actual ghosts were brought over too I could not say one way or another .
The . . . err . . . underside of the occasion in ROYAL WEDDING	One day some clever movie club organizer will realize that he could make a very enjoyable evening of two films dealing with an event from 1947 . They are ROYAL WEDDING and A PRIVATE FUNCTION . Both deal with events tied to the marriage of Philip Mountbatten ( today Prince Philip ) and Princess Elizabeth Windsor ( today Queen Elizabeth II ) . The 1951 film musical ( with Fred Astaire , Jane Powell , Peter Lawford , Sarah Churchill , and Keenan Wynn ) has a dignified , picture postcard view of the actual events in Westminster Abbey the day the future Queen and her future consort married . This was to be expected on both sides of the Atlantic in 1951 , as Sarah Churchill's father ( who probably gave the film his blessing and cooperation ) was Sir Winston Churchill , the Prime Minister of England in World War II and now again Prime Minister until 1955 . Leave it to the British to undercut the respect an American based production on the royal marriage created . For 33 years after ROYAL WEDDING , along came A PRIVATE FUNCTION . Unlike ROYAL WEDDING it does not deal with events in the British capital , and it does not not have characters with some type of fictional prestige ( Astaire and Powell are a brother and sister performing act like Fred and Adele Astaire years before , and Powell is being romanced by Lawford - a member of the aristocracy ) . No , A PRIVATE FUNCTION was about how a small coterie of local snobs in a midland city of England decided to properly celebrate the first " return of glamor " to Britain after World War II . In this midland city the nobs ( Denholm Elliott , Richard Griffiths , John Normington ) are planning a massive celebration for only those with proper social credentials ( no working class types , except for a butcher , no dark skinned types , no Jews ) . The central key to their plans is an illegal pig . A what ? Well , it is still a period of rationing in Post-War England , and the black market of meat is very strong . A special pig has been housed and bred by the butcher ( Pete Posthlewaite ) illegally at a farmer's secret shed ( the farmer , by the way , is invited too ) . Posthlewaite has been improving his own business by tipping off the local meat inspector ( Bill Paterson ) about black market acts by competitors , but Paterson is aware that no butcher is above suspicion , and he is also aware of rumors concerning a super feast with illegal pork being planned . Into this mix comes a chiropodist ( Michael Palin ) , his socially starved and pretentious wife ( Maggie Smith ) and her mother ( Liz Smith ) . Palin is trying to get his position in town set by renting a store front , but one of the nobs is Elliott who resents competition from Palin . So Palin finds the going tough ( the deal for the store front falls through , and his car and traveling chiropractic shed are purposely wrecked by Elliott ) . But in repairing his car Palin is near the farm the pig is hidden at . Subsequently , after another argument with Smith about their precarious position in the town , Palin steals the pig . And all hell breaks lose . The social nobs and the butcher and farmer are trying to find the missing porker . Without it their plans are in ruin . The meat inspector is aware of a possible illegal pig and starts prying into all kinds of places . His lack of a sense of smell due to a war injury prevents his inquiries from going the full way . Palin and Smith struggle to hide the pig in their home - and discover how filthy pigs really are . As for poor Liz Smith , she is repeatedly told that she is imagining the foul odors and pig refuse around the house - that it is proof she is going senile . She ends up frightened , repeating " No pig , no pig ! ! " as reassurance that she is not mad . Eventually things do right themselves out - though not totally the way all the players hope or wanted . Denholm Elliott was always a fine actor , and here plays possibly his most obnoxious character - a snob , a racist , a malicious competitor , and one who sees nothing wrong with farting while having lunch in a friend's house . Maggie Smith makes an art of pretension , ever since her finest role as Jean Brodie , but here it is undercut by the economic realities presented by Palin . Michael Palin is a basically good person married to an unrealistic woman , and fighting a coterie of really nasty types . His kidnapping of the pig happens to be a long term disaster , but one cheers his short term victory . Of the others in the film , my favorite is Richard Griffiths , who turns out to be a decent person too - and one who finds a new common purpose with a better friend than Elliott . When it came out in 1984 A PRIVATE FUNCTION was considered one of several films that seem to revive the great Ealing Comedies of the 1950s . It certainly deserves comparison to those classics , and I urge you to try to see it some time . . . with or without a pet pig .
" She's got the cutest , little baby face . . . . "	BABY FACE is one of the better of the " forgotten " films before the code . It was shown last night after the 1931 version of WATERLOO BRIDGE on the TURNER CLASSIC NETWORK , so I was able to watch the film as it is now with four plus minutes of it restored . Stanwyck is living in East St . Louis ( where she may have known the drunken parents of " Myra " - Mae Clarke - in WATERLOO BRIDGE ) . Her father is Robert Barrett . She has lived with him since the death of her mother , and ( in the restored dialog ) he has been pimping her since she was 14 years old . Now she is resident waitress and part-time whore in his speakeasy , her closest friend being Chico ( Theresa Harris ) , the African-American servant who Barrett keeps bullying . It is one of the two good points of Stanwyck's personality that she keeps standing up to her father about Harris , threatening to leave if Harris is fired ( and since it is the grubby workers like Nat Pendleton , who enjoy seeing Stanwyck serve them , rather than the flavor of the hooch he serves that brings them in , Barrett has to obey her ) . The one guy who comes to the speakeasy regularly whom Stanwyck likes is the shoemaker and intellectual Adolf Cragg ( Alphonse Ethier ) , who sees great potential in the spirited girl if she will just leave her forsaken home . He is also pushing the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzche , and the idea of the will to power . More about this later . After she knocks out the local political bigwig ( Arthur Hohl ) , and has an argument with Barrett about this , a still explosion kills Barrett , and enables Stanwyck to leave her home town . She and Harris head to New York City , managing to get free transport by a railroad freight car by sleeping with a brakeman ( James Murray ) . They reach New York , and after walking about they see the Gotham Trust Company ( established 1873 ) , and the friendly guard tells her where the personnel office is . We slowly watch Stanwyck ascend the corporate ladder to the top , similar ( but sleazier ) than Robert Morse dared in HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING . But Morse was a man in a man dominated company . Stanwyck knows her sexual allure is her weapon . She goes through John Wayne , Douglas Dumbrille ( a section of the film that I always felt was the most shocking - curiously enough - when I watched it ) , Douglas Wood , Henry Kolker , and finally George Brent . Each ends up falling for her , and either being pushed aside when no longer useful , or destroyed by her . Brent , the new President of the Bank his grandfather founded , eventually marries her - and the crisis of the film is when the bank's economic situation is shaken ( especially after Brent buys her a fortune in jewels and gives her valuable bonds ) . Brent is indicted . Will she stick up for him ? SPOILER COMING UP : The one thing about these films that is not admitted is that the theatrical and moral conventions of the time still dictated endings . The original ending had Stanwyck boarding a ship for Europe abandoning Brent to his fate , but realizing she can't do it to him , returning to their apartment house , and finding he's shot himself . She is riding with him to the hospital as it ends . Now before the rediscovered footage was found , the film ended with them apparently giving up all their money to the bank to save it , and retiring back to East St . Louis , to live happily if poor . Neither of these are good endings . Stanwyck should continue on her destructive course , with Brent the last of her victims . But even without the Breen office the script writers ( one is Darryl Zanuck , by the way ) saw fit to have her find a moral center . She has none - at least none for powerful men ( whom she hates ) . I don't think that a depression audience would have tolerated that type of conclusion . There are other problems , due to the changing styles of public opinion and changes in society . It was a man's world in the corporate world in 1933 , so Stanwyck has her work cut out for her . Wood ( when she is going to be fired for an indiscretion with him ) admits that he did not want her to work . But in 2006 , Stanwyck would have been finding woman all over the place . In the film there are nasty , catty remarks ( obviously some based on jealousy ) towards Stanwyck from other secretaries and female employees at her rapid rise . In 2006 , she'd be frequently confronting women superiors , and she would find them cutting her off at the legs very quickly . Of course , if she finds one or two are lesbians she might try that road but it is doubtful . And she also never seems to meet any men who are gay . They do have gay male executives in business , who wouldn't give a damn about her legs or breasts . Then there is her mentor , Mr Cragg . Cragg is remade in the " bowdlerized " version into trying to make her seek a moral center . In reality he pushes Nieztsche , but the way ( in a broader sense ) the Nazis pushed Nieztsche - find your way to power and push it . While Nieztsche did stress power sometimes , it wasn't the be-all and end-all of his theories . Otherwise nobody would read him today in college courses . Cragg is obviously self-educated , but only half-educated . In short if somebody who thoroughly studied Nieztsche confronted Cragg he'd make him look like a half-educated fool . And this is Stanwyck's mentor ! A good film , and for it's day worth a 10 . . . but seriously flawed .
Boy with the Dog Biscuits box & Girl with the Cracker Jack box	This particular film was shown on TMC tonight with several other Harold Lloyd films which are being sold in new DVD form . The new film DVDs have full scores that were composed for them . And , at the start of this film ( unfortunately just the first five minutes ) there is an attempt to show hand tinting of the scene . Harold Lloyd plays a shy , stuttering country boy who has never had a girl friend ( the local girls like to tease him about this ) , but who has written a ridiculous book about how to get girls , which he is trying to get published . He meets Jobyna Ralston , a wealthy girl from Los Angeles , on the train to that town . He manages to reunite her with her pet dog and she , in turn , is the only girl that he finds himself comfortable enough to talk to . To protect the dog from an intrusive conductor , Harold eats some dog biscuits meant for her pet ( he keeps the box ) . He buys a box of cracker jacks for her , and she keeps the box . They become symbols of the tight feelings they feel for each other . But Jobyna is being pursued by a suitor named De Vore ( Carlton Griffin ) . She does not know of a nasty secret he is hiding . Due to a personal humiliation , Harold decides he has to break with Jobyna , and she decides to marry Griffin . But Harold learns the secret , and is determined to stop the wedding . In the last half hour he proceeds to go from his village to Los Angeles , using automobiles , horses , buggies , trolley cars , and motorcycles . In the course of the chase he makes comments about prohibition bootleggers and agents , about 1920s automobile driver's training , the way streetcars could accidentally run themselves ( if one is not careful ) , and on the lack of preparation some fire departments showed regarding properly tying down their hoses . It is a well done , amusing chase , and wraps up the film quite conveniently . Only the chases in two later Lloyd silent comedies would duplicate it - but not beat it as the best of the three .
Out of the Past	Of the last Universal films in the Sherlock Holmes series , only THE HOUSE OF FEAR and SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH have better plots than THE SCARLET CLAW . If you go to seeing all three films for the first time , the solutions really surprise you . The first two manage keep a degree of the surprise in reviewing them , but once you see THE SCARLET CLAW you are so aware of the secret of the villain that you note things each time about him that you would not the first . Yet his performance is so good that you still enjoy the movie . Unlike HOUSE OF FEAR , SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH , and THE PEARL OF DEATH , THE SCARLET CLAW has no literary basis in the actual Conan Doyle stories about Holmes . This plot was concocted by the scriptwriters from whole cloth . Indeed , one element of it seems to be based on the work of another great mystery story writer , G . K . Chesterton - who is mentioned late in the film by Watson . The atmosphere of the bogs ( which is the setting of much of the film ) is reminiscent of THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES , but that story had already been made into a film ( with Rathbone and Bruce ) earlier . In fact , the discussion of a swamp monster brings in the occult , and this film ( with THE HOUND ) is the closest in the series to remind us of Arthur Conan Doyle's interest in spiritualism and the occult . The weapon involved is not one from any of the Holmes stories ( although it should fit into one had Conan Doyle ever thought of it ) . The motive - vengeance on several people who all live in this Canadian village - actually is a sensible one for a change ( some of the motives for murders , especially robberies , in the later films seen stretching it ) . Being a war movie , Holmes and Watson have a final " patriotic " comment at the end regarding Canada as a link between the U . S . and Great Britain . It actually is one of the more tolerable patriotic closing lines in their war films , although given the way Prime Minister MacKenzie King of Canada had to twist the situation regarding a draft of French Canadians to help beleaguered Britain ( " Not necessarily conscription , but conscription if necessary " ) it remains somewhat ironic . Paul Cavanagh ( whom I mentioned in THE HOUSE OF FEAR review ) , was one of the many character actors who popped up in several of the Rathbone / Bruce films over the series . In THE HOUSE OF FEAR he was a suspect . In THE WOMAN IN GREEN he played a victim . Here he is a subsidiary victim , who resents the appearance of Holmes on the scene of his tragedy , but whom ends up helping Holmes in solving the case . Note also Arthur Hohl , usually playing villains or comic characters , but here , possibly , having his best straight performance .
Building a Mountain From a Molehill ?	This film is like THE LADY VANISHES and SO LONG AT THE FAIR - it is a film based on a story that has some plausibility and has been told many times , but may be legendary . In 1917 two Englishman come to a Welch village . They are doing surveying work for the government to look over the mountains of Wales The village is proud of the mountain just behind it , which for ages has been called the first great mountain of Wales . The two men measure the mountain and find it is 984 feet tall . Unfortunately , it has been determined that mountains must be 1 , 000 feet tall at least . So this mountain is not a mountain but a hill ! Angry , the villagers determine to try to undue this " mistake " . First they have to keep the Englishmen in the village long enough for a second measurement of the mountain to be made . Second , they have to organize all the members of the village into working together to add some twenty feet to the hill and make it a mountain again . What follows is a comedy of clashing nationalities ( Welsh v . English ) , particularly the obnoxious senior member of the surveying team , George ( Ian MacNeice ) who constantly belittles the locals , and who even says how much he hates them ( then why did he take this job one wonders ) . The nicer , more amenable younger member of the team , Anson ( Hugh Grant ) , is willing to observe what the community wants to accomplish ( especially after he meets a local girl , Betty ( Tara Fitzgerald ) ) . Led by the local publican Morgan the Goat ( Colm Meaney - from the various STAR TREK series ) , the locals try to keep George occupied by disabling his car , and lying about the local train service , and giving him as much gin as he likes . Anson proves far less hostile , and actually ends helping them . The Welsh are also split . Morgan is a wizard at organization , but nobody trusts him . Least of all the local spiritual leader , Rev . Jones ( Kenneth Griffiths ) . When the townspeople are building the mountain up the first time , Jones notes that Morgan is making a mint out of selling beer to the parched men involved . Jones also has problems with the local schoolteacher , the Anglophile Mr . Davies ( Garfield Morgan ) , who does not think his little charges should have a day off - in order to help build up a mountain . The weather turns hostile with heavy rains . Time is running out . Will the locals turn the hill into a mountain or will they have to accept the hill is only a hill ? Well made , and funny ( and sad at one or two points , when the effects of the war and the death of a leading character appear in the screenplay ) , the movie is well worth watching , and a definite " 10 " out of " 10 " .
The Slim line between reality and falseness	Mia Farrow is the wife of an unemployed bully and womanizer Danny Aiello . She works in a diner , and when she tries to forget her lousy life in the Depression she turns to the movies . Currently she is seeing a " B " feature again and again called THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO , about a bunch of bored socialites ( Edward Herrmann , John Woods , Zoe Caldwell , Van Johnson ) who go to Egypt for a change . They meet an archaeologist played by Jeff Daniels , who is trying to find a mythical flower ( the one of the film title ) that will lead to a true love . We see Farrow go again and again to the film until Daniel starts noticing her and asks if she really likes the film that much . This unsettles Farrow who leaves the theater . But she returns and she sees that Daniel is interested in her . Interested enough to leave the film , much to the consternation of Herrmann and the other characters in the film because they are trained by the fact that they were shot in a way by the film company and edited to follow the same pattern forever . So the characters are at a loss at how to continue . Also they can't leave the film ( as Daniel did ) . Allan is one of the few directors brave enough to look at philosophical situations in his film . Here it is the odd rules governing reality and falsity . The world of the movie is as rigid as that of the real world , despite the cinematic Daniel's discovery of color and real space in the outside world . The real world requires real training ( not the idiotic false title the cinematic Daniels has as a so-called archaeologist ) and real money ( Daniels has fake money on him from the movie set ) . But the characters in the film are losing their mind for being unable to go ahead with the plot without Daniels . That is some of them are : the actress playing the African-American maid in the movie becomes more real in her not acting like a female stereotype ( she takes off her shoes and plots down on a couch , to the dismay of the others ) . The revolt sensed by Daniels stepping out of the screen spreads consternation in other worlds : the theater management and the movie company see it as a threat of left wingers trying to undermine the American film industry . Indeed , we hear that other copies of the film have incidents elsewhere in the country . The film company sends the real Daniel to the site where his character came to life , and soon it is Daniel v . Daniel wooing Farrow . Who will she choose - and will she choose wisely , between a naive fictional character who adores her and a man of flesh and blood and potential , who is ambitious and devious ? But what is wisdom in such a choice ? THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO is one of those films that makes one look twice at reality in the world we inhabit , and the world that we seek to enter through our imaginations . It is an exceptionally clever film , and a very funny one . Certainly one of Allan's top five movies .
" Clickety - Clickety - Clickety - Click "	The original THE DESPERATE HOURS is one of the best true suspense films that were ever made . The incident happened in upstate New York in 1953 , when three escaped convicts invaded a private home , and then terrorized the family until they were captured and killed by the police . In fact , the story became a successful Broadway play that this film is based on ( the family in the original incident brought an unsuccessful lawsuit against the dramatist for invasion of privacy ) . Humphrey Bogart , his brother Dewey Martin , and that marvelous villain Robert Middleton play the three convicts , who having escaped prison take the Hilliard prisoners . Bogart is awaiting his girlfriend who is supposed to bring money and a car for their total getaway . In the meantime Bogart is doing his best to make the Hilliards as unhappy as possible . Not too difficult , as Martha Scott , Mary Murphy , and Richard Eyer are facing three thugs who are armed . And Fredric March is the family head , frightened at the most hideous prospect possible ( his family being wiped out ) , but struggling to maintain his courage but also his head - he hates Bogart but must not do anything that will antagonize him . Bogart fully returns the dislike . A poor guy all his life , he turned to crime to make a living . When the younger and softer Martin tries to speak out for March / Hilliard , Bogart snarls out , " And what did the Hilliards ever do for you ? " In truth not much , which is what this particular Hilliard is paying for now . After awhile , watching March's careful thinking of what to do , Bogart starts taunting him as though he's a machine he sees through - saying the line in the " Subject line " above . There are several problems that gradually increase the tensions : 1 ) Richard Eyer is brave as a little kid who does not understand that guns can kill . He thinks his father is the bravest man in the world , and cannot understand why he doesn't take on and destroy the bad guys . 2 ) The family has to maintain the aura of normality - Bogart and Murphy have to go out to their jobs and act without stirring any notice . Hard in normal situations , it is driving Murphy to insanity because she can't talk to her boyfriend , Gig Young . And Young is beginning to wonder why . 3 ) If the surface is to look normal , you have to keep anything unusual hidden . The original getaway car is in the Hilliard garage ( now closed ) . But the local garbage man ( Walter Baldwin ) finds it accidentally - leading to an ugly tragedy . 4 ) Bogart and Martin are brothers , but Martin is attracted to a normal life , not one of violence . He may eventually want not to stick to Bogart . 5 ) Middleton came along , but he really is not trusted by Bogart - and he has a weapon of his own . 6 ) Bogart's plans include killing the officer who sent him to prison , Arthur Kennedy . Kennedy and the state police are coordinating the entire search , and keeping a tight lid on top of the escaped prisoners ( making their temporary safety more claustrophobic ) . All of these elements build the pressure up and up and up until the last twenty minutes . The results are quite explosive and impressive , and memorable . This was Bogart's last film as a bad guy , and he made the most of it . It was also his only film with Fredric March , and the tension in their scenes together grows until it shatters at the conclusion . Martha Scott , Gig Young ( whose character's independent actions throws the convicts ' plans out of wack ) , Middleton ( quite chilling ) , and Kennedy give first rate performances . Martin's performance is also good , and ultimately tragic . No lover of suspense films will be disappointed by THE DESPERATE HOURS .
A Classic Novella about American Patriotism	In 1863 Abraham Lincoln was plagued by a growing peace movement led by political opponents who said the war was a failure , and we should recognize the Confedrate States under Jefferson Davis . The leading spokesperson for " Copperheads " was one Clement Vallandigham , an Ohio Congressman who was a gifted public orator . Vallandigham was giving anti-Union speeches in Ohio . Lincoln did not know what do to shut up this dangerous radical . And then Major General Ambrose E . Burnside , commander of the Department of the Ohio , stepped in . Burnside had his flaws - his list of disasters on the battlefield included his " masterpiece " at Fredericksburg , Va . But he was a real patriot , and hearing Vallandigham's speeches got the better of him . He arrested the Congressman for treason . Lincoln now had a potential time bomb - if he put Vallandigham on trial and he was convicted , the Copperhead would become a martyr . If he put Vallandigham on trial , and he was acquitted it would be worse . Vallandigham made comments in his speeches about how sick he was about living in the North as it was , and how he hated being a present day citizen of the U . S . A . Suddenly Lincoln got an idea . Smiling , he sent Burnside an order that as Clement Vallandigham had openly said he hated being a citizen of the U . S . A . , his wish should be granted . Smiling in his turn , Amborse Burnside arranged ( as Lincoln ordered ) for Vallandigham to be taken by a heavy guard to the border of Ohio and Ontario , and sent across the border into the British Colony ( Canada was still British North America in 1863 ) . Vallandigham lived in Toronto ( a center of Canadian secret activity during the war ) until late 1864 , when he returned to the North in disguise . Once he revealed himself publicly again , nobody bothered him . Edward Everett Hale was a prominent magazine writer of the period . Today THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY is his acknowledged masterpiece , but he also wrote THE BRICK MOON , an early science fiction novella about an artificial satellite that may have influenced Jules Verne's novel THE BEGUM'S FORTUNE . Hale wrote THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY in response to the Vallandigham business , setting it back two generations to the controversy about Aaron Burr's Western " Empire " schemes . But this book was like Tom Paine's COMMON SENSE - a small book that hit the public at just the right moment in a war ( Elbert Hubbard's A MESSAGE TO GARCIA is another example of this ) and swept the country , ending up a permanent piece of American literature . ( If you check this web site under the proper names , you will find that Edward Everett Hale did his little bit to assist American film comedy : he is the grand father and namesake of that terrific comic character actor Edward Everett Horton . ) Lt . Philip Nolan is an ambitious naval officer in the early American navy of the John Adams and Thomas Jefferson era ( 1798 - 1807 ) . He is sent to a western outpost in Louisiana , and is bored there . When Burr shows up he gets heavily involved in Burr's schemes . When Burr falls , Nolan is arrested and tried for treason . In a moment of anger , Nolan makes the mistake of shouting in court that he wishes he never heard the name of the United States of America again . The court-martial board are shocked by this statement . After getting proper instructions from President Jefferson ( like Burnside would from Lincoln in 1863 ) they agree to Nolan's request . He is put on one American frigate after another for the rest of his life . While on board the ship takes down it's American flags . Nobody is to mention the U . S . A . or news from the states in his presence . For the next half-century Nolan is treated like this . He actually turns out to be far more aware of his idiotic comment than anyone realizes ( at a dance he is pointedly reminded about it by a pretty American socialite he meets ) . He even assists in winning a battle in the War of 1812 against the enemy British ship . But the decision of the court is upheld until he dies . Yet , at the tale's end , it turns out that Nolan did learn what happened , and even knew of most of the new states in the union . The narrator ( as Nolan is dying ) tells him the history of the U . S . since 1807 . Except for one point : he can't bring himself to reveal that in 1863 there is a Civil War going on , and that half the states no longer want to be part of the U . S . A . Still Nolan dies happy , having been reassured of his nations ' expansion and seeming prosperity . This 1973 version was quite good , with Cliff Robinson as Nolan , developing from a " Hotspur " young man into a maturer type who gradually realizes what a stupid wish he voiced . Robinson was a bit too old to be the young Philip Nolan , but he handled the later years all right . Beau Bridges is the narrator , who crosses Nolan's path in his own naval career . Robert Ryan , in one of his last performances , plays the wise older officer who fills in some of Nolan's history to Bridges , and explains why the Navy Department just doesn't stop the long exile : " Have you ever tried to fight the white tape of Washington City ? " , Ryan says with a friendly smile to Bridges . Twenty years later , when running across Nolan again , Bridges remembers Ryan's statement again . Quite different from Ryan's other nautical figure from this period : Claggart in BILLY BUDD . A worthy , and moving version of the great novella - it reached Hale's goal very well .
The Greatest Star at a Sanity Hearing	NUTS was a play that was turned into this film that has a first rate cast headed by Barbara Streisand , including Richard Dreyfus , Maureen Stapleton , Karl Malden , Eli Wallach , Robert Webber , James Whitmore , and Leslie Nielson and a top director ( Martin Ritt ) . But it has not gotten the notice it's deserved among Streisand's top performances . I will get to that in a moment . Streisand is a hooker who has been arrested for the murder of a " John " she picked up . Nielson is the " John " , and his performance here is a type of throwback to the usually villainous parts he played in the early half of his career , before he demonstrated his mastery of deadpan comedy . He tries to get rough with Streisand , and in the process of defending herself she causes him to get stabbed . Taken to court for arraignment she finds her mother and step-father ( Stapleton and Malden ) have arranged for her attorney ( William Prince ) to plead guilty on account of insanity . She gets quite upset about this , and manages to punch Prince in the mouth , breaking some teeth , and making him decide to drop this client . Dreyfus , a struggling defense attorney , is picked by the arraignment judge to handle the defense . Slowly Dreyfus and Streisand find a way of working together - and find it is an uphill battle . Streisand insists that she is sane , and that it was an accident not murder . Dreyfus believes her , but has to fight a top flight assistant district attorney ( Webber ) who has an accredited psychiatric expert ( Wallach ) ready to testify to Streisand's insanity . Fortunately the Judge ( Whitmore ) is pretty fair minded . I notice that parts of the resolution of the story appear on the other comments on this board , so I will refrain . Suffice to say that Streisand not only discredits Wallach quite well , but she also manages to trace her choice of profession to a damaged childhood . NUTS , as I said before , did not get the exposure of THE WAY WE WERE or WHAT'S UP DOC ? or THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES or YENTL as a key performance in the Streisand legend , and yet it bears comparison to them or her two appearances as Fanny Brice . Why was it ignored ? I suspect it was that it came at the point where Streisand began making movies every couple of years instead of year after year , and that it was also made just before the change in Streisand film career when she turned director as well as actor . YENTL , THE PRINCE OF TIDES , and THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES were far more personal films than NUTS was . Then again , it was not the first time Streisand handled the role of a hooker . She played a similar role in THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT opposite George Segal ( although that was a comedy , not a drama ) . So it fell into a hole in the Streisand career - and was unfairly forgotten . It should not be , for it was well made , well acted , and thoughtful about the causes of the choices in lifestyles we make . I give it " 10 " out of " 10 " .
Why it is so pleasant to hear about his assassination in Czechoslovakia	There is a moment of ironical comedy ( with a bitter aftertaste ) that I always liked in Stanley Kramer's JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG where the whole matter of the organized death known as the " Holacaust " is brought up against the defendants for the first time . After all , the four jurists helped speed along the death of those millions of Jews , of Gypsies , of the feeble minded ( like Monty Clift ) , of the political incorrect , that one has to show the results . There is a luncheon break and the four jurists are eating . Werner Klemperer is fuming , " How dare they ! " about blaming these guardians of the law for being butchers . One of them ( I think it's Torben Meyer ) does not believe the statistics quoted by Richard Widmark in court . How could they kill so many in such a short time . It turns out that the jurists sit at one table and in back is a second table with Concentration Camp personnel eating their lunch . Meyer turns and asks one ( Otto Waldis ) , " It is impossible , isn't it ? " Waldis is munching nonchalantly on his lunch and says , " Well . . . actually it can be done quite simply . " Waldis than proceeds to give a perfectly logical argument of a technician based on a modern international railroad and engineering system that shows it is simple ! Meyer looks very shocked at finding it is not that difficult to create a death system like the Nazi one . His reaction is the funny part . The bitter part is thinking of the results , and the matter-of-fact reaction of Waldis . CONSPIRACY is the story of the actual creation of that system , and it's chief architect Reinhard Heydrich . We have met this creature before - when I discussed one of the two film based on his demise in 1942 ( tragically after he created " the final solution " , not before ) . In Douglas Sirk's HITLER'S MADMAN ( and also Fritz Lang's HANGMEN ALSO DIE ) Hollywood showed how Heydrich was assassinated by Czech patriots , and how it led to hundreds of other deaths and the destruction of Lidice and other Czech towns . While neither of the two assassination films are flawless or correct in detail , they do capture the right approach to the subject matter . Put another way , of all the political assassination in World History , Heydrich's is the only one I think of immediately as more of an execution not an assassination . And as he suffered for several days after the attack , that is only fitting . Kenneth Branagh played Heydrich , who headed this conference at Wandesee Palace in 1941 . Germany was ( despite the failure of the Battle of Britain ) at the height of it's control of Europe , and it was determined to implement Hitler's intention of getting rid of the Jews . Hitler was clever enough never to put anything into formal writing ( such as orders ) on the subject ( a point that " Holacaust Deniers " seize upon to this day as " proof " that there was no " Holacaust " ) . Regretfully no records of the meeting were kept ( they were destroyed ) . But enough details came out to guess what happened . With his assistant , Adolf Eichmann ( Stanley Tucci here ) at his side , Heydrich got all the various heads of departments who were to organize the special trains , assist in the round-ups of the Jews , build the barely livable quarters for them at the camps , organize the camps , and set up the timetables , supply systems ( if for the victims you could call them that ) , and the work programs ( or slave programs , if you will ) that were to be used . Also the issue of whether to use poison gas on the Jews - was it cheaper or more expensive than bullets , and was it safer ( for the users ! ) . The wonderful thing about this film is the party and social backbiting involved . One of the officials is actually closer to Martin Bormann ( soon to be Hitler's new deputy ) than to Heydrich , and makes veiled allusions to Heydrich's possible Jewish ancestry . Eichmann looks at him , smiles , and says , " Why don't you say that to Herr Heydrich's face ? " The official shuts up . Eichmann himself has mixed feelings about his boss . At the end of the film we hear a piece of romantic German music that Heydrich put on the record player . Heydrich played the violin ( so did his father ) and saw himself as a man of culture . Eichmann looks at the record ( it's by Franz Schubert ) and disparages the piece . There are petty inter-departmental confrontations too . What soon becomes apparent is that these people are looking at the murder of millions of human beings as a math problem and how to solve it . And , with only one exception - who is rapidly silenced - none are looking or choose to look at the moral nightmare they are adopting . The conference ends with total agreement about implementing the plan . The plan did work - only cost six million Jews , and when extended seven million non-Jews more ! Heydrich ( as Branagh ) leaves the conference saying that when the war is finished he will return to do only wonderful things . Gee , he never had the chance to do so .
Bring Back the " Midget - Widgett " Motor Car Company	It lasted only one season , but FRACTURED FLICKERS was one of the funniest series ever put on television . The accounts given here on the thread are mostly lauding it , but I will add a few I recall . 1 ) A television history program that is pompously mis - announced as " FROM HYPOCRITES TO EINSTEIN . " Then a small , slightly timid voice - like the owner does not want to embarrass the announcer - stating , " That's " Hippocrates " . " The announcer , unfortunately sounding embarrassed , quickly says , " As I said , " FROM HIPPOCRATES TO EINSTEIN " . What followed was supposedly the story of various great events of the history of western man to be shown on this series , ending with the voice announcing , " and finally , and not least , that greatest moment in modern exploration : STANLEY AND LIVINGSTON . " We see two men wearing pith helmets who rise out of neighboring garbage cans and shake hands ! ! 2 ) The adventures of an eccentric , thin elderly man with a ridiculous long chin whisker and eyeglasses . He is the manufacturer of that remarkable automobile , " the Midget - Widgett " motor car ( which looks all of four feet in length ) . 3 ) The adventures ( narrated by the anti-hero ) of a high ranking Nazi officer ( Eric Von Stroheim ) hiding after the war - successfully for a time - as a ventriloquist , until betrayed by his dummy . 4 ) The story of the 20th Century's greatest predictor of the future - whose record is tarnished to all ( but the announcer , apparently ) by the fact that he never gets anything correct . I recall that at one point he is sent films of the German army in the field in 1914-15 and writes a letter to Kaiser Wilhelm II , stating that after viewing the film he is certain that victory is assuredly for Germany . He then sends the letter and the film home to Germany . . . on the Lusitania . 5 ) The story of the hitherto unknown fifth and youngest Kennedy brother , who is upset that his four older siblings ( including the dead Joe Jr . , apparently ) have outstripped him in prestige and public attention . So he takes his society friends with him from Hyannisport to the south seas , and hunts for a famous pirate treasure . And they find it too - unfortunately they are robbed of it at gunpoint by the villain : the sixth and youngest Rockefeller brother , upset that his five older siblings have outstripped him in prestige and public attention . It was consistently amusing , and had the added plus of Hans Conreid as it's host . I am glad that it is now out on DVD ( if the other comments on this thread are correct ) . Well worth watching indeed .
Stan , Ollie . . . and Lou ?	The title of this comedy is based on the situation at the beginning : Stan's boxing match ( Ollie is his manager ) against Noah Young ( the heavy they shared with fellow Hal Roach alumnus Harold Lloyd ) . In 1927 the American sports loving public was fully aware of what was " the battle of the century " . It was a reference to the second boxing match between Gene Tunney and Jack Dempsey ( the one that again ended with Tunney's victory , but has lasted in sports controversy because of the notorious " long count " that may have denied Dempsey his victory ) . The idea of comparing any boxing match that Stan Laurel is in with the likes of one between Tunney and Dempsey is laughable in itself , but it sets the stage here . John McCabe gave a brief description of the boxing match in his biography MR . LAUREL AND MR . HARDY . But seeing it on the recently restored Video , one can appreciate it all the more . Young is ready for real boxing business , but Stan is all weird business ( some at the expense of manager Ollie ) . After about ten minutes Young sees a chance , and lands one punch , and Stan falls down . What adds to the comic beginning is that one sees in the nearby bleachers a dozen or so boxing fans . One of them is young - and thinner than he subsequently looked . It's Lou Costello . I don't know if Costello was working alone in Hollywood at the time , or if he knew someone at Roach's studio , but he gives an interesting little performance in a way he never showed in his own comedies with Bud Abbott . He reacts incredulously at the antics of Stan ( and Ollie ) in the ring - in fact he acts fairly realistically . It is a curious moment in film history , as it unites Stan and Ollie with half of the film comedy team that slightly eclipsed them in the 1940s , and it presents that half in a quieter manner than as the " baaad boy ! " . The rest of the film dealt with insurance and pies . Ollie has a real boxing loser , and he has to recoup his financial loss . So he meets Eugene Palette , an insurance salesman , who sells him an accident policy on Stan's life . Now all Ollie has to do is organize some accident . Unfortunate , he's Oliver Hardy , so we know he will keep bungling it ( especially when he tries to get Stan to trip on a banana peel ) . This is the straw that breaks the wrong camel's back . Charlie Hall is delivering pies , and he trips on the peel . He happens to see Ollie trying to hide the tell tale banana peel , so he knows who is responsible . Soon he puts a pie in Hardy's face . But Stan doesn't like that , and he takes a pie and puts it into Hall's face . Soon what McCabe calls " reciprocal destruction " spreads over the street , involving all types of people ( including Palette , who tries to use the fight as an opportunity to sell more insurance policies ! ) . The culmination is when Anita Garvin slips on a pie , sitting on it . She does not realize it is a pie , and her embarrassment is priceless . It was their second film - and it was one of their best ones .
The Rise of a future Presidential Candidate	THE SEDUCTION OF JOE TYNAN is really the follow up to the Robert Redford - Peter Boyle film , THE CANDIDATE . There a well-meaning , wishy-washy liberal college teacher ( whose father was a famous Senator - ironically played by Melvin Douglas in that movie ) , is glitz-ed up and prepped in a political campaign against an old pro ( Don Porter ) and manages to win the election to the U . S . Senate . But at the end Redford looks at Boyle at this moment of " victory " and asks him , " What do we do now ? " Precisely - what happens to whatever enthusiastic beliefs and crusades that the candidate developed in his pre-campaign life . THE SEDUCTION OF JOE TYNAN follows exactly what happens . Joe Tynan ( Alan Alda ) is a junior senator with that quality that campaign managers would kill for : charisma . He is well spoken , careful , and politically astute : he is liberal , but seems willing to moderate his views to accommodate some other Senators . He is a good family man with a wife ( Ellie - Barbara Hershey ) and children . And he is , behind his friendly , pixieish smile , as ambitious as all hell . Probably not the next time , but within the next eight or ten years , he will ( if he does not blow it ) be his party's Presidential candidate . Tynan is accommodating ( seemingly so ) to older Senator Birney ( Melvin Douglas ) and to one of the more powerful southern Senators ( Kittner - Rip Torn ) as he slowly learns all the ropes of being a member of that most exclusive of American clubs , the upper house of Congress . Alda is a member of the Senate's Judiaciary Committee , and there is going to be a new member on the Supreme Court . Kittner has no problems with the nominee , and Birney would love to see him get the job . But Birney's reason is not out of affection for the nominee - it is out of fear . Birney's facing re-election , and his opponents are thinking of putting up this man to face Birney for the party nomination . Tynan and the other Senators respect Birney , but they are aware of one thing the old man does not seem prepared to recognize : he is losing his mind . Birney will , at the drop of a hat , begin speaking perfect French as though he is addressing people in Paris and not the Capitol Building in Washington , D . C . That's why Birney's party backers in his home state are thinking of replacing him on the ballot . In the meantime , Tynan meets Karen Traynor ( Meryl Streep ) who has helped him in another Senate battle . Traynor joins his staff , but is soon having an affair with him - and Ellie is pretty sure about the affair . Ellie is also upset that as Joe is getting more and more political exposure she has the additional pressures on her of being the " loyal " wife of the unloyal husband , and the one who has to keep a lid on the problems of the kids at home . Soon this kettle explodes in Joe's face , though fortunately ( for his career ) in private . And it leads to the end of his relationship with Streep ( well . . . to re-use an old saying slightly . . . " that's politics ! " ) . As for the Judiciary problem , Joe finds that the nominee is not the man for the Supreme Court - not unless you mean the Supreme Court of Plessy v . Fergussen or Dred Scott . So he is on a collision course with Birney . The performances in this film were a joy . Rip Torn's Senator demonstrated how to improperly use the leg section of a large office desk just as strikingly as another Southern politician reportedly demonstrated a new use for cigars sixteen years later . Melvin Douglas is both formidable and pitiful as a once great Senate leader who has stayed on too long ( reminding one of the late Strom Thurmond among others ) . As Alda's chief of staff , Charles Kimbrough is unnerving . Always a little stiff , when he was on Murphy Brown one sympathized with his Jim Dial as a decent fellow who sometimes got caught short due to his stiffness . Here however , his constant smile , supposedly reassuring , is an ice mask that sears Hershey and Streep in their turns . And Alda ? If one recalls his performance as Hawkeye on television's M . A . S . H . his pixie quality made him lovable . Here it has hardened into a shield and weapon . Tynan is a Hawkeye who jettisons idealism for what will help him . It is a first rate performance and points the way to future negative characters he'd play in television's AND THE BAND PLAYED ON and AVIATOR .
" Madness , Madness "	Let's face it - war is organized madness , and although the stakes in World War II were tremendous for whichever side lost , the individual effects of the war on the men and nations involved caused madness on several levels . Pierre Boule's short novel brilliantly discusses the madness in the crazy situation that sweeps up Colonels Nicholson and Saito . Under normal circumstances , the two men might never had been friends but they might have had a degree of respect for each other . Both come from nations that have long histories and traditions , and whose officer corps prided themselves on leadership and withstanding privations . The Japanese formalized these traditions in the code of Bushido ( which was twisted , unfortunately , in World War II ) . It included sharing privation with one's men and was similar to the concept of noblesse oblige that the aristocratic officers of Britain's army tried to maintain . Nicholson's stoicism when put into the isolation box was as much in his tradition as Saito's tradition would have included willingly reducing his own share of his rations for the benefit of his men in a siege . The situation that develops is a racial rivalry . The Japanese , in 1943 , have won so many of the campaigns , and witnessed the surrender of Allied ( i . e . Western - American , British , French , Dutch troops ) that they really have a contempt for them . As we now know was true , the Japanese soldiers frequently fought to the last man ( think of Saipan and Okinawa in the last stages of the war , where flame throwers were frequently used to force Japanese soldiers and civilians out into the open ) . Westerners could do this too , but traditionally the western states saw no shame in surrendering after putting up a hard fight . Not so the Japanese military . Saito is identifying with this tradition . In the novel , he is also disappointed that he is in charge of a prisoner of war camp - he'd prefer to be back in the fighting . But they need the prisoners to build the railroads throughout the new Japanese empire ( as mentioned on another comment , the " Greater East Asiatic Co-Prosperity Sphere " ) that can have men and material race from one end of the empire to the other . In reality this frequently ended up more like slave labor than what Boule arranges ( or what Saito probably had in mind ) . Nicholson insists on treatment under the Geneva convention for P . O . W . s , but Saito thinks it's typically Western and wimpish . As punishment for his presumption he puts Nicholson in a hellish underground cell in solitary . But Nicholson's men refuse to cooperate until he's released , and when he is he sneers at the Japanese engineers and their mistakes , and insists on the English army engineers taking control of the building - and this works well for the Japanese Army but not for Saito , who seriously feels like he has lost face and should commit suicide . Director David Lean wisely shot the film on location , capturing the heat and disorientation of a humid jungle war front . His wide screen film manages to make the locale of the prison camp and the Kwai River ( and the bridge ) look like it is the entire world , and that escape is impossible from it ( indeed the one man who escapes - Holden - has to return eventually ) . The novel does not include the character played by William Holden , one of his typically laconic Americans who retain a clear sightedness when compared to the British . Holden's " Shears " sees the prison camp as a massive graveyard ( he's on the burial detail ) and hates it to the point of escaping . He reaches safety in a recovery hospital in Ceylon , but he's forced by Jack Hawkins to return to the campsite to destroy the bridge . Hawkins ' too seems a realist - he is trying to destroy an enemy target that is nearly completed , and will make the enemy's war effort far easier . But his resolve to do this involves blackmailing Holden into assisting him , and forcing himself to continue on his mission after being seriously injured . At the end the mission kills hundreds of men . Hawkins has succeeded , but the local natives who assisted him look at him like he is a mass murderer . Guinness ' Nicholson is one of the most myopic soldiers in film ( or fiction for that matter ) totally forgetting the purpose of himself and his soldiers even in a P . O . W . situation but thinking solely in terms of oneupmanship and morale . It was a splendid performance . One might make a case that he behaved like a man who was hallucinating after an illness , and indeed he does ( accidentally ) get back to reality at the eleventh hour - too late to save himself , but in time to save his military honor . Sessue Hayakawa had a film career in Hollywood that went back to the silent period ( even appearing opposite Gloria Swanson in a Cecil B . DeMille movie ) , but the coming of sound and the deterioration of Japanese-American relations caused him to leave American movies . Like Swanson's sound comeback in Wilder's SUNSET BLVD . , Hayakawa's appearance as Saito , a harsh foe but ultimately sympathetic given his code of behavior and how he is humiliated , brought him belated recognition and an Oscar nomination . Finally there is James Douglas , a highly useful , plain looking British actor who frequently brought dollops of common sense to his films . His P . O . W . Major Clipton tries to rouse Nicholson's sense of reality , but fails ( in fact he soon sees that Nicholson's unreality is far more catching with the rest of the British P . O . W . s than he imagined ) . He sees natural foes , British and Japanese , joining together building a bridge of friendship in a time of war . And the final result is just destruction , confusion and death from that war . Is it any wonder that at the end , he mutters the two words in the " Summary Line " as the story's conclusion .
A " Buddy " Gal Film For A Change	This film is a pretty good example of turning the " buddy " movie into a film about two women who discover a common friendship . Shelley Long is a woman who has spent years studying for a stage acting career . As pointed out in another review on this thread , her character her is like " Diane Chambers " in CHEERS , except that Long is not lording her superior education over everyone . She does make one exception . She is trying to get into a course led by one of the great actors of this generation ( Robert Prosky , in a clever role - he uses several accents ) , who is a Russian stage star - a " Stanislavsky " type . Prosky is quite selective about who comes in . He chooses Long because of her impressive resume . But he also allows in Bette Midler , who is . . . well a hooker . Bette wants to better herself , and she'd like to be an actress . But she doesn't have the background or the money ( Long has to borrow it from her parents ) . She gets in ( it is more than hinted she sold some of her wares to Prosky ) . He looks amused as he decides to include her in the course . He is an intensive acting genius , and we see him demonstrate how to be realistic in many details ( such as dying on stage ) . He is also insisting that they all take good notes , but leave their notebooks with him to be returned the following week . A hard taskmaster , he probably does know much about acting . In the meantime both Long and Midler meet Peter Coyote , and he is dating both without knowing of each other's connection . This is good , as Long and Midler dislike each other ( Long looking down on this pretentious hooker , Midler hating this overbearing overachiever ) . Then , one day , Long is accompanying Coyote out for dinner . He enters a shop , and it suddenly explodes . Long ( in deep mourning ) goes to the morgue . Shortly Midler shows up , and after a brief screaming fit between them , they discover that the corpse simply can't be Coyote - it's lacking a certain piece of evidence that it is . Midler and Long decide to join forces to find out what happened to Coyote . They can't find any assistance from the police ( who have an open and shut accidental death ) . But soon they are being pursued by Federal agents led by John Schuck . They manage to shake him off , and slowly follow the few clues they find to realize they have to cross the country to follow their lover . . . and to force him to choose between them . Eventually they do find Coyote , only to find another less pleasant side to him . And they find that half the world seems to be pursuing them as well . The film has great moments in it , such as Long using Prosky's training to fool some people , and Long and Midler playing Eastern Europeans trying to board a plane ( the right plane ) at an airport . Then there is George Carlin , who plays an American Indian with the attitudes of . . . well George Carlin , God bless him . The film is also interesting as Long and Midler , once their cooperation grows and they find what Coyote is like , discover that they really like each other more than they thought . Look at several scenes after the middle of the film where the ladies start helping each other with grooming tips . I suggest that this film , with THELMA AND LOUIS , finally cemented the idea that a " buddy " film did not need two men to be the " buddies " . And both films showed that such lady " buddy " films could be great entertainment .
Another successful Simon " Odd Couple " story	Neil Simon is consistent . He loves to use and reuse the " ODD COUPLE " plot with variations in one play or another : in the original ODD COUPLE , it's female version ( shown in the early 1990s ) , the sequel film with Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon , the play ( and movie ) THE SUNSHINE BOYS - where the apartment is a lifelong comedy team partnership , and this one . Here it is Marcia Mason and her daughter , Quinn Cummings , who are always being deserted by Mason's husband or her series of boy-friends who usually are actors . Mason has become determined never again to trust or date an actor . But the apartment happens to be in the name of her last boyfriend , and he has made a subletting deal with out-of-town actor Richard Dreyfus . Dreyfus is determined to stay in the apartment while in New York ( he is starring in a production within the city - off Broadway ) . He and Mason gradually agree to cease their hostilities and to share the apartment , but Mason finds Dreyfus weird : he is only eating special food , and he chants and plays the guitar at night . On the other hand Quinn Cummings finds he's not such a bad guy ( he helps her when she has a headache , relaxing her to sleep ) . The play that Dreyfus is appearing in the lead role in is Shakespeare's RICHARD III . It is being produced by Paul Benedict ( a rare big part for that good comic actor ) , but his ideas about the production are upsetting Dreyfus . Dreyfus is approaching the role in the classical , " Olivier " form - the master , evil Machiavellian monarch . Machiavellian to be sure in Benedict's version , but also gay . As Benedict pushes it , it is the story of " the Queen who would be King " . Dreyfus's performance of the play within the film , following Benedict's direction , is an everlasting comic joy . The highs and lows of the two warring suite mates follows a romantic course , as they gradually fall in love with each other . Will this actor prove to be another one of those typically selfish actors that Mason resents , or will he prove to be different to her and Cummings - will he be the real love of her life ? A first rate comedy , and Dreyfus ' Oscar - a well earned one .
Goldie gets drenched and reborn	This comedy was quite a fun one , and so far ( except for THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE , ORIGINAL FAMILY BAND ) the only one she has made co-starring with her life partner Kirk Russell . Goldie is Joanna Stayton , the ultimate rich bitch . Her huge yacht is in port , and she requires closets for her shoes . A local carpenter , Dean Profitt ( Mr . Russell ) is hired , but he is very picky about everything , such as the wood that should be used ( what's best for a ship to protect the leather from salt water ) , She is also not impressed by his taking so long ( he designed very intricate multiple shelves that confuse and annoy her ) . So she tosses his tools overboard and refuses to pay him . Goldie has played rich girls ( PRIVATE BENJAMIN came from a wealthy family ) but seldom such an obnoxious one . In this case one can see where she got this way . Her mother ( Kathleen Helmond ) is constantly using the advice of a fashionable psychiatrist that she uses ( Henry Alan Miller ) on how to treat her daughter . And Goldie's pompous and self-centered socialite husband ( Edward Herrmann ) is not a tower of strength either ( in fact , he is quite the opportunist ) . The yacht crew has long ago gotten used to keep quiet and accept the guff from Goldie and Herrman , despite that they have been treated like dirt . Same can be said for family butler Roddy MacDowell . After a typically stormy dinner that night , while on the high seas , Goldie drops some jewelry behind a seat she is sitting on on the deck . In reaching for it she loses her balance and falls overboard . But the following morning Herrmann returns to port , and discovers that Goldie is safe ( and still nasty ) in a hospital wing - she has lost her memory . Herrmann ( who turns out to have exaggerated views about his sexual potency ) fails to identify Goldie so that he can have a respite on the yacht from her presence . But a still angry Russell also learns of her from the local television news station . He goes to the hospital , and identifies Goldie as his wife " Annie " . His sons go along with his hoax - they have missed a woman's touch in their home for nearly five years since Mom died . Russell's intention is to get his revenge from Goldie being the household maid . But gradually parts of Goldie's hidden talents come out . While overwhelmed at first by having to do domestic work ( including cooking ) while struggling to remember this family , Goldie slowly works things out . Moreover she actually is able to put some halts to the wild , " batchelor's hall " lifestyle that Russell has set up for him and his sons . The boys are finding a curtailment of their freedom , which at first they resent but slowly appreciate ( Goldie also goes to bat for them with the local school , which Russell rarely does ) . Russell finds he's created a monster , but he too begins to appreciate the situation . He's missed having a female companion with intelligence . Of course the situation is such that it is endangered if Goldie recovers her memory . Also it's endangered when Hellmond begins quizzing Herrmann on why she has not heard in weeks from her daughter . Herrmann cannot ignore his " need " for Goldie again , and goes back to reclaim her . The film was a clever comedy - with the star chemistry working very nicely between the leads ( one wishes they would try another comedy again soon ) . The slow discovery by Goldie / Joanna of her real being and natural decency is a pleasure to watch . Russell is fine realizing that he is in love with his creation , and desperately scared of her recovering her actual past . MacDowell does well in his bits ( especially his last shot ) , but he's missing from most of the film because he is not in proximity of the main action on land . But Herrmann's revelations of super-ego is fun , as is the conclusion of his attempted seizure of power .
The Road To War - Hitchcock Style	If one would look at the late British films that Hitchcock made , such as THE THIRTY NINE STEPS , THE LADY VANISHES , and SABOTAGE , one can see that Hitchcock was aware of foreign elements that were anti-British and that his nation had to confront and fight . Foreign spies attack England from within in THE THIRTY NINE STEPS and SABOTAGE , and Miss Froy ( Dame May Witty ) is spying on a country that is very much like Germany in THE LADY VANISHES . To these films one can add Hitch's second American film , FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT . Although the Second World War was one year old when FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT came out , it is set in the year 1938-39 , and ends after September 1939 . Joel McCrae is " Huntly Haverstock " ( actually Johnny Jones ) , the new foreign correspondent sent by an American news service to Europe to cover the collapsing international situation . He meets Van Meer ( Albert Basserman ) , who is the strong man of Holland , and who is the key to maintaining European peace . Van Meer promises him an interview , but when they next meet the statesman acts like he does not remember him . This does not appear to matter , until a few minutes later an assassin shoots Van Meer with a gun concealed in a camera . The scene where the assassin escapes in a sea of umbrellas is justifiably famous among Hitch's fans , but many people don't recall that the assassin shoots at McCrae who is chasing him , killing at least one other person on a bicycle . Actually this whole sequence suggests Hitch's interest in real crime : in 1934 the King of Yugoslavia and the Foreign Minister of France were killed by an assassin in Marseilles when headed for a conference . The assassination was filmed very graphically , including the killing of the assassin ( after he shot several other people ) . Hitch probably saw it , and filed away the incident for future reference . McCrae tries to get the authorities to hear his views about the actuality of the assassinated man being the real Van Meer . A few people believe him . One is Stephen Fisher ( Herbert Marshall ) a leading peace advocate , and his daughter ( Laraine Day ) . Also is Mr . ffoliot ( George Sanders - this time a nice guy ) , who has attached himself to Day as a friend . Gradually McCrae finds that if the authorities do not fully believe him , others do - the foreign agents who were responsible for the assassination . Hitch did nicely in this , his first spy film in American . He has the famous " backward windmill " sequence . He also concluded the film with a memorable plane crash . But most interesting was his use of ( SPOILER COMING UP ) Marshall as the head of the foreign agents . Hitch had come from England in the heyday of Lady Astor's suspect Cliveden Set which strongly urged neutrality or even alliance with Nazi Germany . Many of the members were socially prominent types . Marshall's Fisher is very plausible as a lover of peace , and gradually is revealed as an enemy of the British . But the screenplay gives Marshall real dignity . He sees himself as a patriot for his native land ( presumably Germany ) . To her credit , Day understands his behavior and does not desert him when he is revealed at the end . And then comes the air disaster , and Marshall finds a way to make a dignified and brave exit from his disgrace . There is more to the film than I have suggested here . There are touches of humor by McCrae's bureau chief in Europe , Robert Benchley . There is also the black comic business involving Edmund Gwenn on Westminster Abbey's roof , trying to get rid of McCrae . All told , it was a good follow-up to REBECCA , and it showed that Hitchcock was not just a one-shot director .
She whines to conquer	Sarah Jessica Parker originally seemed doomed to play " the other woman " . Remember THE FIRST WIVES CLUB , where she was Daniel Hedaya's toy girl friend , who replaced Bette Midler because Midler was too middle aged for Hedaya , and he wanted to be ( at least in his own mind ) a young stud with Jessica . There she began showing the trait that has become a funny art form with her - her whining . In THE FIRST WIVES CLUB she whined when things began to go wrong for Hedaya , and he really needed a mature mate ( like Middler ) to see him through - but was stuck with this child . But in an older Hollywood ( say in the 1940s or 1950s , Sarah Jessica would have been doomed to play that role again and again . Then she lucked out - she was chosen to play Carrie Bradshaw in SEX AND THE CITY . She still showed a tendency to whine - particularly if Big ( Chris North ) or her other boyfriends were not doing exactly as she hoped - or when she tried to get Adinn to forgive her for breaking his heart by returning to Big the first time . But Carrie was narrator , and central figure in that series , and her point of view carried the viewers with her ( and their sympathies , normally , with her ) . Since that show Sarah Jessica has finally become a popular heroine , even with her whining . This past March and April came her comedy FAILURE TO LAUNCH . Ever the career woman , she is here a specialist in helping families get their male children ( not their female children , curiously enough ) to leave the nest that they have planted themselves in . . . more or less permanently . She is hired by Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw to help push their thirty year old son , Matthew McConaughey out of their lovely two floor private home . McConaughey is not a lazy good-for-nothing . He sells yachts and boats , and is an expert seaman . He also pals around with Justin Bartha and Bradley Cooper who are also , apparently , homebodies . Parker is living in a private home with her friend Zooey Deschenel , a young woman who ( as Parker later says when they have an argument ) has violent mood swings . Deschenel is particularly angry right now - every night she is kept awake by a mockingbird outside her window . She is trying ( unsuccessfully ) to get rid of it . This being a comedy , the expected point is that Sarah Jessica ( whose policy is to lead the young men so astray as to get them to move out of their homes , and then to drop them ) makes the fatal mistake of falling for McConaughey . He reciprocates fully , and begins to wonder about changing his life patterns . Bartha accidentally discovers what Parker is actually up to , but is willing to keep mum about it if she will arrange a date between him and Deschenel ( who has not had any successful sex life ) . Although Deschenel is hostile at first , she takes pity on Bartha , and then discovers he isn't such a bad guy . The clincher for their romance : he has a bee-bee gun , which he can use on the mockingbird . He does , and then gives the first artificial respiration emergency on a bird ever shown in the movies . Will the course of love run smooth for our two couples ? And what of our third pal , Mr . Cooper - is he doomed not to meet a fitting mate too ? What does McConaughey's small and wise friend Tyrell Jackson Williams think about these goings on , and whether his homebound friend is following the right policy or not ? What is it about poor McConaughey that he gets repeatedly attacked by animals ( including a porpoise ! ) in this film ? And what is the secret behind Terry Bradshaw's " Naked Room " plan ? How does Kathy Bates feel about her son's eventual decision and plans for the future ? And finally , does Carrie . . . I mean Sarah Jessica . . . whine again ? You bet she does . She whines her way to final victory before a captive but wrapped audience - a larger one than she even imagines . There are worse things than whining , particularly when done with humor and intensity as here . This film is a charming comedy , and a keeper if you like fun .
The Final in the Series of Brownlow produced tributes to the Silent Films	Starting with Hollywood in 1980 ( which was produced in the late 1970s ) Kenneth Brownlow had gathered material on the great silent film period that led to four documentary series . Hollywood was followed by THE UNKNOWN CHAPLIN , then one on Buster Keaton , and then ( in 1989 ) HAROLD LLOYD ; THE THIRD GENIUS . As an introduction to Lloyd's series of comic gems ( like SAFETY LAST , THE FRESHMAN , SPEEDY , and THE KID BROTHER ) it was delightful . It showed how Lloyd had spent years , watching the success of Chaplin , in trying to find a proper personae to make his own mark with . His initial character , " Lonesome Luke " , was basically Chaplin's tramp with a reversal of characteristics ( a mustache with two halves , not one , clothing that was to tight and short rather than too big , etc . ) . Gradually he began to consider how his character should be normal in appearance and in usual situations . But this normal character , through mishap or chance , would get into dangerous situations ( like hanging from a clock on a building when trying to safely climb the side of the building as an advertising stunt ) . It turned out to be a good choice , and made Lloyd's reputation as a great comic actor . The series also looked into the curious late sound films , and how Lloyd's carefully built film personae could not survive in the sound period . But the best part of the series was the careful discussion of how Lloyd did some of those dangerous stunts . There were always small tricks to lessen the apparent dangers , but he did do his own stunts ( and he did them with one hand that was badly disfigured in an accidental explosion that cost him three fingers ) . Altogether a remarkable story , superbly told .
More than just zombies	The ULTIMATE ZOMBIE flick ? Actually I would think NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD or one of it's sequels was that . WHITE ZOMBIE is an intelligent movie dealing with the world of the zombies - but it actually is considerably more than that . Bela Lugosi's career in Hollywood did not begin with a flourish in Dracula . He had been in films ( including silent movies ) in a wide variety of parts in the late 1920s and early 1930s . He appears in several film comedies like FIFTY MILLION FRENCHMEN and WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS ( one of the Edmund Lowe - Victor McGlaglan " Quirt & Flagg " spin-offs ) . He was also in Warner Baxter's SUCH MEN ARE DANGEROUS as a doctor . But it was the role of the Count that made forever a Hollywood star and symbol . He rejected the follow - up part of Frankenstein's monster , allowing Boris Karloff to get that role . But shortly after he was offered the role of voodoo expert and zombie master " Murder Legrande " in WHITE ZOMBIE . The story is simple . Robert Frazer is Beaumont a wealthy man who has met Madge Bellamy ( Madeleine Short ) on a sea voyage to his native home . She is going there to meet her fiancé John Harron ( Neil Parker ) to marry him . Beaumont falls heavily in love with her , and decides he must have her by any means . He meets Parker and suggests the wedding be held on his country estate . They ride out at night , and are twice surprised unpleasantly . First by some of the natives burying a recently deceased person in a road they are using ( the reason is that the locals don't want the dead person revived for zombie work , and figure it is less easy to dig up the corpse if the person is in a constantly used road ) . Secondly , they meet a man ( it turns out to be Legrande ) who is working in his fields with some assistance . Legrande falls for Short , and snatches her scarf . The coach driver ( Clarence Muse ) sees the men are zombies and drives the coach off . At Beaumont's home , Parker and Short meet Joseph Cawthorne ( Dr . Bruner ) who is to perform the wedding . Bruner is a little surprised at his invitation to do this from Beaumont , whom he barely knows . They also meet Beaumont's servant Brandon Hurst ( Silver , the butler ) , who is aware of Beaumont's personal schemes and tries to dissuade him from going to get the assistance of Legrande . While the young couple and the Reverend refresh themselves , Beaumont is picked up in a carriage ( which he is amazed is driven by one of the zombies ) . He goes to Legrande's mill ( where all the work is done by field zombies - one of whom falls into the mill's grinding machine without a sound , and with nobody else except Beaumont taking notice ) . Legrande and Beaumont discuss the problem of the up-coming marriage , and how Beaumont wants to prevent it . Actually by this time so does Legrande , but for his own reasons . However , it is obvious that the besotted Beaumont is less realistic than the " worldlier " Legrande . Beaumont is given a potion to use to turn Short into a zombie . A drop of the potion is enough . Beaumont tries to talk Short out of it , but she won't be talked . So , reluctantly , he has Silver doctor a rose to give to Short , who takes it . The wedding goes well , but during the party afterward Short is affected by the drug and collapses and " dies " . Subsequently she is dug up and turned over to Beaumont as his zombie sex slave . That is the first half of the movie , and I won't go into anything further . But what is frequently missed is that it is more than a study ( and a good one ) on zombies . Legrande is also a voodoo master , able to summon vultures to do his bidding , as well practicing voodoo arts . Twice we see him carving and manipulating wax figures , first of Short , later of Beaumont , to torment or to manipulate the people to behave in a certain way . With Beaumont , Legrande actually toys ( in a very memorable moment - Lugosi was obviously enjoying it ) with the doomed fool by carving the " Beaumont doll " with a sharp knife while the stricken man watches helplessly . Also note the scene between Cawthorne and Harron , where Cawthorne demonstrates a great knowledge of the odd laws of Haiti , which included laws concerning creating zombies . The film is also set in Haiti , and has that tragic country's poverty and traditions down pat . Most of the people are villagers in dirt farms or such . Beaumont and Legrande have large estates , but they are isolated ( we see Short preparing for her wedding and hearing drums beating to drive away evil spirits - she orders her window doors shut and the noises are cut out ) . Legrande's home is on a high cliff facing the sea . It reminds us of King Henri Christophe's mighty fortress palace ( still in existence today ) that was the greatest engineering feat of the first third of the 19th Century . The acting honors belong to Bela and Cawthorne , who enlivens every scene he is in with his honesty and friendliness . Lugosi has , in Legrande , the closest clone to his Count Dracula he'd ever get . There are many similarities between the films , both starting with carriage trips at night , amidst unnerving events , and both involving " undead " victims . Legrande , however , is more of a businessman ( he even suggests that Beaumont might find the zombies useful for his enterprises ) . As the lovers , Bellamy is adequate , but her acting gets limited to the difficulty of looking blank for much of the film , while under the zombie-inducing drugs . Harron has a good moment when , thinking his recently wed wife dead , he gets drunk and sees her face constantly in front of him . As the doomed butler , Hurst does a capable job . The zombies are quite unsettling when you see them - especially the tall bearded one .
Post war problems in Colorado	Colorado was a large , booming territory in 1865 . It did not enter the union until eleven years later , and as the only new state to get admission in 1876 it has the right to remain our " Centennial " State ( for the centennial of the Declaration of Independence ) . In the Civil War there were few engagements in Colorado , but one that did stick out was a massacre ( there is no other way of putting it ) of Indians by a Colonel Chivington at Sands Creek . Chivington's daughter had been raped by an Indian , and he took advantage of a relatively mild act of legal disobedience by the Indians to kill a good number of them . " The Man From Colorado " is not dealing directly with the Sands Creek Massacre ( no Indians are involved in the story ) . Instead , Chivington's character is transferred to Glenn Ford , who in the closing days of the Civil War perpetrates a similar atrocity , this time on surrendering Confederates . Ford and his friend William Holden have been through the whole war together , but Holden has managed to retain a sense of balance despite the horrors he has seen . Ford is on a slippery slope . Even after the atrocity he is still aware of his act of cruelty and writes in his diary about it . He can't control himself anymore . Unfortunately his war record stands him well with the richest men in the territory , especially Ray Collins . Collins has managed to get control of the claims that should be used to pay the ex-Union troops . He wants a strong man to be the Federal judge of Colorado territory . Who better than the no-nonsense Ford ? So Ford gets the judicial position . Holden has lost his old girlfriend ( Ellen Drew ) to Ford , but he remains a friend . However he and Drew are increasingly aware of Ford's mental instability . So is everyone ( except Ray Collins ) , as Ford keeps giving the most draconian decisions from the bench . In particular to his former soldiers , now fighting to get back their claims . This , of course leads to their becoming bandits . A vicious cycle , of course . Holden and Drew may be able to break it - Drew has seen Ford's diary . In the wake of World War II's returning men , and the many suffering psychological trauma , " The Man From Colorado " was a timely film . Ford never played a psychotic type as well as here . Holden ( actually in a supporting role - before his burst into super stardom ) is a great balance to Ford . Rains performs well as do most of the cast . And by the time the holocaust unleashed by Ford's appointment to the bench is finished , even Ray Collins wishes he never was dumb enough to put this man on the bench .
The End of the Boston Brahmin World According to Mr . Marquand	John Marquand is another of those authors who were once incredibly popular who now are barely recalled - and sometimes to our loss . If England gave us James Hilton and Joyce Carey , and France the Catholic novelist Georges Bernanos , the U . S . had ( among others ) John P . Marquand , who was a chronicler of the rich and powerful and prominent , particularly in his native New England ( and especially Boston ) . His novels were frequently made into movies : B . F . ' s DAUGHTER , H . M . PULHAM , ESQ . , TOP SECRET AFFAIR . His best novel ( which won the Pulitzer Prize ) was THE LATE GEORGE APLEY . This lovely movie is based on part of the novel . As mentioned in other of the reviews here , George Apley ( Ronald Colman ) is a proper Boston Brahmin , home on Beacon Hill , conservative , polished , and gracious . He represents centuries of grand breeding by his Massachusetts ancestors . Occasionally a comment will break through the hard lacquered surface of the Apley household . When he has invited the father of a girl his son is infatuated with ( but who lives . . . horror of horrors . . . in Worcester , Mass . ) for lunch , the girl's father ( Paul Harvey ) reveals that Apley's great grandfather was involved in the notorious " triangle trade " ( the subject of the song sung by John Cullum in 1776 ) . Apley is a trifle thrown by that old fact being revealed ( and by a social inferior at that ! ) . It is 1912 or so , and there is ( despite one's inherent feelings that poor George is hopelessly reactionary ) a lovely aged sheen of nostalgia on the film . We see people in a quieter and gentler America , having coming out parties and planning to eat a nice dinner at Delmonicos on a visit to New York City . There is also snowball fights near Boston Common . It would not be amiss to run this film with MEET ME IN ST . LOUIS and THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSOMS for an evening of good films dealing with the turn of the century ( one can add HEAVEN CAN WAIT to the group too ) . But the winds of change are tearing at the fabric of the world of Mr . Apley . He has two children ( Richard Ney and Peggy Cummings ) who while brought up properly ( we later learn that shortly after Ney was born , Colman and his brother-in-law Percy Waram went to sign up the baby for a future class at Groton , the posh private school that leads to Harvard ) are now being rebellious . Cummings is romancing a young professor who is lecturing at Harvard ( Charles Russell ) , and Ney ( who is supposed to be engaged to his cousin ( Vanessa Brown - her father is Richard Haydn ) is running around with the girl in Worcester . Things get into a bad state , as Colman's Apley tries to come to grips with the breaking up of his orderly world of clubs and superiority . I don't think Colman ever played such a placid snob as well in any other film he made . To his credit Apley tries ( at times ) to meet his children half way , egged on by brother-in-law Ralph ( Waram ) , but at other times he finds his efforts explode and sides with the more reactionary Horatio ( Haydn ) . It becomes a fight to see whether the better side of Colman will triumph over his conservatism . But there is hope - he does find he likes to read Freud . Boston society is far from dead today . But 1912 was about the last year that the old comic song about " where the Lodges only speak to the Cabots , and the Cabots only speak to God ! " was really true . At the time the Senator from Massachusetts was Henry Cabot Lodge Sr . ( whose grandson would also be Senator one day ) . But it was slowly dissolving , first by the onslaughts of Irish into Boston ( mentioned several times in the film ) , and then the other immigrant groups . In the 1920s the Sacco-Vanzetti Case would show the cleavages between the old social elite ( represented by the bigoted trial judge and the President of Harvard ) and the defendants ( two Italian-born anarchists ) . By the 1930s we have entered the age of Mayor John Michael Curley ( the model for Frank Skeffington in THE LAST HURRAH ) , and the grip of the old guard never totally recovered . It is no accident that the best known " wealthy / socially prominent " family in Massachusetts today are the Kennedys , who built their ways up from the teens of the last century : the date this movie is set in . Colman and his fellow players make us admire the form and position that old guard once controlled so well . But we welcome the fresh air that blew it all away .
The Making of A Great Empress	Josef Von Sternberg thought very extensively about the effects he wanted in THE SCARLET EMPRESS . He wanted to push the cinematic effects to show the huge Russian Empire and to show the spirituality of the Russo Orthodox Church . Therefore the visual effects of THE SCARLET EMPRESS are quite striking , as is the anachronistic sound track ( the music by Anton Rubinestein is very religious , but it is not from the middle of the 18th Century but from 100 years later ) . His use of candles - literally hundreds to get an idea of the Russo Ortodoxy of 1760 - works quite well to display the pageantry of the religion . And note the gargantuan doors used in the Royal palace . In THE RISE OF CATHERINE THE GREAT , the story line suggested that Elizabeth Bergner's Catherine did fall for a handsome looking , but unstable Peter ( Douglas Fairbanks Jr . ) . But in reality Peter was an unstable and cowardly figure . Sam Jaffe's performance is far closer to Peter III of Russia ( although one of his lines , when he says : " I hate my wife " is done too crazily to be realistic ) . He does look forward to ruling Russia , in order to send his wife ( after a divorce ) to a convent , and to marry whomever he wants . But even Jaffe's Peter was not quite the historical one . Peter III may have been insane , but he had a tremendous affection for Prussia and it's ruler , Frederick the Great . Russian foreign policy in 1760 was that of Tsarina Elizabeth ( Louis Dresser in this film ) . The Empress was allied with the French and Austrians against Prussia . One of the major policy changes that Peter III brought was to end this alliance with France and Austria . It affected Prussia's precarious position in the Seven Years War , and enabled Frederick to reorganize and defeat the Austrians and French . None of this is mentioned in either of the two films . What Von Sternberg did get right here ( not as well developed in THE RISE ) was that Sophie / Catherine took the time she was married to the Grand Duke to study up on the Russian people , their religion , their customs . She was a very sharp woman ( as her handling of the government would eventually show ) . Also Sophie / Catherine used her feminine abilities to make inroads with the nobility and military leaders , such as the fictional Count Alexei ( John Lodge ) and the real Captain Gregori Orlov . Many did become her lovers . One of them may have fathered the boy who would one day become Tsar Paul I of Russia This is hinted at in THE SCARLET EMPRESS ( the scene where Jaffe is congratulated about his new heir gives that performer a chance to be quite indignant - a welcome change from his insanity characterization ) . Marlene Dietrich's cool beauty and wits come across as Catherine learns the fundamentals of her new country , and becomes fully prepared to take it over from her incompetent husband's hands . I liked THE RISE OF CATHERINE THE GREAT , but THE SCARLET EMPRESS is a better done movie on all sides .
A Race To Get The Claim in First !	This was possibly the most memorable of THE LUCY - DESI COMEDY HOUR episodes , as it actually had a central situation that was really funny . As pointed out in the other review currently on this thread , the Ricardos , the Mertzes , and guest star Fred MacMurray get involved in a claim jumping chase . As pointed out it is a precursor to the chase to the buried treasure in IT'S A MAD , MAD , MAD , MAD WORLD . But this episode is from 1958 , and that comedy classic from 1963 . Actually this is also a comic version of the confrontation in THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRES in 1948 , where the three prospectors are replaced by the two couples and their guest star . MacMurray has lost $100 at the gambling tables of Las Vegas , and his wife ( June Haver ) will not be able to accept such a heavy loss ( it does not seem much to us today , but it is ) . He ends up accompanying the Ricardos and Mertzes in trying out a Geiger counter that Lucy bought . But soon they find evidence that there is uranium on the spot . They begin to dig for the uranium , but soon the personal idiosyncrasies of the couples and MacMurray get on each other's nerves , and finally they all start off in their cars to try to get to a claim office miles away in Las Vegas ( run by Chales Lane , of course ) first to get their claim in before the others . ( There is a side issue that people in the know may realize added to the joke - MacMurray was notoriously cheap in his real life ( thrifty may be the polite way of saying it ) . The $100 . 00 loss is really meaningless to people like him given his income , but he is terribly upset about it's affect on Haver - in reality he'd never have gambled that much , and maybe nothing at all ) . The chase follows problems of regular road blocks , bad conditions , and weather with the three groups sabotaging each other's cars at every opportunity . Not only sabotaging the cars but jeering at each other while they do so . To me the funniest moment is when MacMurray's car is wrecked , and he's left in the middle of no-where . Subsequently the Ricardos and Mertzes ( in their separate cars ) stop at a railway crossing miles away , stopped by a signal to allow a freight train to pass - and just at the train leaves we see MacMurray on a handcar pumping down the track in it's wake . The conclusion is suitably ironic for all three - and Haver shows up , not too happy about what happened . Our last sight is of MacMurray and Lucy fleeing Haver and Ricky as fast as possible . Because of it's concentration on that crazy chase this was the best of the episodes in terms of humor . Which is why I give it a " 10 " .
Excellent series to see the many sides of a complex hero	THAT HAMILTON WOMAN is the 1941 version of the scandal that punctured the totally heroic and gallant figure of Vice Admiral , Lord Horatio Nelson . Laurence Olivier's Nelson is a brilliant figure who has a sense of history ( notice his speech about the great figures of the 18th Century - he includes George Washington ! ) and possibly a sense of his own impending doom . He loves Emma Hamilton , and she loves him . That they are married they are both aware of , but they try to be as discreet as possible . In the end , the " nasty " element of the adulterous affair falls on her head , not on Horatio's , as his death in battle ( amidst great victory . . . indeed his flagship is H . M . S . Victory ) washes away HIS sin . In 1973 THE NELSON AFFAIR ( also known as A BEQUEST TO THE NATION ) starred Peter Finch as the admiral and Glenda Jackson as Emma . If Vivien Leigh was somewhat supportive and demure to her crippled hero , Jackson was closer to the vulgar , former prostitute and quack doctor's assistant who became Lady Hamilton . The original title was in reference to how Lord Nelson ( before he sailed for his fate at Trafalgar ) asked the British people not to forget Emma and their baby daughter , whom he left as a " bequest to the nation " . Then in 1982 this four part series was shown on Channel 13 . It took a " Citizen Kane " style look at Nelson through four different viewpoints : his neglected wife , Sir William Hamilton , Captain ( later Admiral ) Thomas Hardy , and a seaman who was one of the last survivors of the victory of Trafalgar . The story was one that Oliver Cromwell would have approved of - it showed Nelson " warts and all " . The brilliant admiral is there , and the brave seaman . But the Admiral is shown to be a hedonist , a ruthless pursuer of British goals , and someone willing to do a little society swanning for personal gain . For example , in the episode with Sir William Hamilton ( John Clements ) , the resignation of the ambassador to being the world's best known cuckold is shown . He is under orders from the Prime Minister and the Admiralty and Foreign Office to allow Nelson and Emma to enjoy themselves . But Nelson also carries out orders relayed by Sir William to him . And this reveals an area of his naval service his fans have gleefully overlooked over the years . Because Napoleon had taken over the course of Revolutionary France , most people in England and the U . S tend to dismiss French aims after 1797 as camouflage for Bonapartist dynastic ambitions . That can't be denied , unfortunately , but the fact is Napoleon also was spreading most of the better aspects of the Revolution around Europe . The French had many supporters in the countries they entered , and this was to include the Kingdom of Naples . Misruled by a stupid , reactionary King ( who only wanted to hunt all the time ) and his wife , the sister of Marie Antoinette , the royal family wanted to prevent any reforms . The British Government , in their desire to counter the threat of the French , fully supported this crew . This episode shows the leading reformers in Naples ( led by Raf Valone ) as struggling to overturn the government with France's assistance . The British send word to Nelson , through Sir William , to use his fleet to save the corrupt Neapolitan court . He does so - and Valone and most of his friends were exterminated by Nelson and his seamen and marines . We watch this horror , and see Emma and Horatio enjoying a sexual dalliance that same night . This is not a pleasant look at the hero's career . He's always ready with explanations . When Captain Hardy is mildly critical of his taking a holiday with Emma at the estate of William Beckford ( the author of the early 19th Century horror novel , VATHEK - played by Daniel Massey ) who was connected with a questionable estate case and also a morals charge about his relationship with a boy , Nelson ( with intensity ) explains he needs to relax for the sake of his national duty . Hardy accepts this ( and his need for Emma ) and actually feels the failure of the British to protect Emma and Horatio's child was a shame . But the speech from Nelson sounds like something that , no matter how intelligently said , was rehearsed . It's too glib . As a major corrective ( for the sake of historical balance ) to THAT HAMILTON WOMAN ( or even THE NELSON AFFAIR ) this series was quite good .
A Film about Patent Medicines , Ceramic Pug Dogs , Household Economics Lessons , Hooray !	I have always liked this movie . Clarence Day was the son of Clarence Day Sr . and Vinnie Day . His childhood ( with three brothers ) was a privileged one , as his father was a successful broker in New York City during the Gilded Age . Day became a humorist and autobiographer , writing three books that remain very entertaining : GOD AND MY FATHER , LIFE WITH FATHER , and LIFE WITH MOTHER . Day died in the 1930s , but a play by Howard Lindsay and Russell Crouse was produced from the books entitled LIFE WITH FATHER . It played for nearly a dozen years or so , and for many years had the record of Broadway performances before the coming of the super musical hits from OKLAHOMA onward . LIFE WITH FATHER is set in 1885 ( the historical reference that sets this date is the rant by Mr . Day at the newspaper , where he refers to the then Mayor of New York , " Honest Hugh Grant " and Tammany Boss Richard Croker ) . The story line is actually quite straightforward - the senior Day ( William Powell ) faces the daily problems of his household , thinking he is running things but constantly being out-witted by his dearly loved wife Vinnie ( Irene Dunne ) who insists on having an ugly ceramic pug dog for awhile . Accidentally Mr . Day reveals that his free-thinking parents have never had him baptized , and this horrifies his wife and their local minister ( Edmund Gwenn ) . Being a man in his late forties now , Powell thinks it is absolutely foolish to make him get baptized now . In the meantime his oldest son Clarence ( Jimmy Lyden ) has met with the first love interest of his life ( his mother's cousin , young Elizabeth Taylor ) . Clarence's brother John , who is interested in science ( he has wired up the parlor to cause a bell to go off , that confuses Mr . Day no end ) , has gotten involved selling a patent medicine . This will have ill-effects on Mrs . Day and Mr . Day , culminating in an oath that Mr . Day will end up regretting . Finally there are some marvelous examples of home economics from Mrs . Day that baffle and confuse Mr . Day no end - watch how she takes back the pug dog ( which was charged ) and gets a " free suit " for Clarence ( " THEY DON " T GIVE AWAY FREE SUITS ! " , Mr . Day insists . ] I doubt , unfortunately , that a book , play , or movie like LIFE WITH FATHER would last today . And I think we are the poorer for that . It is of a long dead world , with a fierce devotion to order and stratified social life in our homes and in our cities and nation . But it was not without it's charms . Catch the sweetest moment in this wonderful movie , when Mr . Day and Vinnie are singing " Sweet Marie " together in their parlor , on a summer afternoon .
One of the Sharpest Late Cold War Comedies	After their success in HOUSECALLS ( 1978 ) Glenda Jackson and Walter Matthau got re teamed again in this marvelous spoof of the world of spies . Matthau has been one of the best trained CIA operatives in the field , but he is aware that the atmosphere where he blossomed is being tainted by a new chief - Ned Beatty . Beatty is ultra conservative politically ( Matthau's more easy-going ; witness his rivalry friendship with his opposite number Herbert Lom , the Russian KGB expert ) . Beatty is trying to force Matthau into line or to resign . So he transfer him to a meaningless desk job . Matthau decides that he has to get out of this dead end - and get out with a great deal of money . First , taking advantage of his still existent clearance , Matthau removes his personnel file from CIA headquarters . Then he goes underground , keeping in touch with only one person - Jackson , his old fellow agent and sometime girlfriend . While Beatty and Sam Waterston ( Matthau's friend , and the reluctant assistant to the hated Beatty ) try to find Matthau , the latter starts typing up his memoirs which will show the incompetence of certain figures ( i . e . Beatty ) in all the world's major police and intelligence services . He sends copies of the chapters to the publisher he has chosen , but also to Beatty , Lom , and several others . The revelations ( all protected by freedom of the press - the book is being published in England , and the English are not apparently one of the secret police groups targeted ) , make Beatty furious - and more determined than ever to find and silence Matthau . Unfortunately Matthau is so far superior to Beatty in brains and cunning that he runs circles around him . The best moment is when he manages to have the FBI destroy Beatty's summer house . Similarly Jackson does a number on one of Beatty's favorite acolytes , who is stupid enough to be trapped in her home when she has left - and left behind a large , mean Doberman Pincher . The film reaches a climax in England . Will Beatty and the reluctant Waterston catch Matthau , or will he continue making a monkey out of Beatty - or will he find the ultimate escape route ? It was a wonderful comedy . Unfortunately it would be the last that Jackson and Matthau made together .
Can an unseen presence physically threaten a human being ?	Without question THE UNINVITED is one of the finest ghost story movies that Hollywood has created . It does have flaws ( all motion pictures have flaws if you look for them ) , but the main portions of the film work . Ray Milland and Ruth Hussey are a pair of siblings from London , who are looking for a house in Cornwall . He wants to work on his music . They find a house that is on a cliff which is quite roomy and with a breathtaking vista - it is a dream place . But even as they examine it , they find that their pet cat is upset for no apparent reason . And Milland and Hussey find one room that was locked , open it , and while Hussey tries to find some nice things about it ( fitfully at best ) Milland finally just says it's dreadfully oppressive in there , and they slam the door . But the rest of the house is still tip-top and they decide to buy it . It's owner is the Commodore ( Donald Crisp ) . He's a stiff and crusty sort - not looking kindly on strangers . He does have one human being he cares for - his granddaughter Stella ( Gale Russell ) . Stella's mother died shortly after childbirth . Her father ( a painter ) has since died abroad . Crisp willingly sells the house to Milland and Hussey , but he is not totally happy . It seems Milland and Stella have struck up a friendship , which even under ordinary conditions Crisp would oppose ( after all , who are these Londoners ? ) , but what's worse is that they are inviting Russell up to their home . Crisp does not like this . Whenever Russell goes to the house , sooner or later she seems to drift to the edge of the cliff . Soon Milland and Hussey also note the odd behavior of Russell at the house , and they note too some other odd phenomenon - the sound of wailing and the smell of mimosa scent . Crisp getting increasingly upset at the situation tries to buy back the house at a profit for the siblings , but they refuse . They begin to probe the history of the house , and the tragedy involved with it , the previous owners , and Stella . In the meantime , Crisp sends Stella to a private sanitarium run by his daughter's closest friend ( Cornelia Otis Skinner ) , and hopes she will be safe from harm - particularly harm from uninvited evil spirits . I won't go into further detail than that . The film was well acted by the cast , including ( by the way ) Miss Skinner - who made very few film appearances in her career . There are elements in her performance and character that are more suggestive of lesbianism than was usual in 1944 . Similarly Russell's performance here ranks with her performance as John Wayne's Quaker girlfriend in ANGEL AND THE BADMAN as the two best in her sad career . Also of note , Alan Napier as the local doctor who gets involved ( and turns into a potential love interest for another character as well ) . And the song that Milland's character " composes " became a standard : " Stella By Starlight " . In short one excellent picture .
Is there such a thing as to love too much and too well ?	MGM looked for a bankable star to handle the role of Arnold Boult ? It could only be Spencer Tracy , their finest actor with a recognizable face and name , So Robert Morley did not play his self-created dream part , but Tracy inherited it . Fortunately Tracy was fully able to give the role it's best spin if it's creator was unavailable . Tracy being called a Canadian enables him cover his accent and to aim for social advancement that America can't really match . The social advancement is really for the sake of the one figure in the film who never appears : Edward Boult . He is like Sebastian in SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER or Harvey in HARVEY . We are aware of his personality , and even sense his presence , but we never view his face or hear his voice . Arnold Boult and his wife Evelyn ( Deborah Kerr ) have just moved to a middle class district . They have two good pieces of news . First Arnold has begun a partnership with one Harry Sempkin ( Mervyn Johns ) in a warehouse . Secondly Arnold and Evelyn are blessed with a baby Edward . But Edward is sickly , and their friend Dr . Larry Woodhope ( Ian Hunter ) warns that unless Edward gets some treatment it may prove fatal for him . Arnold is totally concerned about this , and decides that he needs the money quickly . The warehouse is stocked with goods , and they have an inflated insurance policy . The warehouse goes up in smoke . Eventually the insurance companies ( who are not fully satisfied - more about that late ) pay up , Boult uses the money to save Edward , but also to go up in the business world ( dragging a bewildered Evelyn and a frightened Sempkins with him ) . Sempkins is frightened because he has already had a spell in prison on a minor fraud , and he was hoping to make a new , clean beginning with the warehouse . The story follows the expansion of Arnold's business deals to include newspaper chains , automobile companies , and the like . As has been pointed out , his Canadian background and newspaper interests make him seem a bit like Max Aiken , Lord Beaverbrook , but Aiken was never crooked . Along the way Sempkins gets framed for another swindle ( and returns for a heavier prison term ) , and Edward is spoiled rotten despite Evelyn's trying to restrain Arnold . Dr . Woodhope ( who loves Evelyn ) has to stand by and watch all of this - for Arnold has a nasty disposition towards anyone who tries to stand in his way . His break with Evelyn comes when she attempts to get legal custody in a separation , and Arnold blackmails her into accepting the status quo or being divorced and kept from ever seeing her son again . He does similar numbers on others too . When Edward is doing his own thing at a leading public school run by Mr . Hanray ( Felix Aylmer ) the latter plans to expel the boy . Boult shows up and turns out to have been buying up debts owed by the school that could cause foreclosure . He offers Hanray a choice - close the school or graduate Edward . Hanray makes the choice that Boult seeks . Eventually Edward gets a young woman pregnant , but she is not the type that Boult wants for his son - nothing less than a member of the aristocracy for Edward . The girl leaves . . . and takes away a future that Boult did not think of . Edward is killed in the war in a plane disaster ( he was fooling with the plane to impress a woman , it went out of control , and killed him and the crew ) . This finishes Evelyn , who has become an alcoholic . She dies within a few years . Boult's social rise has been complicated . Rumors about his methods make people treat him at arms length . Sempkins commits suicide at his office building , temporarily stopping Bou ; t's knighthood . But only the death of Edward shatters him - he really loved the boy . The insurance companies are still curious about the warehouse fire , and apparently closing in . Then he learns the young woman had her baby son . The only person who knows their location is Dr . Woodhope , but when he and Boult face off the Doctor won't crack . And now Boult has no clout left - he is sentenced to five years in prison for the warehouse fire . He comes out at the end of the film addressing the audience . He did it all for Edward , and he is now determined to find Edward's son and do it all for him too ! The film ends with Tracy looking around the screen seeking the familiar features of his missing grandson . Except for Edward Hyde Tracy never appeared in as negative a part in his major star films . Arnold Boult is a far cry from Father Flannagan or Manuel . There is nothing positive for Arnold . He loves Edward as a person to carry on his name - to breed a line of Arnold Boults . One wonders what would have happened if Edward ever had the temerity to say he wasn't interested . Deborah Kerr's Evelyn is a sad character . She does try to keep a state of balance but fails to because her husband is just too overpowering . Her final collapse is the death of the son she loved but could not save . Hunter's Doctor is proper in his official relationship with the Boults , and also victimized as he could probably have given Evelyn the right helpmate for her child . His refusal to assist Arnold in their last confrontation is emotionally satisfying . As for Mervyn Johns , he comes on with all the hope of the future running on this partnership - not realizing his partner is the Devil - and ends a walking ghost . His suicide is like an afterthought
One Fanatical Wine Lover	Donald Pleasance plays one of his best television roles as Adrian Carsini , owner ( with his brother Gary Conway ) of a fine vineyard that has been turning out superior products ( due to Pleasance's standards ) for decades . But he finds Conway ( who owns half the vineyard ) wants to sell his half to a competitor ( whose product Pleasance compares to mouthwash ) . Pleasance and his secretary ( July Harris ) are supposed to go to New York City on business ( and for a wine auction - Pleasance collects rare vintages ) . In a fit of anger Pleasance kills Conway , and then quickly figures out a way to make Conway's death look like it occurred in an accident a few days later . The accidental death is investigated by Lt . Columbo . Peter Falk begins to find some small problems concerning the death of Conway , supposedly when he went diving off a cliff while alone . And soon his attention is directed to Pleasance . Unlike most of the Columbo episodes the killer is not really obnoxious . His snobbery is only as a perfectionist regarding wines , and he actually likes to perfect wine for the benefit of the consumer . And it is not a planned killing . But the typical cat and mouse atmosphere of the Columbo episode follows , including Falk taking a crash course on wine from George Gaynes ( just referred to as a Frenchman - he works in a liquor store ) . It also deals with a first rate dinner in a posh restaurant , with Vito Scotti as a snobbish maitre'd ( he puts Columbo at a table near the kitchen ! ) . Finally there is a subplot regarding Harris as a woman with her own agenda regarding Pleasance . And the solution is fairly interesting , leaving one with a smidge of pity for our fanatical wine lover / murderer .
Damn Good for a Film Biography of a Theatrical Giant	I suspect that had Dashiell Hammett never written a successful comic pot boiler detective story called THE THIN MAN , William Powell's best remembered role would be as Florenz Ziegfeld in THE GREAT ZIEGFELD . Here he captured that brilliant showman's vision and drive with just the right degree of sophistication . I can't think of few others - maybe Robert Montgomery , but I sadly doubt it ( he seems too young ) - who could have done as first rate a job . It is really rare for a theatrical presence to maintain himself or herself decades or centuries after their death . Prior to the invention of motion pictures it was impossible ( except for the late 19th Century crowd , starting with Edwin Booth , Sir Henry Irving , and Ellen Terry - they had some phonograph recordings ) for actors to preserve their personas . Photo stills helped but did not leave much . Occasionally one would " accomplish " something for good or ill that people would recall ( i . e . , John Wilkes Booth ) , but that was a rarity . Movies changed that by allowing the audience to stretch from the contemporaries to the future ones . There are actual movies of Flo Ziegfeld at work on Broadway . Unfortunately he did not look like Bill Powell ( Flo was somewhat fat ) , but those surviving newsreels showed his energy with his casts and productions . Powell got that side of him right . THE GREAT ZIEGFELD traces the showman from his start as the publicity manager of Eugene Sandow ( Nat Pendleton ) from the Chicago World's Fair of 1893 to his rise as a major Broadway impresario from 1900 until 1930 . Only the Great Depression destroyed Ziegfeld's career ( he lost most of his fortune in the crash ) . Significantly his fall is showed by the lights of his four currently big shows ( including SHOWBOAT , RIO RITA , and THE THREE MUSKETEERS ) all fading out one after another . It not only destroyed his career , but it helped kill the poor fellow ( he died in 1932 ) . But by that point his historical reputation was established by his series of spectacular Broadway " Follies " shows with the likes of Ed Wynn , Fanny Brice , W . C . Fields , Will Rogers , Bert Williams , Walter Catlett , Leon Erroll as the comic leads , and music by such composers as Jerome Kern , Victor Herbert , Irving Berlin , and even the Gershwins . But better was Ziegfeld's use of women - his " Glorifying the American Girl " reviews did precisely that , affecting taste in theater spectacles and taste in what beauty in women should be . He had his rivals as pointed out in other reviews here . Among them were the Shuberts , possibly the most successful in the long run ( but only because there were several of them , and they did not go bankrupt ) . Earl Carroll did produce his " Vanities " , and George White did do the " Scandals " , but in retrospect ( for all the talent they brought to their shows ) these were pale imitations . In Carroll's case he skirted the level of decency by suggesting his chorus girls were naked in some of the sketches . Ziegfeld was no saint but he knew what was acceptable behavior in theatrical production on stage . This film had a good cast . Besides Powell , the women in his life ( Anna Held , his chorus girl girlfriend , and Billie Burke ) are played well by Louise Rainer , Virginia Bruce , and Powell's movie " wife " Myrna Loy . Rainer ( as the betrayed Anna ) got her first " Oscar " for this role , most likely for the emotional " telephone " scene . Her part is actually a substantial one , but due to the size of this film it has always been seen as a short supporting bit . This is a trifle unfair . Virginia Bruce brings a nice calculating eye to her performance , undermining the Ziegfeld - Held relationship , but slowly losing the showman due to her increasing alcoholism . Loy was really lucky . Once she got the role she contacted the living and active Billie Burke and had discussions about how to accurately portray the second Mrs . Ziegfeld . She wisely does not try to imitate Billie's familiar syrupy upper register voice . Frank Morgan appears as a friendly rival or Ziegfeld's , both in business and in the boudoir . One likes him as one usually likes Morgan's comic characters . My favorite performance is that of Fanny Brice playing herself . The film was made the year after the death of Will Rogers so that he was not around ( he possibly could have been borrowed ) . Fields was out - Ziegfeld had had plenty of trouble with that curmudgeon on Broadway , and MGM probably knew that Fields would have demanded equal billing to Powell . Wynn was mostly still on Broadway . One does wish Catlett and Erroll might have been used . But we have Fanny in her glory , culminating in her singing her most famous number - " My Man " . That alone is worth watching the film for . As for the showcase production number on the spiraling tower , it is quite impressive ( I doubt if Ziegfeld could have put it on the stage of his New Amsterdam Theater ) , but I agree that the dubbing of Dennis Morgan's voice by Allan Jones is totally inexplicable to this day .
Free Speech v . Hate Speech	In Danny Kaye's career ( despite what is said on this thread ) he made two dramatic and one half dramatic performances in movies . The half dramatic performance was in the film ME AND THE COLONEL , a comedy with Curt Jurgens based on a play by Franz Werfel , JACOBOWSKI UND DER OBERST ( JACOBOWSKI AND THE COLONEL ) about a Jew and and anti - Semitic Polish officer fleeing Warsaw in 1941 to avoid death by the Nazis . Though it has funny moments in it , the threat of Nazi brutality , and Jurgens slow change to respect and friendship for the Jewish Kaye actually made the story serious . Similarly Kaye's performance in THE MADWOMAN OF CHALLOT was also serious , as his big scenes dealt with the loss of the individual personalities of the different sections of Paris ( as shown in their distinct garbage - he is a rag picker ) and in his demonic ( no better way of describing it ) performance as the symbolic defender of the villains of the piece , on trial for their lives . SKOKIE was Kaye's final movie ( not his last appearance on television ) . It was a major performance - this time in center stage and no clowning involved . It returned to the subject matter of JACOBOWSKI , but brought it up to date . It was based on a notorious incident of the late 1970s in Illinois . A resurgence of the American Nazi Party decided to have a march , and for added interest ( as well as putting salt on wounds ) it was marching not in Chicago but in a quiet area near the city called Skokie , which was where a large number of Jews - many European survivors and refugees of the Holacaust - lived . The Jews in the community were angered by this move , and fought it . But , after court action , the march was allowed . However , when the Nazis came to march they found hundreds of Jews on all sides of the street glaring at them . They completed the march , but the Nazis were thoroughly unnerved by the experience . Kaye is one of the survivors of the original Nazis and their activities in the 1940s . He is absolutely opposed to this march - he becomes the most outspoken opponent of it . He knows what quiet acquiescence to this garbage means - the Jews in Europe were quiet , too quiet , and it cost six million lives . The pressures of the re-occurrence hits his family , as his wife ( Kim Hunter ) also a survivor , begins collapsing under the strain - she's reliving the nightmare all over again . She feels it can happen here , and Kaye is determined that it shall not . George Dzunga is the local Nazi leader , who carefully planned the choice of Skokie to give the maximum hurt to the Jews he could . He also chooses the attorneys of the American Civil Liberties Union to represent his " fight for freedom of speech " argument . And to add icing to his evil , he chooses John Rubenstein , a Jewish - American attorney at the A . C . L . U . to be his attorney . Rubenstein and his mentor Eli Wallach are confronting the situation , but determined to do what their organization sees as it's role - safeguard the Bill of Rights against all attacks . And , as I said at the start of this review , they do win the court victory , but the Nazis find the victory more unsettling than they expected . The film also demonstrated something that is not usually discussed when dealing with the A . C . L . U . That organization always pushes the envelope a bit to make it's point about our rights - and sometimes goes beyond common sense . In a mostly secular America , some Christmas crèches don't have to be taken away because they violate church and state ( if the A . C . L . U . actually believes in separation on that issue , why not demand that Christmas be returned to a solely Christian holiday rather than allow the courts and government buildings being closed - obviously their membership benefit by the holiday as well - I think they call that hypocrisy ? ) . Inevitably when you are defending " rights " you are going to be tramping on people's toes . Most of us don't mind when it is an unpopular or static group ( like a business who has some hiring policy that is questionable ) , but if you see that a large minority is being insulted by a " rights " issue the A . C . L . U . is involved in , you can see why that organization really needs to reevaluate what it is doing . But it won't . They were defending hate speech here - anti - Semitic material that Hitler would have been proud of . The A . C . L . U . would have said that our right to free speech is universal . But if that is true , the speech is unlimited - and I don't feel that that was the original intention . If the Skokie marchers had been met by thousands of hidden supporters , who were armed and went on a rampage of killing Jews afterward , the fine idea of defending such speech would have been meaningless . And just because it did not happen , does not mean that it can't . The film tackled this as well . Both Rubenstein and Eli Wallach face a double whammy in the course of the story . Both are Jews , and neither really love their client . It's their duty to do what they do for the Bill of Rights . But then the A . C . L . U . coffers suffered . Many Jews had been contributors until Skokie happened - now they felt obliged not to because it was taking a " pro-Nazi " stand . The A . C . L . U . would suffer financially for years for this blunder . Then the Skokie residence countered by a demand to know if the A . C . L . U . was denying the Holacaust occurred ( as the Nazis claimed ) . Although they win the case , they realize they have lost tremendous credibility with former supporters . SKOKIE was a pretty fine movie - and well worth watching . It also leaves the issue of whether Free Speech is unlimited or not open even as the film ends .
" I Want To Be Champ ! "	The apocryphal line in the " Summary Line " is usually shot out ( with appropriately gritted teeth and pressured , angst filled tones ) by mimics pretending they are doing Kirk Douglas . But it does convey the character of Midge Kelly pretty well . From the first we realize that no matter how skillful a boxer he is , Midge is an ambitious egotist , who uses people right and left without a second thought . It is not Douglas's greatest performance ( Sparticus , Colonel Dax , and Vincent Van Gogh have to be considered as well ) . But it was the starring role that put him on the movie-land map . Midge is poison from the start . He and his brother Connie ( Arthur Kennedy ) get jobs in a diner run by Harry Shannon . Midge spoils it by having an affair with Shannon's daughter Emma ( Ruth Roman ) which Shannon solves by a shotgun wedding . Naturally Midge has little interest in Emma , who ends up going to live with Midge's mother back east ( Shannon disowns her ) . Later it turns out that Connie had more of a real affection for Emma , and he too resents how Midge " beat " him to the girl of his dream . Midge ( to earn some money ) goes into the ring for a match . He was beaten ( and subsequently cheated by the fight promoter ) . But he attracts the attention of Tommy Hayley ( Paul Stewart ) , an honest fight trainer . He teaches Midge how to train properly . Soon Midge is winning matches , and he gradually rises in the boxing world to the point where he is potentially a rival for the championship title held by the friendly , decent Johnny Dunne ( John Daheim ) . But the man who controls the fight game is Jerry Harris ( Luis Van Rooten - in a nice understated performance that ultimately wins him your sympathy ) . He is preventing the fights necessary for Midge to confront Dunne . Midge has picked up a girlfriend ( formerly Johnny Dunne's ) named Grace Diamond ( Marilyn Maxwell ) . She has done well with him , as she did with Dunne , by his expensive gifts to her . But he is about to make a major change in his career . Contacting Harris , he agrees to dump Hayley as manager for Harris to get those boxing matches . This of course shocks the honorable Hayley , but Harris soon comes to regret it as well . For Midge has met Harris's wife Palmer ( Lola Albright ) , a talented sculptor who is a decade or so younger than her husband . Grace soon finds she is being tossed aside ( something she is not used to ) , and threatens to tell the public about the real Midge . But he effectively puts Grace into her place , by pointing out that he will beat her so badly her face will be a physical mess for the rest of her life - ending her value to any man . Midge wins the title , but his spiritual rot continues . He has bought his mother and Emma a luxury apartment , and Connie visits them frequently - but not Midge . Midge doesn't come until his mother dies . Connie and Emma eventually discover they should have been the couple but Midge , for his own purposes , won't divorce Emma . As for Jerry and Palmer , Jerry realizes that it would be better to give Midge his contract and freedom than compete ( but he's smart enough to show the opportunistic Midge willingly doing this to Palmer , who realizes that Jerry really does love her more than the boxer ) . The conclusion deals with the rise of Dunne again as a major competitor . Forced to return to Hayley ( only this time demanding a huge salary for his work ) , Midge gets back into shape . And we return to the match which was about to begin at the start of the film , wondering if Midge will make it again or lose . It is a brutal , and realistic fight ( one of the best ever filmed ) and has one memorable moment - when Midge is on the canvas , possibly defeated , but hears someone dismissing him as finished . The expression on Midge's furious face is something you never forget . CHAMPION is one of the great boxing films , and an excellent film to study the acting art of Kirk Douglas with .
The Production I saw on television and on Broadway	In 1984 I was more active in going to Duffy Square in Manhattan and seeing what plays I could get tickets to on Broadway . One that I saw was YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU , which ( as I had seen productions of it in the past ) I was acquainted with . I decided to see it again because this production had gotten good reviews , and it starred Jason Robarts , with Ellis Rabb and Colleen Dewhurst in the cast . Actually while it was exciting to see a play with Robarts and Dewhurst in it the latter had a small cameo role and only appeared in the final act ( where she did a comic bit about dancing with Rabb ) . But watching Robarts ( the only time I saw him on stage ) was wonderful . I was so close to him that I could see his character ( Grandfather Martin Vanderhof ) perusing his " stamp collection " ( the small collection book actually did have stamps in it ! ) . It is fortunate that a video record of the production still exists , complete with performances by Robarts , Dewhurst , Nicholas Surovy , Bill McCutcheon ( as Mr . DePinna ) , Jack Dodson , and others of the original cast . Only Raab was not in it - ironically his role of Boris Kolenkhov the Russian dance master is played by George Rose , who I also saw on stage in other plays . But Rose was a fine comic performer and gave proper distinction to the Russian's famous put-down ( " It stinks " , said with a friendly dismissive air ) . The story by Kaufman and Hart is about the eccentricities of the Vanderhof - Sycamore clan , which does not pay taxes ( why should it ? taxes are only used to support the Navy , and the last time it was of use was in 1898 ! ) , which gives free room and board to several people like DiPinna and Kolenkhov , and which encourages freedom ( Penelope writes stories because a typewriter was once delivered to the house by mistake , her daughter paints DiPinna as a discuss thrower , her husband makes illegal firecrackers in the basement , and her son-in-law earns his living with his small printing press ( unfortunately printing Communist posters ) . When her more staid daughter falls for a normal boy , and the family of the boy is invited over , all hell breaks loose . The movie version of the play ( directed by Frank Capra ) expanded the philosophy of enjoying life into another assault on the super-rich , with Edward Arnold as Mr . Kirby . . . not as a stockbroker as he is in the play or in this video production , but as a banker and empire builder , who gets emotionally twisted and lost , and then finds himself again . While certainly an interesting variant on the original play it was unnecessary . The original has a lot of nuttiness and common sense mingled into it , and is one of the few comedies of the 1930s that are still capable of revival . The production here keeps the single stage production of the Broadway revival ( which is possibly a mistake - they could have shown say the basement of the house ) . On the other hand the single set keeps the record of the original revival production in tact . I can only say it is worth watching .
One of the First ( and Best ) Christmas Holiday Movie Classics	This work has been a comedy joy for over sixty years now , and has even been redone on television a few times - but the original is still the best . It takes a totally fantastic situation ( the possible existence of Santa Claus ) and looks at it from the real world's point of view . It has been said that the eventual recognition of Kris Kringle ( Edmund Gwenn , in his Oscar winning role ) as Santa is due to the necessity of people and organizations in society that can't decry the Christmas spirit . It's too unpopular to do that . Mr Macy ( the fictional owner of the Department store ) is not going to denounce Santa , who helps bring holiday shoppers into his store at Christmas ( neither - although he is not involved in the court case - would his fictional rival Mr . Gimbel ) . The wisdom of the entire matter is summed up in a great speech by Charlie Halloran ( William Frawley ) , the political wizard behind Judge Harper ( Gene Lockhard ) . If Harper decides to deny the existence of Santa he'll make enemies of merchants , toy manufacturers , kids and their parents , and others who get some satisfaction from the material side of the holiday season - Harper will ensure his total defeat at the polls ! It is a lesson the astute Judge takes to heart . I suppose that the materialism of Christmas is to be denounced by purists , who think of the spiritual aspects frequently forgotten at Christmas . But the film reaffirms that the materialism of the holiday actually is an engine to the meaning of the holiday . In celebrating the birth and life of Jesus Christ , one is affirming a belief ( ultimately ) in the goodness of mankind and the truth of love . To show love frequently means sacrifice - here in expensive gifts to loved ones . If the pressures of modern advertising make this materialism too visible , the underlying purpose of gift buying is not to be materialistic but to show one cares for those one loves . Oddly enough Kris himself is willing to advertise the materialism to a point . At the Thanksgiving Day Parade he is last seen telling the children in the crowd that there are plenty of toys to be bought at Macy's ( which , by the way , would be what he or the original " Santa " ( Percy Helton ) would have had to say in any case ) . Only later is Kris able to show more selective honesty here - he does tell one customer ( Thelma Ritter ) where she can get a toy at a cheaper cost than at Macy's . As a result the Department Store picks up on this and starts a policy of guiding people to other stores . In the real world I must admit it would not occur , but one likes the concept and wishes it would . The characters ( for the most part ) are likable , the one exception being Sawyer ( Porter Hall ) the obnoxious store " psychologist " . Sawyer misuses his so-called knowledge to make people feel mentally ill ( telling one nice guy that his yearly stint at an orphanage as Santa is really from some bad act of his from many years past ) . Kris tells off Sawyer very easily , separating this vicious quack from genuine therapists who can help people . ( Kris tells his friend Fred Gailey that he can easily control his visits with therapists , because he knows the answers to their questions which are usually the same ones . Actually this happens to be a common problem in therapy when dealing with criminals in prison who know what the therapists want to hear . But Kris actually does know what good they do , and how Sawyer is misusing his power . By the way , Kris / Gwenn makes a mistake in showing how he knows the right answers . He says John Quincy Adams ' Vice President was Daniel D . Tompkins . Tompkins ( who was Governor of New York in the War of 1812 ) was James Monroe's Vice President - Adams ' Veep was John C . Calhoun . ) The real spiritual sense of the holiday is shown in the relationship of Kris and Fred with Doris and Susan Walker ( Maureen O'Hara and Natalie Wood ) . Fred begins the process by softening the divorced Doris with his own version of kindness to her and Susan . But it is hard to reach Susan at first ( though she likes Fred ) because Doris is so determined to make her daughter a realist . It is only when Fred realizes that Doris does not like fancy or the outlandish because of her own hard fall into reality through her marriage that he shakes her up regarding what exactly makes life worthwhile ( and it is not an adherence to reality all the time ) . As for Susan , her view is softened by Kris , who becomes a surrogate grandfather to her . The snagging point is that her world would be complete if she had a home , not a cramped apartment with her mother . Kris is concerned about the possibility of granting Susan that wish , but does not give up on it . And ( as it turns out ) it does complete the relationship between Doris and Fred - who will probably marry and move into such a house . We never see this , but we see ( in the last shot ) a symbolic approval of such a plan from Kris to the young couple . Again an affirmation of love , the center of the Christmas holiday .
Is Fate Set In Stone ?	Leslie Halliwell in his book HALLIWELL'S HARVEST refers to this as a " smoking room story " , which is the kind of reminiscence tale told between old friends in a club over drinks . It is not given in one shot - all good anecdotes are told slowly and build up . This one ( apparently based on a true incident from the Far East in the late 1940s ) takes it's time , but as it progresses the momentum of events squeeze and squeeze the human personnel involved until the moment of crisis . Do you believe in fate ? It is an issue that has perplexed man since we first began to reason . Are our destinies written out in the stars of astrology , or in the hands of the three Greek " Fates " who spin , measure , and cut our threads ? Or is everything done by chance , pure and simple ? Years ago I read a portion of an essay by William James ( I think it was him ) for a philosophy course . James dismissed fate - he felt that the problem with believing in it is that if you decide to go down street A to reach point D a fatalist will say that you were always supposed to do that . But if you go down Street B to reach point D the fatalist would say the same thing , and that didn't sit well with James . But a fatalist would probably point out that as you went on that occasion only by one of those routes , that is the destined route you had to take at that occasion . So who can really know ? In THE NIGHT MY NUMBER CAME UP , Michael Redgrave is a British Air Marshall who must go on a mission with several others , including Denholm Elliot and Alexander Knox in one of the military Dakotas used in World War II . There would be nothing wrong about this , but Michael Hordern who is in charge of arranging the trip has just had a nightmare wherein Redgrave , Elliot , Knox , and several others are traveling to the location of this mission ( which Hordern did not know about when he went to bed that night ) in a Dakota that is in mechanical difficulties and in very bad weather . In fact , it is crashing on a beach . Hordern makes the mistake of telling this to the three of them , and while Redgrave pooh-poohs it , Elliot and Knox are not as certain ( although Knox pretends it is all nonsense ) . Among other things , a major political figure ( Ralph Truman ) is supposed to be on the plane too in the dream , and he is not scheduled to attend the mission that Redgrave is going on . So the preparations go ahead . But point by point , little things from the dream begin to fall into place in the real world . For example , at a stopover , Truman suddenly shows up - he has to go by the Dakota on a separate trip , hooking up to another flight later on . Also there are a certain number of passengers , including a noisy one , who are to be on the plane . Everyone is happy when the number of passengers goes down , but it goes up as well . Then a rather noisy , boisterous businessman ( George Rose , naturally ) , comes on board - literally manipulating his way on board when initially kept off by Elliot and Knox ( he circumvents them going to Redgrave and Truman ) . So the circumstances grow in the small world of that pressurized cabin as the passengers watch amazed at how good weather collapses and engine problems multiply ( they can't raise the plane above a certain level outside the storm due to a pressurization problem - ironically enough ) . But Redgrave maintains his icy calm throughout the situation - he is determined that he and the others are not going to give into panic over the paranormal . The film is excellent in tackling this type of situation in a serious way . In the end it does not matter if you are a fatalist or not , the film will carry you to to it's conclusion successfully . One final minor point . I don't know much about the scrap metal business , but this film ( made in 1955 ) and the Judy Holliday movie BORN YESTERDAY ( 1950 ) and one classic sequence in THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES ( 1946 ) with Dana Andrews and the scrapped fleet of bombers are the only ones that seem to tackle this growing big business . A lot of military hardware was there for the taking after 1945 . In BORN YESTERDAY , Harry ( Broderick Crawford ) owns junk yards and has built a local empire on scrap metal ( and is in Washington to try to get the laws altered to expand his business ) . Here , George Rose ( an English counterpart to Harry ) is trying to get on the flight in order to get to Japan for an important conference dealing with British scrap metal interests in the Far East ( and he constantly mentions the American competition as intense - a nod to Crawford ? ) . It's almost enough to start a college study into the post war scrap metal business !
" Himmell ! ! That Throat ! ! ! "	Historic note of interest : In the early 19th Century , there was a scandal involving the British General-in-Chief of the Armies ( then fighting Napoleon ) where his mistress was found to have been selling commissions to wealthy , but undeserving men , for high private fees . The General-in-Chief resigned in 1809 as a result of this scandal . He was Frederick Augustus , Duke of York , second oldest ( and favorite ) son of King George III . The mistress , Mary Anne Clarke , faced some legal problems , but triumphed over most of them ( she actually had public opinion on her side ) . Ms Clarke would marry and have a family . Her grandson was George Du Maurier ( more of later ) ; Her great-grandson was Gerald Du Maurier , the leading stage actor of the first half of the 20th Century ; Her great-great-granddaughter was Daphne Du Maurier , novelist ( REBECCA , JAMAICA INN , FRENCHMAN'S CREEK , MY COUSIN RACHEL , THE SCAPEGOAT ) , and great-great-grandma's sympathetic biographer ( MARY ANNE ) . By the way , while Ms Clarke had quite a noteworthy progeny , the Duke of York never had any legitimate children , or illegitimate ones of note . But SVENGALI is not Daphne's book . It is the chief novel of her grandfather George . By the way , the title of the novel is not SVENGALI , but TRILBY . Trilby O'Farrell is the heroine of the story , and Svengali is the villain ( " Little Billee " is the hero ) . But in Svengali George Du Maurier created one of the most memorable villain figures in the 1880 and 1890s , with Bram Stoker's Count Dracula and Conan Doyle's Professor James Moriarty , Anthony Hope's Rupert of Hentzau and Robert Louis Stevenson's Henry Jeckyll / Edward Hyde . Unfortunately there is an element in Svengali that is played down somewhat ( but his appearance - based on the novel's illustrations by Du Maurier ( who was a successful cartoonist ) emphasize without subtlety ) . Svengali is Jewish - and a real villain in the story . He is first seen as a hanger-on , and one who sneers at the attempts by Little Billee , Taffy , and the Laird to be artists . That is because he has his own powers , but he is looking for the right person to use them on . He finds that person in Trilby , a beautiful young girl , quite innocent , who works as a model . One day he examines Trilby's throat somewhat bemusedly and discovers that it is perfectly formed for singing ( hence the comment I put in the " Summary Box " ) . Up to that time she is falling for Billee , but soon Svengali is giving her all kinds of singing lessons . Billee and his friends note this with apprehension ( they barely can tolerate Svengali ) . Then she becomes increasingly distant and cold to them , especially Billee . Soon she leaves with Svengali . Billee suffers a collapse as a result . Billee recovers and in a few years learns that Trilby is the leading concert singer in Europe . But wherever she goes it is always with her impresario / husband Svengali . He " keeps an eye " on her and her activities . Billee can't stand this , especially after an accidental meeting with her leads to a feeling she doesn't even know who he is . He starts pursuing them , and finally drives to the fatal conclusion ( which is quite different in the novel , but similar ) . I doubt if hypnotism really could do what Du Maurier suggested Svengali could do to Trilby . But this film certainly suggests it can . John Barrymore's Svengali was the closest role ( in his sound films ; he had played Dr . Jeckyll in a silent film ) to a horror part , but he manages to make the impresario / hypnotist / musician a sad and compelling figure : the tragedy for Barrymore's Svengali is his success - he knows he controls Trilby ( Marian Marsh ) , but that knowledge also brings doubt that she could ever love him or give herself to him on her own free will . It is a damning situation , and he does not know the answer until the last moment of the film . Svengali would be a hallmark role for Barrymore - he is a reference point in the role of Oscar Jaffe in the comedy TWENTIETH CENTURY , and a slightly watered down version is his unhappy impresario / husband to Jeanette MacDonald in MAYTIME .
Keaton's Day at the " American Music Hall "	THE PLAY HOUSE is Keaton showing his growth as a film comedian and director . It is in two sections actually , and they are blended together without much difficulty . We see Keaton as an employee going into a vaudeville house . We eventually learn it is the Keaton Vaudeville House , and everyone in the audience , on stage , in the orchestra , and backstage is Keaton in one set of clothing or another , and with different wigs or make-up arrangements . That includes an entire nine man minstrel show ( which we even see two jokes about a cyclone being told ) . All the Keatons act well in their roles : as an elderly snobby couple ( the man keeps falling asleep , and the lady complains of a lower class mother and son above them who are emptying soda pop on them ) . The six piece orchestra ( with conductor ) are all distinct from each other ( the clarinet player treats his " licorice stick " like a licorice stick ; the violinist puts resin on his bow like it's chalk on a billiard cue ) . Then it turns out Keaton is sleeping on a bed , and is awaken by his usual nemesis Joe Roberts . With derby on head and cigar in mouth , Roberts is ordering Keaton off his bed and out of the room . To mournful music Keaton gets up , and picks up his hat from beneath the bed . Some of Roberts staff have come in , and have started taking other furniture out . Keaton goes out the door , and then we see the walls being taken down . Keaton has been sleeping on a set for the theater that he actually works in . The rest of the film deals with Keaton's involvement as a gopher / backstage hand / and occasional performer . He has to take over for a performing chimpanzee that is part of one of the acts ( needless to say Buster does very nicely as the " trained chimp " ) . He also has a moment that needs a bit of explanation for the 2008 audience : Roberts is the head of an act of performing zouaves ( French soldiers from North Africa who were known for prodigious acts of physical durance and speed ) . He is understaffed for the performance , and turns to Keaton , asking for more zouaves . " Zouaves " were also a name for a 1920s style of cigarettes , so Buster offers Joe his pack , before he's straightened out . Buster finds the " zouaves " at a nearby work site , where their foreman is dozing off , and they follow him to the theater and perform . A running thread in the film is that Keaton is romancing one of a pair of twin sisters , and keeps kissing the wrong one ( and getting slapped as a result ) . It is only at the tale end of the film that Keaton finds a way of telling them apart . Keaton does not miss a single point about 1920s Vaudeville . The Zouave act is being applauded by two one armed old war veterans ( the Northern Army in the Civil War had a Zouave corps for awhile ) . When they like what is going on they clap their two surviving hands together . But they disagree about the further antics of the performers , and one switches to another gentleman sitting next to him to clap his personal applause with . It is a marvelous short , showing Keaton stretching himself for his jump ( also in 1921 ) to feature films .
The Truth About Heroes	James Thurber wrote the short story , " THE GREATEST MAN IN THE WORLD " in the early 1930s , and it still has a tremendously effective kick to this day . Basically the story deals with the following problem : what happens when the man who is a hero turns out not to have the right character ? I don't think Thurber was aiming any particular darts at Lindbergh , who was made into a national God in 1927 by his act of bravery in flying the Atlantic alone and successfully between New York and Paris . Lindbergh's later pro-Nazi point of view was not known in 1931 . Instead , Thurber was basing his story on the following . Whatever defects Lindberg , or polar explorer Richard Byrd , or other notable heroes of the day had these defects were well hidden , or of a relatively trifling nature ( i . e . , Byrd's drinking ) , that the public could just admire their outward manifestations of courage , chivalry , modesty , friendliness , etc . But this could not always be guaranteed for all people who made great achievements . In this tale , Jimmy Schmurch ( renamed Smidgeon here - Reed Birney plays him ) is a daredevil who pilots a juiced-up airplane using an engine designed by a madman ( Russell Horton ) , to fly non-stop around the globe . When the plane lands , Smidgeon is exhausted and collapses . He is taken to a hospital to recuperate . In the meantime a newspaper editor ( Howard De Silva ) , has sent his reporter out to find background on the incapacitated hero . The reporter discovers that Smidgeon is an abusive , nasty individual - a heavy drinker - who has had more adulterous affairs than one can shake a stick at . He also is a close friend of bootleggers ( the story is set in the Prohibition period ) , and his mother and family have had plenty of run-ins with the law . De Silva realizes that the public can't have a hero like this . He informs the government , so that the Secretary of State ( William Prince ) is put in charge . Due to the national prestige involved , Prince puts it succinctly : " This is the biggest national crisis since the sinking of the Lusitania " ) . Unfortunately , the idiot reporter is one of those idealists who feel that if the public knows everything , everything will work out right . Despite De Silva's well-meant warnings to let wiser people handle this , the reporter decides to got to poor Jack Smidgeon . Smidgeon has actually recovered ( he only needed a night or two of sleep ) and he now wants to get some booze and to get his main squeeze into bed . Leading the idiot reporter on , the latter gets him out of the hospital to a car hoping to have the interview of his career . Instead Smidgeon knocks him out and takes off . The reporter is subsequently fired for his stupidity . Smidgeon is captured and brought back . He is told that there will be a meeting he must attend . He goes to a room full of political bigwigs , including the President . They are lecturing him on how he will act from now on . Smidgeon sneers - he knows the power of his position . They want him to keep quiet and behave ? Well , it could be arranged , if they pay him big money . How the crisis is finally resolved is the final irony of this wonderful story . This was one of a series of dramatizations of short stories by American Authors that were made in the early 1980s . They were shown on Channel 13 . As far as I know they have not been shown in the quarter century since then . Pity , because most of them were quite good . Maybe one day they will be revived .
A Classic Criminal Novel . . . And a Splendid Black Comedy	Dr . Edmund Bickleigh is a man who is very careful and very determined . And he is especially determined to not get caught committing the perfect murder of his wife . In the end he succeeds but then finds circumstances are " agin him " . Francis Iles was an innovative detective story novelist , whose best known work ( BEFORE THE FACT ) was filmed by Alfred Hitchcock as SUSPICION and became a successful motion picture . But the film had to cripple the full effect of Iles ' novel . In his novel Johnny Aysgard ( Cary Grant in the movie ) had proved to be the murderer his wife suspected , and she ( Joan Fontaine in the movie ) became his victim . But she willingly dies to help him ( he needs the life insurance on her life to save himself from an embezzlement charge ) . He is a crushed man as a result of her sacrifice . In the film , due to problems by the studio and Grant's agent ( but not Grant , who wanted to play a villain ) Hitchcock had to change the ending so that Grant is not the murderer his wife fears , and they are reconciled to face their uncertain future together at the end . Hitchcock wanted to shoot MALICE AFORETHOUGHT with Alec Guinness as Dr . Edmund Bickleigh . The project never got put together , so it is one of those ideas of this master film maker that we can only wonder about . However , given Hitchcock's track record with comedy films ( MR . AND MRS . SMITH , THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY ) it may be just as well that he did not do this one . Iles was basing Dr . Bickleigh ( a hen-pecked country physician who turns on his wife and kills her ) on two cases which occurred within a dozen years of each other , and gave him the character's profession , the setting , and the undoing of the killer . By the sound of his name , Bickleigh is based on the hen-pecked wife killer Dr . Hawley Harvey ( " Peter " ) Crippen . But the setting in the English countryside ( Crippen killed his wife Belle in a London suburb ) is based on the murder site of Hay , near the Welsh border . In 1921 , eleven years after Crippen hanged , a solicitor named Major Herbert Armstrong was married to a strong willed wife . She was the sort of person who did not think twice of stopping a tennis game her husband was playing in , by reminding him it was time to take a bath . Armstrong poisoned his wife Katie , and successfully passed off the killing as an illness . But shortly afterward he spoiled his perfect crime . Armstrong tried to kill his rival solicitor Oswald Martin with poison at a tea party . This reopened issues about the death of Mrs . Armstrong , and her corpse was exhumed . Arsenic was found in her body , and Armstrong was arrested for her killing . After a hard fought trial he was convicted and later hanged ( he is the only lawyer hanged for murder in Great Britain in modern times ) . The combination of the two wife killers is not too difficult . Bickleigh ( Hywel Bennett ) has a hideously bossy wife ( Julia Bickleigh - Judy Parfitt ) that he would like to get rid of so he can pursue a fascinating younger woman ( Madeleine Cranmere - Cheryl Campbell ) . He does this by getting the unsuspecting wife hooked on opium . As a result he sets up the situation that she is stealing drugs from his dispensary for her habit . This will lead to her " giving herself a fatal overdose " . The killing works perfectly . But then Madeleine turns out to be more of a nymphomaniac ( and less considerate of previous promises she made to him ) than he expects . She is also seeing more of a young rival of Bickleigh's named Denny Bourne ( Christopher Guard ) . Bickleigh is angered by this - although his treatment by Madeleine is actually the same as his own dropping of his original girlfriend Ivy Ridgeway ( Bellinda Carroll ) . He is also less than happy about a rival doctor in the area ( William Chatford - David Ashford ) . He tries to get rid of Chatford , and makes the same mistake there that Armstrong did with Oswald Martin . But the difference is that Iles is rewriting history to have some fun . There is a trial of Bickleigh for the murder of his wife . But he is able ( through his barrister Sir Francis Lee - Bannermann - Thorley Walters ) to demonstrate flaw after flaw in the prosecution case . Chatford's illness was faked in a way , and this is shown to extend doubts to his veracity . Madeleine ( who in a moment of stupidity Bickleigh threatened ) is willing to testify about this , but she is shown to be neurotic and narcissistic . Ivy gives him a good defense about an alibi he needs . And then he is questioned heavily . Remaining totally cool he lies perfectly well ( as he says to himself - and the audience hears this - " And I can keep doing this until the cows come home ! " ) . Bickleigh wins acquittal . SPOILER COMING UP . Bickleigh wins up to this point . But his rival Denny Bourne has died prematurely after a picnic that Bickleigh also attended . Bickleigh is arrested and this time loses . As he hears the sentence of death being given , he realizes that the symptoms of poisoning Denny showed are similar to cholera , and he remembers that he had warned Madeleine and Denny to clean the drains of their home . He is screaming ( to nobody's attention ) , " It was the drains " as the series ended . The story was well played , particularly by the droll Bennett , who looks harmless , until one sees his eyes looking fiercely through his spectacles . Parfitt is the perfect dragon-wife , but gains our sympathy as we watch her physically collapse due to opium . Production values were good ( I especially liked the 1920 automobiles ) . The story was redone well in 2005 , but the original series was best .
A Fairy Tale With Plenty of Bite to It	Grandpa ( Peter Falk ) comes to his grandson's ( Fred Savage's sickbed ) to entertain him - he's going to read the tale of the Princess Bride - a story with fencing , and giants , and all the excitement and adventure the grandson craves , with some love scenes as well . What Savage and the audience do not realize is that they are getting a bunch of the oddest figures in a fairy tale that one can imagine . On the surface THE PRINCESS BRIDE tells us the story of Westley ( Cary Elwes ) and Buttercup ( Robin Wright Penn ) . Westley a groom on Buttercup's estate who falls in love with ( and is in love with ) Buttercup . But he is lost at sea , and she reluctantly agrees to marrying Prince Humperdink ( Chris Sarandon ) . She is kidnapped by the a trio of brigands ( Wallace Shawn , Mandy Patinkin , and Andre the Giant ) who seem to intend to kill her . This can have serious repercussions on the relations of the two neighboring counties ( one of which is ruled by Prince Humperdink ) . But the kidnappers are pursued at sea by a mysterious pirate ship . They are pursued on land too - and confronted by a legendary pirate ( Elwes ) . He has a confrontation with each , concluding with Wallace Shawn , who outsmarts himself in a dizzy philosophical duel . So it goes in this crazy story , with it's wizards , giant rats , cruel rulers and their assistants ( Christopher Guest ) and duels and vengeance and true love conquering in the end . The chief villain is not physically destroyed ( not even the original SHREK avoided that cliché ) , but left universally ruined by humiliation . The second hero neatly avenges his father . The fact is the characters behave rather realistically in this story . Guest when confronted by a physical threat behaves realistically - he flees . The marriage ceremony is presided over by " an impressive clergyman " ( Peter Cook ) who gets so carried away by his own eloquence he fails to do an important act in the ceremony . A wizard and his quarreling wife ( Billy Crystal and Carol Kane ) give a charm to help the heroes , wave pleasantly as they leave , and then admit they couldn't care less about these people . I do not think any other attempt at a filmed fairy story was ever so satiric , except the above mentioned SHREK and it's sequels ( which came after THE PRINCESS BRIDE ) . THE WIZARD OF OZ was funny at points , but it was not a satire of the genre ( and the two wicked witches in the film were destroyed ) . Nothing by Disney was satiric . You can consider the cartoons on ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE ( FRACTURED FAIRY TALES ) as a precedent , but that was a television show - not a movie . Also they were told quickly ( within three or four minutes tops ) . But THE PRINCESS BRIDE made the fairy tale grow up . It did not forget the charm of the genre - the wonder of the dangers confronting Buttercup and Westley are there ( and quite real ) throughout the film . So is the warmth of the occasional scenes and comments between Falk telling the story and Savage hearing it . But they certainly knew how to make the story more accessible to adults by the spoofing . It is a very well done film and deserves a " 10 " .
Ty Power's Proof Of His Acting Ability	Tyrone Power came from a family of stage performers - even stage stars . His great grandfather was one of the best loved " Irish " comic actors of the Jacksonian Era in the 1820s - 1841 ( when his ship was lost at sea ) . His father was a prominent stage star , who came to Hollywood in the silent period , and appeared in John Wayne's first sound feature film . When Power himself began making films in the 1930s he was notable ( at 20th Century Fox ) for his remarkably good physical features . Power had a problem with Darryl Zanuck . Zanuck had him in 18th Century stories like " Lloyds Of London " and " Son Of Fury " and ( when lent to M . G . M . ) in " Marie Antoinette " . If they were closer in time to the 20th Century , they were in exotic locales - like " Blood And Sand " . As for westerns , Power was " Jesse James " and an early 19th Century Spanish - American fop in " The Mask Of Zorro " . Zanuck gave the best material to Power , who underestimated how really good his performances were in the costume / historical films . Occasionally Zanuck would allow Power to try a modern story he picked out . This was particularly the case after Power returned from his stint in the South Pacific in World War II . In 1946 Zanuck allowed Power to play Larry , the truth seeker and war survivor in " The Razor's Edge " . Based on a hit novel of Somerset Maugham , it was a hit film - but the hit was based more on the comic performance of Clifton Webb as snobbish Eliot Templeton , and the tragic brief performance ( and Oscar winner ) of Anne Baxter . Power was good , but the part was not well developed to explain what Larry discovered as the key to spirituality in India . Shortly after Power finished " The Razor's Edge " , he starred in " Nightmare Alley " . Based on a noir novel of the day , Power felt it would finally show his acting ability ( he actually need only have considered his performance in " The Black Swan " to have seen it was there all the time ) . Zanuck knew that Power generally listened to him , and that his roles could show a dark side ( as in Jesse James , and in his bullfighter in " Blood And Sand " ) . So he decided to let him go ahead with " Nightmare Alley " . Both turned out to be shown to be right . The film flopped at the box office , as people used to Power the hero saw Power the creep . But what a creep ! Stanton Carlyle is the greatest acting performance in Power's career , and ( more than " The Razor's Edge " ) it opened the second half of his film career , where the choices of subject were less frequently historic than in the earlier part . Zanuck made sure that Power got meaty acting parts , and Power was able to get into modern times . Carlyle has no redeeming features in him - a total opportunist he uses people right and left , making love to Zeena to learn her mentalist act - and killing her husband accidentally in the process - and also romancing Molly with no desire to do right by her . He rises from carnival worker to nightclub mentalist . Then he makes the mistake of joining forces with a psychiatrist , in an effort to go further - become a guru to the wealthy , using information from the psychiatrist to convince the rich that he has contact with the dead and the afterlife . Oddly enough if the discovery of Larry of spirituality in " The Razor's Edge " was never well explained , Stan Carlyle's clever fraud is very well explained . The others in the film are good , in particular Joan Blondell as Zeena , who gets a kick in the teeth from Stan on the way up , but shows him that he still is fated to fall . Colleen Grey's Molly is not as well developed ( why does she stick to the two-timing louse ? ) . Helen Walker's psychiatrist is very nicely sinister - springing a last minute trap on Stan that is unexpected . But note Mike Mazurki as the circus strong man Bruno . Mazurki usually played villains ( or comic toughs ) in films , but here he turns out to be smart and morally superior to Stan . It was a nice change of pace for this actor . The conclusion of the film was softened from the original novel , but even so it still gave Power an opportunity to show the total limits of his acting ability . However , he did not play another louse until the end of his career . Eleven years later his role as Leonard Vole in " Witness For The Prosecution " gave him his second real villain part .
Better than the 1954 Version	This was a special treat tonight on the Turner Classic Films Channel as they were honoring John Barrymore . Barrymore appeared in this 1924 silent film , which has only just gotten a complete score for the first time since it was released ( the score was quite good - ironically a British version of the Fitch play had a complete score that only one piece , a very sturdy little minuet , survives - but it would have been good too , as it was by Sir Edward Elgar ) . The play by Fitch is rarely shown today ( as I have mentioned elsewhere on this board , Fitch is a little old fashioned by some standards but his plays do pick up life when performed ) . This play was commissioned by the reigning stage star of the 1890s in America , Richard Mansfield . Best remembered for his transformation part of DR . JECKYL AND MR . HYDE in 1887 , Mansfield would eventually help speed the modernization of drama by championing the early plays of George Bernard Shaw ( who rewrote THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE for him ) . Mansfield died in 1909 , and the film producers needed the permission of his wife to produce this filmed version . The effect of Mansfield on this production must be immense . Stills of his costumes for Brummel still exist , and match the costumes worn by Barrymore ( who may have seen the older actor in the role in the 1890s ) . The plot follows how Brummel , a young army Captain , loved Margery ( Mary Astor ) , who was forced to marry Col . Lord Alvanley ( William Humphrey ) . Made cynical by the way he was forced to drop his competition for the woman who loved him , Brummel decides to pay back society by purposely poking fun at it's leaders as a social butterfly . By chance and nerve he becomes a favorite of George , Prince of Wales , getting him out of a ticklish situation with the wife of a tavern owner . He leaves the army and becomes the Prince's closest friend and confidante . This leads to Brummel actually being useful - with the fashion conscious ( if grossly overweight ) Prince , they modify the costumes and dress of the society , encouraging top hats , cravats , frock coats , and pants and doing away with wigs . But Brummel becomes more and more cynical in his treatment of the Prince , and eventually they reach a parting of the ways when Brummel seems to be romancing George's sister-in-law Frederica , Duchess of York ( Irene Rich ) , and then when Margery returns and the Prince falls for her . Further divisions are heightened by enemies that Brummel made including discarded lover Lady Hester Stanhope ( Carmel Myers ) . In the end , deserted by George and other friends , Brummel flees his creditors and ends in Calais , where he goes broke slowly , and eventually loses his mind . The 1954 Granger film followed a similar trajectory , with one or two major errors that weaken it in comparison . Fitch concentrated his play as a character study of a fascinating flawed man , in a losing game with the social order of his day . The 1954 film suggested that Brummel was politically a liberal , who could have influenced George to be a Whig in his politics ( which was not possible actually - George toyed with Whigs like Charles Fox to annoy his father George III , but was a total reactionary who made George III look wimpy in comparison ) . In this film the Duchess of York suggests that Brummel should not be a court jester as he is , but should be a leader . Barrymore shakes his head - he has no such desires . That is more in line with the real Brummel . The other major error ( in line with a politicized Brummel ) was that the 1954 film showed the odd situation in England in the period from 1807 to 1820 when George III went mad for the last ( and permanent ) time , and the Prince of Wales was made Prince Regent ( in 1811 ) - which was de facto King of England while George III was alive and crazy . Robert Morley played George III in the 1954 film , at one point nearly killing the Prince of Wales ( Peter Ustinov ) . This is not in the 1924 film . Instead the story concentrates on the rise and fall of Brummel . Barrymore does well in silent acting . Perhaps the director , Henry Beaumont , made too many shots of Barrymore's great profile , but that was to be expected . He manages to show the actor in him , especially in scenes with his three leading ladies ( especially the 18 year old Astor and Ms Rich ) . His aging and insanity sequences are also good - look at the scene where he has just fired his last loyal servant ( who had the temerity to beg forgiveness for him from the new King George IV ) and now has to serve himself dinner . He's never done it , and the look of dismay on his face is priceless . His aged madman , at the conclusion of the film , is also remarkable - getting so much out of the use of his eyes . Definitely a superior version of the film to the Granger version , even if the latter was in color and with sound .
A Hodgepodge Science Fiction - Horror Film That Works Well	Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi made many films together , but on the whole ( interestingly enough ) Karloff usually is the better man of the two . The real exception is " The Black Cat " ( 1934 ) where Karloff is playing the evil head of a devil cult , and Lugosi is seeking revenge on him for destroying his life . But more usual is " Black Friday " , where ( whatever his motive ) Karloff is trying to improve brain surgery while Lugosi is a murderous thug . In " The Raven " Lugosi is a sadistic surgeon , who blackmails Karloff to assist his evil plans until Karloff finally has had enough . Rarely are they both negative characters totally . In " The Body Snatcher " , Karloff does kill Lugosi , but Lugosi is trying to blackmail him . The one exception where they are both extremely sympathetic but at cross purposes to each other is this 1936 film , which I feel has rarely had the audience acceptance of some of the other movies I have mentioned . In it Karloff's Dr . Janos Rukh is a hard driven scientific genius who has been sneered at by the " official scientific community " for his theory that a rare form of Radium is in Nigeria on a meteorite that landed centuries ago . He has finally gotten the support of a well financed expedition led by Sir Francis Stevens and his wife Lady Arabella Stevens ( Walter Kingsford and Beulah Bondi ) , and has another scientist , a Frenchman named Dr . Felix Benet ( Lugosi ) , Rukh's young wife Diane ( Frances Drake ) and a friend and protégée of the Stevenses named Ronald Drake ( Frank Lawton ) . Before they leave , Rukh is warned by his mother ( Violet Kemble Cooper ) that he is possibly seeking wisdom that he shouldn't and it may end in tragedy . He tries to dismiss this , but he is worried by what she says , his scientific standing , and whether or not he is going to get his due credit . What he gets is a disaster . He finds the substance , but is infected by it's remarkable radioactivity . He finds that he is slowly burning up , and if he tries to touch people or animals they die . He's actually built up a friendship or understanding with Benet , who figures out a type of radioactive fighting cocktail for Rukh to use to counter the danger . But there are two things that are unbeatable here . The antidote can only last for a certain amount of time , and has to be replenished . And the radioactivity has affected Rukh's brain . He is increasingly jealous of Diane's friendship with Ronald ( encouraged , unfortunately by Sir Francis and Lady Arabella ) , and he is equally upset that ( due to his having to pretend to have died - the effects of the radioactivity are like that ) Benet and several others are collecting the kudos of the wonders that " Radium X " is giving to man . Soon Rukh is on a murderous rampage that destroys many lives , ending with his own . The film certainly picked up on science to an extent . Madame Curie had died recently from cancer she got due to work with Radium . Few fully understood the dangers of radioactivity in 1936 , but some idea of it was coming out . The wave of murders by Rukh cause the newspapers to talk about a " curse " on the expedition . Of course , with the idea of a " cursed " expedition ( on the continent of Africa ) for a hidden treasure buried centuries ago , financed by a titled Englishman , we have entered archeology not physics or geology ( paging Howard Carter and Lord Carnaevon ) . On the other hand , Benet tries to settle the cause of the string of deaths , and reverts to an idea that was actually demolished in 1888 in England . During the Whitechapel Murders , Sir Charles Warren ordered the retinas of several of the dead victims to be photographed to see if the last image on the retinas was Jack the Ripper . It turned out he only got the photographs of the retinas of dead prostitutes . But the idea did not die . Jules Verne used it in his novel " The Brothers Kip " in 1899 , and here Dr . Benet uses it . As this is a science fiction story , he finds the image of Rukh on the the plate , but Benet drops the plate accidentally and it shatters . The film is good on many grounds , the most interesting that for a change Karloff and Lugosi are not unsympathetic towards each other . There is a type of tragic fatalism in this story that is missing from their other films . The other performances are good as well , in particular Ms Kemble Cooper . She is best remembered as Basil Rathbone's frightening sister ( Jane Murdstone ) in " David Copperfield " . Here her final act is the only way to bring this tragedy to an end , and who can say it did not hurt her more than her target .
The Immigration Problem in 1941 - A Revelation	Billy Wilder knew first hand what it was to be a refugee in the 1930s - he was one of the lucky ones . He came from Austria , originally , and fled in a timely manner before the Nazis ' Anschluss in 1938 . His family still suffered - many perished in the camps . But he was able , due to his stage and film work in Europe , to find employment in Hollywood . This enabled him to avoid the savage pitfalls of the American immigration quota system set up in the 1920s . You normally had to wait for an opening in the number of immigrants coming from each country to pass into the U . S . A . , unless of course you were guaranteed a job or career in the U . S . A . That's why Albert Einstein and Enrico Fermi had no problems showing up in the U . S . with their physics backgrounds and reputations . But how many people were like them , or like the creative film personality Wilder ? Taking Kitti Frings ' original story of European refugees in Mexico , Wilder and his partner Charles Brackett constructed the script for HOLD BACK THE DAWN . George Iscovescu ( Charles Boyer ) is a Rumanian gigolo who has ended up on the Mexican / American border . We see he has sneaked into the U . S . , and is in Hollywood at Paramount Studios . He approaches a director a friend told him about , Dwight Saxon ( Mitchel Leisin - the director of this film ) . The film we watch is the story that Iscovescu wants to interest Saxon in producing as a film . Iscovescu is a pretty rotten individual - he uses his good looks and charm on women and lives off them . Only one woman ( Anita Dixon - Paulette Goddard ) is aware of his heel's personality , as she is an opportunist as well . She and George were an item together as dancing partners in Europe . Both are trying to get into America , but the quota is keeping George out . This is a relief to Inspector Hammock ( Walter Abel ) who is an astute member of the immigration service , and fully aware of how " desireable " both these people are as potential U . S . citizens . However , in 1941 there was a way to get into the U . S . if you could not fit a quota , or if you had no guaranteed job . The method ( which was legal until about five years ago ) was that you could marry an American citizen and become one . This method was misused , so the immigration service made sure that the marriages were truly love matches and then decided they were not good enough anymore . But that was long after 1941 . George looks for someone he can quickly marry , gain citizenship through , and then discard in a year or so . He finds an American school teacher named Emmy Brown ( Olivia De Haviland ) , who is a little naive . He romances very quickly , and within a few weeks George and Emmy are married . Hammock is observing all this , and tries to warn Emmy , but she won't hear anything about George . The problem though is that Emmy is so in love with George that ( despite his man-of-the-world shell ) he starts responding to it . Anita keeps reminding him to go across the border , and send for her , but instead ( to her growing dismay ) she finds that George is spending all of his time getting to know Emmy better - and actually falling in love with her . Jealous and angry , Anita decides to reveal George and her past to Emmy - and the crisis of the film comes out of this revelation . Frankly from my description one can say that HOLD BACK THE DAWN is superior soap opera . But in fact Wilder and Brackett took a serious look at the problem of immigration . Besides the antics of George and Anita and Emmy , they look at Professor Van den Leuken ( Victor Francen , in one of his nicer parts ) , a minor-Fermi or Einstein , waiting for a college position promised him to be cleared : Bonbois ( Curt Bois ) , a French hairdresser , hoping for an opening in the quota - who happens ( thanks to Van den Leuken ) to discover he has a secret historical weapon that will open his way into America ; and - possibly the most touching figure in the film - Berta Kurz ( Rosemary De Camp ) a German ( probably German Jewish ) refugee with her husband , who is pregnant and really determined that her child is going to be an American citizen come hell or high water . And she achieves her goal . The acting was of high order , and really Olivia De Haviland's best part after GONE WITH THE WIND two years earlier . If Melanie Wilkes was a decent , brave example of southern womanhood , Emmy is a woman who gradually finds she is an adult woman with sexual feelings . As a result of her performance , De Haviland got her first nomination for a best actress Oscar , but ( ironically - and bitterly ) she would lose to her own sister Joan Fontaine for SUSPICION . Boyer played one of his darker figures , like Pepi Le Moko , who one could sympathize with after a fact - especially after he reveals he has a finer self than we thought . As for Goddard , this film and the earlier THE WOMAN demonstrated that she was a highly capable actress - not just a good reactor to her first husband Charlie Chaplin in two movies . Wilder and Bracket had clashed with Leisin on other joint projects , just as Preston Sturgis had . This would prove to be the last screenplay by them that he ( or any other director ) would direct . Well enough for Wilder perhaps ( and even his then partner Charles Brackett ) . But despite their complaints , Leisin's work was quite above average in this movie .
The Stalking of Jose Iturbi	This film ( like Astaire's ROYAL WEDDING - which was shown after it on Turner Classic Network last night ) is famous for a single musical sequence that has gained a place in Gene Kelly's record : Like Fred Astaire dancing with a clothing rack and later dancing around a room's walls and ceiling , this film had Gene Kelly dancing in a cartoon sequence with Jerry Mouse . The sequence is nicely done . What is forgotten is that Kelly is telling the story behind the cartoon sequence to Dean Stockwell and his fellow child students at school during a break in the day , and sets the stage for the sequence by having Stockwell and the others shut their eyes and imagine a pastoral type of background . Kelly even changes the navy blues he actually wears into a white " Pomeranian " navy uniform with blue stripes on it . Jerry Mouse does more than dance with Gene . He actually talks - a first that he did not repeat for many decades . He also finally puts Tom Cat into his proper place - Tom briefly appears as King Jerry's butler , trying to cheer him with a platter of cheeses . But the sequence of the cartoon with Kelly took about seven minutes of the movie . Far more of this peculiar film is taken up with Kelly's story of the lost four day furlough in Hollywood , and how Kelly ends up meeting Katherine Grayson and ( with Frank Sinatra ) stalking Jose Iturbi at the MGM film studio , the Hollywood Bowl , and Iturbi's own home . Except that the two sailors mean no harm this film could have been quite disturbing . Kelly has saved Sinatra's life in the Pacific , and is getting a medal as a result . They are both among the crewmen back in California who are getting a four day leave . But the script writers ( to propel what would be a short film - Kelly has plans to spend four days having sex with one " Lola " , an unseen good time girl in Hollywood ) saddle Gene with Frank . It seems Frank is one of those idiots that appear in film after film of the movie factories ( particularly musical comedies ) who are socially underdeveloped and in need of " instruction " about meeting girls ( or guys if the characters are women ) . Frank insists that Gene help " teach him " how to get a girl . Just then a policeman takes them to headquarters to help the cops with a little boy ( Stockwell ) who insists on joining the navy ( and won't give the cops his real name and address ) . When a protesting Kelly is able to get this information out of Stockwell by asking him some straight questions ( which the cops could not ask ) , they insist Kelly take the boy home to his aunt ( Grayson ) . Still protesting , Kelly gets saddled with increasingly complicated problems ( mostly due to Sinatra's simplistic soul view of things ) . He misses seeing Lola the next day by sleeping late - Sinatra felt he looked so peaceful sleeping he did not wake him up . He keeps getting dragged back to Grayson's house , as Sinatra feels she is the right woman for himself , but needs Kelly to train him in love making . I suppose my presentation of the plot may annoy fans of ANCHORS AWEIGH , but I find this kind of story irritating . While the singing and dancing and concert music of Kelly , Sinatra , Grayson , and Iturbi are first rate , it is annoying to have to take the idiocies of someone like Sinatra's character seriously . In the real world Kelly would have beaten the hell out of him at the start for following him at the beginning of the four day furlough - what right has he to insist ( as Sinatra does ) that someone who saves their life should assist him on learning how to date ? That kind of crap always ruins the total affects of a musical for me - unless the musical numbers are so superior as to make me forget this type of nonsense . The stalking of Iturbi is likewise annoying . Kelly tries to get Grayson to like Sinatra when he says Sinatra can get her a meeting with Jose Iturbi to audition her singing ability . For much of the rest of the picture Sinatra and Kelly try to do that , and keep floundering ( at one point - for no really good reason - Grayson herself ruins Kelly's attempt to get an interview at MGM with Iturbi ) . It is only sheer luck ( that Iturbi feels sorry for an embarrassed Grayson ) that she does give him an audition of her talent . Kelly , by the way , ends up with Grayson . Sinatra's conscience at not being able to help her see Iturbi makes him ashamed of his bothering her ( but not pulling Kelly into it , oddly enough ) and he meanwhile accidentally stumbles into meeting a waitress ( Pamela Britton ) from his native Brooklyn . And naturally , without any assistance from Kelly , Sinatra and Britton fall in love . Ah , " consistency " ! Thy name is not " screenwriting " necessarily !
The Perfect Murder Mystery ?	I have a theory that all her life Dame Agatha Christie hoped she would plot the perfect murder case mystery . She certainly entertained the world doing so , with way over sixty novels , books of short stories , and plays , most of which actually dealt with homicide in one form or another . Despite the sometimes too perfect clockwork that her plots could degenerate into , she was one of the masters of the form . I don't think any other mystery novelist ever found as many variations on the central theme of a detective story as she did . Of all her plots , that of AND THEN THERE WERE NONE / TEN LITTLE INDIANS was possibly her greatest achievement ( the nearest competitor is an inverted form of it , MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS ) . Yet in every film version of the plot the perfection of the story is short circuited in the interest of " justice " . Christie's original intention was that the ten people brought together to the ill-fated locale were to be found dead , and without any survivor the mystery would be apparently unsolved ( though even Christie hedged her bet by having the perpetrator leave a written confession / explanation ) . But as the versions are now , the perpetrator is outwitted by two would-be victims at the last moment , thus leaving two survivors . The best version of the novel was this one . It was directed by French director in exile ( due to World War II ) Rene Clair . Of his American films this one is the most revived . Whether it is better than I MARRIED A WITCH or FLAME OF NEW ORLEANS is another matter , as they are all clever films . Clair was well served by a great cast of character actors , most of whom were victims in the story : Barry Fitzgerald , Walter Huston , Roland Young , Sir C . Aubrey Smith , Mischa Auer , Judith Anderson , and Richard Haydn did the best with their parts . Louis Hayward and June Duprez were more than adequate as the two lovers in the plot . The secret of this film's success is that Clair treated the subject of murder lightly ( to an extent ) . An example : Mischa Auer as a careless playboy explaining how he killed someone while driving drunk , and playing the piano while doing so - thoroughly bored looking while explaining what he did . A moment later he is gasping for breath as poison was added to his highball . He's the first victim . The key is that all the invitees to this island were acquitted of acts of homicide or manslaughter on technicalities . They all were apparently quite guilty , but lucky . So the viewer is somewhat torn after awhile - you don't like people who get away with murder , but as each one is wiped out by the mysterious host / killer we find ourselves sympathizing with their helpless plight . The original ending kept this sympathy up to the conclusion . But the improved ( ? ) conclusion manages to dissipate this sympathy in the search for achieving a degree of justice for the victims . Oddly it still works , and the sense of impish humor is maintained even after the killer is revealed and destroyed .
A Fine Docudrama about the events of the FDR White House from April 1944 to April 1945	Jim Bishop was a very good popularizer of history . He wrote several books , concentrating on the events on a critical day ( or remembered day ) in history . His first had been " The Day Lincoln Was Shot " , which was dramatized twice , once with Raymond Massey as Lincoln and Jack Lemmon as John Wilkes Booth , and once with Rob Lowe as Booth . He also wrote " The Day Christ Died " , " The Day Kennedy Was Shot " , and ( at the end of his life ) " F . D . R . : The Last Year " . Slightly larger in scope , the story discussed how F . D . R . ' s failing health ( his physicians realized he would live a year of so after April 1944 ) was not revealed to him totally . We were in the middle of World War II , and Roosevelt ( Jason Robarts ) was the indispensable man to lead the allied crusade . But 1944 was not only a key year in the war against the Axis , but an election year for the Presidency . Bishop ( as one can see from what I just said ) was working with a great deal of released , previously hidden information . Roosevelt's extra-marital affairs were discussed here ( in one scene he is kissing Lucy Mercer Rutherford - Kim Stanley - in his automobile ) . Eleanor ( Eileen Heckart ) is aware of his infidelities ( the emotional love of this relationship is long gone ) but he does trust her as an extra pair of eyes and ears , informing him of national conditions ( or international ones ) . The business about the political campaign ( which Roosevelt treated as a foregone conclusion - he did threaten to resign the Presidency for health reason ( not knowing his actual condition ) unless certain policy views were kept in the party platform . His campaign rival , Republican Thomas E . Dewey of New York ( Kenneth Welsh ) was twenty years younger than FDR , and kept pushing the issue of bringing in youth and vigor to the war effort and to government . Dewey was defeated ( like Hoover , Landon , and Wilkie before him ) and sends a congratulatory telegram to Roosevelt . " Magnanimously " F . D . R . thanks the New York Governor for his good wishes at the end of the campaign . Then he turns to his military aid , General " Pa " Watson ( Edward Binns ) , and says in confidence , " That little bastard ran the dirtiest political campaign in our history . " The cast was tip-top , particularly Robarts , who showed the aging , human side to the great leader . The gradual realization by the government that the doctors had not told the whole story comes out , as can be expected , when Roosevelt faces Joseph Stalin ( Nehemiah Persoff ) at Yalta . Before his own last days at Warm Springs , Roosevelt was aware he gave away too much there , and was planning to bring Stalin to heel . But one truly is left wondering , despite his will , whether he would have had the physical strength to do so . An excellent television historical drama , which deserves to be re-shown again .
A Superior Look at the Medical Profession	If you look at my review of the Samuel Goldwyn - John Ford version of ARROWSMITH ( 1932 ) I pointed out that the real hard hitting attack on the worst abuses of the training of doctors in the United States and the ambition , greed , and rivalries that mar the medical profession in this country were discarded for the most part when that film was made . Fortunately , six years later , this wonderful film was made by King Vidor on a similarly critical novel by the English writer A . J . Cronin ( THE KEYS TO THE KINGDOM , HATTER'S CASTLE ) . Cronin usually was not , like Sinclair Lewis , a social critic - he was a general novelist . But in THE CITADEL he turned perceptive social critic . Like Lewis ( in his novel ) the society is just as guilty about the malfunctions of the medical profession as the doctors are . But here it was spelled out . Robert Donat is a newly trained doctor in England , and he initially is quite the idealist as Ronald Colman was as Martin Arrowsmith . Donat's Dr . Andrew Manson tries to fight society for it's own good , but finds it has a habit of hitting back at idealists . Soon , despite the emotional support of his wife Christine ( Rosalind Russell ) , Andrew discovers the pleasures of becoming a prosperous society doctor . He has such wonderful models before him - like Rex Harrison , who talks of the " heart of gold " of his patients in reference to their bank accounts rather than their personalities ( Harrison , in his autobiography REX , admitted that he got into serious trouble with his personal doctor after the latter heard that line and confronted him at Rex's next examination ) . His best friend and colleague ( Dr . Denny - Ralph Richardson ) tries to get him to work with a set of idealistic doctors in making a first rate , reasonably priced clinic for the poor and working classes , but Donat rejects the offer . He also turns out to be cold towards the plea of the owner of an Italian restaurant for help for her little daughter ( although he is aware of an odd-ball genius who can help the girl with a radical surgery technique ) . It is only when a tragedy occurs that he is shaken out of his current complacency back to his duty as a healer . It is regrettable that ARROWSMITH was badly butchered in it's script and production , but it is to be thoroughly commended that this excellent version of THE CITADEL exists to show how the first novel should have been handled .
Dreams that turn to volcanic ash	In the early 1930s Marcel Pagnol wrote a series of plays concerning the intertwined lives of a set of characters in the city of Marseilles . The plays were each centered on a chief character : FANNY , MARIUS , and CESAR . Fanny is the daughter of a fishmonger Honorine , and has grown up with Marius , the son of Cesar a café owner . Cesar is a neighbor and friend of Panisse , a wealthy businessman . Marius has grown handsome and Fanny is pretty , and they are in love . But Marius has a wanderlust , encouraged by a local figure " the Admiral " . So when he reaches the age of 19 he is confronted by a dilemma . He is about to present his sailors papers to a sea captain , but he is also jealous of anyone who is trying to attract Fanny , especially the elderly Panisse . But the lure of the sea is too much , and after a final evening with Fanny in which they admit their love for each other ( and have a sexual encounter ) , Marius flees with the boat . A couple of months later Fanny finds she is pregnant . Taking advantage of Panisse's offer of marriage ( although he is aware of her situation ) , Fanny marries the elderly suitor . This enables her child ( a son ) to be born legitimately ( and to allow the Panisse family not to die out ) . But Marius ( when he returns - disillusioned by the non-romantic trip abroad ( his comment about south-sea islands is the basis of the " summary line " above ) finds he has lost Fanny and his son , and cannot even return to living at his old home . The resolution is the subject of the third play . Aside from the success of the trilogy of French films , the story was made into a successful Broadway musical called FANNY with Florence Henderson in the title part and with Ezio Pinza as Cesar . This 1961 film version does not use any of the songs from the score , but it does use the themes of the score for the background music . This version by Joshua Logan has Leslie Caron in the title role , Horst Buchholz as Marius , Charles Boyer as Cesar , Maurice Chevalier as Panisse , and Georgette Anyss as Honorine . All of the performances are good , with moments that make the characters quite human ( Boyer yelling at Marius or some other employee in his café about their not making a particular drink correctly , or Anyss returning to the waterfront , years after she has moved to Panisse's country house , and realizing how much she has missed the smell of the fish she used to sell ) . The story is actually quite human and humane too , not only in the situation facing the unwed Fanny and Panisse's willingness to help her preserve her reputation and his family line , but also in the resolution ( again handled by Panisse , as he is dying ) to restore normality to the young people . It is not a perfect film , but it certainly is well photographed in Marseilles ( including some shots of the notorious Château D'if of THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO ) , and gives us a view of France in the early 1930s , before the onrush of European events led to the disastrous defeat of 1940 . Note also , besides the leads , the support by Lionel Jeffreys ( as an English friend of Panisse and Cesar ) and Salvatore Baccaloni as intimates of the families , who join Boyer and Chevalier in playing pranks on passersby ( with a hat - you'll have to see it to understand ) . I'm even glad to see Victor Francen in one of his last movie roles , as Panisse's older brother - thanking Fanny for saving the family name . Boyer and Chevalier had never worked on a film together before ( unlike Chevalier and Caron in GIGI ) , and now got to know each other . It did help as they seem to blend together quite nicely in several comic confrontation scenes . Boyer would come to chat with Chevalier when neither was needed on the set , and they were in their trailers . Here Boyer did find one unsettling habit of Chevalier . Chevalier had been rather poor as a young man , and his habits of thrift remained with him as an elderly one . Boyer was quietly appalled to find that if they were having a glass of Chevalier's wine the entertainer would cut a groove into the bottle at a certain point with a ring . No wine would be poured below that groove mark .
Sometimes Death Can Become The Key To Happiness	This is a remake ( of the William Powell - Kay Francis film ONE WAY PASSAGE ) that actually lives up to the merits of the original . It is rare for remakes to be as good as the films they replace in public circulation ( think of Marlon Brando's and Mel Gibson's two versions of MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY - and THE BOUNTY - and compare their more " balanced " views of Captain Bligh with the original 1935 classic with Clark Gable , Charles Laughton , and Franchot Tone ) . Powell and Francis made the doomed lovers in the original fine characterizations . They were hard to beat . Yet in this film ( made under a decade later ) , George Brent and Merle Oberon did as well with the parts . Brent and Oberon are usually considered , somewhat unfairly , second-raters as performers . Not quite true at all . Oberon was more than memorable as Catherine Earnshaw in WUTHERING HEIGHTS , and she was an accomplished comedian in films like THAT UNCERTAIN FEELING . Brent was not a stiff actor in all of his roles - frequently his parts required him to be quiet too much of the time , or parts were edited out . Witness his role in THE GREAT LIE , where one wonders what Bette Davis and Mary Astor see in him to battle for . Witness too how the restored version of BABY FACE with Barbara Stanwyck made his suicide attempt at the end more reasonable to accept than in the version that had been cut up and circulated for years . His tycoon / playboy is legitimately feeling used , unloved , betrayed by his scheming wife , and Stanwyck's own behavior makes more than enough sense when she does return to him to stand by him in an investigation ( not to give up all their wealth as in the idiotic ending of the cut version ) . If one wants to see Brent in a good role ( with meaty scenes and dialog ) try his hoofer in FORTY SECOND STREET or his brain surgeon in DARK VICTORY or his madman in THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE . He could act when given the chance . In ' TIL WE MEET AGAIN he and Oberon were given a chance . Like Powell in the original ( and similar to Joan Bennett's character in TRADE WINDS ) , he is on a ship headed across the Pacific Ocean to avoid facing execution for a murder . Brent did kill the man ( whom both detective Pat O'Brien and Brent's friend Frank McHugh realize was a bigger creep than most people ) , but it is murder and he was convicted - but managed to escape . O'Brien has tracked him down to the cruise ship , intending to return with him to the U . S . Brent ( hopefully with assistance by McHugh and Binnie Barnes ) plans to get off and get lost in one of the Asian lands with no extradition to the U . S . ( the actual situation of Japanese threatened militarism in this film is gleefully overlooked - but it is meant to be a fantasy ) . Unfortunately for Brent he meets the charming , wealthy Oberon ( travelling with her friend and companion Geraldine Fitzgerald - as pointed out Brent and Fitgerald were both in DARK VICTORY together ) . They hit it off . But she does not want him to know , as their romance blooms , that she has a fatal illness . He , similarly , is keeping from her that he is ( unless he successfully evades O'Brien ) going to be executed in the States . But every time he is about to escape somehow she inadvertently prevents it - until he accidentally learns her secret . At that point he stops trying to flee . Subsequently she learns his secret as well . She makes an attempt to help him escape - but he won't take it . Secretly they both realize that death will actually unite them forever , so why fight it ? There are nice touches in the film , the best remembered being the " paradise cocktails " that the doomed lovers drink together - a leitmotif that goes through most of the movie until a final , somewhat mysterious ( but hopefully true ) concluding shot . There is also the development of O'Brien's character . Warren Hymer had played the detective in the earlier version but as a combination of his comic bumbler and his serious business worker ( determined not to lose Powell ) . But O'Brien's character gets to know ( and fall for ) Barnes , who reciprocates but still tries to use her hold on him to help Brent . It leads to a climax between them when O'Brien tells her he knows what she tried to do , and forgives her because he loves her , but he also knows her life style ( as a con woman ) will probably destroy her unless she changes . It is an intense scene , and an odd one for Barnes , who usually is in control of her emotions - she falls apart realizing O'Brien is right ( and he does show he'll help save her ) . Finally there is McHugh , who plays a pretend drunk , always able to time his escape from the local police so he jumps onto a convenient getaway vehicle as they arrive angrily screaming at him . He adds to their discomfort by jeering at them . The film ends with him all alone ( Brent dead , Barnes married with O'Brien ) , and tearfully considering his isolation - something that was part of his criminal persona for so long . All in all ' TIL WE MEET AGAIN is a first rate movie , and should convince the viewer that Brent and Oberon ( while not Bogart and Davis ) were worthy performers when given good material .
" Mankind was my business ! "	Although I favor the versions of this story with Alistair Sim or with George C . Scott as Ebenezer Scrooge ( and I have not had the luck to see the surviving version with Sir Seymour Hicks ) , I like this one too . It gave an opportunity ( a rare one ) to one of Hollywood's best character actors to have the central role in a film for a change . The only other film with Reginald Owen as the star is ( interestingly enough ) when he played Sherlock Holmes in " A Study In Scarlet " earlier in the 1930s . Owen was good in an inferior film ( certainly a bad retelling of that novel ) . Owen was usually good though , be he playing comic parts ( see him in " Petticoat Fever " ) , or in dramatic parts ( his vicious and opportunistic Alaskan prospector / thief in the 1935 " Call Of The Wild " ) . He had a long career too , even playing a " Commidore Schmidlapp " in the film version of " Batman " with Adam West and Burt Ward in the late 1960s . If Sim made Scrooge a neurotic , and Scott an opportunistic stock jobber , and Albert Finney a nasty , people-hating usurer , Scrooge is a tight fisted businessman who never looses anything . He knows how much is spent in his premises ( note how Owen , as he enters the offices , senses too much heat and glares at the fireplace , while poor Bob Cratchit ( Gene Lockhart ) scurries over to take out those two valuable pieces of coal he momentarily added ) . He is also constantly saving everything : His nephew Fred ( Barry Mackay ) brought a bottle of port wine to the office that he gave to Bob , who took a drink . After Crachit leaves , Owen is about to throw out the bottle , realizes that it has been barely touched , and takes it home with him . Later he will take some cough medicine at home , and after doing so he will lick his fingers as not to lose any drops of the medicine . He also disgusts a waiter ( Henry Cording ) who has just served him a cheap meal when he insists on biting a coin to see if it is good . The versions of " A Christmas Carol " always pick and choose items to develop from the story or to drop . They all stick to the main trajectory ( introduce Scrooge and the Cratchits and Fred and his fiancé , Scrooge goes home and is visited by Marley and the ghosts , Scrooge sees his past - usually the public school and his sister's visit , and the Fezziwigs dance party - then sees his present - the Cratchits and Fred with their family and friends - and then sees the possible future - the death of Tiny Tim ( Terry Kilbride in this film ) and Scrooge's unlamented death ; the trajectory is completed by some version of Scrooge's reformation bearing Christmas joy to all who he formerly denied it too . It's pick and choose . The section with the Ghost of Christmas Past ( Anne Rutherford ) ends before we see Scrooge's descent into pure greed and selfishness ( and there is no reference to his love affair with Fezziwig's daughter ) . The section with the Ghost of Christmas Present ( Lionel Braham ) shows the ghost settling some trivial street quarrels with his horn of Christmas " cheer " , and he does get in the jab about " Tiny Tim " should die to decrease the surplus population ( a reference to Scrooge's earlier thoughtless comment ) . But he does not show the two waifs that under his robe representing " want " and " fear " . The ghost of Christmas to Come remains silent . . . as the tomb ( as Dickens wanted him to be . [ Only once , when Disney did a version with " Scrooge McDuck " ( Alan Young ) in a cartoon did the third ghost speak . It turned out to be the old Disney villain , Pegleg Pete , and he gleefully pushes McDuck into the grave after telling him off . ] The additions here include a running series of scenes concerning ice sliding that involves the street urchins , Fred and his fiancé , and even the local Minister ( Halliwell Hobbs ) . Also Crachitt loses his job here when he accidentally selects Scrooge for the target of his snowball . ( Scrooge charges him the whole of his last week's pay , and an additional shilling for the cost of a new hat ) . The film tries to keep the design in line with the illustrations by Cruikshank ( Fezziwig even has an 18th Century wig on ) . Owen does reawaken as he recalls the joys he's pushed aside and sacrificed . His make-up here resembles a little his villain from the 1936 " Trouble For Two " , who was also nearly completely bald . Lockhart adds troubled tension to his role , knowing he will only have one week of work left ( unpaid ! ) after this . It's nice to see that here one of Cratchit's children is played by Lockhart's real life daughter June . All in all a delightful version , if somehow not as meaty as the others that I like .
Even Ghosts Need Homes To Live In	Most people think of the burst of creative energy from the Italian cinema after 1945 as mostly serious , in films like " Open City " , " The Bicycle Thief " , " La Strada " , and " La Dolce Vita " . In reality the films of that period included some extremely funny comedies . Even a master of serious ( if fantastic ) cinema like Frederico Fellini did " The White Sheik " with Alberto Sordi . But besides that you had films like " Big Deal On Madonna Street " , " Divorce Italian Style " , " Marriage Italian Style " , and " Seduced And Abandoned " . " Fantasmi a Roma " ( " Ghosts of Rome " ) was one of these comedies - an extremely good one . It has a nice , twisted little plot , and some good characterizations comparing the fairly likable set of ghosts ( with their sense of responsibility and honor to the past ) with a modern set of greedy materialists . The film is set in a palace in the eternal city . There are a set of ghosts residing in the palace , headed by Reginaldo ( Marcello Mastroianni ) , an 18th Century Casanova clone , Father Bartolomeo ( Tino Buozzelli ) , a monk who died centuries earlier when he was accidentally poisoned by his abbot who was trying to kill the " rat " that was eating too much of the monastery's larder , and Dona Flora ( Sandra Milo ) , an 18th Century romantic who drowned herself for love . There existence is noted by the current owner of the palace , Don Anibale , Prince di Roviano ( Eduardo De Filippo ) . He in fact tells another character about the history of the ghosts , as well as of his older brother . The older brother ghost leads to the initial stage of goofiness in the film - Don Anibale was only six when his older brother died ( age ten ) . Don Anibale is now in his seventies . As he dies in the film , when he returns as a ghost to join the others he embraces his older brother who looks more like his grandson ! Don Anibale is killed in a gas oven explosion , and this is unfortunate because he was used to ( and friendly with ) the ghosts , and his heir Frederico ( Mastroianni again ) is not interested in them or the palace or traditions at all . He just knows the palace is an expensive white elephant that is worth a fortune because of the land it's located on . He and his girl friend Eileen ( Belinda Lee ) have made arrangements to sell the property for a small fortune to a developer . The ghosts are naturally upset by this turn of events and try to derail it . First they try the obvious - scare and annoy Frederico and Eileen into leaving . All this does is make the pair more determined to get rid of the palace . Then they try to convince the authorities that the house is unsafe for a wrecking crew . This actually backfires , as it convinces the authorities the building should be dismantled . They try to convince the authorities ( in a switch ) that the building has historical interest - and we watch while the developer and Frederico use generous dollops of cash to convince the authorities to ignore the historical interest . Fate steps in , as an accident reveals a long hidden fresco . Reginaldo recognizes it as the work of Giovanni Battista Vilari ( Vittorio Gassman ) , a talented but egotistical painter of the late baroque , early rococo periods . Gassman steals the last twenty minutes of the film when he returns to salvage his fresco , improve it , and finally prove to those idiot art critics that he was the greatest Italian painter of his age , and not some generally agreed upon rival he can't stand . In the end his painting does save the day - but in a surprisingly odd manner . This film remains a treasured memory to me after all these years ( it has not been on television in New York City since the 1970s , I'm sorry to say ) . The seesawing battle between a set of dead but lovable human beings and selfish living ones is odd , with Mastoianni ably demonstrating his acting in several roles ( including a third towards the end of the film ) . It's considerations of landmark status for endangered buildings is still a vital and timely one , and never has such a dry subject managed to be captured so humorously or so humanely .
Fear Is Your Foreman !	Clark Gable made several comedies in his career , some of them quite funny ( such as TEACHER'S PET ) . THE HUCKSTERS was one of the funny ones that still retains it's edge . It is considered dated by some because advertising is taken for granted in the modern day world , but if you consider that mass advertising actually goes back to the newspaper and magazine explosion of the late 19th Century THE HUCKSTERS was only bringing the story up to date in post World War II America . What sets this film above other attacks is the acting of Gable , Adolphe Menjou , Ava Gardner , Keenan Wynn , Edward Arnold , and ( best of the group ) Sidney Greenstreet as the evil Evan LLewellyn Evans , the soap king . The film does look closely at the running of the advertising world inside an ad firm - quite a different look from the normal in any Hollywood film up to that time . Basically the film shows how everyone jumps to the tune of the rich client ( here the manipulative and sadistic Greenstreet ) . Gable has some values , and he slowly is corrupted sufficiently by dealing with Evans and Menjou to drop them . The key scene is when he blackmails Edward Arnold to do something unethical . Subsequently we realize that this never sits well with Gable , as Arnold's character in this film ( for a change ) is a rather decent guy . It does lead to his final act of independence - one of the best moments in Gable's and Greenstreet's film careers . Keenan Wynn has always been underrated . He was a very good dramatic actor ( witness his performance in THE GREAT MAN ) and very amusing as a comedian ( as in MY DEAR SECRETARY and DR . STRANGELOVE - two different approaches to comedy by the way ) . His father was Ed Wynn , one of the great Broadway clowns of all time . It is easy to see how he got his sense of timing . But what makes his role here as Buddy Hare , the second rate comic that Mr . Evans thinks is the funniest man in the world , is he is dealing with a man who has weak material to begin with , and delivers it with gusto that we can't stand hearing . Witness the joke about a man painting the front door of Buddy's home with black paint , and Gable's Vic Norman drops the obvious punchline on him . Eddie smiles weakly acknowledging that it is bad material . This is done so well , we end up liking Eddie ( even if we wish he'd take his material and go away ) .
The " Sprig From the Tree " Who Saved England and Europe	For Americans , after Yorktown , there seems a vague jump of six years of history we ignore . We know Washington , Lafayette , and Rochambeau defeat Lord Cornwallis but we tend to ignore the period of the Articles of Confederation government - except for the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 and Daniel Shay's Rebellion and the Constitutional Convention . Few concentrate on the issue of the Peace Treaty of Paris in 1783 , and how Lord Shelburne sacrificed his political career to get Parliament to swallow it ( Shelburne was very generous because he , like Franklin , realized that America's best interest was to have gradual rapprochement with Britain ) . The political mess in England was dreadful . Lord North was discredited , and replaced by the Marquis of Rockingham , who died . Rockingham was replaced by Shelburne , who got the peace but lost his office . And suddenly North returned supported by one of his persistent critics during the war : Charles James Fox . The " broad - bottom " ministry of North and Fox struggled for about a year when it lost a vote of confidence . King George III was happy about this ( he disliked Fox ) , and turned to an unexpected figure to head the new government : William Pitt the Younger . Pitt the Younger was the son of William Pitt , Earl of Chatham : the architect of great victory in the French and Indian ( or Seven Years ) War , which had left Britain the most powerful country in the world . The Earl had tried to prevent the American Revolution , but failed . He died in 1778 , shortly after giving another drubbing on North's failed policies in the House of Lords . His title went to an older son , but his younger son and namesake went into Parliament . A brilliant speaker and organizer , Pitt the Younger was also a smart economical theorist . England needed peace - it had done very badly in the war ( the only major war in nearly three hundred years it lost ) . It did have some naval victories under Romney and Hood in the Caribbean and Hughes ( barely ) over the brilliant Suffren in the Indian Ocean , and did acquire Florida , but it lost it's main empire . Pitt the Younger gave England a good respite . He rebuilt the fleet , and he encouraged agriculture and industry ( the film briefly covers this - even mentioning the forgotten Richard Trevethick and his early locomotives ) . He was determined to continue , but history was against him - he found that his monarch's health was uncertain ( see THE MADNESS OF KING GEORGE ) , and that the French Revolution unsettled Europe . From 1792 through 1815 Europe had only two brief periods of peace . Pitt was Prime minister until the first peace in 1802 , and then Prime Minister from 1804 to his death in 1806 . His economic dreams and his desire for peace were ruined by the French and Napoleon I , but he lived long enough to make certain that Napoleon would ultimately fail . Except for not mentioning the insanity of the King ( Raymond Lovell here ) , the movie is actually fairly factual . It does sugarcoat the reforming urge of Pitt the Younger ( Robert Donat ) . He did rebuild the economy , and did set the stage for final victory . But he was willing to keep many corrupt political practices like " Rotten Boroughs " and government bribery . Unmentioned in this film was the 1797 great mutiny of the British fleets Pitt had rebuilt , because dockyard corruption affected the men's pay and rations . A more balanced view of Mr . Pitt appears in THE MADNESS OF KING GEORGE where he is seen as a master manipulator that he was . But this film was a British war film , meant to really compare Pitt's activities against Bonaparte ( Herbert Lom , in his first appearance as the " Little Corporal " ) with the current struggle with Hitler . It doesn't quite work historically . Not only was the Younger Pitt capable of winking at corruption , but his opponent Charles James Fox ( Robert Morley here ) was a charming , if virtually ineffective supporter of democratic reform . Fox led the Whigs until his death in 1807 . He did hold high office again in 1806 - 07 as Foreign Secretary under the Duke of Portland , but he died too soon . In the film he is made to seem an obstructionist who is ready to make peace with France too quickly ( like Nevil Chamberlain with Germany , perhaps ) . He was actually far cagier than that , and the film at least suggests that Fox realizes ( when Napoleon's invasion of Britain seems probable ) that Pitt must return to office over Henry Addington , his somewhat weaker successor . ( Lom , of course , replayed Napoleon in the film WAR AND PEACE with Henry Fonda , Audrey Hepburn , and Mel Ferrer . ) Donat gives a splendid pair of performances as Chatham ( briefly at the start ) and Pitt the Younger . He captures the workaholic and near inebriate who worked and drank himself into an early grave before his fiftieth year ( but managed to serve one of the longest tenures as Prime Minister ) . A romance is created for him with Phyllis Calvert , which is doomed due to his public sense of duty . Also there is the appearance of John Mills as William Wilberforce , forced to watch his campaign to wipe out slavery in the British Empire put on hold ( this is not shown totally - a twenty year old " Masterpiece Theater " series did better on that subject ) . Note too Albert Lieven's Talleyrand , willing to serve the new master of France ( Lom ) but already showing his manipulation of Napoleon to get him to do his work ( and also undercutting Nappy's comments about the weaknesses of Pitt and England ) . As a whole it is pretty good as history told in film . Certainly a film to come back to now and then .
Emily Bronte's Masterwork	A number of years ago a mystery novel was published that has , as it's secret , the discovery of the complete manuscript of a second novel by Emily Bronte . Unfortunately nothing like that has ever surfaced , so we are stuck with only one book penned by her . If that one book was THE PROFESSOR or SHIRLEY ( Charlotte's two least good novels ) , Emily would long ago have been forgotten , and we would see more interest in her younger sister Anne . But Emily left us WUTHERING HEIGHTS . It is rare for a writer to turn out such a stunning masterpiece only once and never write anything again . JANE EYRE is a well structured organized novel , and it has passions revealed . As I have mentioned elsewhere it is a novel where the heroine was in a lowly position and dared to love her employer ( something shocking in 1847 ) . But WUTHERING HEIGHTS has a similar story but with more symbolic raw power . Here it is not a female servant loving her master but a male ( of gypsy heritage ) who loves and is loved by the daughter of his patron . But the patron dies , and his jealous son treats the gypsy as the lowliest of servants . How the gypsy boy finds his love seemingly rejected , and how he eventually lives only for revenge against those he feels wronged him becomes the meat of the plot here . And all the sturm und drang is played out against the wild moors with their hints of sexual freedom . It was powerful stuff in 1847 Victorian England , and it remains really powerful today . If Bronte could not write anything else due to her early death , this novel still enshrined her among the great novelists . The only element of the plot that is lost is Hindley's family . He has a wife briefly in the novel ( that is how he has a son named Hareton that Heathcliff torments in his revenge ) . The wife , named Frances , dies soon after giving birth . No mention of her , nor of Hareton and young Cathy and Heathcliff's son by Isabelle called Linton . Possibly , like the streamlining of the 1944 JANE EYRE by dropping the Rivers from the story , this was just as well . Olivier had the Byronic good looks ( of a dark , saturnine type ) that fit the part of the tormented , devilish Heathcliff . And Merle Oberon ( who had already appeared opposite Olivier in THE DIVORCE OF LADY X ) was given her best part as the confused , doomed Cathy : she loves Heathcliff ( as she tells Nellie - Flora Robson ) but she has a willingness to take up with Edgar ( David Niven ) because he is civilized , and caring when she is injured , and she thinks Heathcliff deserted her . Niven really had his first meaty dramatic role as Edgar , and Geraldine Fitzgerald was quite good as the sadly disillusioned Isabel ( who loved not wisely but too well ) . The stark cinematography by Gregg Toland , and direction by William Wyler makes this the best film made of any of the Bronte novels to date .
That threatened ride on a buzz saw	It is true that Edgar Bergan and Charlie McCarthy were far more effective in their national audience on radio than in the movies . This was due to the close-up affect of cinematography on Bergen's face - he could not hide the fact that his lips moved a little . When on a stage in a nightclub or in vaudeville he'd be too far away to be seen moving his lips . Not so on film . But Bergan and McCarthy put ventriloquism on the map . Their act and radio show took the art of throwing one's voice and brought a biting humor to it , giving the dummy a real personality : a wise guy little man , with an eye for the ladies and an eye for making trouble for people he did not like ( among whom was Fields ) . The feud of McCarthy and Fields mirrored the contemporary feud of Fred Allan and Jack Benny , except that Allan and Benny were both real . But on radio Charlie was as real as " Uncle Claude " was , so the fact that it was a block of wood that was manipulated fighting a real life man did not matter . The public just loved Charlie reminding Fields of his alcoholism , in particular his large red nose . And the public loved the threats of Fields to give Charlie a ride on a buzz saw . Because of the strong personality of McCarthy , a movie audience even today looks at this film and tends to ignore Bergen's slight lip movements . Charlie is the real personality of interest , not Edgar - here playing a hard working young man who would like to marry Vicki Whipsnade ( Constance Moore ) but is resigned that she wants to marry a wealthy young wastrel instead . Bergen could act ( look at his performance in I REMEMBER MAMA , as Ellen Corby's boyfriend / husband , and his comic scene there with Oskar Homolka regarding the dowry ) . But he did not have to act as Bergen here - all he had to do was let Charlie do his job ( and , for that matter , let Mortimer Snerd do his work too in two scenes ) . The tricks used by the director to have scenes where Charlie appears without Bergan are just even more effective , as they enhance the idea of an independent comic personality coming out of the dummy . For Fields there are many choice moments too . His walk , supposedly naked after a shower , across the circus grounds - hidden behind people carrying items , or elephants and other animals , until a lady screams and faints ( and Fields is finally physically revealed to the audience ) is a gem . So is his wrecking the Bel-Goodies engagement party , first by his mad ping pong match , and then by his insistence of telling the story of how his life was saved once by an intelligent rattlesnake ( not realizing that Mrs . Bel-Goody hates even the mention of snakes ) . His interactions with the circus staff , with the idiotic Grady Sutton , with labor union organizer Edward Brophy , and with the various people buying tickets for the circus , or for that matter mispronouncing his name as " Larceny Whipsnake " are priceless . So is his own attempt at ventriloquism : he does it so you can't see his lips move , but you just can't believe he is throwing his voice . Well he is throwing dust or something else at that moment . But it is his running confrontations with McCarthy , some of which he actually loses ( he has one where he has to bribe Charlie at one point to keep quiet ) that maintains the audience's attention . The film is one of Fields ' best ones , and deservedly retains it's popularity to this day .
Gershwin + Minelli + Kelly + Caron + Levant = Masterpiece	The musicals of the 1940s and 1950s produced by Arthur Freed's unit at MGM gave director Vincent Minelli his claims to being a major film talent of that period . With his background on Broadway , Minelli knew more than simply super choreography ( like his predecessor of the 1930s , Busby Berkeley ) but how to frame his shots , and create memorable performances from his actors . His best musical is hard to choose , but it is among these films : " Meet Me In St . Louis " , " An American In Paris " , " Gigi " , " The Band Wagon " ( and this overlooks such interesting works as " Yolanda And The Thief " , " The Pirate " , " Brigadoon " , and " In The Good Old Summertime " ) . Minelli was not afraid to take chances if he knew he had the staff to carry it off . When he made " An American In Paris " he had the right staff . Movies about or dealing with ballet had been around for decades . These included melodramas like " The Mad Genius " with John Barrymore and Donald Cook ( supposedly suggested by a twisted view of the relations between Diaghilev and Nijinski ) and " The Spectre Of The Rose " , and then the British masterpiece " The Red Shoes " . The latter film had shown one could make a compelling movie about the ballet including a complete ballet sequence . There had been films with ballet - type sequences in American musicals , the most notable being Minelli's own film with Kelly , " The Pirate " ( when they show the pirate Macoco's sack of a city ) , and in the musical " Words and Music " about Rodgers and Hart , where Kelly did " Slaughter On Tenth Avenue " . But the latter was actually based on a ballet from the Rodgers and Hart musical " On Your Toes " , and the sequence in " The Pirate " is a piece of imagination of how Kelly ( pretending to be Macoco ) envisions himself as that legendary pirate . The concluding ballet in " An American In Paris " is an integral part of the story , summarizing the emotional agony that Kelly's Jerry Mulligan is facing at that moment by the loss of his girlfriend Lisa Bouvier ( Leslie Caron ) . " An American In Paris " has a simple story line - Kelly is an ex-GI who stayed in France to study art , and who lives near his friend Adam Cook ( Oscar Levant ) , a pianist / composer studying music in Paris . Kelly meets a wealthy woman ( Milo Roberts - Nina Foch ) who offers patronage assistance , but only if Kelly considers having a serious romantic affair with her . While trying to maintain his self-respect despite Foch's enticing offers , Kelly sees Caron at a nightclub , and tries to attract her attention . He does not know that she is the fiancé of another friend of his and Levant , the entertainer ( Henri Baurel - Georges Guetery ) , and she is hesitant about seeing him , but gradually falls to his charms and loves him . But she is loyal to Guetery , and will not stop plans for marrying him , despite Kelly's feelings . As he sees them drive off , he imagines the " An American In Paris " ballet sequence . Minelli pulled out all his artistic ideas here ( with Kelly's assistance ) basing the various settings and characters on impressionist artists of the late 19th Century ( in fact , in the " Moulin Rouge " section you can see a diminutive Toulouse Lautrec seated at a table ) . The film uses plenty of Gershwin tunes , besides the " An American In Paris " . " I've Got Rhythm " , " ' Swonderful ! " , " By Strauss " , and other tunes pop up , including Guetery doing a show-stopper , " I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise " One of the curious ironies of the film , by the way , is that Guetery never made any other American movie after this . He had been in films in France since 1938 , and should have had a longer career in our films too , but - unlike Maurice Chevalier or Charles Boyer - stayed in France . In the long run it did no harm to him - his recordings of tunes and stage work made him a millionaire success in France before his death in 1997 . Levant too does well , playing his caustic , smarter-than-the-hero type . His show-stopper is a three or four minute spot where he sees himself giving a concerto performance in a concert hall , where all the musicians ( including the conductor , the drummer , the string section ) are himself . It turns out the audience also includes him . If not thoroughly original ( Buster Keaton did a short like this in the 1920s ) , it is well done , especially when we see Levant's handling of the keyboard . His witty repartee and neurotic problems aside , people tend to forget that Levant was a highly gifted pianist , and a close friend ( and interpreter ) of George Gershwin . As for his repartee , his best line is when he quietly deflates Nina Foch at a party towards the end of the film . Leslie Caron had been seen in a production in France by Kelly , who suggested her for his dancing partner in the ballet as a result . Her gamin like qualities showed through , leading to her later 1950s successes in " Lili " and " Gigi " . But her best moments here are in the ballet , dancing well with Kelly - he as a boulevardier type and she as a fashionable young woman . Later they both change costumes to fit the styles of the different painters the sets mirror . " An American In Paris " became the first musical film to win the Oscar for best picture . Minelli would repeat this success ( with Caron ) seven years later with " Gigi " . As for Kelly , his interest in ballet based movies would reach it's high point a few years later with his " Invitation To The Dance " .
How Ruthless Is American Business ?	In 1994 there was a series of classic television dramas of the 1950s that were shown in kine-scope versions for the first time in decades . They included the original REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT with Jack Palance , Kim Hunter , and Ed and Keenan Wynn , and THE DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES with Cliff Robertson . Another of the shows was PATTERNS , starring Richard Kiley , Ed Begley Sr . , and Everett Sloan . PATTERNS ( with a first rate screenplay by Rod Sterling ) would eventually be turned into a movie with Van Heflin in the Kiley part , as well as Begley and Sloan repeating their parts . The two works are equally good , but I'm giving pride of place to the original television version . Done live it was flawlessly performed by the cast . And the script dealt with a central issue of American Business and ethics - indeed if ethics can be found in American Business . For as Sloan's character , the ruthless head of the corporation Walter Ramsay points out , there can be no room for sentiment in high echelon big business . The plot of PATTERNS is actually quite simple . Walter Ramsay has just hired Fred Staples ( Kiley ) as a new idea man for his corporate empire . Staples is especially good in getting creative incentives and planning for the employees of the firms he has helped . But this area of corporate - labor planning has been traditionally handled by the senior Vice President of the firm , Andy Sloane ( Begley ) . Sloane's years in the firm goes back to it's founding by Ramsay's father , and he has become a beloved fixture with the employees . He has a paternal touch with them . The problem is , according to Walter Ramsay , it is out of step with current needs for the firm's expansion , and even it's survival . What occurs is the education of Staples and the destruction of Sloane . The two men actually get to see each other as partners - both admire the other's strengths . But for all their attempts to coordinate their work they find Ramsay getting into the way of an amicable partnership . Ramsay is determined to drive Sloane into retirement , and put Staples in his place . He does not care how beloved Sloane's paternalist approach is - it is more in step with the best corporate planning of say the 1920s or 1930s than the 1950s . The pressure mounts on Sloane , and affects his home life - he has a son , and starts drinking at his office late at night so the boy does not see him inebriated . Staples tries to help , but whenever he offers to adopt some of Sloane's suggestions at meetings Ramsay shoots the gestures down . Still the two men create a plan for the betterment of the work force , that may create more productivity but still make the workers feel creative and useful . Staples feels that it will reestablish Sloane's self-esteem , and it does have an uplifting affect on Andy . But Ramsay steps again - giving full credit for the plan to Staples , and suggesting Sloane's ideas were the same useless and old retreads of recent years . The final board meeting becomes a killing ground , as the humiliation and pressure leads to Andy Sloane's fatal heart attack . Staples comes out of this an avenging monster . He confronts Ramsay , and accuses him of " beating " Andy to death . Ramsay is not proud of that result , but he insists that the important thing was to get new ideas and blood into the upper echelons of the corporation for it to survive and grow . In the end , although both men know they can never be friendly or close , both realize that they will have to give their all to keep the corporation strong and healthy . Sterling was too good a writer to make his characters straw men . Staples is too young and naive at the start , and grows up only when the tragedy hits . Richard Kiley was perfect ( in 1955 ) for that role . Begley's Sloane is a good , decent man , but we see that he has become too soft - his good points have their bad side ( culminating in his shot nerves and drinking ) . As for Sloane's Ramsay , he is Machiavellian in pursuing the destruction of Begley , but he is not actually evil . We see him dining with Kiley and his wife , and commenting on his father's recipe for making coffee ( it included using chopped chocolate bits ) , and later - when Kiley tries to defend Begley's past record - Sloane's Ramsay sighs and points out that Begley once was very good , but then Stanley Steamers were once great automobiles ! PATTERNS was a triumph of television drama - and hopefully available on DVD . With a first rate script and three top notch performances it was a memorable moment in the golden age of television live drama .
Alexander Korda and his history lessons	Born in Hungary , Alexander Korda became a leading figure in British cinema . He would approach Hollywood in his production , casting , and vision of how movies should be made . And he was quite aware of what he was facing in his struggles . Britain's film industry was never as wealthy as it's American cousin ( or it's German cousin , for that matter ) . But due to language it had inroads to the United States as well as the empire . If it could not meet Hollywood's ( or Ufa's ) best production values , it had a stable of actors that were hard to match . In fact , many of them ended up in Hollywood ( much to Korda's disgust ) . This was not only those born in the British Isles like Olivier , Leigh , Laughton , but also those who were foreign born who ended up in British films as stars ( like Veidt ) . Korda also had European history and culture to play with , and in the 1930s would do a series of films that involved both . They centered on some historical or legendary character : Henry VIII , Don Juan , Catherine the Great , Rembrandt , the Roman Emperor Claudius . Laughton appeared in three of these , as Henry , Rembrandt , and Claudius . Douglas Fairbanks Sr . would be Don Juan and his son would be Catherine's husband Peter III of Russia . There were also " foreign " or " imperial " settings for some of these epics . Sabu became Kipling's Mowgli in " The Jungle Book " . The Arabian Nights were the basis for " The Thief of Baghdad " . Henry VIII is really not filling in the entire monarch's life or reign . It barely notices wife # 1 ( Catherine of Aragon ) , who it considers dull . It begins with the conclusion of the second marriage with Anne Boleyne in 1536 , and then jumps rapidly into the brief third marriage , the comedy of the fourth marriage in 1541 , the deep tragedy of the fifth marriage in 1544 , and the last marriage , wherein Henry seems to have married a nurse and a scold ( not really historically correct ) . Laughton is superb as a man , seeming with everything , who can't ( for one reason or another ) find the happiness he seeks in a content home life . But the film does not delve into his policies , and it really does not get into the personality conflicts within Henry's character . He does act the bully and the gallant and the buffoon ( such as when discoursing on fine table manners ) , but the parts ( if analyzed ) do not hold together as well as say Robert Shaw's sly and sinister monarch in " A Man For All Seasons " , but Shaw is playing a younger man in a period of only six years , while Laughton is dealing with nearly twelve years as the same man fights to retain youth and yet ages badly due to ill-health . Laughton did deserve his Oscar , but Shaw needed two more films of Henry at later stages to fill in his first rate junior portrait . Laughton did well with Henry , as Korda did by selecting Laughton . We are the richer for both of their visions .
Taking a Chance On Love	Let's call it a deserved " 10 " but with a sense of trouble for one's conscience . In 1943 it was nearly impossible to consider any film with a predominantly African-American cast as serious by most Americans of Caucasian or non-African-American backgrounds . Typical fare from Hollywood was a series of stereotypes , usually for comic purposes . However there had been a few films that ( even with the stereotypes ) suggested more was there . King Vidor's HALLELUJAH in 1929 dealt with African-American revivalism . Two Broadway hits , O'Neill's THE EMPEROR JONES ( with star Paul Robeson recreating the role of Brutus Jones ) and THE GREEN PASTURES had been done with mostly African-American casts ( Dudley Digges did play a critically important role in THE EMPEROR JONES , but he was an exception ) . The 1929 and 1936 versions of SHOW BOAT did deal with the " Jim Crow " south , and the issue of racially mixed marriages . The film of Fanny Hurst's novel IMITATION OF LIFE ( 1933 ) dealt with a young woman trying to pass for white and breaking her mother's heart as a result . GONE WITH THE WIND passed on the myths of how happy the slaves were in the South , but Hattie McDaniel's performance of " Mammy " was vivid and strong , and won the first Oscar for an African-American performer . Finally , in 1942 , John Huston's film , IN THIS OUR LIFE , dared to suggest that a young African-American man could try to study law to enter the legal profession . When Vincent Minelli was assigned to do the MGM musical version of CABIN IN THE SKY , most insiders thought that it would be a flop . Minelli had never directed a film before , and was an unknown quantity in Hollywood's talent market . Actually he was a good choice - he was a veteran of Broadway musical productions , and was just the right person to work on a film based on a Broadway musical . It was his first film , and proved to be a great success . It think it is due in part to his determination to show what he could bring out of the musical , and also the equal determination of the cast , led by Ethel Waters ( who played the lead " Petunia " on Broadway ) , Eddie Anderson ( " Joe " ) , Lena Horne ( as temptress " Georgia Brown " ) , John Bubbles ( " Domino Johnson " ) , Kenneth Spencer ( " The General / Rev . Greene " ) , and Rex Ingram ( " Lucifer Jr . " ) . Other familiar faces crop up like Willie Best , Mantan Morland , Oscar Polk , Butterfly McQueen , Louis Armstrong ( oddly wasted in a mostly comic speaking role ) , and Duke Ellington and his orchestra . It's hard to imagine this but this film effort had the cream of Hollywood's available African-American performers in it . And they wanted to show what they could do . The story is about the devotion of Petunia to her husband Little Joe , who is weak and constantly gambling . But he hopes to win a fortune to give Petunia the things she always wanted . Unfortunately he is also infatuated with Georgia , a sexy singer at the gambling house / night club he heads for . One night ( while supposedly seeking forgiveness for his sins at church ) Joe is lured to the nightclub into a dice game , and is shot by Domino . He is treated at home and the film goes from this point to it's conclusion with a battle between God's messenger , " the General " ( always wearing white uniforms ) , and " Lucifer Jr . " and his minions . Due to a technicality Joe is not to die , but is given six months more to show his wife's devotion is strong enough to put him permanently on the good and narrow path . Lucifer Jr . and his associates ( including Morland , Armstrong , and Best ) are determined to show Joe cannot change . The cast shows what they could do . Waters in particular has two songs that became standards : " Happiness is a Guy named Joe " , by Harold Arlin and Y . I . P . Harburg , and " Taking a Chance On Love " by Vernon Duke from the original score . But Horne is allowed to sing as well ( though one number was cut here but transposed elsewhere ) . Bubbles does his great dance and song act in the latter part of the film , in the number " Shine " . Even Anderson ( best recalled for being Jack Benny's foil as " Rochester " ) demonstrates singing in a duet with Horne , and dance in a number with Waters . I suppose my favorite though is Ingram . He's now the forgotten man in African-American film history , because he never had the degree of public attention that Paul Robeson received . But he appeared in the lead as " De Lawd " in the movie version of THE GREEN PASTURES , as " Lucifer Jr . " here , as the genie in the Alexander Korda epic THE THIEF OF BAGHDAD ( 1941 ) , and graced other films as well ( as the gentle valet to Ronald Colman in THE TALK OF THE TOWN , where he starts crying at his boss's insistence at shaving off his distinguished goatee ) . Ingram , I feel , could play any kind of part . Given the paucity of good lead parts in his day , that he got three of them shows Hollywood and British producers thought well of him . Here he does not sing ( I suspect he did not have the voice ) but he is enjoying his wickedness throughout . He also has one of the best lines in the film - complaining of the lack of good ideas ( in getting Joe's soul ) : he says that it's because the best idea men in Hell are currently in Europe ( this being the fourth year of World War II ) . The film is actually quite entertaining to this day - although the stereotypes of crap shooting African-Americans is unsettling . But think of this point : this is the first film I know of from Hollywood where a black professional is shown who is not a minister ! When Eddie Anderson is treated for his gunshot wound , the physician is black , and is not a stereotype .
A Modern " Robinson Crusoe " & " Enoch Arden " Story - Before " Lost "	Tom Hanks movie career has been one of the best things to emerge out of television acting in the last half century . He rarely if ever disappoints . CAST AWAY is one of his best performances - a tour-de-force one man show for most of the movies time on screen . Hanks is Chuck Nolan , an executive official at FED EX , who seems to have everything going for him . He has a grueling but interesting and successful career in business , with many friends , and he is having a really hot and heavy romance with Kelly Frears ( Helen Hunt ) , which is likely to end up in marriage . But he is sent on a business trip , like so many others , and the plane crashes in the Pacific Ocean . Although there were five men on the Fed Ex plane , only Hanks is lucky enough to get into a life raft with any supplies or provisions . Eventually he reaches a deserted island . If you read the novel by Daniel DeFoe , Crusoe slowly builds upon his own knowledge of how to survive to make his island a fairly comfortable place to live on - despite the threats of cannibals . But DeFoe gave Crusoe one thing that Nolan does not get . DeFoe gives his survivor a companion : Friday . There is no loneliness on Crusoe's island . Nolan does not have such luck . He has to create even his companion : a volleyball with a painted face on it named " Wilson " , whom he talks to when he is trying to do anything ( and Nolan has to do everything , including rediscover fire ) . It's a crushing situation , and leads to depression and some dark thoughts . But Nolan is one determined man - somehow he will get off that island , if for no other reason than that he wants to return to civilization , and best of all to Frears . It is the photograph of Frears that keeps Nolan's sanity together in that long , lonely vigil on the island . So he finds a cave to live in in the island's rocks , to keep relatively warm and dry in the rain . He does rediscover fire . He does keep a fairly good track of time . He even performs ( in one of the most grueling moments of the film ) oral surgery on a painful tooth that you have to see to believe . SPOILER AHEAD : He does get off the island in the end - but finds his problems just as difficult to solve off the island as it was on the island .
Basil's Satisfactory Revenge On Errol	I have often felt that had history been kinder there would have been no major wars affecting the globe after 1918 . The pacifist spirit that hit most of the states in the west was due to the size of the casualty rates suffered by the major states in the war . It was sufficient to cause massive re-considerations by the U . S . , England , and France about military cut-backs , and ( in fact ) in 1921 the Washington Naval Conference did lead to the top allied powers ( six actually - they included little Belgium ) to reduce the size of their navies were based on proportions . In 1925 there was a " spirit of Locarno " as France and Germany under Aristide Briand and Gustave Stresseman began a road to rapprochement . In 1928 Briand and U . S . Secretary of State Frank Kellogg created the Kellogg-Briand Pact outlawing warfare ( which is still used as the basis for war crimes trials ) . Of course the rise of Fascist , Nazi , and Communist regimes and the great depression wrecked the entire pacifist movement . Mussolini , Hitler , and the Japanese felt pacifist views mirrored weakness , and dismissed them . And the resulting war of 1939 - 1945 was more bloody and horrifying than the Great War had been . And even that war has not been the last one of the 20th or 21st Centuries . One reflection of the pacifism and hatred of war is found in the movies and plays of the inter-war years , like THE ROAD TO GLORY which showed the bloodshed and uselessness of the trench warfare in France ( it is worthy to watch that film with PATHS OF GLORY to see how hopeless that trench warfare was ) . Other films like this were JOURNEY'S END , THE EAGLE AND THE HAWK , and this film , DAWN PATROL . DAWN PATROL tells the story of a British aerodrome on the western front . It is commanded by Major Brand ( Basil Rathbone - in one of his most human roles ) . Brand's two best fighter pilots are Captain Courtney ( Errol Flynn ) and Lieutenant Scott ( David Niven ) . Both of them tend to create there own rules but they do a spectacular job at fighting the Germans effectively . Rathbone , however , has dozens of other young pilots who are sent to the aerodrome , but become fodder for the German fighter pilots . Flynn and Niven keep knocking him about this - they feel he has no real feelings , and so he is beneath contempt as a bloody butcher . They don't realize that Rathbone actually hates sending up these young boys to die . When alone or with his assistant Phipps ( Donald Crisp ) he shows the strain which for the sake of the company's morale he hides elsewhere . He tries to find ways to reduce the problem . One way is rigid adherence to the rules ( which is another reason Flynn and Niven despise him ) . Then , after one of their escapades does substantial damage to the Germans , Flynn and Niven are amazed to find that Rathbone's normal threats of court-martial is dimmed by a telephone call that leaves him temporarily speechless and then laughing hysterically . Headquarters was so impressed by what Flynn and Niven did that they are promoting Rathbone to Colonel , and sending him to the headquarters staff ( so he does not have to be so emotionally torn anymore ) . But best , he is given the power to choose his successor . He promotes Flynn to Major and commander of the aerodrome , and Niven to Captain . Flynn starts going through the tortures of the damned now . He did not expect this action , and he is not ready for sending young boys ( including Morton Lowry as Niven's brother ) to their death . Naturally the friendship with Niven suffers - especially after the death of Lowry . Rathbone returns a few months later - and finds Flynn is no longer so devil-may-care nor as critical ( how can he be - he knows better now ) . Rathbone is not jubilant at the success of his revenge - he notes it quietly . This is the only Flynn - Rathbone film where Basil came out on top , and it wasn't by fighting with swords . The film shows how the war machine just mindlessly ground up a whole generation of youth in Europe . Only by being aware of the proper tricks of aerial warfare ( which took months ) did any pilot stand a chance of survival . But the turnover rate was due to the stupid view that massive numbers of men ( even poorly trained ones ) would guarantee the victory of the Allies in the skies ( or on land for that matter ) . The film has a very realistic feel of what that dreadful situation was like . Even the use of a fictionalized Von Richtofen ( Von Richter here ) suggests the reality . Von Richtofen ( and the German air force , for that matter ) had a better training method than the allies until 1918 . Until the Red Baron died the Germans did control the skies for the most part .
The More Sensible Side of Gordon Gecko's " Greed is Good " Theory	Danny DeVito's performance as Larry " the Liquidator " Garfield is a solidly crafted performance of a big time , clever Wall Street operator . The film came out in the early 1990s , and the character was the type of person who was active at the time who bought up fading companies to sell off the assets . A similar character would be Richard Gere's billionaire in PRETTY WOMAN , who is able to look back with satisfaction at buying up the company his father ( who deserted Gere and his mother ) built and selling it apart while his father watched helplessly . Another example is Michael Douglas ' " Oscar " performance as " Gordon Gecko " in WALL STREET . The three actors show this type of tycoon at his best and worst . Douglas , of course , with his " Greed is Good " speech showed the worst of it . Gere ( with the help of Julia Roberts ) manages to regain his sense of ethical strength and becomes more willing to not be a Wall Street looter . But best of the three was DeVito . Handicapped at being a short , bald , pudgy man ( albeit with a brain ) , and not attractive like Gere or Douglas , Danny manages in this film to show the positive flip side of his " liquidation " schemes and win our support as Douglas never would . One may of course remain skeptical about DeVito's altruism , as he does admit liking to make money , but the overwhelming common sense of his speech explains that progress and economic realities dictate the world of big business as much as the personalities of the operators . In OTHER PEOPLE'S MONEY Danny has decided to buy as much of the stock of a New England cable manufacturing company as he can . The company is breaking even or less every year , and is actually worth more for it's individual assets than for it's unified worth . Unfortunately , in a situation that Frank Capra would have been at home with , the firm is the largest employer in the New England town it is located in . Many of the residents of the town work in the factory . The head of the factory is Andrew Jorgenson ( Gregory Peck - everyone's favorite spokesman for the common man after Henry Fonda and Jimmy Stewart left the scene ) . Peck is the sort of man who anyone in the plant would come to if they had some personal problem that needed adjustment that effected the business . Peck is paternalistic business at it's best . But that's just the problem - Calvin Coolidge once made a truism : " The business of America is business . " He meant that Americans were hard working people who would go into all types of business to earn a living . But earning a living includes earning a profit , and it does not mean supporting a business that is increasingly becoming an unofficial charity for a factory town . The problem for DeVito is that his raider reputation precedes him . He also finds that Peck's lawyer Kate Sullivan ( Penelope Ann Miller ) is very attractive . DeVito's finding that his campaign to take over the factory is interfering ( understandably ) with his attempts to romance Miller . Also , on the sidelines , is a problem with a type that DeVito finds useful if distasteful . Peck's associate Bill Coles ( Dean Jones ) is a shareholder who might support Peck but is weak enough to sound out DeVito about voting with his side . It's interesting watching DeVito's face when dealing with Jones - he is very mild but his face does register disgust and dismissal ( subsequently so does Peck's ) . The high point is the stockholder's meeting . Peck gives his best speech about the importance of the company to the town . He talks about how business opportunities are bound to turn around shortly . He gives the type of speech that Frank Capra would have been proud of in MR . DEEDS GOES TO TOWN or IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE ( think of George Bailey's speech to mollify the townspeople during a run on the savings and loan ) . When you hear the sincerity of Peck's well remembered voice , you feel he will carry the day . But he doesn't . Instead , DeVito wins . His speech is not the " Greed is Good " crap that Douglas espouses , although the profit motive is stressed . DeVito points out that there is no real chance that the firm will overcome foreign competition in fiber-optics . Furthermore , even if there was such a chance it would be infinitesimal . DeVito goes into the matter of why people invest money - it's to make money , and not to be philanthropic with the money . He points out that it is sad that the effect of the closing of the factory hits the town , but under the circumstances it can't be helped - it's inevitable . But at least now the company's assets can be sold off , and they will produce a large profit . As DeVito points out , he's proud of his name " the liquidator " , and he feels he is the best friend of every shareholder in the firm at that moment . Finally he discusses the significance of the last buggy whip company . It made the finest of all buggy whips , but people had no further use for them in the age of the automobile . It's a straightforward , honest , and eloquent defense of capitalism - a perfectly respectable variant to the Gecko speech in WALL STREET . The film does end in a successful compromise , but it's nice to see DeVito coming across as fully in the right for a change .
The Immortalization of Gladys Glover . . . and introducing Jack Lemmon	Judy Holliday was very lucky that she and Garson Kanin worked together so frequently . He had written the Broadway play BORN YESTERDAY that made her a stage star . He wrote the screenplay for her first major film , ADAM'S RIB , with his wife Ruth Gordon . Aided immeasurably by the directing of George Cukor , their success record continued in 1954 with IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU . While BORN YESTERDAY dealt with political corruption , and ADAM'S RIB with the equality of the sexes in the law ( in the extreme case of the use of the so-called " unwritten law " ) , IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU is about the nature of fame and notoriety in modern society . Gladys Glover ( Judy ) gets the idea of renting a large billboard near New York City's Columbus Circle , and having her photograph put on it . She's not afraid of doing such a nutty idea - she is a professional model . But her billboard would be advertising just her - not a product or company . The billboard has traditionally been used as the central ad-board for a soap corporation , owned by aristocratic and handsome Peter Lawford . He proceeds to try to romance Judy to get her to give up her lease of the board ( which will end in a few months ) . But the huge degree of notice the board brings to Judy turns her life around . Although she has no message for the public , the public embraces her . The one active critic she meets is a good looking young documentary maker , who can't see what she is gaining by this . It is not that Judy needs fame - she seems quite level headed . Moreover , the young man is growing jealous at the attentions showed by Lawford to her . He's a really nice young fellow ( who would appear in another film with Judy shortly afterward ) . His name was Jack Lemmon . Usually people thinking of Lemmon's long career recall MR . ROBERTS as his first role . His performance as Ensign Pulver did win an Oscar , but he had made about three movies before that film , and his first role is here . Michael Shea is also in the film , as a critic who first dismisses Judy as a fiction , like " Kilroy " , but subsequently becomes an evil genius to her - becoming her overly forceful agent . And Judy does have to go through some real soul searching here as she determines whether notoriety and fame is worth the trouble it brings . The film is funnier than this description may suggest . It ranks behind THE SOLID GOLD CADILLAC and BORN YESTERDAY as her best comic performance , completing an interesting trilogy commentary on society in the U . S . at mid-century .
All For Our Natural Bodily Fluids	It can safely be assumed that DR . STRANGELOVE could not have been made in the Eisenhower years . Even after Senator McCarthy's fall from public support , Ike and the Republicans ( and the Democrats ) were too involved in the politics of the Cold War to consider the ultimate point of containment and confrontation of the Soviet Union and the Communists as a subject worth laughing at . I can only think of one film , THE ATOMIC KID , that appeared in the 1950s , and somewhat spoofed nuclear disaster . In that film Mickey Rooney stumbles into a cabin stocked with supplies when he and his friend / partner Robert Strauss are looking for assistance ( their car broke down ) . Rooney is at the site when a nuclear bomb is dropped on it ( it is the target ) . He survives , and the only rationale for it is that he was eating peanut butter sandwiches . The antics of American and Russian agents get involved in that film , as does the American habit of looking for the main chance ( Strauss sees Rooney as a potential gold mine in the advertising world ) . But it is pretty lightweight stuff - and miles away from the real sense of dread surrounding STRANGELOVE . Make no mistake about this darkest of comedies . For all the humor involved , it shows the human race is so paranoid and so stupid that we will stumble very easily into our own obliteration at each other's hands . It's hard to argue with that view . And note that two years before Stanley Kubrick's film was released , the world came very close to a politically caused nuclear Armageddon in the Cuban Missile Crisis . This film remains potentially true . General Jack D . Ripper ( Sterling Hayden's role ; I love that name ) orders a secret nuclear attack on Russia because he has become convinced that the Russians are using fluoridation to undermine our virility . He has shut down the Burpleton Airforce Base ( it has a great sign - " Peace is our Business " - on the field ) , so that nobody can reach him to order the planes back . Only his British military aide , Major Lionel Mandrake ( Peter Sellers in his first of three roles ) is available ( despite Ripper's overwhelming presence ) to try to undue the damage . In the meantime other U . S . military forces tip off the Pentagon Brass and President Merton Muffly ( Sellers in his second role ) about the launching of the attack . The leading adviser on the Air Force , General Buck Turgidson ( George C . Scott ) comes into the meeting from enjoying his bodily fluids ( he tells the girl to say her prayers ) . Scott is taken to task by Muffly about the failure of a comprehensive psychiatric test for upper level officers that failed to reveal General Ripper was insane . Turgidson suggests that one failure does not disprove the system doesn't work . Muffley is also turned off by Turgidson's suggestions that rather than stop Ripper's attack , we should go fully ballistic on the U . S . S . R . " I can promise , " Turgidson rattles off , " thirty million U . S . casualties tops ! " Muffley tries to prepare the Russians - he invites their ambassador De Sadeski ( Peter Bull ) to the Pentagon War Room , and he tries to warn the drunken Russian Premier , Dimitri Kissoff , but has to reduce his serious warning to almost a fairy tale ( " Well . . . one of our generals went a little funny in the head . " ) . The contemporary serious film FAILSAFE had similar problems emerge when a computer system erroneously triggers an attack . The President there ( Henry Fonda ) was not confronted by as many forms of idiocy as Seller's Muffley ( including his own ) . Fonda actually does reach the planes but they refuse to believe he is President . Muffley too gets to the planes ( once he gets the correct code used ) but one plane has a busted radio and never hears him . That is the plane of Major " King " Kong ( Slim Pickens ) , who has the most famous last fatal ride in cinematic history . Most of the figures in DR . STRANGELOVE are based on real life figures . Muffley was based on Adlai Stevenson , a well-intentioned man who twice ran for President , but couldn't sell himself ( against Eisenhower , who could ? ) . Ripper ( forgetting who his name is based on ) is based on General Edward Walker who openly espoused anti-fluoridation and John Birch politics in his job . Turgidson is based on General Curtis LeMay , a great Air Force figure from World War II , but too openly anti-Russian in the Cold War . De Sadesky ( who shows a sneaky side twice in the film ) seems based on Andrei Gromyko , the Russian Ambassador to the U . S . in the Missile Crisis . Kissoff may be based on Nikita Khrustchev . And then there is Strangelove ( Sellers in the best of his three performances ) . A neo - Nazi scientist transported to the U . S . ( a beneficiary of " Operation Paper Clip " at the end of World War II , where scientists like Werner Von Braun ended up in the U . S . for our military's purposes ) , he has elements of Von Braun and Edward Teller , the Hungarian-born scientist ( so-called father of the Hydrogen bomb ) who hated the Communists or anyone who might start defending them ( he did a number on J . Robert Oppenheimer ) . Anyone else ? There has been a persistent suggestion that Strangelove is based on Henry Kissinger , but this seems not to be true . Certainly the crippled madman , with his mechanical arm that won't behave itself ( it keeps " heiling " ) is one of a kind , suggesting a sexual paradise in the future within the abandoned gold mines and cold mines of America . At the end he rises from his wheelchair without thinking , and suddenly announces , " Mein Fuhrer . . . I can walk ! " In the thermonuclear age as Armageddon advances our leader shows he has barely stopped being a crawling baby ! ! For the sake of that performance alone the film is worth seeing . Definitely worth seeing for the performances of the whole cast and Kubrick's directorial excellence .
In Glorious Technicolor and Cinemascope and STEREOPHONIC SOUN	It is Cole Porter meeting Ernst Lubitsch's best recalled film , NINOTCHKA . Up-dated to be sure , but still an affective comedy about rival systems of politics , social structure , and economics . In the original , a Soviet economic mission is trying to use some jewelry that was originally owned by a Grand Duchess to purchase needed agricultural equipment . This is jettisoned in the new version . Fred Astaire ( Steve Canfield ) is a movie producer who is planning a production of WAR AND PEACE with Janis Paige as his star ( she is Peggy Dayton , a noted Hollywood swim star , a la Esther Williams ) , who will play the Empress Josephine . Interesting point : Josephine does not appear in WAR AND PEACE - keep that in mind . Canfield wants to have a score by Russia's leading composer , Peter Ilyitsch Boroff ( Wim Sonneveld ) who is currently in Paris with a culture mission that is under Jules Munshin , Peter Lorre , and Alexander Granach . Their boss , George Tobias ( promoted since NINOTCHKA - he's now a commissar ) sends Cyd Charisse ( Ninotchka Yoschencko ) to keep the other three and Boroff under control . Tobias has reason to be upset . Not only is Canfield trying to corrupt the culture mission ( not too difficult there ) but also Boroff , who falls for Peggy Dayton ( as Canfield hopes ) . It follows closely the pursuit and " corruption " of Ninotchka , but there is one aspect that is shown here that was barely touched upon in the 1939 film . There Swanna's cynical use of the jewelry as a bargaining chip to keep Leon from Ninotchka sort of suggests that pure capitalism has it's drawbacks when in the wrong hands . In SILK STOCKINGS it is the cavalier use of culture for a fast buck that gets a go over . Boroff's masterpiece is called " Overture to a tractor " , but Canfield has it changed into a song for Peggy " Jo , Jo , Jo , Jo , Josephine . . . commonly called Jo " . Whatever one thinks of music in honor of inanimate objects , Boroff's work represents serious art . Ninotchka and the others ( including Boroff ) are furious , and dismiss the glib excuse Steve comes up with ( many other popular songs are based on classic tunes ) . They leave for Russia , and the rest of the musical follows Steve's attempts ( like Leon's before him ) to get Ninotchka back . The Porter score here ( with the score for CAN-CAN ) were the last two really first rate scores Porter composed , but both were composed for the stage productions of the musicals and transposed to the screen . Here the title song ( originally sung by Don Ameche on stage , but here by Astaire ) is one of the best numbers , as is " Glorious Technicolor " , where Astaire and Paige describe all the cinematography gimmicks used to draw in the audience ( leading up to " sterophonic sound " , which the film sound track blasts out ) . Munchkin , Lorre , and Granach have two big numbers , the second ( SIBERIA ) being one of Porter's best comic pieces as the three culture mission people look gloomily to returning to Russia , and possibly being sent to Siberia ( " Have you seen our choice bill of fare . . . Please try the fillet of polar bear ! " ) . There is even a second piece by " Boroff " composed in Russia , " I've got the Red Blues ! " which uses forbidden rock and roll . If it does not have the fine Lubitsch elegance and " touch " , SILK STOCKINGS still shows a first rate handling on it's own .
The Last Chance of the Birlings	This was a nice surprise when I saw it in 1977 or so . Alistair Sim had appeared as Inspector Cockerill in GREEN FOR DANGER shortly after World War II , and gave one of his best performances as that droll Scotland Yarder , who just manages to bungle his successful investigation at the conclusion of that film . Here he finally repeated the role of an inspector of the police - Inspecter Goole , who disturbs a pleasant evening at the Birling mansion in some midland industrial town with news that there has been a tragedy involving the death of a young woman , and she seems to be connected to the family . J . B . Priestly was a highly successful novelist and dramatist of the middle years of the 20th Century . Besides AN INSPECTOR CALLS , he wrote LAST HOLIDAY and the novel ( later a television series ) LOST EMPIRES . He usually sets his stories ( not LAST HOLIDAY ) in the Edwardian period . That is the setting of LOST EMPIRES , which follows the London Music Halls in the years before and during World War I , and in this film , set in 1912 . As it is set in 1912 it is like Terrance Rattigan's THE SLEEPING PRINCE ( filmed as THE PRINCE AND THE SHOWGIRL ) - a story whose plot line is complicated by the knowledge of the audience that history is headed in a disaster of war that will destroy the world of the characters . They are quite complacent these Birlings . The father is an industrialist , who has become Lord Mayor of the city . A bluff old codger , he thinks that most of the problems of the world can be covered over by a smile and some cash . His alcoholic son and his daughter and her fiancé seem less cynical , and his wife seems more proper . But each is forced to look at a photograph of the dead girl , shown by the Inspector and suddenly see their sins of pride , lust , cruelty all arising . But in the end when about to admit they did wrong they learn that the Inspector may not be what he said he was . But the conclusion leaves them facing the same crisis that Goole seemed to be on the edge of resolving - and Goole is no longer there to advise them on how to solve it . Sim , with minimal effort , controlled the film although he was off the screen most of the time . His Goole is a pleasant enough figure - apparently just doing his duty - and not being hard on the Birlings . He is just letting their consciences act out their feelings of contrition . But in the end the contrition ( for the older Birlings ) was too weak . So something stronger was needed to make them aware of their sins .
" It may be right under our noses ! "	This is supposed to be the best known stunt that Hitchcock ever pulled in any of his films . It may be so , but then it was a thirty minute television episode he directed on ALFRED HITCHCOCK PRESENTS , and he had to stick closely to the screenplay , written by the author of the original story Roald Dahl . LAMB TO THE SLAUGHTER has little real mystery to it for the viewer . Allan Lane is a police officer , and he returns home looking very serious and very tense . His wife is Barbara Bel Geddes , who has been keeping the house tidy ( despite being pregnant ) . She is a supportive wife , and she tries to relax Lane regarding his depressed mood . Finally he explains to her that he wants a divorce . He has met another woman whom he wants to marry . He is willing to give Bel Geddes some money , and guardianship of the child . Bel Geddes looks like she is in a state of shock , and just says she will prepare his dinner . We see her go out to the freezer and get a leg of lamb . She starts removing the paper the butcher put around it , when she sees that Lane is looking in the phone book . She asks why , and he says he is leaving that night ( i . e . , he's looking for the number of a hotel ) . When she protests that he shouldn't leave , he says , " Try to stop me ! " She returns to the kitchen , picks up the leg of lamb , returns to the living room , and hits Lane at the base of the skull with the leg . Then she returns to the kitchen and starts broiling the lamb . It's only subsequently that Bel Geddes realizes Lane is dead . Instead of panicking , she remains cool . They had been invited out for dinner that night ( earlier Lane rejected the invitation ) , so she cancels the dinner invitation over the phone . She then goes out to get some more groceries , and returns to plant evidence ( dropping her groceries and bag on the living room floor as though she just found the corpse of her husband ; upsetting furnishings to make it look like a struggle ) . Then she calls the police . Harold J . Stone is the detective in charge , and the cops do everything properly and in order . We watch the medical examiner looking over Lane's corpse , and another forensic expert dusting for fingerprints . But they are confused . It is obvious that the room has been tampered with for them to accept a so-called fight . But that does not preclude a third party attack on Lane . The head blow was perfect , but it left no marks of breaking the skin . It could have been done with a heavy club . Stone later asks Bel Geddes about such an item - there is nothing like a baseball bat in the house . She even looks for it with him in the house . The cops are aware that Lane had a history of affairs , but they keep thinking one of the woman might have done this . But how did they get out into the street with the club and not get noticed ? Hours have passed , and Stone notices the lamb has cooked . Bel Geddes invites the cops to eat it , which they do , leading to Stone's pronunciation of the famous last line of the episode ( see the " Summary Line " ) while a silent Bel Geddes quietly laughs . I have often suggested that when Hitchcock used his sense of humor it was best applied in small amounts ( in THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ( 1956 ) in the business of Jimmy Stewart making the mistake of going to the taxidermist shop , for instance ) . When he tried a full attack of his humor ( THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY ) the results were not really that hot . This episode shows Hitch at his best humor ( blended with Dahl's wit ) . Also it touched on the other aspect of Hitch's personality people knew of - his love of food . Hitch liked to throw dinner parties with the food cut in peculiar shapes or served in odd colors . So this story would have been just up his alley . And he did it well given it's limited time ( 30 minutes ) and relatively simple story . The three performances are good , Bel Geddes adding this performance under Hitch's direction to the one she did a year before in VERTIGO . Her anti-heroine is quite a sweet type , and is justified in being hurt by being deserted by her husband ( she is even having his child ) . Stone is good as an intelligent detective just befuddled by the issue of where is the murder weapon . Lane , better recalled for being a Western movie star or being the voice of Mr . Ed , is basically having to show his acting early on when his character is alive ( he does well , particularly trying to find the right moment to spring his surprise announcement ) . For the rest he had to just lie " dead " on the floor - a really difficult type of job ( he can't move too much ) . As for the story , Dahl did well here , as in several other tales he wrote for the series that Hitchcock directed . One wonders at the end how Hitch might have directed CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY if he had been approached . It probably would have been emphasizing dark chocolate - very dark chocolate indeed .
First episode of a single experiment on Alfred Hitchcock Presents	In the years that ALFRED HITCHCOCK PRESENTS was part of television the format was stories that were told in half an hour episodes . Later the episodes were expanded to full hour episodes . But only once did the show try to do this format : a three part retelling of the story , which was based on a play by Alec Coppel ( who did the novel for MR . DENNING DRIVES NORTH and worked on the screenplay for VERTIGO ) . Coppel's play had ( by 1957 ) been twice telecast in Great Britain , once in the late 1930s and once in 1947 . But given the 30 minute episodes ( actually more like 24 minutes due to commercial interruptions ) there were three half-hour episodes that were made for the series . It was never repeated , possibly because it required a degree of exposition of the previous episodes before the next one could be shown . Count Victor Mattoni ( Anthony Dawson ) is found shot in the head by a maid ( Patricia Hitchcock - Hitch's daughter ) in his London flat . The case is being handled by Inspector Davidson ( John Williams ) assisted by Detective Raines , a new man at the Yard ( Charles Davis ) . In the course of the investigation Davidson constantly finds Raines an ironic counterpoint due to what he has to what they both discover , and Raines honest ( perhaps too honest ) reaction to the evidence or statements . For soon they are deluged by statements . It seems that Mattoni was a bad gentleman , and he may have had more enemies than a man should . For instance , Viscount Storrington ( Alan Napier ) hated Mattoni for his treatment of his daughter , whom the Count has married . There is a child by the marriage . The Count wants custody of the child , and has threatened to take his bitter wife to court for a fight for the custody , unless she agrees to return to him . Then there is Bernard Froy , a wealthy American sportsman , who is in love with Countess Mattoni , and has written him a threatening note ( which Mattoni is using for some blackmail ) and now wants to get the letter back . Then there is Mullett ( Melville Cooper ) who works in the hotel , and whom Inspector Davidson claims that he seems to recall having seen before . Cooper cannot place Froy in the hotel , but he can place Storrington there . The secret of the play is that several of the characters confess to the murder of the ogre Count . Davidson and Raines have to sort it out , in the wake of a fourth confession . In the end of Part III they have an answer , but they realize it is not an easy answer for the law to reach justice here as in a normal case . The performances were all good , especially Williams again as a Scotland Yard Inspector . A young Rosemary Harris as another person who is in the ill-fated residential hotel rounds out the cast of this amusing play-let .
An extremely funny movie - and boy can William Powell land fish !	LIBELLED LADY is a comedy about the world of newspapers and libel suits . Spencer Tracy is the editor of a leading New York newspaper , and he is about to marry his long-suffering girlfriend Jean Harlow ( they have put off marriage several times in the past due to scoops Tracy had to pursue personally ) . This time it's not a scoop , but a serious blunder . The foreign gossip correspondent has submitted an item that got printed concerning Myrna Loy's antics in England , suggesting that she disgraced herself when drunk . This is bad enough , but the newspaper owner ( Charles Goodwin ) is horrified by this error . It seems Loy's father is multi-millionaire mover and shaker Walter Connolly , who had political ambitions that Goodwin and his newspaper thwarted twenty years earlier . Goodwin realizes that an angry , vindictive Connolly will very likely sue the newspaper for libeling his daughter , and win disastrously large damages . While Harlow shows up in her wedding gown , fuming at this new delay , Tracy figures he will have to bury his own feelings and approach one time rival and foe William Powell to help him here . Powell is very clever at manipulating situations to get rid of troublesome problems ( i . e . : he can possibly figure out a way of neutralizing the advantage Connolly and Loy have in the original libel article ) . Powell does come up with a scheme . If he can ingratiate himself with Connolly and Loy , he might be able to create a compromising situation regarding Loy that if revealed will make the libel story appear to be true . Tracy agrees to this plan , even though it requires Powell to marry Harlow , so that Loy ( when she falls for Powell ) can be made to appear a home wrecker . Harlow ( at first ) is not too thrilled about this , as she and Powell don't get along . What follows is a series of delays that prevent the rapid evolution of the plot and it's proper springing on the unsuspecting Connolly and Loy . First it is harder to get Connolly away from his regular business interests to take an interest in Loy's new acquaintance Powell . But Powell finds the key when he learns that Connolly is one of the best trout fisherman in the United States . However , Powell himself has never bothered about fishing - we see him cramming from various books to learn the difference between fly fishing and other types . Then we see him practicing casting a fishing line with the assistance of E . E . Clive in the hotel rooms he shares with Harlow . He manages to snare Harlow while doing so ( again much to her anger ) . Invited to go to Connolly's favorite fishing spot , to try to catch the elusive " old wall eye " , Powell manages to just miss drowning himself in the river , and does catch the fish the hard way - with his clothing . But it impresses Connolly and Loy . The scheme is seemingly working , but three new wrinkles develop . Powell finds he is falling for Loy . Harlow is slowly finding the gentleman Powell is a nicer role model for a husband than the belligerent Tracy , and is now falling for Powell . Tracy ( who barely tolerates Powell ) is discovering that Harlow is less interested in him than she was before , and more interested in Powell - so Tracy is now jealous of Powell . I will only add that the comedy ends with four people arguing it out in a hotel suite . Very fine comedy .
Smart Cop Gone Berserk	Laird Cregar's performances in motion pictures were small in number ( a bit over twenty films ) , but large in ability to hold audience attention and in sheer artistry . Whether Jack The Ripper , George Bone , Clive Oxford , Willard Gates , Sir Henry Morgan , or whoever , Cregar dominates his films , and usually each performance is unique in itself . He is usually considered a movie villain . It's true that violence plays a heavy part in his films , but his " Lodger " is driven mad by sorrow at the loss of his talented brother due to a prostitute ; his Gates is in over his head , due to the demands of his evil boss ( Tully Marshall ) and the target of his actions ( a deadly Alan Ladd ) ; his Bone is suffering from a mental disease , but trying to compose the concerto that will give him immortality . In short , most of his villains have something in their background that makes them pitiful if frightening . Occasionally he plays a run-of-the-mill lowlife . In BLOOD AND SAND , his bullfighting critic " Curo " ( which means a Bull's rectum ) is a self-important parasite on bullfighters like J . Carroll Naish and Tyrone Power , whom he builds up , lives off of , and then throws aside when they no longer make large salaries . But in his catalog of roles , possibly his most frightening one is his New York City master police inspector Ed Cornell . Not in fancy clothes or make-up , Cornell is mostly fierce attention and an ever-parked fedora hat on his head . He is the perfect realization of ability , brains , and retribution . For Ed Cornell misuses his badge to destroy promoter Frankie Christopher ( Victor Mature ) . In playing the ultimately dangerous cop , Cregar actually played the scariest villain in his career ( even more frightening in his way than " the Lodger " or Bone ) . Vicki Lynn ( Carole Landis ) was a promising model whose career was being pushed by Christopher . Mature plays Christopher realistically - a friendly but pushy type who is a wire puller through his contacts , like actor Robin Ray ( Alan Mowbray ) and Larry Evans ( Allyn Joslyn ) . Christopher hoped to get Lynn into acting and a fancier career . But she is found murdered . Circumstances are not settled in any direction , but when Cornell enters the case , and starts examining Christopher , he starts making veiled insinuations about the latter's actions and motives and activities on the night of the murder - insinuations that suggest a remarkably subtle detective intelligence - but also an inexplicable hostility . It soon becomes evident that Cornell is not simply trying to solve a murder . He is trying to definitely prove Christopher is guilty - or is he trying to frame Christopher ? Ed Cornell is Cregar's model ( unwittingly and unintentionally ) for Orson Welles ' later Hank Quinlan . Both men are incredibly adept at their work , but both become incredibly corrupt at it . Quinlan's corruption carries on too long and too far . Cornell's , as we learn , is concentrated on this case - but it goes far enough to establish his own evil as memorable . Being Cregar he varies his menace towards Mature with some lighter moments . Please note the intellectual story about the rare butterflies that he mentions when talking to his superior about laying a trap . He does show a human side eventually as well . But it is the evil that he does that dominates in this film , making it one of the first great film noir of the 1940s .
Cagney's First Screen Award Performance	The rise and fall of Rocky Sullivan , tough guy gangster but square fellow , was the subject of this excellent film by Warner Brothers in 1938 . It has several things going for it that maintains it's high ratings among gangster films and Cagney movies . For one thing , Cagney's brilliant performance as Rocky won him his first major film award - the 1938 New York Film Critics Award for best actor . It is frequently forgotten that Cagney won this award four years before his Oscar winner in " Yankee Doodle Dandy " , but in actuality the performance was the high point of the work he did ( up to that time ) as a gangster ( his performances in " White Heat " and " Love Me Or Leave Me " were way in the future ) . It drives home how much of a struggle it was for Cagney to get out of the gangster mode , and why his George M . Cohan was such a striking change for his fans . Secondly it was the sequel ( the first sequel ) of the Bowery Boy feature films after their introduction in " Dead End " . Oddly enough , in that film , Humphrey Bogart was the out and out gangster " Baby Face " Martin , who was the villain in the film . Baby Face enjoyed his following with the gang of boys in that film . Here , though , Bogart was playing a weaselly lawyer named Jim Frazier , who is cowardly - quite a different type from Baby Face , who is angry at the state of his world and how ugly it has become . But Baby Face , at least , had guts . The Bowery Boys are again a gang of street kids , who Father Jerry Connelly ( Pat O'Brien ) is trying to keep on the straight and narrow . Here , however , they worship Rocky , the local punk who did rise in the underworld and made a name for himself . But Rocky is Jerry's oldest friend , and he is also willing to help the priest with the boys . The story deals with how Bogart and his new boss , Mac Keefer ( the unjustly forgotten George Bancroft ) have gotten control of over 100 , 000 dollars ( 1930 style dollars - about twenty million in buying power today ) , that belongs to Cagney . Cagney wants it back , and when Bogart and Bancroft keep putting him off he uses strong arm methods to force them into line . Eventually things blow up , and Cagney ends up in a gun battle that leaves a dead cop . He is tried and found guilty for this murder , and goes to the death house . This leads to one of the most frightening moments in Cagney's film career - when we see his final moments when being taken to the electric chair to be strapped in . I guarantee once seen you will never forget it . There are one or two interesting points of a historical nature about Cagney's performance as Rocky . First , that massive gun battle that is shown ( where he kills the cop and battles the police department from a building . It actually happened ! In about 1931 there was an incident in Manhattan when a young hood , " Two Gun " Crowley , held off police after a homicide in a battle that lasted nearly an entire afternoon . Crowley ( like Rocky ) was defeated by tear gas . Like Rocky , he too died in the electric chair . It has been pointed out that Cagney based some of Rocky's mannerisms on a drug addict character he knew in his old Hell's Gate / Yorkville area when he was a kid . Cagney mentions this in his memoir CAGNEY . But there is a curious second source . In his youth , Jimmy Cagney came from a family that struggled but managed to have food on the table and clothes on their back . But some of his playmates were not so lucky . One was a fellow nicknamed " Bootah " ( because of the oversize boots he was forced to wear ) whose real name was Peter Heslin . Cagney always was friendly with Peter , but their lives drifted apart . On April 5 , 1926 , Heslin was engaged in an armed robbery when an off-duty police officer , Charles H . Reilly , tried to stop him and was shot and killed . But Heslin ( who was also wounded in the encounter ) was captured shortly afterward . He was tried and convicted , and finally executed on July 21 , 1927 . That same night , a star was born on Broadway where Jimmy Cagney made a name for himself as a singer and dancer in the show " Broadway " . Cagney was aware of the tragedy playing out with his friend at Sing Sing that night . He mentions Bootah's execution in his memoirs . Newspaper accounts of Heslin's electrocution do not mention anything unusual , but one wonders if ( when Cagney was doing the scene ) he thought of his unfortunate friend and added a bit more power to those last moments of the film .
When the best laid plans don't get off the ground . . .	Any film with Shirley Maclaine and Michael Caine has real potential for being delightful . Add to it Herbert Lom as a powerful , but not really bad fellow for a change , and it is headed for being terrific . What carries it to the top is it's sense of spoofing . For GAMBIT came at the end of the first sequence of crime movies where a scheme for the big robbery or whatever was the crime involved was carefully , step by step , explained to the audience as it was done . The best known of these films were THE ASPHALT JUNGLE , RIFFIFI , TOPKAPI , THE KILLING , OCEAN'S ELEVEN ( the original one with Frank Sinatra ) . Normally the schemes are flawlessly carried out , but some small error blows the game away ( such as THE LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN or THE LAVENDER HILL MOB ) , or there are internecine jealousies that destroy the plan ( RIFFIFI , THE ASPHALT JUNGLE ) , or outsiders destroy the plan ( THE KILLING , OCEAN'S ELEVEN ) . But GAMBIT changes this deliciously . The movie is actually two films , one about thirty minutes long ( interesting but mechanical ) and the other about eighty minutes long which makes a total hash of the initial film . We see Caine and his partner , John Abbott , looking at Maclaine in the dance hall / bar she works at . She is important for some reason tied to her face . Soon after hiring her , they show her a file on the life of Shabandar ( Lom ) the world's richest man living in a country like Indonesia or Malaysia . He is a lonely man , ever since his one beloved wife died some twenty five years before - and she resembled Maclaine . They head for the city that Shabandar lives in , planning to check into the hotel that is his home and headquarters , as aristocrats . They know his secret police will bring Maclaine's appearance to Lom's attention . He is fascinated by her , and takes her out to dinner , while Caine explains he has to await for some phone calls . You see him doing some robbery in Lom's apartment ( which is electronically protected - but he is able to handle that ) , to get at a rare ancient bust of a princess ( which looks like the late Mrs . Shabandar and Maclaine ) . At a given timed moment , she excuses herself to go to the powder room , leaving her bag behind to allay suspicion , but gets a cab , which picks up Caine at the hotel , and takes them to the airport where they leave for London . And that half hour gives the whole scheme . As Caine explains it to Abbott it is perfect . Not a seam in it . Soon the seams begin to be shown here . First off , Caine imagines Maclaine is putty in his hand , doing what he wants without any questions . From the start she is nothing but asking questions . This drives him crazy , like when she questions whether Lom can be the richest man in the world or not ( Caine shouts back , in desperation , " OKAY , HE'S NOT THE RICHEST MAN IN THE WORLD . . . HE'S THE FIFTH OR THE FOURTEENTH ! WHAT THE HELL DOES IT MATTER ! ! " ) It still would not be totally off-centered if Caine , in his research , had been more careful . Lom ( as typical for Herbert Lom ) is an exceptionally smart guy - and very modern . He later explains to a bemused Caine that years before he allowed his inner sanctum to be invaded by a reporter and photographer , and had dressed up like a religious Mohammadan , but that was just window dressing . Since Caine has based his scheme on the information from that same article , one can imagine his feelings . Even Abbott , who plays a small part in the robbery plans , has problems . He is supposed to call Caine " to tell him that he has to call back that night " , to give added details for the sake of a naturally suspicious Lom . But instead of using a specific pay phone as planned , Abbott can't even get into the phone booth because of a belligerent local man who is angrily making a telephone call . As you can see from these examples , the second movie ( the eighty minutes following the opening ) is like a guide book to why planning can only be a failure . It is a welcome antidote to the idiotic flawless plans that are at the center of the other films . And the three leads ( four with Abbott ) are enjoying the joke . The film is not will the plan be a success , but will it succeed despite the flaws that nobody even thought could arise . Only in the Sinatra OCEAN'S ELEVEN was there a similar sense of fun - as the Rat Pack realizes the inanity of the film plot ( there robbing the Vegas casinos on one night ) with the lights of Dino , Sammy , Frank , Joey , and the others working with precision when they'd prefer being drunk . Here Caine and Maclaine try to keep to an impossible time table and scheme after realizing they are not dealing with a tradition bound millionaire but one who fully likes using anti-burglary devices based on modern electronics . Yet they do manage to get done in time , for the double ( possibly triple ) surprise at the conclusions of the movie . An absolute joy ( particularly seeing Lom being really pleasant for most of the film - except for one moment , but it passes quite quickly ) . It certainly deserves the kudos it has received as a first rate adventure comedy
Two tumblers coming to the golden medina , and their older son	Herschel Bernardi had a long career in movies and television - he even starred in a show called ARNIE that was briefly on television in the 1960s . But unfortunately he is rather forgotten today , although usually a very capable performer . I think part of the problem is a resemblance ( to me , anyway ) to Herb Edelman , also a good , but lesser performer - but one lucky enough to have a successful running role in the show THE GOLDEN GIRLS which is still in syndication . So people still recall Edelman because they can see him on cable networks . Unless they see films like IRMA LA DOUCE or LOVE WITH A PROPER STRANGER ( he was the corrupt police chief in the former and the older brother of Natalie Wood in the latter ) you won't catch Bernardi too frequently . Bernardi was ( like David Opatashu and Molly Picon , and Luther Adler ) one of the last actors that had any experience in the once very vital Yiddish Theater . He once did the narration on a pretty interesting documentary about the Yiddish theater and Yiddish films . So his casting here as Paul Muni's father ( Nahum Faivel Weissenfreund ) , a struggling actor with his wife Georgia Brown ( Salche Weissenfreund ) in Europe and America is quite good casting - he knows what he is dealing with . Yiddish Theater peaked in the period from 1900 to 1939 , when troops of actors speaking Yiddish could appear in plays in theaters in Eastern Europe and the United States ' main cities ( especially New York , Chicago , San Francisco , and Cincinatti ) . But the Holacaust killed off the bulk of the audiences who spoke Yiddish , and those in the U . S . slowly assimilated so that - aside from words grafted into English like " schlamiel " or " bupkis " - most of the language became dead . It's a pity , but that is what kills languages , and their resulting cultures . There were sizable surviving fragments . Some major writers who used Yiddish are still widely read ( in translation , usually ) : Solomon Rabinowitz ( " Sholem Aleichem " of the " Tevye the Dairyman stories that became FIDDLER ON THE ROOF ) , Isaac Besheves Singer ( Nobel Prize winner , who's YENTL became a Barbara Streisand movie ) , and Sholem Asch ( author of THE NAZARENE ) . But most of the writers , like dramatist and novelist Abraham Goldfadden , are totally forgotten today except by scholars . But Nahum and Salche are not facing this at the beginning of this musical . We see them as street performers in Eastern Europe , doing a number about a simpleton played by Salche ( a " Kuni Lemill " in Yiddish - one of these inspired idiots whom Nahum calls " the riddle of the human race " ) . Salche is expecting , and soon gives birth to their son Muni . And with a growing family Nahum is desperate to try to get a reputation in the Yiddish Theater , but he can't really get into it . So he decides to take his family to " the provinces " of the U . S . to get ahead . The show really chronicles the struggle of Nahum and Salche ( and eventually their sons Muni and Joseph ) in the American half of the Yiddish Theater . Nahum tries everything - even trying to show what a good actor he is by faking a heart attack in the middled of belting out a song at a try-out ( it doesn't work too well ) . We see them perform Yiddish vaudeville skits , with the boys , The growth of Muni is not shown as much as one would wish - but he does start noting how old men walk and move ( Paul Muni's film career has many old men parts in it : Zola , Pasteur , Juarez , Joseph Elsener in A SONG TO REMEMBER - this is how he was able to pick up his abilities to do these roles ) . The disintegration of the marriage between Salche and Nahum ( who plays around ) is noted too . The television play was very good , setting up a time and place that is gone forever . Bernardi and Brown were terrific in their parts . I do wish more could be done with Michael Kidd as the older Paul Muni ( who is reminiscing in his retirement about his roots - and does learn at the end that his style of acting is now recognized as a model for emulation ) . But the conclusion is his acknowledgment that he owed his fame and success to his parents , and we watch Bernardi at the end ( now long dead - but in his son's memories ) singing about being " An actor . . . an actor " .
The Perfect " Tombstone "	As of this writing , Glenn Ford is still with us , living in retirement . He has never , except from his fans and fellow actors , received the recognition his honest acting abilities in drama or comedy have fully deserved . His performances in " Experiment In Terror " and " The Blackboard Jungle " and " 3 : 10 To Yuma " fully show his firm handling of dramatic material . He was a superb psychotic villain in " The Man From Colorado " . He held his own with Rita Hayworth and George Macready in " Gilda " . And for comic gems let me suggest " The Rounders " ( holding his own with Henry 0Fonda , Chill Wills , and his old film friend Edgar Buchanan ) , " Teahouse Of The August Moon " , and this film . For some reason the New York Times film critics always slam " The Gazebo " . I can't tell why . It may be because those comedies traipsing on dark matters like murder seem to need an element of elegance ( in some quarters ) to be rated highly . But how many " Kind Hearts And Coronets " or " Monsieur Verdoux " films can there be ? THE GAZEBO is certainly bereft of elegant villains like Dennis Price and Charlie Chaplin , but it does draw us into the hero's real problems . Elliot Nash ( Ford ) is a hard-working producer , whose wife Nell ( Debbie Reynolds ) is an equally hard worker performer . Nash has been receiving blackmail threats from a man he has never met . The man is demanding an impossibly large sum of money for pictures he has of Nell that might hurt her career . Nash is forced , in his bumbling way , to consider the only alternative ( short of a miracle ) to take care of the blackmailer : he must kill him . So on a night that Nell is away from their suburban home , Nash ( following a step-by-step plan he even wrote down and put into his desk's top draw ) arranges to shoot and kill the blackmailer and to bury the body . He had originally intended to simply bury it in the back yard , but Nell has accidentally helped him here - it seems ( for his birthday gift ) she is installing an antique gazebo in the backyard , under the watchful workmanship of John McGiver . Ford drags the dead body ( in an old bath curtain ) into the backyard , and puts it into the foundation of the gazebo . The problems arise afterward . First , it turns out the police want to question him anyway regarding the blackmailer - it seems they found his body in his office , shot to death . They don't suspect Nash for this , but they are curious about why the blackmailer called him . Of course this leads to the issue - who is in the gazebo . Ford goes nuts trying to figure out who among his family and friends is missing . Secondly , it also brings up another matter . Elliot and Nell have a close friend , Harlowe ( Carl Reiner ) , whom Elliot has always found a little annoying as Harlowe once was dating Nell . Now he's around prying into the relationship of Elliot and the dead blackmailer . Soon some others pop up , two goons ( the leader is Martin Landau ) wondering what happened to Dan - whom they knew was supposed to be visiting Elliot . Can he be the man in the gazebo ? Is he the key to all this ? The action of the jittery Ford is priceless , particularly in the scene where he shoots the visitor . An example : Nash has been thinking of doing some work with Alfred Hitchcock . Hitch calls ( we never see or hear him ) while Nash is wondering how to bury the dead man . Ford asks Hitch advise " for a plot he's working on " and Hitch helps out . The final ten minutes , when Ford is almost ready to throw himself on the mercy of the detectives ( Reiner and Bert Freed , as a Lieutenant who literally louses up his own case ) , only to change strategies in a moment of clarity , are hysterical . I particularly hope you fully appreciate Freed's tag-line at the conclusion of the film .
The Forgotten O'Neill Mini - Masterpiece	Whenever one watches A LONG DAYS JOURNEY INTO NIGHT , one sees Jason Robarts as the older son and brother in the " Tyrone " family ( which is based on the real family of Eugene O'Neill , the man who wrote that play . James O'Neill Jr . ( " Jamie " ) was a talented writer like his brother Gene , but he squandered his talent as an alcoholic , dying young . Although A LONG DAYS JOURNEY is O'Neill's last and greatest play , Jamie was always in his thoughts . His subsequent descent into ruin is mirrored in several plays . His involvement with a woman who might have given him stability is in THE MOON FOR THE MISBEGOTTEN . His image is mingled into the tragic salesman who likes the dive known as " Harry Hope's Bar " in THE ICEMAN COMETH . And his dying is chronicled in the one-act play HUGHIE . Jason Robarts became the premier interpreter of O'Neill roles in his lifetime , and fortunately left a film and video tape record of his performances . Here he plays Erie Smith , a salesman who has a yearly trip to New York where he meets up with " Hughie " , another salesman who is an alcoholic and " fun loving " . The play is really a good part for an actor like Robarts , who is describing his feelings of loss at learning that " Hughie " has died . . . like the end of all being to him . It is almost a total monologue lasting half an hour , except for the occasional comments and reaction of the new night clerk , one Charlie Hughes ( Jack Dodson , formerly " Howard Sprague " of MAYBERRY , RFD ) . Every now and then Erie stops his monologue and Charlie comments on what he is listening to - and shows that this unimaginative clerk has his own dreams of vicarious thrills . In particular , Erie mentions the times he and Hughie were out on the town and got into various card or dice games . Suddenly Charlie starts getting excited , especially as Erie mentions that once Arnold Rothstein , the notorious gangster / gambler , showed an interest in Hughie's playing . It seems that Charlie has always dreamed of playing dice against Rothstein and winning a bit pot from the gambler . So at the conclusion of the play Charlie gets enough courage to ask Erie if he knows " the big bankroll " ( as Rothstein was called ) . Surprised , Erie does says he knows him , and rightly calls him a crooked rat ! But by entering into conversation with Erie , Charlie turns his own sudden interest into a bridge to a beautiful friendship with the salesman . At the end of the play Erie has a new " Hughie " to go around town with ( ironically , one with the same name of " Hughes " ) . And the dead man is conveniently forgotten - similarly to the dead James O'Neill Jr . It was a good production of the rarely produced one-act play . Robarts went to town in what can be considered the biggest monologue O'Neill ever constructed on stage . Dodson ( who appeared in a stage production of YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU , with Robarts a short time before ) was good in the complementary part , his eyes showing such excitement while imagining beating Arnold Rothstein in that high roller dice game . As a short video record of two good performances in a great little play it is hard to imagine many similar ones .
It's Deja Vu all over again	This is one of those horror stories that just does not diminish over the years . An architect ( Mervyn Johns , in his best dramatic role ) is invited to the country home of a wealthy man ( Roland Culver ) and from the moment he drives up , he is aware that something familiar , and evil , is involved in this visit . Yet nothing bad is going on - it should be a routine visit . Still if it is a business visit , from the start it is not treated as a business visit . For one thing there is a set of guest at the home , including a psychiatrist ( Frederick Valk ) , a young girl ( Sally Ann Howe ) , a female family friend ( Googie Withers ) , and a racing car driver ( Anthony Baird ) . Johns acts nervously when he enters ( he recognizes the interior of the house as well as it's outside surroundings ) , and he explains the situation to Culver and the others . They reassure him nothing is wrong , and proceed to give him a drink and discuss unexplained occult phenomenon they have all experienced ( even the skeptical voice of reason Valk ) . It is these five experiences that take up the bulk of the film . Although it is a well known horror movie , I will avoid explaining the moment of horror and how it expands , involving all the stories in a fierce conclusion . This is the best " Chinese Box " story that has ever been put on screen , in that everything does fall into place . The irony ( for the viewer - and for Walter Craig , the nervous architect - is that we find at the end that the whole nightmare is about to begin all over again . The best of the sequences ( although a matter of taste ) are the racing driver's , the female friend's , and the psychiatrist's . The driver , recovering from a crash in a hospital , keeps having a nightmare where he sees a hearse outside his window at a certain time , with a driver ( Miles Malleson ) who repeats , " Just room for one inside sir . " This actually is a classic occult urban legend , as the face of the figure of doom reappears later at a key moment to scare the dream bearer into not proceeding with a normal act . The female friend's story is about how she and her husband barely manage to survive the acquiring of a Victorian mirror from an antiques dealer ( Esme Percy ) . The mirror , it seems , has a life and evil spirit of it's own , and nearly makes history repeat itself . The moment that raised this film to it's heights was the psychiatrist's tale . It deals with a ventriloquist ( Michael Redgrave ) who shoots a rival ( Hartley Power ) for trying to steal the affections of his dummy Hugo . Besides the obvious homosexual overtones of the story , the story has Redgrave's best film performance ( unless one counts his Jack Worthing in THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST or his Andrew Crocker-Harris in THE BROWNING VERSION ) as the insane Maxwell Freer . It also has a chilling unexpected conclusion when Valk , trying to get to the heart of Redgrave's psychosis , unleashes a demon that nobody expected . The other two stories are less frightening - one ( Sally Howes ' story about a personal ghost experience , probably when she was visiting the English town of Road ) concerning an actual 1860 murder of a little boy , Francis Saville Kent . The murderer who was eventually punished ( his sister Constance ) survived a twenty year incarceration after her confession - and lived to be 101 in Australia . Nowadays , recent studies of that case suggest that Constance was not the killer - her father Samuel , or his mistress , the family nurse , may have killed Francis to keep him from talking to his mother about seeing a tryst . Constance loved her father , and may have taken the rap to protect him . However , Francis was her step-brother , not a full brother , and the originally investigation by the brilliant Scotland Yard Detective Jonathan Whicher in 1860 pointed to Constance as the killer . The least of the stories ( told by Culver ) is based on an amusing golf - ghost tale by H . G . Wells . It is a pleasant diversion ( it stars Basil Radford and Naunton Wayne as rival golf players ) , and allows the segment with Redgrave greater effect by coming just before it . The film has had effects ever since it came out . For instance , Danny Kaye ( who slightly resembles Redgrave ) played a ventriloquist with psychological problems ( or an independent dummy ) in KNOCK ON WOOD a few years later . A troublesome dummy named " Gabbo " ( also a reference to Eric Von Stroheim's THE GREAT GABBO ) briefly replaced " Crusty the Clown " in the rating of Springfield in THE SIMPSONS . But for the best effect it is Redgrave's moment of madness here , and the wonderful climax of this frightening movie . Are there better deja vu films ? Just room for one sir !
The 1946 Alcatraz Revolt	This tightly made television drama dealt with an incident that made national headlines for a week or so in 1946 and then disappeared ( except for some subsequent trials ) from public attention . It was the closest thing to a large scale escape plan from Alcatraz Prison that ever occurred , and left most of the prisoners in the lead dead , and some of the survivors headed for fast trials and executions . The ringleaders were Bernie Coy and Robert Hubbard ( David Carridine and David Morse ) two lifers who had committed murder , but were not hardened criminals in the sense of having vicious streaks . Coy and Hubbard were both country boys ( in gun battles they killed peace officers , but both escaped the death penalty ) . They both wanted to return home , and the best bet was a carefully laid out scheme that would enable them to take over one of the largest blocks of the prison , and capture a certain number of police officers for hostage purposes . The weakness of the scheme was that they had to rely on others who were not as reasonable as they were - especially one prisoner , Dutch Cretzer ( Howard Hesseman - in an unusual and very good performance as a totally vicious type ) . Cretzer too had managed to escape a death penalty so far , but was in for life . He happened to have hidden assets outside the prison , and was needed for escape purposes . But for both Coy and Hubbard it was like a deal with the devil . As the Warden Johnston ( Richard Dysart ) says of Cretzer , " He'd kill his own mother if it would get him out of prison . " Cretzer insisted ( really insisted - you didn't question his ideas much for health reasons ) that two of his closest pals on the Rock be used too - Sam Shockley ( a bad-tempered half wit , played well by Charles Haid ) and Buddy Thompson ( Jan - Michael Vincent ) who was willing to carry out a vicious order if Cretzer gave it . One can see that Coy and Hubbard had their hands full . They also had one young guy in the scheme who was not as bad as the others , a Latino named Dan Durando ( Paul Sanchez ) , who would nearly go to the gas chamber because of his involvement here . The film shows how the scheme is put into operation - how some of the police are caught off guard , and captured by Coy and Hubbard , who are forced to turn over the guards ( at Cretzer's insistence ) to Shockley and Thompson , with Durando standing guard . They get about a dozen hostages . Then they contact the Warden with their demands - for a boat to the mainland so they can get to an awaiting fast automobile Cretzer has put at their disposal . Warden Johnston stalls for time to think of how to stop them without risking the lives of the hostages . But Cretzer and the others are now fully armed , and it is difficult . Moreover the design of that impregnable prison is working against the prison authorities here . Johnston is lucky enough to get some army material from the local military head in the San Francisico area ( it was General " Vinigar Joe " Stillwell ) in the form of heavy anti-tank weapons ( bazookas ) and heavy rifles . And a stalemate seems to be developing , which drives Cretzer to greater and greater anger - to the point that he thinks they might as well show they mean business by killing the hostages . He orders Shockley and Thompson to do so , and soon there is a bloodbath in the cells ( when Durando won't act , Shockley tells him that if he doesn't he , Shockley , will tell the police it was Durando's idea ! ) . However , Durando discovers that several of the police are badly wounded but alive . He manages to convince Shockley , Thompson , and Cretzer that they were all killed . This enabled several of the wounded to survive - and prevented Durando from sharing the fate of Shockley and Thompson at their trials . Once Johnston realizes the hostages were shot , he orders a full scale assault on the block that is in revolt . It becomes a battle royal with anti-tank shells piercing the walls . Many prisoners in the block had not joined the fight , and they were endangered . It was here that an unexpected hero showed up - Robert Stroud ( Dennis Farina ) who got a message to the Warden that he was threatening the lives of innocent men . Johnston re - concentrated the fire after that on the area where the six were hold up . This event actually was shown in another film briefly - in Burt Lancaster's biography of Stroud , THE BIRDMAN OF ALCATRAZ , the revolt is shown ( Telly Savalas is Cretzer and Lancaster is the man who saved the day ) . The film then follows the inevitable collapse and defeat of the revolt , and the death of it's leaders ( and the fate of Durando , who years later was released from prison ) . It was a very well done prison film , and a poignant one ( surprisingly ) in the performances of Carridine and Morse , who one wishes had either never planned it or had never had to depend on a monster like Hesseman to get it going . If they show it again try to catch it .
To make the world grovel at his feet .	Spoiler ahead - a well known one though . It was his first major film role , and he only appeared at the tale end of the movie for a minute - as a corpse ! But Claude Rains was made as of that moment , though it would be awhile before he actually ceased being a villain in all of his films . James Whale's THE INVISIBLE MAN is possibly the best of the early Universal horror series of the 1930s . FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula ( both English and Spanish versions ) are great films too , but the threat of Jack Griffin's discovery of invisibility makes the other two seem quaint as threats . One can run from Frankenstein , and one can stay indoors at night with a handy cross or garlic available . But how does one fully protect oneself against someone who is physically strong , mentally smart , and totally determined to kill you if you cannot see him ? It's not easy , especially if the goal of this monster is to rule over others . As he puts it , he wishes to have the world grovel at his feet . In the novel , Griffin's personality is shown to be so selfish from the start that one can tell that no matter what discovery he would have made he would have misused it for power . He has no redeeming features at all . However , his omnipotence is sort of curbed in one way that is not the case in the film . A character is invented by Wells ( who is not in the movie ) that Griffin frightens into serving as a slave or servant . The character manages to run off with Griffin's chemistry lab and chemicals , as well as Griffin's notebooks . As a result he is trapped in his invisibility , and can't get out of this situation until the novel ends . The film does have some classic moments of humor ( Whale liked to add black humor to his films ) . When a woman runs screaming down the lane at night followed by an empty pair of pants skipping along reciting " here we go gathering nuts in May " is one . So ( more darkly ) is during a massive search for Griffin , after he causes a train disaster . One of the volunteers , slightly apart from the others , is grabbed and thrown down and choked . Rains / Griffin , in speaking , says , " Here I am . . . AREN'T YOU GLAD YOU FOUND ME ? ! ! " It is a chilling moment . A wonderful blend of thrills and comedy , surrounding a science fiction tale of constant interest , this film never disappoints . I give it a 10 for entertainment value . For helping awaken viewers to reading the works of Herbert George Wells , I'd give it a 12 .
Those sinister internal dangers we overlooked in Cold War America	It is one of the funny things about movie making that one can spend millions of dollars bringing a screenplay to the screen that is supposed to be a " blockbuster " and it is a total flop , but one can also have a restricted , low-budget film with a cast of good character actors , and it will turn out to be memorable movie making and a permanent favorite . Such is the case with THEM . In the 1950s the science fiction movie really came into it's own with THE DAY EARTH STOOD STILL , THIS ISLAND EARTH , THE INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS , WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE , and FORBIDDEN PLANET . Given good scripts and intelligent direction , and good actors one could make a lastingly perfect product . Some of the stories borrowed from classic backgrounds ( FORBIDDEN PLANET's debt to Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST has been noted for decades ) . The special effects at the time may seem laughable by 2006 levels , but keep in mind what 2006 special effects will seem to be like in 3006 ! There is also that undercurrent of " Cold War " paranoia that engulfs these films . Inevitably atomic warfare and the threat of an alien group ( usually from outer space , but here from the interior of the country ) pops up . Here it is mutant ants , which have grown humongous due to radiation . The giveaway is the traces of ascorbic acid that the ants use to paralyze and kill their prey . They fill the victim's bodies up with it . Soon the expert from Washington ( Edmund Gwenn ) is lecturing the local state police ( James Arness , James Whitmore ) on how organized and deadly ants are - we even see a film of a three day battle between rival ant armies . The only thing missing ( because the film is in black and white ) is that the dead mutant ants are not shown to be colored red or wearing Russian words on their sides . [ Interestingly enough , in THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN , such radiation leads to a human being shrinking - what gives here ? ] . The film is quite good and even convincing of the real danger from the over-sized creatures . One particularly good build-up to a moment of memorable horror is when a state trooper disappears . Subsequently a search for him leads the authorities to one of the desert lairs of the ants . Amidst the refuse of the ants is the skeletal remains of a man's rib cage . A simple enough effect , but still memorable 52 years later . Quite a nicely made science fiction film - one that really lasts .
The Original For " Father's Day "	I wish my memories for LES COMPERES was sharper - but I saw it in Manhattan at the Paris movie house in midtown back in 1983 , so I have to struggle a little . I do know this - the plot for FATHER'S DAY ( which I just reviewed ) is different in several ways , weakening the film's construction a little , but giving an outlet to the the two male characters that the French film left in the air . Basically LES COMPERES is about how young Tristan Martin ( Stephane Bieron ) has an argument with his parents about his girlfriend , and flees with her . The mother Christine ( Anny Duparen ) goes and finds two previous boy-friends , Jean Lucas ( Gerald Depardieu ) who is a journalist , and Francis Pignon ( Pierre Richard ) , who is an overly emotional teacher . She tells each that Tristan is their son - not the biological son of her husband Paul ( Michel Aumont ) . And both ( seperately ) go after the boy - and soon find each other as a friend but rival in the issue of the boy's actual father . LES COMPERES kept the activities of the film's comedy between Depardieu and Richard , and the confused Tristan . This is fine ( the script was good and tight here ) . However , it missed out on some wonderful comic moments that appear in FATHER'S DAY , involving the father of the boy Bob Andrews ( Bruce Greenwood ) . He hears his wife ( Nastassje Kinski ) on the phone with Billy Crystal about the issue of their son's parentage , and decides to go and find the boy himself . In the process he has a series of disasters involving a porto-potty at a gas station , and a clumsy ( if good natured ) truck driver ( Dennis Burkley ) , that are very funny . But nothing like that occurred in the French original . One thing that does get overly developed in the American remake ( but was more effective , as it was used less frequently , in the French original ) was " beaning " . In FATHER'S DAY , Crystal demonstrates fairly early his ability to bean opponents on the head to knock them out or disable them . He repeats it several times . But Depardieu does not use it as frequently , and when he turns up at the end to use it against a particularly obnoxious and threatening individual he comes out looking quite effective as we are not expecting it from him . SPOILER COMING UP : At the end of both films , the boy privately tells both of his would-be fathers that each is his biological father , but should not say so to the other one ( so as not to upset him ) . But in FATHER'S DAY , Crystal ( a lawyer , not a journalist like Depardieu ) confesses to his long suffering wife Julia Louis-Dreyfus that he could tell the boy was lying - he could tell from frequent experience in court . Also , unlike Richard , Williams has a potential romance in his future . As Crystal and Dreyfus decide to go ahead with their plans for a family , the characters in the American version have some kind of hope in their futures . But in the French version , the two would-be daddies end up secretly reassured of their own biological parenting of the boy . The French version is more organically complete as it is , but I do like the hope that is in store for the American counterparts at the end of the American version .
The Greatest Escapologist In the last one hundred years	Except for the 18th Century criminal , Jack Sheppard , who managed to escape from Newgate Prison four times in two years , Harry Houdini is the greatest escapologist ( as an expert in escaping traps or prisons is called ) in modern times . He was an above average magician , and a first rate show-man as well , but the man who got out of prison cells , out of chains in locked trunks , out of trunks dunked into ice covered rivers , has never been forgotten - even though he died 80 years ago ( on October 31 , 1926 to be exact ) . It helped Houdini's reputation and fame that he also became an acute critic and exposer of spiritualists and their rackets . He was one of the few members of the magician profession who became a genuinely interesting public figure . Most people recall Houdini as the subject of the film of that name starring Tony Curtis . It's a good movie , but it has too many fictional devices in the plot ( some good , some inexplicable ) to make it a reliable guide to the life of the man . This 1976 television film was far better . It is not flawless , but it has more of the personal problems of the man's career in it , and ( unlike the Curtis film ) it does show the death of Houdini correctly . For one thing , it comments on the marriage of Harry and Bess Houdini , and Bess's struggles with her mother-in-law . Harry Houdini was originally Erich Weiss , an immigrant boy from Hungary who was Jewish . His family settled in Wisconsin . His father died early , so Erich was very close to his mother . Despite the change of his name for professional reasons ( " Houdini " is based on the famous French magician , Robert-Houdin ) . When Harry married Bess , Mrs . Weiss was not happy about it : Bess was Catholic . Mrs . Weiss ( Ruth Gordon ) tells Bess ( Sally Struthers ) why she is not sure about the success of the marriage . " Look at me " , she tells Struthers , " I'm five thousand years old ! " She means that she knows the history of the persecutions of Jews by non-Jews , so despite Struthers ' protestations of affection she is not sure of their worth . Although it does not delve deeply into the spiritualist matter as one would wish ( and as a recent film with Harvey Keitel and Peter O'Toole did ) it touches on it enough to show the rise and fall of the friendship between Houdini and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle ( Peter Cushing ) . Both men liked each other , but they were coming from different ends of the spectrum on the subject of accepting the " evidence " of spiritualists . Houdini's mother had died , and he did want to find proof of an afterlife - but no spiritualist ever appeared whom he could not analyze and expose . Conan Doyle had been interested in the occult since the 1880s , but the deaths of his mother and oldest son Kingsley ( and several other friends and relatives ) in World War I made him a too ready convert to accepting Spiritualism as a new , necessary religion to help ease the pains of millions of people . Inevitably they would have parted as friends . What happened was that Sir Arthur's wife had a trance where she got a message from Mrs . Weiss . Sir Arthur and his wife gave the message ( supposedly written by Mrs . Weiss using Lady Conan Doyle as her medium ) to Houdini . He read it . Possibly if he had thanked Sir Arthur and said he would think about it , he would have kept the friendship . Instead ( as this film shows ) Houdini pointed out that his mother could not write in English her entire life . The Conan Doyles felt this was a slur on the integrity of Lady Conan Doyle . He never did get through to the other side . But the film suggests , at the end , that a decade or so after his death he managed to use another medium ( Bill Bixby ) to send a message to Bess . That is a pleasant fiction that hurts the film's usual truthfulness . One wishes he could have done so - but it didn't happen . Glaser , Struthers , Gordon , Cushing , Bixby , Vivian Vance ( as a nurse who becomes a friend of Struthers ) , and Wilfred Hyde-White all perform well in this film . Except for the pleasant white lie at the end , it is an excellent place to begin looking at one of the most fascinating figures in 20th Century entertainment .
A Comedy with Tragedy around the Corner	It is sad to think of those stars who we know were good but died young or too soon . But the ones we normally thing about are stars who left a rich legacy of film that we have access to : Laird Cregar , Montgomery Cliff , Heath Ledger , Natalie Wood , Judy Garland , Marilyn Monroe , Jayne Mansfield , Judy Holiday , Jean Harlow , Carole Lombard . Even with his seemingly paltry three films James Dean lucked out - they were three of the biggest hit movies of the 1950s , and Dean also appeared in small roles in several other films and on plenty of early television . What happens when you have a case like that of Robert Williams ? Williams made a total of six films in his career , two of them obscure silent movies , and four early sound films . When PLATINUM BLOND was made he got the male lead role , and was directed by Frank Capra . His co-stars were the up-and-coming Jean Harlow and the up-and-coming Loretta Young . The cast included veteran scene stealers like Reginald Owen , Louisa Closser Hale , Claude Alister , Walter Catlett , and Halliwell Hobbes . And Williams proved the master of them all . The reason in part is some miscasting ( which has been pointed out on some of the comments here ) . Before MGM began to realize how to properly show Jean Harlow as a sexy and fun loving woman the studios kept showing her as what she was not : a blue-blood . Not only in PLATINUM BLONDE but in the earlier HELL'S ANGELS and in THE PUBLIC ENEMY she played wealthy socialites . She was far closer to the type in THE GIRL FROM MISSOURI or DINNER AT EIGHT ( there a trophy wife for fellow vulgarian Wallace Beery ) than to these . As for young Loretta Young , her earthy warmth was hidden in the part of the frustrated " Gallagher " in this film , wherein she pines of Williams ' " Stu Smith " but doesn't say or do anything until the end . The role called for a tougher type to be the newspaper gal " Gallagher " is . It reminds me of an actress who would soon co-star with Harlow in CHINA SEAS : Rosalind Russell would have been better in the role , or Claudette Colbert for that matter . The others are not miscast as badly , and several have their moments . Owens is as good as ever as the family lawyer and friend of the Schuylers ( the family Harlow and Hale are members of ) . He tries to be friendly but is just too stupid to realize when Williams outmaneuvers him again and again . Hale is one of the army of elitist grand dames in 1930s comedy , led by Margaret Dumont and May Robson . Here Hale is in such a constant tizzy by the antics of her children she blames them for her gastritis ( this was a pre-code film ) . Hobbes has several choice moments showing Williams how he putters around the house , or discovering there is a ghost ( actually an echo ) in the mansion , or getting plastered and telling off Owens and Hale . Alister discovers that it is not worth being a good valet to an unappreciative Williams if it might cost him a broken jaw . Catlett makes a lucrative but insulting offer to Williams regarding a news column , gets socked in his face , and goes to his paper to write the story up . The plot deals with Williams getting involved with the Schuylers and getting a juicy scandal scoop thanks to the cretinous Owens . However he falls for Harlow , and they elope . Later he is told that the marriage will ruin him as a newspaperman . He actually finds it is slowly sapping him , as he finds himself ensconced in the mansion's left wing , given a valet , taken to meet all the socialites his in-laws associate with ( some he refers to as " pansies " - again this is before the code ) . He gradually realizes that his city editor was right to call him " a bird in the gilded cage " . And he is desperate to get out . Williams had a nice easy going delivery , and a sharp one . He knows when to speed up for comic affect ( or to react for comic affect ) . Yes he would have been a terrific addition to the galaxy of male stars in the golden age of the movies . His loss that same year is a bitter tragedy .
Finding a long-lost person : Oneself	Goldie Hawn has played lovable and honest airheads ( CACTUS FLOWERS ) , able bank robbery assistants ( " $ " ) , spoiled brats who find themselves by army service ( PRIVATE BENJAMIN ) , spoiled millionaires who find themselves by amnesia ( OVERBOARD ) , troubled movie stars that gets even - with the help of their friends - on rotten husbands ( FIRST WIVES CLUB ) , and even selfish women who end up gaining immortality - but being locked in a permanent hell with an equally selfish , immortal , female enemy ( DEATH BECOMES HER ) . Most of her films and performances are really good - and she has been one of the few ( very few ) " Blond Bombshells " with lasting movie power . Personally I think she knows how to choose most of her properties , and that helps . THE BANGER SISTERS is a sensible variant on THELMA AND LOUIS , which Hawn's co-star , Susan Sarandon , made with Geena Davis years earlier . Unlike that classic which ended in a suicidal drive off a cliff by the heroines , this one confronts the issues of individuality reemerging with less destruction as a result . Suzette ( Hawn ) has just been fired from her job , and is driving in the southwest without any really clear plan for future action . She stops in the desert and picks up Harry Plummer ( Geoffrey Rush - with a nicely done American accent in this film ) . Plummer is a writer at beam's end - suffering numerous emotional quirks and a current writer's block , all of which he blames on his father . It seems nothing Harry ever did pleased his father . He is going to Phoenix , Arizona to confront the old man . Suzette drives him to Phoenix , and after they separate she goes to look up her oldest friend " Vinnie " ( short for Lavinia - Sarandon ) . She finds her friend in an up-scale section of Phoenix , and watches her friend kiss her daughter ( older daughter Hannah - Ericka Christensen ) good night as the daughter goes off to her high school graduation prom . Sarandon is certainly dressed like a social matron type now - understandably as we later learn her husband ( Raymond Kingsley - Robin Thomas ) is a highly successful lawyer with political aspirations . But this is unsettling to Suzette - when she knew Vinnie they were palling around Los Angeles twenty years later , and having a raucous old time . Suzette returns to the hotel that Harry is at , and ( despite his protests ) camps down there in a spare room . Harry is too neurotic to take advantage of Suzette's free-spirit offer of sex , but he does allow her to stay . It's lucky she does - Hannah and her fellow students are at their prom in the hotel , and Hannah had taken some bad " acid " and gotten sick . Suzette steps in to help Hannah with this problem , and then drives her back to her home . And in doing so she confronts Vinnie . Vinnie recognizes Suzette - and totally misunderstands her being there . She thinks that Suzette is there to get money . Quite hurt at this ( and an offer to give her $5 , 000 . 00 ) , Suzette explains she was just driving Hannah home and leaves . Vinnie learns from Hannah that she took drugs and Suzette helped her . Later that morning the still stiff-necked Vinnie visits Suzette in Harry's hotel room and apologizes ( stiffly ) and offers to take her to lunch the next day . Suzette accepts . Two plots slowly evolve here . Harry's neuroses towards women crumble as he gets to know what Suzette is like - he even keeps a hot bath for her while she is out driving Hannah back home . Suzette and Vinnie get to know each other and the divide between them as Suzette watches how Vinnie is a control freak over Hannah's relationship with a boyfriend , and on trying to build-up the self-esteem of younger daughter Ginger ( Eva Amurri ) despite the latter's bratty crying and selfishness . Vinnie notes how all her clothes " are beige " while Suzette looks like a walking flower ( because of her free and easy lifestyle ) . While Suzette slowly gets Harry to emerge from his neurotic cocoon ( and even start typing up a literary storm while she is out ) , she also reawakens long dormant freedoms that Vinnie clamped down on in her rise as Raymond's wife . She ditches her own smart uppity wardrobe and wears a set of Suzette's clothes ( in fact it helps matters here that Sarandon , like Hawn , has a really nice figure - they both have very tight pants on , and look quite hot together ) . Vinnie reveals a treasure trove in her basement - a small box of " special photos " she and Suzette took back when of their favorite musicians ) . She even starts smoking ( with Suzette ) a marijuana cigarette , They even go out to a bar to dance ( it takes awhile for Vinnie to get into the swing here ) . ( The photos are very special - and of special equipment . ) But how far can this release go ? It upsets Raymond , Hannah , and Ginger to see " Mom " acting so odd . And the constant sight of Vinnie with her family reminds free spirit Suzette of her sacrifice - similar to that of Anne Bancroft vis-a-vis Shirley MacLaine in THE TURNING POINT - of doing what she wanted , and failing to get a family in the process . Also how far will things succeed for Harry ? He too is being freed , but he keeps sliding when he meets with some nasty set-back . And there is still the problem of settling the issue with his Dad . THE BANGER SISTERS was not a box office dud , but it never got the notice from critics that were given in 2002 to other films . It is a fun and thoughtful film of how our wild and conservative sides have to make time for each other for us to be totally happy individuals .
Getting Justice for a Young Boy - in the days of the Bunny Hop	It has been said that the various public sensations in the period before World War I were the last times that public attention and anger could be brought forth in defense of the individual who seemed to be wronged . This was true in France from 1894 to 1906 om the Dreyfus Affair , and in Russia in 1911 - 1913 in the " Blood Libel " trial of Mendel Beiliss . One might consider later events ( Sacco - Vanzetti , the Rosenbergs , Caryl Chessman ) showed similar outbursts of indignation could occur long after World War I was over , but the turn of the 20th Century seemed very fruitful in these cause celebres . Terence Rattigan , like all good dramatists , knew that you could squeeze much dramatic juice out of a good , real judicial drama . He would do a play based on the tragedy of the Rattenbury - Stoner murder trial of 1935 . He would also do a wonderful extra-judicial drama called " The Winslow Boy " based on a 1910 - 1914 cause celebres that rocked Edwardian England . It was the Archer - Shee Case , with the family name changed to Winslow for the purposes of Rattigan's stagecraft . Martin Archer - Shee was a young naval cadet who was at the Naval War College when he was wrongly accused of stealing postal money orders from his fellow classmates . He was expelled from the school as a result , protesting to all he had not done this . His father believed him , and got England's premier barrister , Sir Edward Carson , to help force a government reversal of this disgraceful action . Carson is best recalled for his masterful ( but tragically effective ) destruction of his old college mate Oscar Wilde at Wilde's first trial against the " slander " of the Marquess of Queensbury in 1895 . But he was far better than that incident ( which he always secretly regretted - he saw Wilde years later as a poverty row derelict in Paris ) . If you doubt this , check into his excellent prosecution ( as Attorney General ) of the wife-murdering poisoner Severin Klosowski ( " George Chapman " , the " Borough Poisoner " ) in 1903 . He did oppose the Home Rule Movement of Parnell and his successors , but Carson loved his native Ireland and hated the 1922 division of the island into Eire Free State and Northern Ireland . He would try ( with Kevin O'Higgins of the Southern Irish Government ) to restore the two sections together , but O'Higgins ' assassination in 1927 ended that attempt . Carson's best features came out in his defense of Martin Archer - Shee . He refused , despite repeated dismissive behavior of the Asquith government , to give up protesting their high-handed behavior to the boy . The fact was the government's proof of Archer - Shee's criminal activities was weak : a young cadet was known to have cashed the stolen postal orders , but the identification with Archer - Shee was feeble at best . In the end he managed to manipulate the government ( weakened by a serious scandal of it's own involving the Marconi Wireless Company ) into reviewing the actions . In the end the decision of the Naval authorities had to be reversed by the House of Commons in a special vote , and then a trial was held in which Archer - Shee was acquitted . World War I was soon upon Europe . Martin Archer - Shee joined the army and died in Flanders Fields . Rattigan was not the only one to see the dramatic possibilities of the story . Alexander Woolcott wrote about it several times , and even attempted to edit a volume of the " Notable British Trials " series on the case . But Rattigan had to humanize the story even more . First the name of the family is changed to " Winslow " , and the spotlight is on Martin's father . Arthur Winslow is played by Sir Cedric Hardwicke , who is actually a kind hearted man behind his stern Edwardian facade . He is more concerned with his older boy Dick's ( Jack Watling's ) interest in the " Bunny Hop " dance craze over his studies at Oxford than with the younger , more sensible " Ronnie " ( Neil North ) . The social ostracism of the disgraced family , effecting the engagement of his daughter Katherine ( Margaret Leighton ) and the standing of Dick at Oxford , forces Winslow to go to " Sir Robert Morton " ( Robert Donat as Carson ) for the justice he demands . Donat does not appear in the film until nearly half the film is done - but he dominates the second half while Hardwicke dominates the beginning . It is like the passing of a torch . Donat's performance is a trifle stiff - but that is what Carson occasionally came across as . He is humanized in one way that is historically inaccurate - a romance blossoms between him and Leighton that did not between Carson and anyone in Archer - Shee's family . Still that is underplayed . Instead we watch how he will not be silenced by the indifference of the government in power . In particular the First Lord of the Admiralty ( Walter Fitzgerald ) and the Attorney General ( Francis Sullivan ) . The former pretends to be more concerned in his golf game than the honor of a little boy . By the way , the play and film does not mention the name of this individual : it was Winston Churchill . The film is a wonder - and oddly enough does not have the conclusion occur in the courtroom , but has a character describes what happened . But it all works well , and gives the audience a good feeling . Occasionally justice is done !
Somewhere there was someone who was waiting for her	The story of A STAR IS BORN was actually told four times . Three times under the title in 1937 , 1954 , and 1976 , and once earlier in the early 1930s as WHAT PRICE Hollywood ? But the earlier film had the discovery of an up and coming star actress by an alcoholic director on his way down ( the director was actor / director Lowell Sherman , best recalled as the villain in D . W . Griffiths ' WAY DOWN EAST ; Sherman had become a director of comedies and occasional actor - unfortunately he died in 1934 ) . The first two under the title of A STAR IS BORN made the falling figure an actor ( Fredric March , James Mason ) who discover a great actress ( Janet Gaynor , Judy Garland ) . In the last version it was a fading musical idol who discovers a rising musical talent ( Kris Kristopherson , Barbara Streisand ) . Somehow the story is a timeless one , and I expect somewhere in the next two decades another version will pop up . Our society has the savage tendency of ripping down what it has built up very readily , especially it's public figures of adoration . Otherwise why would scandal sheets exist . In the 1937 and 1954 versions Norman Main is a man who had great talent ( in the earlier film he actually says in the " Academy Award " sequence he won an Oscar , but he does not say that in this 1954 version ) . However , he has a serious drinking problem , and he is slowly becoming box office poison ( declining figures in his pictures ) and unreliable attending his film shooting schedules . But he is dazzled by the talent and vitality of Esther Blodgett ( later Vicki Lester ) and pulls out all stops to make her career . But as she rises , he falls , and the gap between them makes him decide he is a hindrance to her . So he kills himself . In both films he is protected as long as possible by his understanding friend and producer Oliver Niles ( Adolphe Menjou in the 1937 film , Charles Bickford here ) , but the studio people can't stand him ( in the 1937 film Vince Barnett as a studio photographer whom Maine roughs up , mutters how little anyone cares about Maine's feelings anymore ) . The one in both films who really dislikes Norman Maine is studio publicity head Matt Libby ( Lionel Stander in 1937 , Jack Carson here ) . Libby has had to clean-up after Norman so often that he sees the actor as a drunken irresponsible hedonist . It may be added that in the 1937 version Libby does have better feelings - he feels that Norman is going to ruin Vicki , and Libby likes the young actress . Oddly Jack Carson does not show that . The story of how A STAR IS BORN in the 1954 version was butchered is well known - about forty minutes was removed , and the reconstruction in 1983 put back about 35 minutes . But one suspects more is still missing than has been admitted . In the reconstruction they show shooting of a sea epic that Maine was making , in which he is in a frogman's outfit ( in the distance ) . Yet I distinctly recall there was a photograph of Mason as Maine in costume for a sea picture , swinging from a rope . No such shot is in the reconstruction . I have a suspicion that A STAR IS BORN is one of those films ( GREED may be another ) where the cutting actually was not so bad as it appeared the first time . The main musical numbers were mostly saved , in particular the " One that Got Away " and a medley put in for the film within a film at Vicki's first preview ( the one beginning with " Born in a trunk " ) . Certain subtle changes were supposedly lost in the cuts , but most viewers who saw the final released version had little difficulty following the story . To me the bulk of the missing material follows a misunderstanding between Norman and Vicki regarding her leaving her band job and awaiting his call setting up a film test . It is a curious bump in the decision of Vicki to stop being a band singer , but it doesn't follow that we had to discover how it was caused and how it eventually was resolved . I suppose that I have come to the point that I see a two hour film as long enough , and after that the film has to be really spectacular to hold my attention . I prefer the two hour version - but to be fair the new material , including the last musical number shot at the studio ) is worthwhile for viewing . The movie and it's principle performances remain first rate - perhaps the supporting performances of Carson and Tommy Noonan as Danny were enhanced best , the former showing the brain of Libby more than Stander did , and the latter showing more personal concern about Vicki than the earlier male friend ( Andy Devine ) was able to . Noonan's best scene is his reminder of what Norman did for Vicki to get her to attend the charity event at the end . But an earlier sequence about her decision to quit the band , and a lost scene dealing with a last pitch to her at the bus are good scenes too . I watch Noonan and Carson and think of how well they did in support of Mason and Garland , and then am struck by the fact that by 1970 Noonan , Carson , Garland , and Charles Bickford had all died . Mason would die in the middle 1980s .
Be Careful Of Whom You Casually Scorn and Dismiss	Margaret Tyzack was one of the lucky ones ( with Martin Jarvis , Michael York , and Susan Hampshire ) out of the original B . B . C . series THE FORSYTE SAGA . These four really managed to build careers not only on television but in the theater and even movies from their roles as Winifred Dartie , Jon Forsyte , Young Jolyon Forsyte , and Fleur Forsyte Mont in that early series . With Tyzack it led to a Tony Award for a comedy she appeared in with Maggie Smith over twelve years back . But long before then she had the central part in this series . It demonstrated her range a bit . When she was Winifred , the understanding sister of the stiff Soames ( Eric Porter ) , she was one of the few who realized that there were human feelings that were crushed in the man . You ended up liking Winnie , and sympathizing with her for her marriage to Montague Dartie , who was a colorful bounder . But Winifred had no bad side to her . Not so with Cousin Bette . Honore de Balzac enjoyed showing people as they really are , and showing how worms can turn or one can raise vipers who are less pleasant than we expect . In his PERE GORIOT ( or OLD GORIOT ) he updates the KING LEAR story by showing a loving father impoverishing himself for two unloving ( and unlikeable ) daughters . In COUSIN BETTE he has the central figure as a poor relation to a minor aristocratic family , who thinks she has a chance for happiness with a Polish aristocrat in exile , only to find the family pulling out the stops to snare the exile for the young daughter ( who is of marrying age ) . As a result a furious Bette decides to destroy the family . Bette is in a great position to do this - she knows the family weaknesses of the head of the family ( Thorley Waters ) for young ladies . She is also aware that the Polish son-in-law ( Colin Baker ) also has a wandering eye . There are also side relatives who can be pushed into positions that are either uncomfortable or even fatal ( like one elderly uncle who Bette manipulates into being sent to handle a family business in some pest hole in North Africa ) . Soon things just go wrong , especially after Bette makes an alliance with an ambitious young woman who is perfect for snaring both Waters and Baker . Does she succeed ? Beyond her wildest dreams of course . . . but like all schemers there are problems that Bette does not count upon . The collapse of her plans turns on the behavior of people beyond her knowledge and control , who find their plans being interfered with by her schemes and act accordingly . In the end the threads of her plots unravel one by one . But she is able to give a final thrust back before the end . Tyzack's " Bette " was malevolent and fascinating - a far cry from her Winifred . To see her in both performances , one after the other , is to understand why her career has been as successful as it has been .
Al's greatest film performance - and the only one without " blackface "	I see this film and love it , but I also wish to cry a little . The image of Al Jolson , to this day , is the first star of sound movies who appeared in minstrel make-up . It has damaged his historical record in a way that is hard to question . While Jolson did show up in many scenes in his films without burnt cork on his face , his show stoppers were usually his " Mammy " numbers . So people will watch him in a few films ( most notably THE JAZZ SINGER , ROSE OF WASHINGTON SQUARE , and STEPHEN FOSTER ) but they will not watch films like WUNDERBAR or GO INTO YOUR DANCE . You'll notice that the films ROSE OF WASHINGTON SQUARE and STEPHEN FOSTER were late in his film career , when he was supporting Tyrone Power , Alice Faye , and Don Ameche , and ( in the former ) the main story concentrated on Faye , and the latter was a historical film ( or claimed to be ) set in a period when minstrels ( Jolson's " Edwin Christy " ) were perfectly acceptable . HALLALUJAH , I'M A BUM is a notable musical for several reasons : Jolson is able to perform in a relatively relaxed mode as a hobo - the " Mayor of Central Park " . He is also shown as egalitarian , traveling around with his friend Edgar Connors ( who is an African-American ) . The film was one of a series of musicals done in Hollywood by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart ( who appear in cameo parts in this film ) where the dialog changes from regular speech into a singing speech the characters all join in on . This was done with George M . Cohan , Jimmy Durante , and Claudette Colbert in THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT the year before , and would reach its fruition in the film LOVE ME TONIGHT . The score is above average , with one real standard : " YOU ARE TOO BEAUTIFUL " . It has a curious view on economics and happiness , due in part to the atmosphere of the Great Depression . And there are some nice side features : Frank Morgan as the Mayor of New York , Madge Evans as his girlfriend , and Harry Langdon in an odd part as a leftist part-time hobo who is also a street cleaner . Langdon ( unpopular with the other hobos in general ) is not the only silent film comic in the film . Chester Conklin plays a friendly carriage driver . Another hobo is played by W . C . Fields occasional performer Tammany Young . The film follows Jolson's " Bumper " on his winter vacation in the South and notes his close friendship with Morgan's Mayor . There are hints about a current scandal in New York City there : Morgan frequents the Central Park Casino with Evans for lunch and dinner . The Casino was frequented in the late 1920s and 1930s by then New York City Mayor Jimmy Walker and his girlfriend Betty Compton . Jolson stumbles onto a purse ( Evans ) that contains a $1 , 000 . 00 bill . He tries to return it , but Evans ( after a quarrel with Morgan ) has left her apartment . Subsequently Jolson does meet Evans when he rescues her in a suicide attempt that leaves her with amnesia . He falls for her , and decides to take a job to take care of her , and eventually marry her . In the meantime Morgan is troubled by Evans vanishing so totally , and starts drinking heavily . I won't go into the film's conclusion . The film shows that being a hobo means having unlimited freedom , and a lack a pressure from the cares of the world . Most of the talk-sing songs deal with the relative happiness of the hobos . Only Langdon shows the irony of the situation . He feels the world will only be set right when everyone has a job , and supports themselves . He sees a type of Communist happiness in the future . He also sees that the hobos , by cadging and living off working people and businesses ( Jolson gets leftovers from the Casino ) are as parasitic as the very rich . These views make Langdon unpopular generally with the hobos . Only Jolson really tolerates him at all . It is a unique musical for its time , and a welcome addition to Jolson's work . Certainly well worth viewing . But it still saddens me : if only Jolson could have made more films like this one .
In A Special Category of Film Legend - Following a Star in the Night	This movie has generated a huge following in since it was made due to the acting by it's leads and directing ( John Huston ) , but it is best known as " the final movie " of the stars . It was the final film for Clark Gable . Indeed , it killed Gable due to the scene where he stupidly did his own stunt of trying to restrain a wild horse . However , it was not the last film for Marilyn Monroe . She began work on a film with George Cukor which she was fired from and which was never completed . Since Monty Clift was also in it many people claim it was his last film too . Actually he made several complete films after it , including FREUD ( also by John Huston ) . Thelma Ritter lived until 1969 , and she was still making plenty of films until then . Estelle Winwood would reach her 100th year , and was still making films up to a decade before that . As for Kevin McCarthy and Eli Wallach - they are both ( ' bless ' em ) going strong . However the final scene of the script gave a coda to Gable's and Monroe's career . This helps make the public point of view about the film understandable . In his later years , Gable popped up in a series of films where his co-star was a leading lady of similar popular following , who was usually younger than him but his feminine sexual equivalent . These included TEACHER'S PET ( with Doris Day ) and IT STARTED IN NAPLES ( with Sophia Loren ) . The film he did with Monroe ( their only film together ) was THE MISFITS , and it was not a comedy . THE MISFITS was supposed to be a philosophical drama about why people can't be loners but have to find their way into some group where they are acceptable to each other . Philosophical films are very difficult ones to turn into box office gold . People go to films as an escape and rarely to feed their brains . But Marilyn's then husband ( dramatist Arthur Miller ) wrote the screenplay for the film . At the time the Miller-Monroe marriage was collapsing , and this may be why the screenplay seems to be lopsided . Marilyn's character " Rosalind Taber " seems to be flighty at points , but at other points too deep . We first see her willing to get through her divorce with Kevin McCarthy ( who does a lot with his one brief scene in the film trying to stop the divorce ) . This shows determination - she even gives a vague reason to McCarthy that it was his fault for keeping her on the shelf while he concentrated on his career . Yet she shows a flakiness too . She tells Thelma Ritter she never wants to see an expensive car that was given to her again . This follows her throughout the film . She is introduced to these modern cowboys through cab driver Eli Wallach ( " Guido " ) , and she takes an offer from him to go up to his country house to chill out . Gable and Ritter accompany them . But soon she is showing a different personality : she is a mother-earth figure . Wallach is an ex military pilot who was married , but whose wife died in a fluke situation while pregnant ( his car lacked a tire , and he could not rush her to the hospital ) . Marilyn tries to get to the bottom of Wallach's feelings and it is obvious that Wallach does not want to discuss this . Gable ( " Gay Langdon " ) seems more settled - but we learn that daughter and son keep him at arm's length due to his tendency to carouse and get drunk . Marilyn and Gable do turn each other on , but Marilyn is upset by Gable's matter-of-fact feelings about animals like horses and rabbits . Montgomery Clift ( " Perce Howland ) comes in later in the film when he joins the group headed for a rodeo . All of them have attended rodeos except Monroe . She is horrified at the injuries the cowboys get . Clift gets injured but while he and the other men accept his injuries as normal , Monroe wants to scream about them . Clift also has personal family problems : his mother remarried and the man has basically pushed Clift out of his property rights to his father's ranch . But the lack of his mother's interest in him ( she is totally enthralled by the new husband ) is what hurts him the most . Even the fifth wheel of this ensemble , Ritter ( " Isabelle Steers " ) has a serious family problem that makes her a misfit ( albeit one who has learned to accept it ) . Her husband left her for a best friend of her's years before , and has never paid her alimony - he sends her a potted rose once a year . At the end she leaves the film before the conclusion : she meets the husband and her best friend at the rodeo , and they go to her home to spend a few days ! Ritter's character is a realist when she is not involved - she keeps warning Marilyn about cowboys and their ways - but she can be remarkably weak in defending her own rights and feelings . How they all come to terms ( or fail to come to terms ) with their family and personality failures is what I leave to the viewers . It is worthwhile to watch this film to it's emotional climax ( the scene with the wild horses ) , where Monroe's character finally gets her real voice - and Monroe achieved her acting height outside of her performance as " Cherie " in BUS STOP ) . But it is achieved at a ridiculous cost : as mentioned before Gable had to do his own stunt in that scene . The follow-up scene really shows how he was too old for it . There is also that lovely coda : Clark and Marilyn in the pick-up truck looking at the star in the sky that Clark says is his guide . It does sort of seem an appropriate sign-off for those two movie icons .
Zeppo's best Marx Brother Film	Zeppo Marx is frequently considered with a trace of a sneer : the fourth brother who was not worthy of membership in one of filmdom's two best comedy teams . He was the fourth brother of Groucho , Chico , & Harpo Marx ( and is only slightly better remembered than fifth brother Gummo , who never appeared in any of their films ) . He looked the best of the brothers ( he was the youngest ) so he could play the romantic lead if nobody else had the role ( like Oscar Shaw did in COCONUTS ) . However although his appearance was better than the other three brothers , he was not a really handsome man like Robert Taylor or Tyrone Power . Also he had a serious problem with his sense of humor - he had one but it was remarkably similar to Groucho's . In fact , during the Broadway run of COCONUTS , Groucho was ordered by a doctor to take a long , overdue rest . He took off for two weeks , and was replaced by understudy Zeppo . At the end of two weeks he talked to the producers , and they willingly allowed him to take an additional week off . In fact , when that was finished they said he could take more time off if needed . They were not in a rush to get him back . Suspicious , Groucho went unannounced to the theater one night , and watched Zeppo being so good the audience was laughing hysterically at his delivery and acting . In a single day Groucho returned to the show . Groucho never made that mistake again . It would have been impossible for Zeppo to have played a smaller version of Groucho on screen . There would have been an imbalance with two Grouchos in the films . So Zeppo was usually put into the films as Groucho's assistant , or secretary , or even his son ( in HORSE FEATHERS ) . His part in COCONUTS , as the film exists today , is not very impressive ( there is one scene where he and Groucho try to greet Chico and Harpo as new customers at the hotel , and keep missing their hands ) . In ANIMAL CRACKERS he is Jamison , the secretary to " Captain Spaulding " , and has an amusing sequence regarding the immortal firm of " Hungerdunger , Hungerdunger , Hungerdunger , Hungerdunger , & McCormick " . In HORSE FEATHERS he did take part in the mad football game at the end of the film . In DUCK SOUP , as assistant to Rufus T . Firefly , he had more sequences that were funny , such as when he gets slapped for telling a story to Groucho that Groucho had previously told to him . He also takes part in the " Fredonia's Going to War " number , and in the battle section at the end . But only the Hungerdunger scene in ANIMAL CRACKERS ( shared by Groucho ) , and this film , MONKEY BUSINESS , gives one an idea of Zeppo as an effective comic . Here , unlike the other four appearances , he is not connected in the past with Groucho . He is paired with him , when he and Groucho are hired by Alky Briggs to be his torpedoes . However , he is frequently chased on the boat , and finds time to romance the film's heroine , in one particularly good moment telling her of his eternal devotion to her just before fleeing from her side to avoid being captured by members of the ship's crew . He also is able to romance her at her coming out society party , and rescues her from Briggs ' gang . Here he finally does something normal to assist the film . He is a passably pleasant leading man , but nothing spectacular . MONKEY BUSINESS was also surreal in it's humor , best in the puppet show sequence and also the attempt of the four brothers to get off the boat pretending to be Chevalier . It is a very funny movie - maybe not the best of all their films ( DUCK SOUP or A NIGHT AT THE OPERA are that ) , but close to the best . As for Zeppo , he remained part of the act and the films for two more years , and then quit both to become a successful film agent . He would always be in Groucho's shadow as a comic , and even in death ( soon after Groucho's death in 1977 ) passed on with hardly any impact on the public . Had he branched out on his own ( if anyone had shown interest in such a move ) he might have had a chance to show his talents , but it is problematical .
The Travels of a Magnificent Rifle	In 1942 a film TALES OF MANHATTAN told a set of stories that were basically unrelated , but tied together with a suit of men's evening wear . Each story began when the " tails " were passed from one owner ( Charles Boyer , for instance ) to another ( Ceasar Romero ) . WINCHESTER ' 73 , a superior film , and a great western , has a similar plot twist . Initially it is about how Jimmy Stewart is seeking Stephen ( Horace ) MacMahon for some deadly grudge . But in the course of the film the two men get into a shooting contest , the prize ( given by Marshall Wyatt Earp - Will Geer ) being one of the new Winchester rifles . Stewart barely beats out MacMahon , but the gun is stolen from Stewart , and the chase is on . The gun passes from hand to hand , including John McIntyre ( as an arrogant trader who fatally does not know when to stop being arrogant ) , to Rock Hudson ( in a surprising role - and a brief one at that ) , to Charles Drake , to Dan Duryea ( as the delightfully deadly and psychotic Waco Johnny Dean ) , to MacMahon . Eventually it does return to Stewart . The film is expertly directed by Anthony Mann . Every character has a wide variety of experiences . Duryea gets the rifle literally over Drake's dead body ( Duryea forces the issue ) . But he loses it to MacMahon , who is faster on the draw - not that Duryea is stupid enough to fight for the rifle . As he and Shelley Winter look at MacMahon in the distance , Winter ( who watched Duryea kill her former boy friend Drake ) drops her distaste for the gunman momentarily to ask why he put up with MacMahon's bullying for the gun . Philosophically , Duryea explains he can wait . Some opportunity will come up later on ( i . e . , when he can safely kill MacMahon and get back the rifle ) . The characters are remarkably human . Winters first appears as the future bride of Drake , but she sees a really big negative side to him - an unforgivable side . Drake is aware of this lapse , and it helps lead to his destruction . Other characters have realistic touches , such as J . C . Flippen as an army sergeant who fights an Indian attack with Steward and Steward's friend Millard Mitchell . Oh yes , and with Flippen's fellow soldier - Tony Curtis . Flippen makes one believe this soldier has been on a hundred battlefields before , since 1861 probably . Steward had showed emotions in other films . In IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE he showed a degree of anger at times , and also a near nervous breakdown when he thinks everything is wrong with his life . But here he showed a demonic anger - at the expense of a surprised Duryea ( who normally would show such anger himself ) . The parts of this film fit very neatly together , under Mann's competent hands . This is one western that never wears out , as the audience watches the travels of a Winchester rifle .
Old Blue Eyes as a killer	Frank Sinatra became such a legend in his own lifetime as a singer , a symbol , an actor , and a subject of controversy that there is little to really find that is unusual to talk about concerning him . What to add to the singing idol and Oscar winner . Whatever one thought of Sinatra he was larger than life to most of us - and I sometimes think that the 20th Century ended in 1998 when he died . Sinatra's film career is odd . Initially it was his singing that got him roles . But the characters he played in ANCHORS AWEIGH , ON THE TOWN , and some other early films were very naive types . It is not until FROM HERE TO ETERNITY that people were able to see him in serious film parts . But he still played people that one liked or sympathized with . Sinatra could skirt the law or morality , but he is not the villain usually . In ROBIN AND THE SEVEN HOODS and OCEAN'S ELEVEN , there are worse or more threatening mobsters than Robbo or Danny Ocean . Think of Peter Falk in the former , or the gentlemen represented by George Raft in the latter . The most sleazy character he played was PAL JOEY , who uses women to reach his dream of a great nightclub . But he is not the sleaze ball that John O'Hara wrote of or that Gene Kelly played in the Rodgers and Hart musical . The role was watered down . The fact is Sinatra had an image problem . Sinatra simply refused to be a villain ( except once - more in a second ) . At least , however , Sinatra could still do dramatic roles while being a hero ( like Detective Tony Rome , or " Von " Ryan ) , but he stymied a section of his acting development . His fans never cared , but it meant that he never could reveal a darker image in his acting , unless his characters were twisted by circumstances they barely understood ( like in THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE ) . SUDDENLY is the one exception . Here Sinatra played a psychotic villain - a would-be Presidential assassin hold up in a house with his gang , setting up a state of the art rifle with a telescopic site to kill the President as he steps off a train in the small town of Suddenly . It was pointed out on this thread , in another review , that the film seems like a " B " feature , even though Sterling Hayden plays the sheriff , and James Gleason plays a retired Secret Service Agent . Actually the subject matter was quite unusual . Films about political assassination in the U . S were rarities . In the 1940s and 1950s one can think of WE WERE STRANGERS , THE TALL TARGET , PRINCE OF PLAYERS , ALL THE KING'S MEN , A LION IS IN THE STREETS , and THE PHENIX CITY STORY . All these actually dealt with real assassinations ( WE WERE STRANGERS dealing with events in 1933 Cuba , but the others dealing with Lincoln , Huey Long , and the murder of the Attorney - General ( of Alabama ) by corrupt politicians in 1954 ) . But SUDDENLY broke the model a little : SUDDENLY suggested that the Presidency was fair game in mid-20th Century America . This was a shocking concept . McKinley had been the last President to be killed by an assassin , and that was in 1901 . Although Teddy Roosevelt was wounded in 1912 while campaigning , and FDR shot at ( and Mayor Cermak of Chicago killed ) in 1933 those events were long past . FDR's near thing was ( supposedly ) connected to the Depression . But in 1950 Harry Truman was targeted by two Puerto Rican nationalists at Blair House in Washington ( one of the assassins and one of the Secret Service guards had been killed ) . Still despite the fatalities in 1933 and 1950 , the image of a President dying by an assassin seemed unreal in 1954 . So the film became quite unsettling to the audience of it's day . Sinatra has the mind set of John Baron ( the assassin ) quite down pat . A total egomaniac , his attempts at being friendly are only to brag about his being a successful shot in the army . He tells Pidge Benson ( Kim Charney - Gleason's grandson , and one of Baron's hostages ) that he won a medal for his marksmanship from the army . Pidge dismisses it by saying he ( Baron ) must have stolen it . He thinks he is better than Booth and the other assassins , because he has his escape planned - although Gleason warns him he'll never get away with it . He also dismisses the men who hired him because immediately as the President dies he'll be replaced by the Vice President . It never bothers him that the men who hired him may want that Vice President as President . He does try to overawe Ellen Benson ( Nancy Gates ) in the kitchen . But he knows Ellen and the Sheriff are a couple , so it's a way at striking at Hayden too . But his attempts at seduction are not effective ( Ellen finds him repulsive ) . It is possibly the oddest sexual failure in any of Sinatra's movies . In the end the Bensons and their allies thwart Baron , and he dies not understanding why the scheme failed . The film therefore ends reassuring the viewers that " it can't happen here anymore . " Within nine years , after he made his best film THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE ( also dealing with political assassination ) , Sinatra saw his former friend President John Kennedy murdered . It may have struck him as odd that the murder weapon was a rifle with a telescopic site aimed from a height ( the window of a warehouse , rather than a private home ) , and that the killer was a wiry , thin , long faced loner with a military record . It may explain the fact that Sinatra made sure to take both THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE and SUDDENLY out of circulation for decades - he may have felt profoundly guilty about what happened .
The Pixilated Gentleman From Vermont	Although he had earlier successful films ( " American Madness " , " The Bitter Tea Of General Yen " ) , Frank Capra's real success in American movies began with " It Happened One Night " , and was quickly solidified by " Mr . Deeds Goes To Town " . His position of chronicler of little America ( the little man who makes up the bulk of us ) and of our habits and behavior was emphasized in " One Night " by putting most of the movie into the less than romantic world of interstate bus travel and tourist camps . In " Deeds " he tackles the little man from small town America ( here Vermont ) confronting the corruption inside the big city ( here America's biggest city - New York City ) . The success of " One Night " got Capra entry with bigger and bigger stars . Although he had Walter Huston in " American Madness " and a young Barbara Stanwyck in " Bitter Tea " , his getting Clark Gable for the role of Peter Warne , and Claudette Colbert for the role of Ellen Andrews - and their subsequently getting Oscars - ensured he could have other big names in the future . So " Deeds " starred Gary Cooper and Jean Arthur . " Mr . Deeds " is a film about common sense , which is represented by it's hero . Longfellow Deeds seems a man of eccentricity at first , or " pixiliated " as two elderly neighbors call him . He is living in Vermont , playing his tuba , and writes poetry for greeting cards . But he inherits a fortune , which unfortunately is in the hands of a crooked law firm ( headed by John Cedar - Douglas Dumbrille in his best known part ) . Dumbrille , like most of the urbanites in the story , thinks they can handle Deeds with a line of blarney . But Deeds is not dumb . He wants to see an exact accounting of the estate ( Cedar and his partners have been looting it for years ) . He does come to New York , as his homes are here . But when approached with a phony claim ( Charles Lane is the shyster lawyer ) he exposes it and throws Lane out . He also makes short work for Madame Pomponi , the opera diva . I always have a little problem with his ruthless refusal to support opera . Deeds is right - it doesn't pay selling tickets to opera like selling movie or baseball tickets , but opera does have it's serious fans and could be supported as a tax right-off . Cedar decides to ruin Deeds by questioning his sanity . He is unwittingly assisted by newspaper editor George Bancroft and his ace reporter ( Jean Arthur ) who get Deeds to act naturally - but they suggest he is eccentric or worse . A confrontation with some drunk and snooty literary lights ( who look like a spoof of the Algonquin Round Table ) does not help . Yet one of the literati ( Walter Catlett as a decent guy ) realizes that Deeds was being sneered at , and befriends him . Others slowly are attracted to him , including his slowly liberated butler ( Raymond Walburn , in a surprisingly restrained but effective role ) , Lionel Stander ( austensibly there to help Cedar , but coming to his senses ) , and Arthur , who is falling in love with him . Eventually there is that sanity hearing , chaired by a sympathetic and suspicious H . B . Warner . Deed's friends and supporters are there to speak up for him . And Deeds does triumph , by explaining his actions , and his intentions to use the fortune properly to help stop the Depression . And we see the film end with Arthur and Cooper united , and a disappointed Dumbrille pushing down his complaining partner . The ending has remained part or movie culture - and got transplanted to television . On " Taxi " , Louis Di Palma ( Danny De Vito ) gives a speech ( reminiscent of George Bancroft's in the movie ) to bolster Rev . Jim Ignatowski's sanity hearing ( he's inherited a fortune too ) . Unimpressed , the head of that hearing wishes people stopped watching " Mr . Deeds " before coming to his hearings . Perish the thought !
" If that is death in the afternoon , that is death at evening ! "	In English speaking countries we barely recall his name , but in his heyday ( the 1910 - 1920s ) Vicente Blasco Ibanez was one of the most popular novelists in the world . His stories , in particular his tale of bullfighters in Spain ( BLOOD AND SAND ) and his look at the effect of World War I on Europe and on his native Argentina in THE FOUR HORSEMAN OF THE APOCALYPSE , were avidly read all over the Americas and Europe . Movies were made of his tales , including other lesser stories like THE TORRENT and MARE NOSTROM . But like so many other figures of literary importance in that period , Blasco Ibanez has gradually been eclipsed . Yet , I can vouch that when I was working in my high school library in 1970 - 71 copies of BLOOD AND SAND and THE FOUR HORSEMAN were on the shelves . BLOOD AND SAND is more than just a look at the rise and fall of the career of a great matador ( Tyrone Power as Juan Gallado ) but a look at the darker side of athletic fame in the world in general . Power follows his father as a bull fighter , despite the latter's death in the ring . He has an entourage including his closest friend , Nacional ( John Carridine ) and Garabato ( J . Carroll Naish ) and marries a good woman ( Carmen Espinosa - Linda Darnell ) , but he also has a greedy sister and brother-in-law to conjure with ( Lynn Bari and Monty Banks ) , and he has to deal with the leading bullfighting critic ( Curro - Laird Cregar ) . There is also his other old friend , but growing rival , Manola ( Anthony Quinn ) and the wealthy groupie who hurts his home life and image ( Dona Sol - Rita Hayworth ) . When the going is good , Power allows his fortune and success go to his head . He does not recall that Garabato happened to be a great matador too , but was reduced to poverty when he ceased pleasing the public ( or Curro , for that matter ) , and was only saved by Power's personal goodness . He does not heed the comments by Nacional about the blood-thirst at the heart of the game of the bullfight . His attractiveness to Dona Sol is dependent on his greatness as a matador . And Manola is slowly catching up . There is a lot of religious symbolism in Blasco Ibanez work . At the end of THE TORRENT , Greta Garbo , in her last delirium , gives a sum of money that might have saved her to a stranger that she thinks is Christ . In THE FOUR HORSEMAN a set of fireplace andirons come to life in the skies of Europe showing the pestilence and evil hitting the center of the world in World War I . And even here , Rouben Mamoulian brings in the symbolism . Nacional sacrifices himself for Juan in the ring , and is fatally gored . As he is dying in a bed , surrounded by Juan and his friends , Nacional is set up with his arms in a " crucifixion " position on the pillows at the head of the bed . He is denouncing the evil of bullfighting as he dies , a Christ unheeded in his world . Also language plays a hidden role . Laird Cregar's self-important and venal critic has the last name " Curro " . In Spanish , " Curro " is the rectum of a bull or beast . And at the start of the film Cregar proudly announces his name as a guaranty of authenticity on his views about the matadors . The fact that Juan is a bullfighter should not hide the universality of the story . It could be about the rise and fall of a football , soccer , or baseball player - but the bullfighting background is due to the cultural background of the author , and because of the brittle nature of success as a bullfighter - you see , bullfighting is more than avoiding being gored by a bull . It depends on the style and technique of the matador , and how elegantly he moves in the ring . Age can slow a man down , ruining his reputation ( as it did with Garabato ) . Or personal problems may affect ring performance ( as it does with Juan ) . And once that happens the fans lose interest and even faith in the matador . So Juan has no where to go but down , having reached the top . That is the fate of all matadors . In the end he momentarily redeems himself , but at the cost of his life . At least he will not face growing old in poverty as Garabato nearly did . But it is a downer of an ending - possibly the saddest of any of the Tyrone Power films before 1946's NIGHTMARE ALLEY .
" There was a man named Michael Finnegan . . . Finnegan , begin again . "	Robert Preston's last film was OUTRAGE ! ( 1985 ) which followed this film . Although a central figure in that movie , his part was not as important as several others - I keep thinking his health may have been beginning to fail , so that his role as a murder case defendant was curtailed as a result . He still gave an intelligent performance but it seemed short in comparison to what it should have been . For his last solid , good performance look at this film made slightly earlier in 1984-85 . Preston plays the newspaper columnist Michael Finnigan , who has reached the age of 65 and is still working as the advice to the lovelorn columnist for David Huddleston's newspaper . He hates that job , but it's that or retirement . He is living in a large house with his ten year older wife Sylvia Sydney , who is suffering from dementia , and very demanding in her ways . There is little real love left - he loved some other woman , not the current Sydney . But he is loyal and protective . Then he meets Mary Tyler Moore - a woman who is close in age to him , and a widow ( although currently seeing Sam Waterson ) . With Moore Preston finds a soul mate again , someone to talk to , and someone he can understand ( and who can understand him ) . But he will only go so far with her - he feels he is duty bound to care for his wife Sydney . Preston raises the film's level of interest by his charm - nicely abetted by Moore's response to him ( and even Sydney's response - she may be sadly demented , but she does show gratitude occasionally to him ) . Waterson is funny but sleazy , as he is two-timing his wife . Although a type of " deus ex-ma-china " conclusion assists in resolving the plot , FINNEGAN BEGIN AGAIN remains an adult film of late romance , and a worthy conclusion to a great acting career .
Can It Happen Here ?	Fredric March is the President of the United States . He has just gotten a nuclear disarmament treaty signed with the Soviet Union's leader , and it has ( barely ) been passed by the U . S . Senate . Both countries agree to get rid of their nuclear arsenals , and to end decades of potential nuclear catastrophe . But there are many who oppose this treaty , including Burt Lancaster , the greatest military hero of the day and head of the Joint Chief of Staff . He is in contact with several others regarding these fears , and they are planning a coup , to replace the President and his supporters and rip up this dangerous treaty . That is the background and story of " Seven Days In May " , except that Lancaster's closest assistant , Kirk Douglas , is appalled at the scheme and tips off March and his associates ( Martin Balsam , Edmond O'Brien , George Macready ) . We are also aware that there is certain information that can be gotten by the President that would tarnish Lancaster's American patriot and family man image - his love letters to his mistress ( Ava Gardner ) . Also , as the film goes on , we are aware of the spread of the coup - how Edmund O'Brien is held imprisoned by mutinous soldiers . And how Balsam may have gotten a confession out of one of the weaker links in the scheme . This film is interesting on so many levels . Not only does it include so many good performances in it , it is one of the most " Oscar " filled film casts one can think of - March , Lancaster , Douglas , Balsam , O'Brien , and even the uncredited John Houseman ( as the weak-link Admiral Barnswell ) all do well in the film . But what is most interesting to me is that the film was made when it was . Because it brings up the issue of whether a political coup can happen here or not . The subject of a fascist or dictatorial government taking over America is not new . Jack London wrote of such in " The Iron Heel " at the turn of the 20th Century . Sinclair Lewis did the same in 1934 with " It Can't Happen Here , turning real life demagogue Senator Huey Long into " Senator Buzz Windrip " who seizes power . Hollywood would have an unsettling faith ( to us ) in fascistic politics in " Gabriel Over The White House " , " This Day And Age " , and even Harold Lloyd's strange comedy The Cat's Paw " . That the Depression scared the people does not really reassure us today . But " Seven Days In May was written in the 1960s . It does show how close to success such a plot may go . SPOILERS AHEAD : Basically , what saves the day for President Jordan Lyman's administration , and the treaty , is that the confession of one of General Scott's confederates is found . Lyman is unable to bring himself to be as underhanded towards the General as the latter deserves ( he can't bring himself to use the love letters the General wrote his mistress to discredit the man ) . The deus ex machina of the confession saves the day , and causes the other leaders of the coup to save themselves , so that Scott is deserted and discredited as a traitor ( when Jiggs , sarcastically asked if he knows who Judas was , tells Scott that he is Judas Scott realizes it's over ) . His collapse is completed as he hears over the radio of the resignations of his co-conspirators . The interesting thing was that Knebel's novel pushed a different slant on Scott's final collapse . Lyman , in the novel , produces the confession to Scott , and they both hear of the resignations . Scott leaves the Oval Office aware that it is over , but thinking that he might ( after he resigns ) start a political campaign to replace Lyman in the White House in the next election . Instead , he is confronted by Senator Clark ( O'Brien ) and Secretary of the Treasury Todd ( George Macready ) outside the Oval Office . They remind Scott that if he intends to run for the Presidency rather than resigning , there is still the matter of the love letters . Clark tells him that while Lyman is too much the gentleman to use them , neither Clark nor Todd would hesitate the opportunity of smearing him as a moral hypocrite . Scott actually is more concerned about this - and actually tries to hide behind the theoretical skirts of his betrayed wife at this moment ( " You wouldn't want to hurt her " - that sort of thing ) . Regretfully they wouldn't care . In 1962 , John Frankenheimer had done " The Manchurian Candidate " , which also suggested a threat to American Democracy ( although manipulated by foreign governments and their hidden agents ) . Then President John Kennedy was assassinated in 1963 , and in modern times ( sixty three years since the last successful Presidential murder ) violence had shaken the government . So " Seven Days In May " was quite timely when it came out in 1964 . It has lost none of it's timelessness since then . Oddly enough , Fletcher Knebel wrote another political thriller that never did get made into a film . I'm not referring to " Vanished " , which was made into a television movie in the 1970s . I am referring to " A Night At Camp David " . In that novel , a popular American President invites his Vice President to spend a week-end in the Presidential retreat , and has a series of conversations about policy plans that reveal to the increasingly frightened Veep that his chief is an insane paranoid , who is planning moves that may lead to global disaster . The problem : Only the Veep has been informed of this - nobody else . How is the Veep to get the public to realize the danger , without people feeling the Veep is only spreading lies against a popular President in order to seize the Presidency himself ? It is a fascinating plot , and I wonder why it was never filmed .
The Feud Nobody Really Won	It will be the irony of Robert Blake's decent acting career that despite his stint as Baretta in the Detective Series , his personal life will make people think only of his negative - villainous characters , as in his best performance IN COLD BLOOD and as Jimmy Hoffa in BLOOD FEUD . Fortunately , Blake was such a good performer that his performances in both roles are worthy of being remembered . It's just a pity about his hero parts . James R . Hoffa will remain ( to most Americans ) one of the most despicable figures in the history of our labor unions . There have been other crooked union leaders before and since , but Hoffa is the extreme example , because his Teamster's Union was one of the best run and richest unions , and giving tens of millions of dollars from the pension funds to the Mob for their activities . On the other hand , if you speak to Teamsters , even if they admit Hoffa's failings , they will point out that he was a remarkable figure in improving wages and benefits , and in actually nearly achieving the dream of all union leaders : Hoffa nearly created a NATIONAL contract for teamsters in this country . If he had been honest and achieved these things , say like Gompers or Powderly or Green or Lewis or Reuther , he would have been considered a great man . Instead he is forever a fascinating but twisted figure . This film discussed the confrontation beginning in the 1950s between Hoffa and Robert Kennedy , first as an attorney working for the Congressional Committees investigating the union , and later as his brother's Attorney General . There had actually been some impressive work earlier - the corrupt Union Head Dave Beck had been convicted by the Government and sent to prison . Ironically the election of Hoffa was greeted as a new broom sweeping clean . Actually it was more like changing leaders from a common thief to an uncommonly brilliant one . In the film Blake plays Hoffa as an intensely intelligent individual , but one who could get emotionally involved to his detriment . Had Hoffa been cooler he possibly might have beaten Kennedy's assault . But Kennedy ( here played very competently as a competitive person by Cotter Smith ) found that he did not like being defeated at every turn by the Union leader's maneuvers . Possibly had he been cooler he might have noticed that despite the level of corruption there was evidence that Hoffa was actually achieving much for his rank and file . In short two amazing men with huge egos turned a government probe into a gladiatorial contest . The key to Hoffa's fall was one of his lower level Union leaders , the head of the New Orleans Local Eddie Partin ( Brian Dennehy in a fine performance as a man torn by loyalties who turns on his closest friend Hoffa for his own safety ) . Partin produced the evidence of malfeasance that Kennedy used to prod Hoffa out of his position of power . The end result of all this was mixed - and did not do good for the powers that be . Hoffa became a liability for the mob , because they knew RFK would start on them in the second administration of his brother . And the film does strongly suggest that this may be the reason for JFK's assassination , as the Mob realized Bobbie would not be able to retain his Attorney General position long under his personal political enemy Lyndon Johnson ( Forrest Tucker , shown to good affect but not as much as one would like as a man who dislikes being high-hatted by the snobby Kennedy boys ) . Still Johnson kept Bobbie in his position until Hoffa was found guilty of stealing from the union . But his fall from power doesn't end there . In the film , Blake's Hoffa still has contacts with the Mob even as he is headed for prison . And he hears things . The film ends in June 1968 , with Bobbie in the hotel in Los Angeles looking forward to the Democratic National Convention . Suddenly there is a phone call , and it is from Hoffa . The latter is about to start his prison term , and feels obligated to warn Kennedy about possible threats . Kennedy won't listen , but Hoffa ( if this is true ) suggests that maybe at this point they should work together for their own safety . Kennedy , somewhat bemused by the phone call , vaguely says he'll have to think about it . After the phone call ends an aide asks if he really feels there is a physical threat from the Mob . RFK shakes his head , and quotes the poem by Robert Frost , that he has " miles to go before I sleep . " Then he heads downstairs for the speech of victory he gave regarding the California primary . The film worked very well , with a cast of highly competent character actors . Whether Hoffa really tried to reach an accord with RFK I cannot say , but their duel certainly did neither very much good . And the Teamster's Union has taken decades to recover .
When Legends Meet . . . a New Legend is Created	In a personal essay kind of program about her career that she made for television in the 1990s Katherine Hepburn pointed out that technically this was not the first time she was in a film ( in one version or another ) with the man she would appear in movies with more often than anyone else , and the man most romantically linked to her : Spencer Tracy . Hepburn and Tracy appeared ( as cartoon figures ) in a 1938 Walt Disney cartoon about fairy tale figures , with Hepburn as Little Bo Peep and Tracy as one of the three men in a tub ( with Tracy looking like Manuel in CAPTAIN'S COURAGEOUS next to Freddie Barholemew and Lionel Barrymore ) . In fact Hepburn's Bo Peep motor skis into the sequence with Tracy , upsetting the boat . But they finally met in the flesh in 1942 when they made the MGM film WOMAN OF THE YEAR . The first of ten movies that they share title to , it is one of the best of them . Hepburn's " Tess Harding " is a globe trotting reporter and voice of democracy and modern thought . Tracy has nothing against that , but his " Sam Craig " , a leading sports writer for the same newspaper that Hepburn works at is angry at her suggestion ( based on a snobbish lack of interest ) that baseball be stopped during the war effort . He writes an editorial against this , and his editor ( Reginald Owen ) arranges a meeting to stop an internecine squabble in his newspaper . And the two antagonists find they like what they see ( as did the two performers ) . ( Less you think Hepburn was being ridiculous , in 1918 President Woodrow Wilson ( hardly an apostle of sportsmanship and games ) declared that the baseball season should be shortened for the war effort in World War I . It was not a very popular move , and Franklin Roosevelt very wisely announced in 1942 it would not be repeated . ) The film is an early movie regarding the problem of a career woman facing a new life as a married lady . For she and Tracy do marry , but Hepburn's " Tess " is an international figure of distinction for that age - the newspaper / radio reporter version of say photo-journalist Margaret Bourke-White . She is on a first name level with most of the leaders in the free world . Her obnoxious secretary " Gerald " - played with quiet sneer very well by Dan Tobin - is seen calling for a connection with Col . Battista , the President of Cuba ( until Fidel kicked him out in 1958 ) to speak with Tess . She is constantly on the go meeting all kinds of people and giving all kinds of speeches and making all kinds of commitments . And Sam is soon aware that he has a decidedly minor position in the world of Tess . There are a series of blows , beginning with each meeting the friends of the others . Hers are all brainy snobs , while his are all earthy sports fans and common types . Then comes a final series of blows . After returning from a game he had to cover in Chicago , Sam discovers that Tess ( who vaguely knew his itinerary ) was also in the Windy City for a day , and could have met him at least for lunch but . . . err forgot . Then she breaks the news that they are going to have a child . That almost restores him , until he learns the little boy named Chris ( George Kezas ) has been given to Tess by the Greek Child Refugee Council as a symbol of her leadership for that group . Sam honestly is not happy about this , but shows far more fatherly concern for the boy than Tess does . Then Tess is named " Woman of the Year " , and is to honored at a dinner - Sam in attendance . But Sam learns Chris will be left alone that night in the apartment ( even the maid has the night off ; Tess airily taking care of the problem by having an elevator operator check into the boy's welfare every couple of hours ) . Sam refuses to leave Chris and a dangerous split forms between the couple . Tess finds the split really widens when she returns to the apartment . The film has other supporting parts , like the marvelous William Bendix talking about how he beat James Braddock in a fight ( he has to describe all 8 rounds of the fight in detail ) . Minor Watson ( as Hepburn's widowed father ) and Fay Bainter ( as Hepburn's friend and mentor ) make a charming older and wiser pair of lovers . As for the conclusion , I always enjoy thinking of the image of Hepburn desperately trying to save her marriage while making an early morning breakfast wearing a fur coat and impractical dressing gown in a kitchen . Just for that final twelve minutes the movie deserves a " 10 " . A final " launching " makes it actually worth an " 11 " .
A Kidnapping Planned by Three Wiley Coyotes	This film never fails to be funny . The plot is simple - a variant on the two McCauley Culkin HOME ALONE films or O'Henry's THE RANSOM OF RED CHIEF , except the protagonist is an adorable baby . Three criminals led by Joe Mantegna have been committing fairly successful robberies at convenience stores and even banks . They find that a wealthy family's baby is going to be photographed on a particular day for a magazine , and they arrive at the mansion as the photographers and kidnap the baby . They intend to collect a large ransom . What they don't count on is that the baby , by instinct and sheer chance , is smarter than all three men together . The baby's favorite book has a kind of daily itinerary , and the baby ( after accidentally escaping the three idiots ) follows it . He is usually only one step ahead of the idiots , so they constantly find him - only to fall on their faces ( or worse ) while he continues with hardly a scratch . All ends well for the baby at the end . The supporting cast is quite good , in particular Fred Dalton Thomas as the FBI man , John Neville as the household's major domo , Lara Flynn Boyle as the heart-sick mother ( the only really unfunny , realistic aspect to the film ) , and Cynthia Nixon as the nanny . But the chief kudos go to Adam and Jacob Worton as Baby Bink , and Mantegna and his two cohorts Brian Haley and Joe Pantoliano . Of the three men Mantegna is clearly the sharpest , but that does not say much . The clearest comparison of this film is with the Road Runner cartoons of Chuck Jones , with Mantegna , Haley , and Pantoliano trying to use their superior grown-up cleverness to simply recapture Baby Bink . The problem is that their methods are so complicated for themselves that they cannot but fail . They follow the baby into the zoo , and rather than simply scooping the kid up by racing to him , they let him head into the monkey house , and are soon being thrown around by a wise and protective gorilla . The chase the baby into the park , and ( incredibly ) they do get their hands on him , but two policemen come to them with some questions and Mantegna has to hide the baby under his coat . The baby uses his lighter to set fire to his testicles ( and Mantegna has to restrain screaming until the police leave the scene , which is a priceless moment ) . The script manages to top it - to put out the fire Mantegna's two assistant crooks put it out the way you put out a campfire ( they stamp it out ! ) . To me the highpoint is when Baby Bink goes into a construction site . None of the construction workers notice the baby at all , but our three anti-heroes do . They proceed to keep missing the baby and end up falling into cement troughs or into refuse dumps . Mantegna adds the one truest moment out of Wile E . Coyote's fights with Roadrunner . He jumps onto a huge crane's arm , holding onto a battering ball . His intention ( as the crane was headed downward ) is to have an " elevator " descent by the crane to the ground . Just as he lands on the ball , the face on all the clocks in the construction site hit five o'clock , a whistle blows , and the machines ( including the crane ) are all turned off at once , and the crews all leave the site . The sequence ends with the sun setting in back of the clinging Mantegna waiting to figure out how to get down . For pure malicious , destructive delight , BABY'S DAY OUT can barely be touched .
The Mutinies of 1917 - a fictional variant	Although he did the wonderful crime film THE KILLING before he did this , it was PATHS OF GLORY that brought Stanley Kubrick's talents forward . After PATHS OF GLORY he would make all types of films , but he would basically make them as he wanted to ( although when working with his star here , Kirk Douglas , on SPARTACUS he would have such friction with Douglas that they never made any other films together afterward ) . So if it had not been for PATHS OF GLORY there would not have been LOLITA , DR . STRANGELOVE , 2001 , BARRY LYNDON , and the other films . The Kubrick stamp of film artistry was born here . The plot of the story is simple . Due to the system of trenches on the Western Front ( that have France and Britain on one side and Germany on the other ) the war has bogged down to a mutual bloodletting . It shouldn't been this way , but nobody that was sent to the Western Front through 1917 was a good commander . Von Falkenheyn , the German Commander at Verdun , was unable to hold onto early gains in that long , long battle . The best French General was Joseph Gallieni , who won the First Battle of the Marne by commissioning the famous " taxicab " army that drove the French troops to the front . But he retired . The actual Commander , " Papa " Joffre was popular with the men , but had a tendency of falling asleep at military strategy sessions . As for the British , Douglas Haig was saddled with planning global strategy for British forces in Africa , the Middle East , and India . His acceptance of the stalemate on the Western Front bordered on the criminal - he reduced the monstrous casualty rate to a simple war of attrition . With Commanders like Von Falkenheyn , Haig , and Joffre the war was hopeless . The suggestion of one more push " over the top " was repeated endlessly - and bloodily . In 1917 units of the French Army had enough . The French Mutinies were long known , because of the trials and executions of hundreds of mutineers . One good result was the arrival at headquarters of General Henri Petain . His reputation is besmirched by his treason in leading the Vichy Government in World War II , but Petain was a senile old man when made a figure-head ( a fact his old friend General Charles DeGaulle knew , so that he reduced the death sentence against the old man to life imprisonment ) . One generation earlier , Petain saved the army and France - a debt that really should not be forgotten . Yes he tried the ringleaders , but he also improved the lot of the poilu ( common soldiers ) so that they were not living like moles or rats all the time . The regeneration of the French armies that Ferdinand Foch would lead ( with Haig and Pershing and their men ) to eventual victory began when Petain took charge . SPOILERS AHEAD : PATHS OF GLORY looks at the situation that led to those mutinies , and to one of the drumhead courts . Adolph Menjou is a leading general , who realizes that a victory is required for appearance sake ( i . e . , the politicians are breathing down the back of the French High Command ) . He invites his old friend George Macready to lunch and drops a hint that if they could find a nice victory Macready may get promoted ( Menjou says this very carefully - no fool he if he has to deny it ) . Macready can just taste the promotion . He promises the men will do the job . They don't . The job is to capture a well protected salient called " the ant hill " , because whenever men are fighting over it they look like ants fighting each other from a distance . The leader of the men who are to charge is Kirk Douglas . In peacetime he is an attorney , so he has enough brains to question the intelligence of the so-called army brains . Macready is watching the attack from a bomb shelter , and notices the men will not leave the trench . He orders an artillery barrage on his own men , forcing them to face the Germans . This will turn out to be a disastrous mistake on his part . After the disaster Macready picks three soldiers to be representative of the troops . One of them is selected by a Sergeant who is a real coward , and who is aware the enlisted man knows he is a coward . Douglas defends them , but the court is controlled by Macready and his flacks . The three are convicted . We watch their last night , with one ( Timothy Carey ) certain that a pardon will come for him at least . Another gets badly injured in a mishap . When the time for the three to be shot occurs ( they are set up like Christ and the two robbers at Calvary ) , the wounded man is slapped out of unconsciousness to see the firing squad getting ready to fire . Douglas has been discovering what Macready did - and reveals this to Menjou . He hopes to do this to force Menjou to overturn the death sentences . But Menjou holds back , and lets the executions go on . We see him dancing at a dinner party while this is going on . The next day , when Macready is having breakfast with Menjou ( and Douglas shows up ) , Menjou brings up the illegal act of firing on his own men . Instead of a promotion , Macready is being thrown out of his command , and probably prevented from getting further ones . Pulling his shredded dignity together as best he could , he pointedly states that at least he was a soldier ( unlike the courtier - general Menjou ) . After he leaves , Menjou offers Macready's command to Douglas . And Douglas tells him off very memorably . PATHS OF GLORY is a fantastically good look at military incompetence , corruption , and those shafts of decency that the common soldiers and Douglas represent . Although set in time and place in 1917 France , it's message is universal . It is a great movie .
A Twisty Premonition - Do we only see part of the picture ?	In the best episodes of ONE STEP BEYOND the story had a twist in it that came out of left field - like the end of a story by O Henry or Guy De Mauppasant . Such was the case with this episode , which dealt with foreseeing a horrible tragedy . Not the Titanic or the San Francisco Earthquake this time , but a simple domestic tragedy . Paul Langton ( Leslie Harrington on PEYTON PLACE ) is a wealthy man , Mr . Garrick , who has moved into a new mansion . His only child is a daughter Lisa ( Julie Payne ) who feels distinctly uncomfortable in the new house - she particularly feels odd in one room , which is the subject of several nightmares . The room has an immense glass chandelier , and in the nightmare , while at a party under the chandelier , Lisa dreams it falls crashing down on her , killing her . Gradually she reveals her fears to her father , and he is determined to show this is just nerves ( they've moved into this new , large house , and she is unused to it ) . He finally arranges ( despite her protests ) to get her into the room , and they both stand under the chandelier . And instead of falling , the chandelier stays attached to the ceiling . Lisa tests it , and nothing happens . She's ecstatic , and smiling she admits to her father her fears were all needless ! SPOILER COMING UP : The episode seems to end in a rejection of the spirit of the show - which is pushing the existence of these psychic and occult events that we barely understand , but which ( supposedly ) are documented . We see Lisa at a later date , now a mother ( played by Pamela Lincoln ) . There is a big family party going on , and she is out on the mansion's balcony when we hear a cracking noise , followed by a girl's hideous scream , and a crash . Lisa's daughter ( and namesake , " Lisa " was underneath the chandelier , and was just crushed to death by it ! ! The episode was marvelous dealing with the hidden views of life that are supposedly revealed to us in our dreams . But it also shows that the future , if revealed , may not be as easy to decipher than we think . The situation is handled without any tricks ( and quite well , because of that ) , and the conclusion hits like a lightning bolt . One can say one can't escape one's fate , but the issue becomes , " whose fate is being discussed ? " Very nicely done episode here .
JANE EYRE - 1970 Version	George C . Scott was one of America's best actors , but the number of times that he did second-rate films hurt his reputation . JANE EYRE was made near the peak of his career , in 1970 , when he won the Oscar for PATTON . It was a superb performance ( on par with Orson Welles in the same role in the 1944 version as Edward Rochester ) . Suzanna York was good as Jane ( and presumably got along better with Scott than Fontane did with Welles ) . But Scott's performance as Rochester also had his idiosyncrasies in it - his tendency to posture when trying to react to some comments . Frank Gorshin would spoof Scott's Rochester on television later in 1970 . The film did not show as much of the Brocklehurst - Eyre conflict as the 1944 version . This is partly notable in the rather weak and sad performance of Jack Hawkins as Brocklehurst as opposed to Henry Daniell's tyrant . Hawkins career was coming to an end due to the loss of his vocal chords to cancer , so he could not really give a very effective performance . There is more of the portion of the novel dealing with Jane discovering her Rivers cousins ( and her brief interest in the missionary St . John Rivers ) . Otherwise it sticks to the same plot line as the 1944 version ( in particular when Rochester tells Eyre not to worry about Blanche Ingram , whom ( Scott says in a line he could get away with in 1970 but Welles couldn't in 1944 ) only wants to marry him so his money could manure her father's fields . Both film versions were equally good , but neither fully told the complete novel as well as they could have .
The Egghead is Mightier Than the Hood	What happens to an ivy tower atmosphere if it is invaded by a sexually alluring siren ? Will it lead to events similar to the expulsion of Adam and Eve from their perfect cocoon of the Garden of Eden ? But the sin of Adam and Eve was tasting of the forbidden fruit from the tree of knowledge . The eight professors in the ivy tower already have all the known knowledge of the world - their only problem is trying to dispense that knowledge within a three year deadline . Will they now miss that deadline ? That is the situation of Howard Hawk's comedy " Ball Of Fire " , one of the two great comedies ( with " The Lady Eve " ) that Barbara Stanwyck made at Paramount in 1941 . People who think of Stanwyck as the dramatic equal of Davis and Hepburn only think of her in films like " Stella Dallas " , " Baby Face " , " Double Indemnity " , or " Sorry , Wrong Number " . Nobody denies Stanwyck's abilities as a fine dramatic actress , but she was terrific too in comedies ( and it is interesting that her two finest comedies showcase her as a sexually alluring comedian ) . Katherine " Sugarpuss " O'Shea is a nightclub entertainer , who is also the girlfriend of mob boss Joe Lilac ( Dana Andrews , in a rare villainous role ) . Joe is having trouble with the District Attorney of New York City ( Addison Richards ) who is trying to crack a murder that may be linked to the mobster . It turns out that Sugarpuss can cement the case , so Joe needs to hide his girlfriend . . . and maybe marry her ( if they marry she can't testify against her husband ) . He sends his two henchmen , Duke Pastrami ( Dan Duryea ) and Asthma Anderson ( Ralph Peters ) to tell her to lay low . . . but where ? Earlier that evening Sugarpuss got a visit from a Professor Bertram Potts ( Gary Cooper ) who needs her knowledge of street vernacular for an article he is writing in an encyclopedia on the subject of " slang " . Although she initially rejected his request for help , she now finds it fits nicely into the needs of her boyfriend Joe . So she turns up at the building in Manhattan that Potts and seven colleagues ( Richard Haydn , Aubrey Mather , Tully Marshall , Oscar Homolka , Leonid Kinski , Harry Travers , and S . Z . Sakall ) have been living at for nearly a decade while working on this major encyclopedia for a foundation . That is the bare bones set-up for this film , one of Howard Hawks best comedies . Like " His Gal Friday " and " I Was A Male War Bride " , Hawks makes his female lead fully capable at being a match or more than a match for the male characters . If Cary Grant's newspaper editor Walter Burns did connive and scheme against Rosalind Russell's Hildy Johnson , she gave him as good as he gave her until circumstances played into his hands . The situation is the same here , except that Sugarpuss is like a breath of youth and fresh air to Cooper and the seven older professors , so that for all their book learning they lack a certain amount of common sense in dealing with the charming singer . She manages to compromise them from the start , establishing a room for herself in their headquarters building that the foundation never made plans for . Not everyone is taken in : Kathleen Howard , the housekeeper Mrs . Bragg , finds out the truth from a newspaper and almost ruins Sugarpuss ' schemes . But what is worse , perhaps , is the slow realization by Sugarpuss that the square , geeky Bertram is a decent guy - and a better boyfriend than Joe . Which sort of gums up the works for Joe and his schemes , and Joe is not the sort to like his schemes to be gummed up at all . Samuel Goldwyn produced " Ball Of Fire " , and since he did he got a first rate director and cast together . Stanwyck appears to have been third choice for Sugarpuss ( Lucille Ball was supposed to play the role , but was dropped when Stanwyck became available - she might have carried it off , for she played a similar role in " The Big Street " opposite Henry Fonda a few years later ) . One wonder is Hawks originally planned for Grant in the lead ( one could see him as the expert on English , who is a naive professor - similar to his anthropologist in " Bringing Up Baby " ) . But Goldwyn made several films with Cooper , and probably pushed for that leading man . Cooper shows enough naiveté in his performance to make his discovery of love all the sweeter . The real joy that he expresses when he realizes that Stanwyck favors him over Andrews is rather touching , even though it is presented at a moment of danger to Cooper and several others . As for the supporting cast , they are all good . Duryea is properly insolent and dumb as the hoodlum Pastrami . Allen Jenkins is a garbage man seeking knowledge for pecuniary gain ( quiz show answers ) . The professors are individually cute , particularly Homolka , driving with an out-of-date driver's license ( from 1906 ) but insisting Teddy Roosevelt thought his driving " bully " , and Haydn , the only one of the professors to have ever married , who proves a sentimental type ( he carries his dead wife's hair around in a locket ) . One also notes Mary Field as Miss Totten , the daughter of the wealthy inventor who created the foundation , who ( despite the wise words of her lawyer Charles Lane ) keeps giving the professors more time to finish their work because she is sweet on Cooper . We last see that young lady enjoying a chase sequence - it was more fun than she ever had experienced before . Finally there is a nice sequence where Stanwyck demonstrates her voice by singing " Drum Boogie " to the accompaniment of Gene Krupa and his band . She also ( with the seven elderly professors ) dances the conga . Stanwyck rarely appeared in musicals ( I can only recall " Lady Of Burlesque " off hand ) , so it is nice to see her show her singing and her dancing here as well .
Does Conscience Make Cowards of Us All ?	An interesting episode on this series which deals with the power of an apparition . Whether it is a ghost or the viewer's conscience is up to the viewer to decide , but it certainly evens the score . Ben Cooper plays Ronnie Watson , an ambitious jockey who will stop at nothing to win a race ( so long as he's not caught ) . The racetrack he is working at has an older jockey named Sam Barry ( Walter Burke ) who is well liked , and highly professional . Watson and Barry are in a close neck - to - neck race that Watson cheats on to win . Barry is aware of this , but the cheating is such that it is his behavior that is unfairly scrutinized . That is the first part of the story . The second part is about five years later , and Watson has managed to achieve quite a public image as a winning jockey . He is in another important race , but in the days before the race he keeps seeing Barry at different spots , not all of them the race track . Each time Barry is smiling somewhat sardonically at Watson , and each time disappears before Watson can confront him . SPOILER COMING UP : The race starts and Watson is in the lead for most of it , but in the last stretch he sees Barry on a horse approaching in such a way that the horse seems headed to collide with his horse . Watson pulls up his horse , thus throwing the race . When confronted by the judges , he insists he was in danger from the horse ridden by Barry and had no choice . This angers the judges even more , as Barry was not in the race on any horse . They review a film of the race , and on it you see Watson on his horse leading , and then pulling it to stop it for no reason . Finally , someone checks into Sam Barry's whereabouts , and finds he died only a couple of weeks earlier in a racing accident in South American , where he was still able to get jobs as a jockey . Watson is thrown out of racing for throwing the race . Now , to me this episode was one that did not depend on whether or not one accepted the solution that a real apparition of the dead man made Watson behave as he did . Either way , as a real ghost of the dead man coming back to even a score , or as a mental effect from a belated , guilty conscience , the conclusion of the story was really very effective . I also liked this episode because it touched on a subject that rarely is mentioned in movies or television . While films discussed heroes in sports like Rockne , Gipp , Piccolo ( football ) , Ruth , Gehrig , Cobb , Alexander , Dean , Lewis , Pearsall ( baseball ) , Thorpe ( Olympics and professional baseball and football ) , Sullivan , Corbett , Johnson , Dempsey , Braddock , Louis & Schmeling ( boxing ) , Hogan ( golf ) , it rarely tried to touch on racing to honor any major jockey . If you think about it , NATIONAL VELVET and it's sequel INTERNATIONAL VELVET did look at the issue of training for a major race from a jockey's perspective , but the jockeys were fictitious in both cases ( and of amateur standing ) . The only film that mentioned a real , famous jockey was YANKEE DOODLE DANDY , because George M . Cohan's first successful musical ( LITTLE JOHNNY JONES ) was based on the scandal that engulfed Tod Sloan , America's leading jockey in 1903 , when he was disqualified in the English Derby . There was no film about say Eddie Arcaro , or about Fred Archer , 19th Century England's most successful jockey ( known as " the Tin-man " , because betting on his horse inevitably led to being a big winner ) . ( After writing the above last night it dawned on me that the " heroes " or " heroines " of such films are the horses - they are beautiful animals , usually lovable , and magnificent pure speed machines . So we have films like PHAR LAP and SEABISCUIT . ) I bring this out because in actuality leading jockeys are well known , but seem to get short shrift in comparison to their counterparts in other sports . It is as though the glory of riding a horse to victory is besmirched because of the gambling involved ( a fate that baseball almost shared until the aftermath of the Black Sox Scandal ) . Yet Watson manages to get some high degree of public notice by his successful racing . In fact , one of the interesting things about the tele-play here is that we see Watson in his apartment talking to another person about how really famous he's become . It seems they have just finished shooting a television show in his apartment , and it was some kind of interview , and only really famous are on that show . Of course , in 1959 , the viewing audience would guess that Watson had just been on PERSON - TO - PERSON , being interviewed by Edward R . Murrow . It's a curious reference point , both in showing Watson's growing fame , but in reminding us of a contemporary television show . So for all these reasons , I enjoyed this episode of ONE STEP BEYOND , and recommend it to the viewers .
A touch of Lipski and Maybrick , and a dash of James Berry thrown in	In 1889 Mrs . Florence Maybrick was charged and convicted of poisoning her husband James a cotton-broker from Liverpool ) . The trial was not very good - the evidence was questionable and the judge ( Sir James Fitzjames Stephen ) was suffering from a nervous breakdown and gave a good summation if they had been trying Florence for adultery , but a lousy one for a homicide case . Florence's death sentence was reduced to life imprisonment . She was released in 1904 ( her life never was able to be salvaged - she died in great poverty in a shack in Connecticut in 1941 ) . Before his nervous breakdown Sir James had been the judge at another poisoning case ( in 1887 ) of an immigrant named Israel Lipski , who apparently poisoned a married woman named Miriam Angel in her apartment in Batty Street , London . Israel was found under the victim's bed , apparently having taken some of the poison too . He was convicted , but he claimed that two other men killed Miriam , and poured the poison down his throat to frame him . The newspaper editor William T . Stead pushed for a reinvestigation . Pressure mounted . Justice Stephen met with Home Secretary Henry Matthews . They went over the evidence , and appear to have been willing to give Lipski the benefit of the doubt , when word got to them that Lipski ( after a discussion with his Rabbi ) confessed . Lipski hanged . The most recent study of the case ( Martin Friedland's THE TRIALS OF ISRAEL LIPSKI ) concludes that the confession was a questionable one . Just two more elements to add to this . The famous wax museum , Madame Tussaud's , has it's " Chamber of Horrors " room with statues of infamous killers . Also included are some of England ' executioners . The plot of the novel is that Tussaud's is planning a tableau of Miriam's execution by James Berry . James Berry was the public executioner from 1883 to his resignation in 1892 . He wrote a book of memoirs so we know more about his experiences . He also became an outspoken critic and opponent of capital punishment , due his experiences . Yet he did enjoy the notoriety of the job , and in the plot is preening himself for being immortalized at Tussaud's with Miss Cromer . Miriam Cromer's trial in early 1888 ( prior to the Whitechapel Killings ) is the major murder trial of the year . The wife of Howard Cromer ( a photographer ) she was arrested by the local police inspector ( Waterlow ) after she confesses to killing Cromer's assistant with poison ( the chemicals used for photographic development ) . She claims the deceased was making sexual advances on her . Her husband is on record as saying he caught the assistant and Miriam together several times , and his wife was flustered , while the assistant quite silent each time . So the trial is rather quick - the whole case is that Mrs . Cromer killed to protect her good name from a scoundrel who wanted her body . That is not a really good defense in Victorian justice , so she is sentenced to death . But it is a good enough defense to get public sympathy built up for Miriam . A wave of public sympathy is forcing the Home Secretary to wonder if clemency is not to be given here . Matthews contacts Chief Inspector Jowett , who contacts Cribb and Thackeray . And they start a reinvestigation , first going to Waterlow . The Inspector is going to retire soon , and admits that as Mrs . Cromer confessed he saw no real reason to fully investigate every aspect of the case . So Cribb and Thackeray have to start from scratch . Soon they are contacting Howard Cromer , and he is rather careful in his statements , supportive of his wife , but not going beyond a certain point regarding the events of the fatal day . It soon becomes noticeable that Cromer and the assistant were not very friendly with each other - in fact , if Miriam had not confessed , Howard would have been the suspect . Cribb also finds that a close family friend , Simon , seems to know more than he is saying regarding the behavior of the deceased and Miriam , and Howard . He verifies the low opinion of the deceased that most people have , but he is fuzzy on details regarding the discovery of the deceased's body and the position of Howard and Miriam on the day of the murder ( but keep in mind , perjury is not involved here - neither Howard , nor Simon , ever testified at Miriam's trial - only Miriam did when her confession was read ) . The only person who is speaking up for the deceased is his girlfriend , Lottie Piper . First she knows that the deceased never was interested in Miriam for a sexual encounter ( he was too deeply involved with Lottie ) . But secondly the deceased kept mentioning something he knew about Miriam . Cribb meets with Miriam , and is impressed by her total strength of character , and coolness under the pressure of the death cell . We soon realize that Miriam is fully informed ( by Howard and Simon ) of what is going on in terms of public opinion and the authorities concerning her sentence . In fact , in those scenes she acts more like a general giving orders to two aides as to what to do next . Soon afterward Howard flees his photography studio / home and goes to parts unknown . Miriam is told somebody has been even looking carefully at the clothes on the wax figurine of Miriam at Tussaud's - from the description she thinks it is Cribb , which suggests he has his doubts . Actually it is not Cribb - it's Berry , examining where he and his subject will stand . I will not go further into the plot , but suffice it to say that in the end a kind of justice triumphs in several ways .
An unexpected boon to Dashiell Hammett	Dashiell Hammett constructed five novels and many short stories , all dealing with crime and detection . They were based on his work as a Pinkerton Detective , which gives them a gritty realism that lifted them from the more forgettable mystery novels of the 1920s like S . S . Van Dine's " Philo Vance " . Up to Hammett's time American mystery novelists would try to copy the styles of British mystery novelists . Perhaps the most original type of mystery writer in America was Mary Roberts Rinehart , who constructed the " Had I but known " school in which a naive heroine is swept into a romance or marriage with a handsome , dashing type , who turns out to be a secret killer or fortune hunter or generally evil type . It actually worked - and influenced other writers ( the type of story is found in variations in such movies as THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE or UNDERCURRENT ) . It worked for Rinehart , who used her massive profits to help build up the publishing house . But Hammett was willing to show the real crime in urban American . He also was able to have a clean writing style , and even toyed with symbolism on a limited scale ( like how he turns " the Thin Man " of this story into a slenderer and slenderer figure until he is actually a skeleton ) . Another thing that Hammett brought in was his political sympathies . He hated being a paid goon for the rich as a Pinkerton operative . So some of his stories ( RED HARVEST , for instance ) is about the underlying labor / capital tensions in an industrial town . There are traces about this in THE THIN MAN , where Nora likes Nick's lowlife friends - the antithesis of the snobs she grew up with . In 1934 he was living in California with the woman who would be his lover until his death in 1961 : dramatist Lilian Hellman . He was approached to write a novel for a large sum of money . Most of his work he carefully thought out , but this was a pot boiler . He did not realize that it would be the biggest best seller of his career ( yes , even more than THE MALTESE FALCON ) . THE THIN MAN is basically a fantasy . Most of the detectives in his other stories are hard working poor guys like Sam Spade or " the Continental Op " [ for Operative ] . Here Nick Charles was the hard working poor guy detective , but he married Nora , an heiress . So he retires from detecting and is managing her properties . Nora , by the way , is based on Lillian's personality ( supposedly ) . There is more comedy in the story than in most of the others ( think of THE GLASS KEY for a more typical Hammett plot ) . There is also more drinking , which was , unfortunately , the situation in the Hammett - Hellman household . And the plot was complicated and clever : where did the inventor disappear to ? Did he murder his thieving mistress ? Or did anyone else cause the murder ? With a cast headed by William Powell and Myrna Loy ( actually the first time they were paired as the leads , as opposed to MANHATTAN MELODRAMA that they shared with Clark Gable ) they were both brilliant as a realistic married couple . In fact they would play a perfect married couple in five more " Thin Man " films , and four other movies as well . The rest of the cast , Maureen O'Sullivan , Minna Gombell , Porter Hall , Nat Pendleton , Harold Huber , Edward Ellis , and Ed Brophy were fantastically good too . Under Woody Van Dyke's skillful direction they created a great detective film . And they gave Dashiell Hammett further film work for over a decade .
Really First Rate Film Noir - And Bettger Almost Walks Off With It !	Looking at the casting and production of this film , and even the title , an informed viewer must wonder about who was the guiding genius behind it . The romantic leads , William Holden and Nancy Olsen , just played the similar leads in a tragically doomed love affair in Billy Wilder's SUNSET BOULEVARD . The director , Rudolph Mate , was better known for his cinematography up to a few years earlier . But by 1950 he had THE DARK PAST ( also with Holden and Lee J . Cobb ) and D . O . A . ( with Edmond O'Brien ) under his belt . . . and there were more to come . The villain ( in only his third film ) was the terrific bad guy Lyle Bettger - about to fully blossom in what was the best role in this film ( but bad guys usually got the best roles in " film noir " ) . Barry Fitzgerald is here playing a version of his Police Detective from THE NAKED CITY . In supporting parts are Jan Sterling , Allene Roberts , Herbert Heyes , Parley Baer , Ralph Sanford , and even Byron Foulger . This film has everything going for it - even the location is suggestive of potential tragedy . In 1933 the FBI suffered the worst loss of personal in it's early history when four of it's agents , while escorting some prisoners , were ambushed in a botched attempt to spring the prisoners . The four men were machine-gunned to death as were the two prisoners ( I said it was botched ) . As a result J . Edgar Hoover got Congress to pass legislation allowing F . B . I . men to carry arms into the field ( something the states had rejected at first ) . The killings were later ascribed ( probably truthfully ) to " Pretty Boy " Floyd's gang , but nobody was ever punished for the killings . The incident happened in the parking area of UNION STATION in Kansas City . In fact , it is historically called " The Union Station Massacre " . Oddly enough no regular film was ever done of the true story - although a fictionalized television film was made in the 1970s . But this is such a good thriller it will do for it's acting ( especially Bettger ) and production values . Olson is a secretary to Heyes , a very wealthy man who has a single child - Roberts . Originally Roberts had all her senses , but she has become blind . When she vanishes , Olson becomes suspicious of two men on a commuter train ( Bettger and an associate ) who she follows to Union Station . She approaches Holden and he uses his staff of railway police to follow them and see where they put away a piece of luggage . After they leave Holden prepares to open the locker to verify that Olson thinks they have a gun in there . But he insists on doing everything by the book - much to Olsen's disgust . He does not want law suits against himself , his men , the staff of the station or the station itself . He insists on her name and address , and Olsen - very angrily - gives it to him . Then the locker is checked , and Olsen's information verified . This is how the film progresses , and adds to the tensions of the story . Bettger is a border-line psychotic ( he enjoys some taunting of his victims , but he keeps his eyes on the goal of the kidnap ransom ) . He has spent five years in prison for a hold-up ( he angrily dismisses the event , calling the filling-station robbery a " coffee and cake " affair ) . While there he thought out this meticulous crime - all centered on the station . As he is willing to use and kill people to get his results he constantly keeps one step ahead of his pursuers . But Holden and his regular police force Detective Fitgerald have to move more slowly . They have to play by limitations and rules they are assigned to uphold ( though at one point they give one of Bettger's associates a " third degree " good cop - bad cop grilling that gets results with near violence ) . They also are hamstrung because of Heyes , who is frightened at the threat to his helpless daughter and agrees to anything Bettger demands . So Bettger , despite the losses of two associates , is always in the lead - and calling the shots to the conclusion of the film . His key to success is his hold on Roberts , a helpless victim who cannot fight on equal terms . If the forces of law and order want to find her alive ( a point that Bettger really could not care about ) they have to follow his tune . The actors are all good , with Holden and Olsen gradually finding reasons to appreciate each other more and more . Fitzgerald has no moment ( as in THE NAKED CITY ) outlining his model for solving crimes . But he and Holden do discuss ( after the death of a policeman ) the limits of following the book and rules in moments of danger . Holden feels that such behavior only ends with the party on a slab in a morgue , but Fitzgerald says that kind of bravery wins battles . It's a lesson Holden takes to heart . The supporting actors too are good - in particular Jan Sterling as Bettger's lover and most sympathetic gang member . On the whole UNION STATION is a wonderful film noir , and a must see film .
A Wonderful Look at a Remarkable Literary Group	This is one of those programs that was shown so frequently at one time ( roughly 1990 ) and is rarely if ever on television or DVD now . Heywood Hale Broun , the narrator , was a sports commentator for most of his career - an elegantly dressed one with a fine looking mustache . His father Heywood Broun , was a leading Liberal writer of the 1920s and 1930s . He was one of several leading figures who joined together from roughly 1919 to 1936 to socialize together as friends . The group included Robert Benchley , Dorothy Parker , Alexander Woolcott , George S . Kaufman , Broun ( Sr . ) , Robert Sherwood , Marc Connolly , F . P . Adams , Edna Ferber , and Harpo Marx . They frequently met for lunch at the Algonquin Hotel , so it became known as the " Algonquin Round Table " . Because of the number of humorists ( Benchley , Parker , Adams , Harpo , and Woolcott ) involved the group's comments was usually very witty . The film really followed the rise and collapse of the group - using reminiscences from various associates of the members , and even some of the surviving papers of the members ( particularly Woolcott - note the section where he comes out against psychoanalysis because he thinks the brain should be left alone ) . Only one main member still survived - Marc Connolly , author of the Pulitzer Prize play THE GREEN PASTURES . Connolly's interview was interesting because while discussing the group a waiter interrupted the old man and he told the waiter off on film - an unusual event in a documentary . The film included many photos of the members of the group as well as home movies . Besides Heywood Hale Broun's narration various actors did the voices of the various writers ( Fred Gwynne is listed as Kaufman , but all were represented in the film ) . The way that politics and various levels of work split up the group ( including Hollywood , which took Harpo and his brothers away , and Kaufman and Ferber and Connolly for making films ) were shown . The group's unity dissolved . Broun's last comment is how in 1936 Ferber was at the Algonquin for the first time in years for lunch , and found their table was being occupied by a family on a vacation from the middle west . It was actually an extremely interesting hour long documentary - which one wishes had been longer . But any record on celluloid is well worth it . Now if only they'd show it again .
The Best Back Stage Musical ?	I tend to like " The Band Wagon " more than " Forty Second Street " because while both are instructive about how a musical show is put together , the later movie shows how disastrously wrong-headed some productions become and how they have to be redesigned on the road . While few are as bad as Jeffrey Cordova's version of a musical " Faust " , there have been many shows headed for Broadway that collapsed on the road , and there have been some productions of classic literature that was turned into musicals but collapsed on Broadway ( remember the musical version of " Pride And Prejudice " , " First Impressions " - or the musical version of " David Copperfield " ? ) . Also the first try-out of the show in New Haven reminds me a little of the critical turning point sequence in " All About Eve " , where Addison finally puts Eve in her place during a try-out in New Haven . The musical score of the show , from a review by Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz , is wonderful , and even includes some tunes that are dance music only - " Dancing in the Dark " and " You , And the Night , And the Music " are not sung but danced to - the latter as a joke sequence only , but the former in a romantic , never-land Central Park . But from " By Myself " , through " Put a Melody in Your Heart " , through " That's Entertainment " , " Louisiana Hayride " , and the " Triplets " Number the score is practically flawless . It's nice to be able to hear a movie score and enjoy it all . ( It's interesting to note that in the 1949 William Powell film , " Dancing in the Dark " , the title song is introduced by his character - while danced by the heroine - as part of the " upcoming " MGM musical " The Band Wagon " . One wonders if the Dietz - Schwartz musical was on the planning boards at MGM for several years . ) The story is how Tony Hunter ( Fred Astaire ) returns from his years in Hollywood to the Broadway theater scene . He is over fifty , and believes his best years as a song and dance man are over . But his friends Lily and Lester Martin ( Nanette Fabrey and Oscar Levant ) have written a complete musical comedy for him , and have gotten Broadway's latest " wunderkind " Cordova ( Jack Buchanan ) to agree to produce and direct it . Unfortunately Cordova loves classical theater , and latches onto a phrase in the description of the show suggestive of " Faust " . He refuses to reconsider the show as just pure entertainment , but only will see it as great " serious " theater . He gets a leading ballet dancer , Gabrielle Gerard ( Cyd Charisse ) to co-star opposite Hunter , and her boy-friend director Paul Byrd ( James Mitchell ) to choreograph the show . Cordova's ego is so wrapped up in his vision of this production ( which he insists will be ready for opening try-out in three weeks time ) that he fails to see that Hunter and Gerard not only have doubts about the production but if they can work together , and that the Martins are split about trusting Cordova's vision of their work . Vincent Minelli's film has a grand grounding in his background in Broadway theater . In the scenes where a stunned Astaire returns to Broadway after twenty years in California , and finds all the former sites he knew are gone - the Selwyn Theater where he started is a penny arcade ( as was the case on Broadway in many old theaters in the period from 1950 to 1985 ) . The round-the-clock rehearsing of the musical's book and dances and songs , leaving the cast bone tired but forced to continue . The way Cordova has to jump from meeting the scenery people to rehearsing the cast to giving pep talks to Astaire to testing the special effects ( keep an eye on his overuse of fire for the fires of hell in one dance number , as well as his turntable fiasco ) . The cast is uniformly good , with Astaire the voice of skeptical , time trained reason in the eye of the Buchanan ego running amok . Levant and Fabray play off each other very well . Charisse demonstrates a nice handling of ballet throughout the film , culminating in the take-off on Mickey Spillane novels that completes the musical . What is nice in the story is how all of the main characters ( except the stuffy Mitchell ) pull together to save the show , with even Cordova realizing he went too far in his vision and letting Astaire guide matters . I don't know if that happens too frequently - probably not . But it is rather sweet to see that the cast and the production crew could pull together despite a real disaster . " Forty Second Street " is a first rate film too , but it really centers on the determination of Warner Baxter's director to make his musical a financial success before his health collapses . " The Band Wagon " is really on what makes a musical good theater , and proves it is entertainment value above anything else - not necessarily intellectual content .
That Odd Turn at Albuquerque Goes to the Black Forest	This was the last of the three World War II cartoons shown on the TURNER CLASSIC FILM " Cartoon Alley " show yesterday . This one is of interest because of it's connections with the future Bugs Bunny cartoons . First off , this is the cartoon where Bugs is driven off course in his underground travels by making the wrong turn at Albuquerque , New Mexico for the first time . Secondly , in his confronting Goering ( a fat , blond figure in lederhausen , who vaguely resembles horrible Herman ) , Bugs vanishes for a few seconds , and reappears ( to the strains of the " Venusburg " music of Wagner's TANNHAUSER ) as Brunhilde on a fat German horse . This , as mentioned elsewhere here , is the original for the classic scenes between Bugs and Elmer Fudd in WHAT'S OPERA DOC ? But there is a trifle more here which I don't believe is in the later cartoon . Goering sees " the beautiful " Brunhilde , runs off and returns in Wagnerian - Middle Ages costume , complete with Viking helmet - and as he looks at Brunhilde again the horns on the hat take on an " erection " appearance that is unexpected . The cartoon is set on Goering's estate in the Black Forest , where the second man of the Reich hunted and acted like his own idea of what a " Rennaisance " man was like . In fact , Goering did more than shoot game on his estate - he shot up . Goering became a total drug addict , and his system was not cleaned out until the Allies put him under medical control at Nuremburg . Ironically , in real life , when that happened his brain power actually resurrected itself , and he was able to present a formidable presence at the war crime trial . This aspect is not in the cartoon ( it was barely known in early 1945 ) . Instead we see Goering relaxing at his estate , which Bugs accidentally invades . Bugs is able to momentarily trick Goering into believing he is Hitler ( and into confessing that Hitler annoys Goering - which leads Bugs as Hitler in stripping Goering of all his decorations ) . But eventually Bugs is captured by Goering's pet vulture , and Herman takes Bugs in a bag to Berlin to give to Der Fuhrer . Hitler is playing solitaire at his desk , and barely seems to hear Goering , but stops his game , and starts talking like a pitchman ( saying " Tell you what I'm going to do ! " ) . He gives another medal to Goering , and then opens the bag , screams in fear , and flees . Goering follows suit , and does the same . Then we see Bugs rise out of the bag , made up to look like Joseph Stalin - which explains why this cartoon did not get shown on television in the 1950s and 1960s when I first got into Bugs Bunny cartoons .
They paid more money than the Germans did in reparations !	Gina Lollabrigida had the slight misfortune to appear on the scene in Italian cinema at the same time that Sophia Loren did . Between them ( aided by Anita Ekbert ) they dominated the sexual scene in Italian films , but Loren pulled ahead slightly in dramatic fare - and copped an Oscar in 1960 for " Two Women " , something that Lollabrigida never got . Loren was also lucky enough to get a handsome leading man ( Marcello Mastroianni ) to complement her in several of her sex farces . Lollabrigida never had a handsome partner . It is a trifle unfair because both women were not only beautiful but quite talented as actresses . And both were first rate in comedy . " Buono Sera , Mrs . Campbell " may be the best comedy Lollabrigida made - it is certainly the most accessible to English speaking audiences because it is in English . It's plot is reminiscent of the later American comedy " Father's Day " ( which is based on a French film ) wherein two men ( Billy Crystal and Robin Williams ) search for a young teenager who they both think is their biological son ( or so has the mother of the boy told them - she claims she is not sure which of them or her husband is the actual father ) . It is also reminiscent ( in a reversal of plot ) of Loren and Mastroianni's comedy " Marriage Italian Style " . There Loren uses money from Mastroianni's business to support three sons , unknown to each other , one of whom is Mastroianni's biological son . In " Mrs . Campbell " , Lollabrigida is the mother of a beautiful young woman who is the daughter of one of three American veterans who helped liberate her town in World War II . The three ( Telly Savalas , Phil Silvers , and Peter Lawford ) romanced her , and never knew of the other two . When she became pregnant she informed each and they promised to send her money to support the girl . As a result Lollabrigida has had a very comfortable lifestyle , and the girl is well educated . She chooses the name of " Campbell " for her " dead " husband ( if anyone inquires ) from the name of her favorite American soup company . However , the daughter is growing up , and she is determined to have a sexual life free of her mother's concerns . Their discord is mingled by Lollabrigida's discovery that the American veterans are returning to her village after a quarter century for a huge reunion , and she finds all three of her ex-boyfriends are coming determined to see their daughter . The complications are not only on Lollabrigida's side . Each of her three " heros " has married and the resulting marriages are not perfect . Silvers is married to Shelley Winters , and they have children of their own ( including an obnoxious son ) . Lawford is married to Janet Margolin , and don't have their kids with them - in fact they took the trip to supposedly get away from their kids . Telly Savalas is married to Lee Grant , and they have the most strained marriage - Grant has wanted kids but Savalas never had any with her . The story pursues the attempts of the three ex-G . I . s in trying to resume an active relationship with Lollabrigida , but avoiding their wives ( and in Silver's case his kids ) , while Lollabrigida has to keep the three from discovering each other , and from confronting her daughter - who always has thought her father died in the war . The film actually works quite well , with all the principles ( even Lawford , for a change ) being funny . I will not be revealing too much that eventually the men do meet and realize how two of them ( which two we can't tell ) were conned . Savallas makes the comment that I varied a little in the " Summary " Line . How the film ends I leave to the reader to discover when they watch it . It ends quite fairly , with all the fathers discovering their fatherly instincts ( despite their mutual shock ) . It also ends by giving one other character a sweet moment of recognition that is totally unexpected - but thoroughly appreciated by the viewer . As a sweet and funny comic farce it is one of the best .
Belatedly Hollywood does Rodgers and Hart's Masterpiece	Lorenz Hart wrote in a different style from his successor as partner to Richard Rodgers ( Oscar Hammerstein 2nd ) . Hart had a more smart alecky type of lyric , less wholesome . But he still was quite a clever and intelligent lyricist . His tragedy was a personal one . Hammerstein had a happy home life . Hart was a troubled bi-sexual ( most of the time he was actually a homosexual , but he did love at least one of his Broadway stars , Vivian Siegal , and proposed to her late in his life ) . He also had a serious drinking problem . Rodgers too had an alcohol problem , but it was in relative control until the 1960s . Hart's growing binges in the 1930s and early 1940s began to fray the partnership . Rodgers would later admit he got tired being a nurse to his partner . Their partnership was remarkably fruitful from the early 1920s to it's completion in 1944 , both on Broadway and in Hollywood . But most of their musicals were in the old fashion method of the songs fitted into the book - not worked into the book . Towards the end of the 1930s , with their " Shakespeare " musical THE BOYS FROM SYRACUSE and their ballet / dance musical ON YOUR TOES they started doing more modern style musicals where the songs were used to push the story along . But it was not until 1940 that they came up with their masterpiece : PAL JOEY . PAL JOEY was based on a novel by John O'Hara ( author of BUTTERFIELD 8 and APPOINTMENT IN SAMARRA ) . It is actually a modern epistolary novel , with Joey writing letters describing his adventures to a friend ( hence ending the letters with " Your pal , Joey " ) . Joey , to put it bluntly , is an opportunistic heel using people all over the place . He hopes to eventually create the classiest nightclub in Chicago ( Joey is a professional emcee ) . He meets two women ( Linda who is his age , and Vera who is older and richer ) . He keeps jumping and reassuring each until he is caught up in a set of cross-purposed lies . A blackmail attempt puts an end to the entire dream , and both women dump Joey . His last song is how his best friend is himself . The original musical flopped - Broadway was yet to be ready for a musical with an anti-hero . But it had a splendid score of clever tunes , many with double-entendre lyrics ( such as " Happy Little Hunting Horn " and " Our Little Den of Iniquity " ) . It had Siegal as Vera ( she introduced " Bewitched , Bothered , and Bewildered " ) , Elaine Stritch ( in a supporting part as a reporter who interviewed Gypsy Rose Lee - she sang " Zip " ) , and ( as the star ) Gene Kelly . It's nice to report that there is surviving color and black and white film from home cameras of Kelly in several scenes dancing . None with the music , however . It was not until a 1951 revival that the musical became a smash hit . If you read the facts on this thread you will see how long the studios tried to get PAL JOEY onto film . It was not until 1957 that it finally got made . Kelly had been originally wanted for repeating the role , but circumstances prevented this . Instead the role ended up with Frank Sinatra , Vera was played by the film's actual star , Rita Hayworth , and Linda by Kim Novak . The main structure of the story was kept , such as the triangle and Joey's dream of being owner / boss of the classiest nightclub ( here , though , in San Francisco ) . Joey's heel personality is still there , but softened towards the end ( in the musical he is a heel to the conclusion ) . The blackmail plot ( involving Gladys Bumps and her boy-friend Ludlow Lowell ) is dropped , although Gladys remains as a hostile , suspicious chorus girl ( she knows Joey's past ) played well by Barbara Nicholls . The cast was a Columbia one , with only one face that is a fair regular one among Sinatra cronies ( Hank Henry as Mike , the nightclub manager - he also popped up in OCEAN'S ELEVEN and THE JOKER IS WILD ) . It is a well done song fest of Rodgers and Hart tunes , although two tunes ( MY FUNNY VALENTINE and THERE'S A SMALL HOTEL ) are not from the show's score , and most of the tunes are dropped . ZIP is rewritten so that it is sung by Vera , formerly a " Gypsy Rose Lee " type . But the remainder keep the basic idea of the musical in tact - including a number showing Joey's dream of what his " Chez Joey " would have been like . But it is , on the whole , a wonderfully well made musical and certainly among Sinatra's best .
Still the greatest car chase sequence in any thriller ever made	I have found in my life that few films hit me properly from the start . BULLITT ( which I first saw at College ) was one of them . It cemented my high opinion of the cinematic acting ability of Steve McQueen , and it has always struck me as one of the best police " procedural " films in terms of the way the investigation is handled by McQueen's titled character . But the chase , at the center of the film , is the highpoint that made me love the film . And oddly enough , Director Peter Yates manages to somewhat top it with the second chase through the runways of an airport at the film's conclusion . McQueen works under Simon Oakland as a detective in the San Francisco Police Department . He lives with his artistic girlfriend Jacqueline Bissett . One day he is one of the detectives assigned to protect an important witness against the mob that is supposed to be presented to the anti-crime commission by millionaire / would-be politician Robert Vaughn . The witness is set up in a motel with policemen as guards . There should be no problem . Yet two mob hit men manage to crash in , wound the police ( one fatally ) and kill the witness . McQueen is told of this and goes to the hospital . He has little use for Vaughn ( an arrogant creep if ever there was one ) , or his stooge central police connection Norman Fell . His sole interest now is to find the killers and figure out what happened . He does so by hiding the fact that the witness died - and spreading the word that the police are now redoubling efforts to protect the witness . While Vaughn fumes and Fell threatens Oakland and McQueen , the latter continues the investigation , aided by cabby Robert Duvall ( in an early role ) . This leads to the chase sequence , which starts with us being aware that the cab and then McQueen's car are being followed by a car with the two hit men in it . The beginning of the sequence is mild , as we see them driving after McQueen , but the turning point is when they have apparently lost him , and he reappears following their car . Then they go into the outskirts of San Francisco , and the roads from the city , with the added threats of other vehicles and of a twelve gage sawed - off shotgun one of the hit men uses . There are nice procedural moments throughout : McQueen seeing the set up of the now closed crime scene at the motel , with ribbons tracing the trajectories of the bullets ; the investigation of a dead woman's trunk and belongings to figure out why she was killed ; a sequence with a 1968 version ( possibly a first ) of a fax machine of that period - a favorite scene of mine because it knocks the props out of both Vaughn's arrogance and Fell's belief that his own future in the police is made . And the issues of the effect of the job on McQueen is not forgotten either . Bissett witnesses the aftermath of some violence , and confronts him on how he can stand it every day . I do not think any other crime and cop thriller ever hit the notes so naturally and perfectly together . The cast helps from McQueen down to the two hit men ( silent roles for stunt men ) . Witness too that Simon Oakland plays a nice character for once , and does well with his part ( look at the scene between him and a threatening Vaughn outside the church Oakland is taking his family to on Sunday ) . Vaughn is great as a smarmy , selfish piece of work who sees people as pawns to play with for his own benefit . McQueen finally tells him off , but does it effectively and without histrionics . This is one of those films that just never ages .
An American Colossus and the People Around Him	There are now 810 comments on this , possibly the greatest of all American films ( if not all films ) . This review is about an issue I always think about - how horrific was Kane to his country , his associates , and his intimates ? Kane's personality is that of a man desperate to try to hold onto the affections of everyone who encounters him . He has had little real family life ( as his mother - Agnes Moorehead - makes the blunder of taking him away from a somewhat drunken father - Harry Shannon - and giving his upbringing to a cold banker - George Coulouris ) . Kane understands what love is , but he has no way of concentrating his idea of it - he is uncertain if he is going to lose the affections of everyone . If he had been brought up properly he would have been able to do things more stably . Instead he keeps switching personality depending on whom he meets . He is the breezy young newspaper owner who is determined to shake up the fusty paper he bought ( to the delight of Joseph Cotton and Everett Sloan , but to the dismay of old time editor Erskine Sanford ) . He is the crusading liberal in the face of banker Coulouris ( as a way of evening scores , and of reminding the banker of how most of the public saw the rich in 1898 ) . He is the young lover to his first wife ( Ruth Warwick ) , but they grow apart . Frequently it is suggested that his first wife Emily was harmless . What is ignored is she's an anti-Semitic bigot about his close associate Bernstein ( Sloan ) . Hardly a harmless type . She also is not very supportive about his political hopes . The most interesting problems about Kane's personal choices for popularity and love is the " Alexander " problems . He meets Susan ( Dorothy Comingore ) by sheer accident , and the simplest things breaks the ice between them . But Susan does not stop the affair , and it becomes the " Achilles ' Heel " of Kane's run for Governor of New York . Boss Gettys reveals the relations of Kane and Susan , destroying the former's political career and his marriage . But nobody ever notes the following : 1 ) Kane was committed to political reform - to end the power of a crooked Boss . Emily's selfishness or anger in not sticking to Charles helps this crook retain power . It's hardly edifying conduct . 2 ) The public willingly drops supporting Kane in the election - their amusement enhanced by the scandal . But they too are saying they support a crooked Boss and his system . 3 ) Getty does tell off Kane about his pig-handedness , but this does not explain away his own willingness to use partial extortion ( he offered to sit on the story of the love affair if Kane " discovered " he was too sick to continue running for Governor - the election is only a few days off ! ) . Actually , despite Ray Collins ' splendid handling of the role , Gettys is not an admirable character . The scandal also affects Kane's friendship with Jed Leland ( Cotton ) . Cotton has already been suspicious when the Enquirer hires away the staff of the Chronicle in 1897 . Bernstein makes a cynical comment that these writers can change their opinions to match their new owner's . Leland is not sure ( but they don't change Kane's political opinions ) . When Leland hears about Kane's affair , he becomes a drinker , and he insists on working in Chicago - away from Kane and New York City . Kane really wanted him to remain . Later , when Susan tries to be an opera singer Leland begins a negative review ( that Kane finishes ) . Kane does fire Leland , but tries to give him a large severance check ( which Leland rips up ) . Susan is a small harpy screaming about Leland's review , and refusing to consider Leland a friend of Kane's ( " Friends don't do that ! ! " , she screams ) . Kane was ripped apart by these two . Keep in mind , he did not have to marry Susan after the scandal broke - but he did make her his wife . It does not satisfy her . As for Leland , his father died a bankrupt suicide when Kane helped him out . He is certainly an ingrate . Susan is always denying that she wanted to be an opera singer . Certainly she lacks the voice or talent . But that does not prevent her from continuing a singing career once she divorces Kane . Who's actually lying here ? Gradually the attempts to be all things to all people to keep their love just fails . Kane ( at the start ) is labeled a Communist by Thatcher at a Congressional hearing , and some spokesman at Union Square ( addressing a labor rally ) calls him - after a moment of spaced , uncertain waiting , a " Fascist " . Everyone calls him or looks at him as what they want to look at him as . What did he do wrong ? He revolutionized newspapers . He helped promote the Spanish American War , and the Panama Canal . He helped elect Teddy Roosevelt in 1904 . He stood for reform of political government in New York State in 1916 . He also stood against the entry into World War I ( a point many people to this day feel we should have avoided ) . He built an opera house in Chicago . His empire shrunk a bit in the Depression , but most remained in tact . His art collecting was outlandish , but it saved many precious items from destruction in World War II . And while he did AT FIRST support the fascist and Nazi leadership ( as many prominent leaders and social figures did through 1936 or so ) , he later denounced them . Actually , Kane turns out to be a pretty useful citizen of the U . S . for his times , not such an ogre . Can a case be made that this flawed man deserved to be respected ? Yes . Bernstein was right - and remains the only friend of his who was faithful to the end .
One of the funniest sound movies ever made	If " The Lady With Red Hair " ( about Mrs . Leslie Carter ) gave us a good portrait of theatrical producer / director David Belasco ( in the capable hands of Claude Rains ) , this film shows the ham side . Oscar Jaffe ( John Barrymore ) is based on Belasco , with his less attractive sides . Here is not the man who simply helped create proper modern stage production and rehearsal technique , but the egotistical side of him ( the side Rains showed when he released all contacts to Leslie Carter - Miriam Hopkins in that film - when she dared to marry without his consent ) . Here Jaffe has created the actress sensation " Lily Garland " from an ambitious shop girl named Mildred Plotka ( Carole Lombard ) . Jaffe has played a caring , fatherly Svengali to her , prodding her by caring , sweet , regretful terms to do what he wants ( except they are rehearsing ) . But although - eventually - Lily is willing to become his lover , he is so jealous that he drives her to flee from him . He decides he can do it again , but falls on his face . She goes on to screen immortality in Hollywood . So he is forced to pull out all stops to get her back to a signed contract , when he learns she and he are traveling back to New York on the Twentieth Century train . Howard Hawks would tackle farce several times in his career : " His Gal Friday " , " I Was A Male War Bride " , " Man's Favorite Sport " were all in the future . But this may have been the best of them . The other films have great choice moments , but this one is almost flawless from the start . Take the beginning when Jaffe brings the cast of his first play starring Lili . It is a piece of sentimental pap that Jaffe always produces ( later on , before being dismissed by him , Charles Lane tells off Jaffe the truth that he produces hackwork and " gets away with it " because of Lili's talent ) . In fact , it is a spoof of a popular piece of melodrama from the late 1920s , " Coquette " , which was turned into a film in 1929 ( and netted Mary Pickford an Oscar , which she should have gotten for other films , such as " Sparrows " ) . The cast , including an African-American in a typical stereotype servant role of the period , have to go through several hours of rehearsing the first scene due to Mildred / Lily's failure to match Jaffe's exacting direction . What the overly controlling Jaffe does with stage blocking and a piece of chalk is a nightmare for anyone who has ever tried to produce or act in a play . He does , however , know about acting - he reminds Mildred / Lily that when she calls for " Daddy " in an old southern plantation house she is not to use a voice similar to calling " Taxi " in the street . I won't go into the rest of the film , but wait for " the iron door " whose hinges get dingier and more rusted with each closing , or Barrymore's commentary on " the Passion Play " . Lombard has a more subtle , reacting part , but she is Barrymore's equal partner , having the moment of reality at the center of the film : on the train , when after screaming at each other she breaks down and cries , and makes Jaffe realize that they have built themselves into an unhealthy universe where they can't be real people anymore . It's a brief , and touching moment - fortunately not destroying the sheer lovely nuttiness of the rest of the film .
What went wrong between Russia and the West ?	Most people will consider that Yul Brynner's greatest performance was as the ruler of Siam in THE KING AND I . Certainly it gave him a wide variety of moods to test his abilities in , from comic , to tragic , from eager to learn to dominating to hateful . It also showed him to advantage as a " talk singer " and a dancer . Finally , as it was also his Tony Award winning performance from Broadway , the film allowed us to capture something of the great Broadway performance as well . But he did other movies that showed his talents as well as THE KING AND I . His comic turn in ONCE MORE WITH FEELING was quite nice . So was his performance as General Bunin in ANASTASIA , or his Ramses in THE TEN COMMANDMENTS . Yet he came terribly close to being a 1950s successor to Eric Von Stroheim as " the man you love to hate . " A certain vulnerability in his acting and roles endeared him to the movie public , even after his best years as a star were behind him - and he retreated more and more to repeating the King of Siam on television and the stage . To me , his finest performance is in this 1959 drama with Deborah Kerr , Jason Robards Jr . , Robert Morley , E . G . Marshall , Anne Jackson , and Ronnie Howard . The film is set in pretty modern times - the powder-keg that was Hungary in 1956 , when briefly it looked like the Iron Curtain was about to collapse there under the reforms of Hungarian patriot Imre Nagy and his supporters . But the Hungarian Revolution collapsed due to bad timing . The Russians and their Polish and East German allies sent tanks in to crush the revolt ( and arrested and executed Nagy and other reformers ) . The West stood by and let this happen : England and France had gotten caught in the Suez crisis , and the U . S . had berated them and Israel for attacking Egypt . Due to the actions of three close allies of the U . S . , the West found it hard to condemn the overkill of the Soviet Union . It was an unfortunate situation , and the Hungarians have never forgotten how they were abandoned in it . In the film Brynner is Major Surov , a Russian intelligence officer who is watching for some of the leaders of the Hungarian revolt , one of whom is Paul Kedes ( Jason Robards ) . Kedes may be getting assistance from some westerners on a bus tour through Hungary , led by Robert Morley ( including Marshall , Jackson , and Howard , and Kerr ) . The latter are being kept in a hotel while their bus is being repaired , and Brynner mingles with them , hoping for a lead to the whereabouts of Robards . But Brynner is human - he tries to be ingratiating with these people ( all of whom see him as a monster ) , and in sequence , when he has drunk a little too much , he confronts them with the questions that has bothered historians since 1945 : How is it ( even if one notes that Russia had Stalin in charge ) that relations between Russia and the West collapsed so quickly ? The allies , on the whole , had worked well together from 1941 to 1945 , but after Yalta and Potsdam all types of mutual suspicions just erupted . Did they have to ? Surov is a good officer , but he is torn in half by loyalty to the Communist regimes in the Soviet Union and in Hungary that he supports , and his growing fondness towards Kerr , who is hiding Robards but is also willing to note the more human side of the Russian major . And as the film reaches it's tragic climax , we watch as Surov has to decide if he will follow his sense of duty , or take pity on Kerr , Robards , and the other westerners who want to leave . It becomes a true struggle for him - and one that he may win far too late . It was a great film about a tragedy of post war Europe , and possibly the most thoughtful role Yul Brynner ever portrayed .
A Climb to Remember	It has truly said that while THE FRESHMAN , or SPEEDY , or THE KID BROTHER , are better films , SAFETY LAST is the film that everyone who never saw a Harold Lloyd comedy recalls . That is because in one moment on the screen he engraved himself forever into the minds of movie lovers ( something , oddly enough , Chaplin and Keanton never quite did in a single moment of film ) . Lloyd , of course , became immortal for being the man suspended from the clock of the building he was climbing in the concluding half hour of this wonderful comedy . There is more to the film than that of course . Harold , here in love with his home town girlfriend Mildred Davis ( who was his wife in real life ) , has sacrificed money to buy her jewelry , and has been sending her letters lying about his business success . He claims he is a bigwig at the department store he is a clerk in . Actually he is constantly in hot water with the pompous floor walker , Mr . Stubbs ( Westcott Clarke ) . After he sends a second gift to Mildred she decides to join him in the city . He manages to pass himself off as the store's general manager ( don't ask - you have to see how he does it ) . But she wants to get married now - he's making enough supposedly for a house . His best friend is a human fly ( Bill Strother ) , so Harold proposes to the actual general manager a publicity stunt wherein a mystery man will climb the department store facade ( 15 stories ) . Unfortunately , Police Officer Noah Young has a grudge against Strother , and keeps preventing him from climbing . So Harold has to climb up the side - with Strother promising to take over at the right moment once he shakes off Young . Although Chaplin and Keaton's physical comedy included dangers to them ( Keaton and the water fall in OUR HOSPITALITY , for example ) , the climb up the store's facade is considered in a class by itself . Certainly it is one of the few comedy stunts that have been taken apart and analyzed over the years ( even when we know how it was done , it still impresses us ) . The stunt got a life of it's own , beyond the famous clock photograph , because the film's theme is the success theme in American business life . Harold wants to make it in business , and he's just a down-trodden clerk . To make it rich , and to get his girl , he has to risk all on a $1 , 000 . 00 gamble . He does in the end , with his " climbing " having been cleverly compared to " climbing " the business ladder or getting ahead in America . When he seems to retreat at one point some of the onlookers shake their heads and point upward . Once he is on his route to success , he can't turn back . The film is more fun than that particularly good interpretation makes it sound . It deserves a 10 for it's success at remaining a humorous and lasting peace of cinematic comic art , and a fitting monument to that comedy master Harold Lloyd .
The Best Version of the Best Known Stevenson Story	When Robert Louis Stevenson wrote TREASURE ISLAND in 1883 , he probably thought that it was a good work , but hardly better than his TRAVELS WITH A DONKEY or SILVERADO SQUATTERS or his other coming fiction . It was a good early novel , and that was that . He would grow as a writer , but THE MASTER OF BALLENTRAE , DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE , and WEIR OF HERMISTON were in the future , as was KIDNAPPED . So were the forgotten titles : PRINCE OTTO and THE WRECKERS and THE DYNAMITERS . But his best themes are in TREASURE ISLAND . Besides the expert handling of an adventure tale and a historical novel , there is also the issue of ambiguity in personality . Long John Silver is the first of a line of heroes / anti-heroes including Dr . Henry Jeckyll , Alec Breck Stewart , and James and Henry Durrie who while decent in some ways are weak or worse in other ways . Long John is capable of organizing a mutiny , ordering the murder of a troublesome crew member who won't join his plans , or planning to steal a treasure that does not belong to him . But he is human - he sees young Jim Hawkins as a decent kid , and ends up becoming a surrogate father to him in the novel ( even protecting the boy from his less pleasant associates ) . But Long John cannot avoid ( even at his best ) being at his worse . To protect Jim , John has to keep him from the other non-mutineers ( the Squire , Captain Smollett , Dr . Livesey ) , so he lies to Jim that they have denounced Jim as a mutineer and won't have anything to do with him . Subsequently , of course , Jim does learn this is a lie - from Dr . Livesey . Jim likewise finds ambiguity in his reactions . He can't help liking ( even loving ) the sea cook . But he realizes Silver is a bad man . Yet , in the end , he is glad that John escapes ( even with some part of the treasure ) . In his autobiography , Jackie Cooper admits that when he is approached to this day by fans they start asking him about Wallace Beery , and Cooper has to admit that he never was close to Beery socially . They worked well together ( Cooper played Beery's son in THE CHAMP , the 1931 film that gave Beery his Oscar ) . But Beery's personality ( in real life ) was always " troublesome " . Reputedly he left the budding film industry in Chicago in the teens of the 20th Century when he was in danger of a rape charge . In later years his failed marriage to Gloria Swanson was due to his jealousy of her success and his slower success . When he worked with Cooper , he was at his Hollywood zenith as a star and talent , but he was fully aware of it . At one point , Cooper mentions an incident where Beery , he , and some others were eating lunch , and some autograph seekers approached them . While several ( including Cooper ) did not hesitate to give autographs , Beery refused . Afterwards , when asked about this , Beery said that he was a big star and he did not have to be pestered by this kind of thing . Yet , to the credit of both stars , their performances in TREASURE ISLAND are flawless . They get along very nicely in their roles - Jim Hawkins occasionally saying something kindly that raises the suspicious John Silver's spirits a bit . Beery and Cooper also perform well with the rest of the cast - check the scenes where Beery keeps his less and less friendly mutineer associates in line . He brings some dark humor to the situations ( as when a treasure that they dig for is not in the spot they've waisted time at ) . Cooper's best moment without Beery , of course , is the sequence with Douglas Dumbrille as Israel Hands , where they have a fight to the death ( literally ) in the rigging of the ship Hands was supposed to be guarding . Dumbrille , by the way , should be congratulated for his acting here - he manages not to show off that stentorian voice of his , but uses a more weaselly sounding voice quite effectively . Note also Lionel Barrymore's noisy and frightening , but ultimately frightened Captain Billy Bones , forcing the civilians in the Admiral Benbow Inn to sing " Fifteen Men on a Deadman's Chest " , but quivering when told the one legged sea cook has been seen nearby . Also note William Mong's " Blind Pew " , a scary enough figure for awhile , but at the end rather pathetic given his bizarre fate . Chic Sale's Ben Gunn is properly silly from years of isolation . Otto Kruger's Dr . Livesay is properly heroic seeking to make sure that Jim is not harmed by the mutineers . The cast , in short , is first rate , and matched by Victor Fleming's well handled directing . So the film merits a " 10 " . Historically , there was a pirate named Israel Hands , though he was dead by the time of TREASURE ISLAND ( roughly 1740 ) . Hands was one of Blackbeard's crew in 1716 - 1718 , and was the only survivor of that crew from Blackbeard's last battle in 1718 . The pirate chief shot him in the knee , wounding him severely enough to keep from fighting . Hands was put ashore before the battle , and watched while his mates were killed or captured ( and eventually hanged ) . Hands died years later as a beggar in London . Oh , and the inn , " the Admiral Benbow " is named for Admiral John Benbow ( died 1702 ) who was a hero of the Navy in the period of the War of the Spanish Succession .
The Lone Figure On Top of the Staircase Facing the Armed Mob	The war against the Mahdists in the Sudan , the first modern confrontation between the so-called " Liberal / Christian " west and the " Arab / Islamic " east was the subject of several films , but one is KHARTOUM , concerning the initial incidents of the war , and several of the other are the several versions of FOUR FEATHERS , concerning the events leading to the final defeat of the Mahdists in 1898 at Omdurmann . The film THE LIGHT THAT FAILED takes place ( in part ) in the early part of the war , when the British were slowly re-advancing to Khartoum and Omdurmann . KHARTOUM deals with the events from 1883 to January 1885 , when a fanatical Islamic fundamentalist known as " the Mahdi " arose in the backwater of the Sudan , preaching destruction of the infidels who were controlling Islam , and eventual domination of the globe by a reinvigorated Islam led by himself . This figure was actually Mohammad Ahmed , a Dongolese of Islamic ancestry . He claimed he was " the Mahdi " , meaning the awaited one - a type of Islamic messiah who was supposed to restore the glory of that religion in it's pure form . It was not too hard to get support in the Sudan , who were upset at English interference in the slave trade ( which was big business in the Sudan ) and with the political control given to the Khedive of Egypt . A combination of profit and nationalism gave him his real strength , mixed by religious fanaticism . And it was quite effective . He was able to destroy ( literally obliterate ) an army of Egyptian soldiers and English officers led by William Hicks in 1883 . It sparked the revolt's success . In lieu of what happened , particularly to Gordon in 1885 , one can say that the Islamic forces were truthfully dynamic . Actually , they were blown out of proportion . In 1882 the Egyptian army and government were split by an anti-English revolt led by a Colonel Arabi Pasha . Arabi nearly overthrew the Khedive , but the English finally beat him . But Arabi's supporters included many leading Egyptian officers . Hicks ( not the swiftest officer himself ) was not in charge of many good officers , and the massacre was easily achieved . Prime Minister William Gladstone was opposed to imperialist ventures , but he was saddled with the Suez Canal ( which the British partly owned ) . When the Mahdi's threat expanded Gladstone begrudgingly gave into public opinion of sending General George Charles Gordon to the Sudan . Gladstone wanted Gordon to simply close Britain's military mission there . But Gordon , as pointed out in another review on this thread , was a fanatical supporter of Christianity , and an opponent of the slavery supported by the Mahdi . He agreed to go , but he planned to pull Britain's military presence into the area at a stronger pace . The result was a curious three way tug of war , where the Mahdi occasionally was allied with Prime Minister Gladstone , against Gordon's prevarications and delays , but Gladstone would fumblingly be brought back into line because Gordon was a popular hero and an opponent of the slave trade . Still , his uncertain steps doomed Gordon-the relief of Khartoum ( under General Wolsey ) began too late and arrived a week after the tragedy played out . Despite all his defense measures , Gordon saw the Mahdi's forces enter the governor's palace . Standing at the head of the staircase facing them he was speared by one of the Mahdists . Gordon became enshrined as a Christian martyr . Gladstone , previously nicknamed the " Grand Old Man " ( G . O . M . ) became the " M . O . G . " ( " Murderer of Gordon " ) . Gladstone was tossed out of office within half a year . The Mahdi had plans to expand to Cairo , then Constantinople and Mecca , and ( eventually ) every capital in Europe and North and South America . He presumably did not realize just how far he really could have driven his forces ( they just did not have the military hardware for this ) . In any event , he began to set himself up as an old fashioned Caliph , with a harem . For the next year he sexually enjoyed himself , and got fat . Unfortunately , the area of Khartoum and the new capital of Omdurmann was not exactly cleaned of the remains of battle . Plague soon spread among the Sudanese , and the Mahdi ( weakened by his excesses ) died . With him really died the first attempt at a universal Muslim Jihad against the west . His successor , " The Khalifa " was not as charismatic . Charleton Heston plays Gordon as a man of firm conviction , who realizes that his enemy ( Laurence Olivier as " the Mahdi " ) is as capable in checking his moves as any can be feared , and is as firm in the spreading of his religion's power as Gordon is about Christianity . Olivier ( as pointed out elsewhere , using the voice he used as OTHELLO ) is impressed with Heston as an opponent , but is sure of his ultimate victory - but he intended to save Gordon , and the film ends with his horror at finding that Gordon was killed against his orders . The fury of his followers has overcome his leadership , and brings the world down on his head . Ralph Richardson looks remarkably like Gladstone , and shows the idealist who hated the imperial system left to him by his hated rival Disraeli , and yet was a subtle politician ( look at the way he signals to Granville ( Michael Hordern ) after assuring assistance to Gordon - he does not totally mean it ) . Richard Johnson is good as Gordon's loyal assistant who tries to rally the Prime Minister's conscience . With a stirring theme music score , KHARTOUM is a memorable historical account for movie audiences .
Orange Pips and Murders	Except for the first two Basil Rathbone / Nigel Bruce Holmes'films ( set in the 19th Century ) and THE SCARLET CLAW and SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH , THE HOUSE OF FEAR has the best plot of any of the series . Like the other films in the series it is stretching the original story ( let us say embellishing it ) . But the embellishing works . Who is killing off the members of THE GOOD COMRADES , a small friendship society live in an isolated country house ? The members are all successful professional men now in retirement - except one : Dr . Simon Merivale ( Paul Cavanagh ) . Holmes is called in by an insurance company , who notes that the members of the society are the beneficiaries of the life policies of the dead members . Holmes notes Merivale , a very brilliant surgeon , murdered his wife a number of years before and did such a bang-up job defending himself before a jury that he was acquitted . So he is already suspect number one . But Holmes discovers that some of the murders are committed when Merivale could not have committed them . Subsequently he has to look at the others , Henry Cording , Holmes Herbert , and Aubrey Mather . And every time the same crazy set of circumstances prevents him from choosing one of them as the killer . Oh yes , the " orange pips " . It seems that the unknown killer delights in taunting his victims by having the maid deliver ( at dinner , before the next murder ) a sealed , unsigned envelop containing orange pips . The number of pips in the envelop tell you how many days the proposed victim has left . See , I told you it's a neat plot . Lestrade is here ( Hoey as funny as usual - note his scene where he compares his foot with the killer's shoe ) . Aubrey Mather as the owner of the house is genial and weird . Cavanagh is properly superior and untrustworthy ( it was one of three films in the series he popped up in , and he did fine in all three - he was a good actor in both villain and sympathetic roles , and yet never quite got the popularity of others like him , like Thomas Gomez , Henry Daniell , Lionel Atwill , and George Zucco , possibly because he seemed too friendly at times ) . Also notice Sally Montieth as the creepy , gloomy maidservant / housekeeper . The film is based on " THE ADVENTURE OF THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS " from the first collection of Holmes ' short stories THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES . In the original the basic story concentrates not on an insurance murder plot but on a criminal gang and their targeting one family again and again and again . Conan Doyle was well read in crime literature and fact , and his gang is none other than the Ku Klux Klan . It must have been a revelation ( to readers in 1891 London ) to hear about the racist organization , but it fits in quite nicely in the original story - if not in this fine variation of it .
The Class System at Grace Brothers	In this episode it is the 20th Anniversary of Captain Stephen Peacock's ( Frank Thornton's ) years with Grace Brothers Department Store , and the floor walker is presented ( after some timing difficulties initially ) with a medal and the key to the executive men's room . The latter is singularly annoying to Mr . Grainger ( Arthur Borough ) who has been with Grace Brothers nearly twice as long , but never reached middle management ( although head of the Men's Wear counter ) . He'd be even more upset to know that Peacock has also gotten the right to dine in the executive dining room . Every system has a hierarchy , and the ones not benefiting dislike the unfairness of selection . This episode deals with Peacock's vanity as he benefits from the system ( in it's miserly pat-on-the-head way ) at his store , trying to be gracious in his moment of glory , and not noting the glowering looks at the people he works with daily . He also is taken down a notch by one of the public who comes in , and basically questions what good he is if all he does is lead customers to the counters they would naturally find themselves ( a point occasionally rubbed into his face in other episodes ) . As the man who does this ( Donald Hewlett ) is asking for a dress ( for a fancy dress party ) , and subsequently learns his check suit and pants were sold by Mr . Lucus ( Trevor Bannister ) to another man ( Michael Knowles ) - leaving him wandering around in a skirt - gives Peacock a bit of his own back ( but not much ) . The bulk of the episode follows the rise and fall of Peacock's seeming arrival at executive nirvana ( he early learns the limit actually when he makes the mistake of addressing Rumbold - Nicholas Smith - by his first name " Cuthbert " on the floor , after Rumbold called him " Stephen " : it seems you can't address a superior by his first name on the work floor ) . Peacock has himself to blame for this , in part - but not before he actually finds the limited benefit of the executive dining room .
In honor of the ill-fated Roy Kinnear	The plot of JUGGERNAUT is similar to other films , such as Frank Sinatra's earlier ASSAULT ON A QUEEN ( wherein his group threaten to torpedo the Queen Mary unless a ransom is paid ) . Here the great ship H . M . S . Britannic ( what an ill-fated name for a great liner : the real " Britannic " was the larger sister ship of the " Olympic " and " Titanic " and sunk by hitting a mine in the Aegian off the isle of Cos in 1916 ) is booby-trapped by a man who is demanding a large ransom or he'll sink the ship with his bombs and kill it's passengers and crew . While the police ( Anthony Hopkins ) seek the extortionist , they send a bomb deactivation expert ( Richard Harris ) and his crew of assistants ( led by David Hemming ) to find and defuse the booby traps ( one or two are exploded - the extortionist wants to show he means what he says - before they can start ) . The Captain of the ship ( Omar Shariff ) has to maintain calm among the 1 , 200 passengers and crew , and is depending on one man to do this - his cruise director ( Roy Kinnear ) . The film bills up several very good suspense moments , even killing off one of the characters in an explosion . And it builds to a close call climax that grips the audience . Certainly this is one of the best suspense thrillers . Which takes me to the one performance I like best in it . In his career , tubby , bald Roy Kinnear usually played comic parts . Even when he popped up as a villain in a series ( like some episodes of THE AVENGERS , or like the film SHERLOCK HOLMES ' SMARTER BROTHER ) , he is so confused and inept that he ends up making the viewers feel for him . In the Sherlock Holmes film , in a fight with Gene Wilder , Kinnear is kicked in the groin with a huge wooden boot from a shoe store ) . He ends up on the street trying to hail a hansom cab and yelling " Taxi " with a soprano voice ! But only here , in JUGGERNAUT , was he able to find a role that let him expand a bit . He has to keep up the morale of 1 , 000 people who may die soon . He will die with them if that happens . And in a sweet scene he admits to a woman ( Shirley Knight ) the real fear and cowardice he feels but has to hide . It is a wonderful moment of subtle acting , and Kinnear never repeated it . The closest to it was in the film THE HILL where he breaks down during a punishment detail in a stockade . But this time he was a total innocent type . Roy Kinnear never had much of a chance to build on this . He was dead within a couple of years in a freak horse accident during the filming of THE FOUR MUSKETEERS , which his friend the director Richard Lester dedicated to his memory . He fell off a horse in a sequence and fractured his pelvis , bleeding to death within a few hours . A tragic end for a gifted comic actor , who at least once showed his dramatic potential in a good performance in JUGGERNAUT .
A Determined Young Woman Discovers There May Be More To Life	Wendy Hiller's career was a long one , first lucking out by appearing as the heroines in the first two Gabriel Pascal versions of Bernard Shaw's plays " Pygmalion " and " Major Barbara " , and then doing regular film and stage work . Along the way she would also get an Oscar for best supporting actress in " Separate Tables " . She would still be appearing in television and movies up to the end . Never a really pretty woman ( her supporting co-star in " Major Barbara " , Deborah Kerr , actually was far better looking - and would have more romantic roles ) , Hiller ended in pretty rich character parts . Example : her Russian Gramd Duchess in " Murder On The Orient Express " . The real exception to her lack of a romantic lead role is not ' Liza Doolittle in " Pygmalion " . It is Joan Webster in the Powell and Pressburger film " I Know Where I'M Going " . She is a lively and intelligent woman , but fairly ordinary looking . Which may explain why her romantic partner in this film is Roger Livesey ( as Torquil Macneil ) . Livesey is a distinguished actor too , but hardly a handsome man . The two balance very nicely . Joan , we are told , was alway assured about how to manage her life from the age of ten . She intended from her youth to marry well ( i . e . , a man of wealth and position ) . And we learn that she is now headed for the Hebrides in northern Scotland . Her fiancé is a wealthy man building a mansion on an island up there . He plans to marry her in the mansion . It seems a reasonable set up , until Joan reaches the one port across the narrow seas ( about fifteen miles ) from the island . It seems the seas are quite rough , and the weather is not calming down yet . It would be suicidal to take a small row boat across the sea in this weather . Joan is flummoxed by this , as she had no plans to spend much time in the seaport . What follows is the slow re-education of Joan . Firstly she finds her admiration for her rich boyfriend is not universal . Most of the locals think of him as a stranger or a fool ( one can't imagine why he wants a swimming pool on his island mansion - he has the entire ocean around him to swim in ! ) . Then she discovers that these common people have lives of interest and intensity of their own . And the person who is awakening her to this slow realization is Torquil . A local Laird , he has much personal interaction with the people , who give him their respect and affection , but he is ( like many nobles ) land poor ( he has some land , but no money ) . Torquil is capable of lecturing Joan ( when she still tries to get to that island if she can get one of the locals risk it ) , berating her for risking the lives of some others by promises of money they need . But he also keeps showing the small joys of the locals , such as their dances and anniversaries . He also shows her the ruins of the ancient kingdom of Scotland , including a tower where a lovers ' tragedy occurred in the far distant past . And slowly Joan begins to realize that perhaps she should look at less pragmatic reasons to marry . " I Know Where I'm Going " is not as well remembered as later Powell and Pressburger films like " A Matter Of Life And Death " ( " Stairway To Heaven " ) , " Black Narcissus " ( in my opinion their masterpiece ) , or " The Red Shoes " . But it is the equal of these films as entertainment , and deserves continued viewing by modern audiences .
Princess Vivian and Prince Edward Save Each Other	The economic monsters of the 1980s and 1990s included vast corporate take-overs for the purpose of the selling off of corporate assets . Frequently the assets separately were more valuable than the corporate whole . That this lead to economic dislocation for the employees of the corporations rarely was considered by the men who planned and carried out the raids and takeovers . Three films really got involved in this matter . They were WALL STREET , wherein " Gordon Gecko " ( Michael Douglas ) told an audience of stockholders that " greed is good " and that it might even save the United States ! A more balanced version was presented by Danny DeVito as " Larry the Liquidator " in OTHER PEOPLE'S MONEY . Then came this nice little fairy tale , mixing the world of Cinderella with the world of Dow Jones and some Freud . PRETTY WOMEN is probably the most popular of the three films , because Julia Robert's " Vivian Ward " humanizes the corporate raider " Edward Lewis " ( Richard Gere ) and thus they manage to save each other . Economic realities remain in PRETTY WOMEN . Vivian , and her pal Kit De Luca ( Laura San Giacomo ) are hookers . They both are smarter than most but they are at the mercy of mean streets , mean Johns , and possibly mean pimps . Ironically they both work in Hollywood , only blocks away from the super rich . One night Vivian is picked up by a man in a fancy sports car . It is Edward , who is planning a hostile take-over of a ship building empire owned by James Morse ( Ralph Bellamy ) , with the assistance of his long-time legal aide Philip Stuckey ( Jason Alexander ) . Edward has just left one of Stuckey's parties ( Stuckey tries to be as ingratiating to the aloof Edward as he can - and mistakenly thinks he has succeeded in being so ) . Needing real release , Edward takes Vivian to his hotel suite . What begins as a paid trick ends differently . FVivian is able to lighten Edward's spirits slowly so that he enjoys her for her company as well as the sex . Then the corporate raid gets so complex that Edward has to take an entire week to conclude it . Edward offers Vivian a chance to make a small fortune if she will stay with him for the week . After some bargaining ( which she is good at ) she agrees . She learns that having money does not mean being acceptable . She is asked to get some fancy dinner clothing for a meeting with Morse and his grandson David ( Alex Hyde-White ) . She tries to get the clothing at a snobbish store on Rodeo Drive , and is humiliated by the hostile staff . Subsequently she also has a brief problem with the manager of the hotel Barney Thompson ( Hector Elizondo ) , but it clears up when members of the staff vouch for her being with Edward . Subsequently Barney turns out to be sympathetic to Vivian's needs for assistance for getting a decent dress and for learning proper eating etiquette . When Edward learns about the nastiness of the staff at the snobbish store he assists Vivian in getting more fancy clothing , and Vivian has a choice moment of revenge on the snobs . Edward is soon planning how to force Morse to the wall , but Stuckey is curious about a type of distance in this business deal that is developing between Edward and the project , and ( worse to Stuckey ) between Edward and him . Edward is soon spending increasing times away to be with Vivian . While much of their time is between the sheets , they also are enjoying each other's company and she is teaching him to ease up and release his human side . He explains to her that his business habits were based on a hatred of his father , a man who deserted his mother and Edward for another woman . After Edward's mother died , Edward went to work to make himself into the corporate raider he became , and his first great victory was the destruction of his father's company . He has been repeating this success ever since - but ( despite one small victory due to therapy ) he is not a happy person . Vivian explains that she grew up in an unhappy poor family , and she left to try to improve herself , but she never graduated high school ( despite being quite sharp ) . She also has always dreamed of one day finding a man who could rescue her - her image of him based on how her mother would lock her in a closet as punishment and her knight / prince would come to release her . The fairy tale element in the film frequently hides the Freudian image of both leads - neither having had happy childhoods . We never learn of Vivian's relations with her Dad , but she and her mother were quite at odds . We know that Edward blamed his father for the death ( soon after his father's desertion ) of Edward's mother . Both are strong , capable figures , but both are desperately unhappy ones . As the film heads to it's conclusions ( there are several ) we realize they should be together - neither will ever fully function well without the other ( although they would both survive ) . But they have to overcome their equal repugnance at each other's lifestyle : Vivian has to get Edward away from constantly destroying his father again and again by corporate raiding ( especially after she meets the Morses ) , and Edward keeps wanting to get Vivian off those mean streets - but keeps fumbling trying to overcome his dislike of her being a prostitute . The film succeeds as the two characters break with their pasts . In the end corporate raiding and prostitution are discarded ( not only by the main characters , but Vivian even pushes Kit towards cleaning up her act ) , and the last image of Edward and Vivian holding each other for support on an old building's fire escape . We know they'll make it .
The Ghosts of a Lost Flight	I remember when this television film came out in 1970 the big coverage in the newspapers and T . V . Guide regarding the story . It is based on an actual incident when a World War II bomber that had disappeared was discovered in the desert of North Africa where it had gotten lost . The discovery was twenty years after the war ended , and the remains of the crew were found miles from the wreck where they bailed out . Such tragedies are far more frequent than one thinks . There was a case in the 1950s when the remains of a 1920s airplane with it's dead pilot were found in the same desert - the pilot was headed on a long distance flight , and he was under suspicion of killing his lover's husband , so his disappearance was considered tantamount to a confession and the reappearance of his corpse reopened the entire murder mystery . Here , the tragedy from World War II is changed to make it seem that one man escaped the disaster : the navigator on the bomber bailed out successfully and survived . It is Richard Basehart , who is now a General . Vince Edwards is the Captain investigating the fate of the crew ( their remains are not near the plane , apparently , so where are they ) . Edwards suspects Basehart knows more than he lets on . He is hoping to force the latter to reveal what he knows . He's aided by the ghosts of the crewmen , determined to force Basehart to admit his cowardice that killed them . Basehart tries to keep a tight lid on the investigation , but he finally is forced to confront himself . The three bits that stand out most in the film that I recall all deal with the ghostly crew . They spend day after day playing baseball with each other , while commenting on Basehart , Edwards , and the investigation . Later they reappear to confront Basehart , while he's driving away from the wreck in a jeep . Each ghost standing strategically in front of the vehicle , causing Basehart to swerve , and forcing him to return to the wreck site . Finally the discoveries of the corpses by Edwards and his men has a nice counterpoint , as each corpse is wrapped up in an American flag to be sent back to the families of the dead airmen - the ghosts suddenly disappear one by one , leaving the only ghost not killed out in the desert per se , but who was crushed by part of the wreck falling on him . Edwards returns to the wreck to see if the last man died there , and we see the final ghost walking dejected and lonely at the site . He too disappears once Edwards finds his remains . A nice little supernatural story , with some good performances .
Getting the spirit of Pelham Granville Wodehouse right !	When one reads Wodehouse novels and short stories one is in a world of gentlemen's clubs , social lion aunts and tyrannical mothers , henpecked husbands , merchants who are overly proud of their products ( in one short story the rich uncle deals in jute and has a house decorated in models of birds made out of his product ) , would-be dictators of England who have family fortunes based on woman's lingerie , Earls who are more concerned about prize winning pigs than propriety , bartenders who have funds of stories to illustrate life with , butlers who are smarter than the aristocrats around them , idiot scions of noble houses who convince their potential in-laws of their good intentions by swallowing dog biscuits ( which the in-laws manufacture ) , brilliant social tacticians whose schemes always come apart at the end , and golf lovers - always golf lovers . You rarely find a comment on the real world - the nobleman who made money from ladies underwear was an exception ( a satire on Sir Oswald Mosley ) . But his variations on the artificial world of the rich and the powerful works a charm to this day . Unlike so many of his contemporary fellow novelists his works are still largely in print ( mostly through the British publisher Penguin ) . And Wodehouse wrote over 100 books ! It is a great formula , but it can be spoiled . Arthur Treacher played Jeeves , the great butler , in two forgettable comedies in the 1930s ( one with David Niven as Bertie Wooster ) did not make a great impression due to poor productions . But a film like A DAMSEL IN DISTRESS or this version of PICADILLY JIM shows how it's done properly . The characters are not arch or overdone - but they all take themselves seriously . Montgomery is a night person , enjoying the nightclubs and such . But he does remember to have a caricature ready for his newspaper , folded in the pocket of his coat . Eric Blore is the perfect butler , trying to awaken his employer using bird calls ( a talent he would also display with amusing results in IT'S LOVE I'M AFTER ) . But he is intelligent and loyal . When Cora Witherspoon's Mrs . Pett makes a sneering comment on Jim's formidable abilities as a caricaturist ( as opposed to a real artist like Leonardo or Raphael ) , Blore's butler Bayliss boils over and rattles off a list of great artists who were gifted caricaturists , such as Daumier and Thomas Nast , and ending with Goya . Frank Morgan has not performed on stage in 20 years , but he is proud of his greatest role - as Osric in Hamlet ( Peter Cushing in the Olivier film , and Robin Williams in Keneth Branagh's version ) . He uses it ( successfully ) to fool the Petts into accepting him into their family , while he secretly romances Mrs . Pett's younger sister ( Billie Burke - the only one who realizes the truth in the masquerade ) . In Wodehouse the road to love is never easy . Robert Montgomery makes a successful comic strip out of the Pett family ( Witherspoon , Grant Mitchell , and Tommy Bupp ) in revenge for their snootiness ( actually it is the snootiness of Witherspoon - she thinks Morgan is a fortune hunter , and Mitchell is her henpecked husband who goes along with her ; the boy Ogden Pett is one of those obnoxious kids in Wodehouse who enliven his books - actually Ogden is thoughtless and rude , but he actually thinks it's cool that he's in a comic strip ) . Montgomery learns that Madge Blake , the woman he loves , is angry at the comic strip and it's artist . He has to try to undue the damage his successful strip has done to try to win Madge back . The film is a sparkling little drink of champagne , which the best of Wodehouse usually is . It's nice to see that for a change , Hollywood got the literary property's spirit right .
Is Isolation Ever the Answer ?	David Charleston ( Michael Redgrave ) is an anti-Fascist who spent the entire 1930s warning the Western World of the threat of Nazi Germany , Fascist Italy , and Japan . But nothing was done , and in 1940 the world is teetering on the verge of falling into the hands of these three monstrous regimes . But Charleston has gotten fed up with being " Cassandra " ( the Greek seer who was doomed to always foretell the future but never be believed ) . He has gotten an appointment to taking care of a lighthouse in the Great Lakes , at Thunder Rock , and cynically cuts himself off from mankind . Not totally though . He has discovered the remains of papers that concern the lives of the passenger and crew of a sailing ship , the Lady of the Lakes , which hit a reef near the site of the lighthouse in 1850 , killing everyone on board . Reading of their lives he has reconstructed the lives of seven people and imagines what they were like . So they " entertain " him , by going through their normal behavior and set speeches . In particular a Doctor and his daughter ( Frederick Valk and Lili Palmer ) fleeing from the militarism of Germany . Valk was working on anesthesia and Palmer hoped to find a new home and a future ( i . e . , a husband and family ) when the tragedy occurred . Redgrave takes a fancy to Palmer , and in his conversations she shows she is equally interested in him . But all of these ghosts ( except the ship's Captain , Finlay Currie ) are unaware that it is no longer 1850 , and that they are all dead . The crisis of the film is when Currie ( who has assisted in this mental game with Redgrave ) gets tired about it because Redgrave has turned the characters into caricatures and not real people . When this happens he berates Redgrave for misusing his powerful imagination . Redgrave agrees to allow them more outspoken freedom of action . But when they are more outspoken , they ask questions about the time they are in and the world as it is . Redgrave gets fed up and ( despite warnings from Currie ) allows Palmer to read a plaque on the wall that describes the shipwreck and the loss of everyone on board . He then tells them that the civilization as they knew it is ending , and that he has gone into the lighthouse to avoid seeing it end close up . His disillusionment is expressed to them , and then he adds that now that he has revealed the truth he sees no further use in having them around . As they are figments of his imagination he will no longer need them and they can now disappear . Redgrave is seen concentrating . Only they don't disappear . Valk confronts him , and forces Redgrave to compare them with himself . Did civilization cease in the 19th Century due to their deaths ? Is any one man ( a Darwin , a Lincoln ) so essential for change that without him or her change will never occur ? Is isolation the answer to facing the future or to stand up and act ? I was fortunate back in the 1970s to see a stage production of THUNDER ROCK in Manhattan at the Equity Library Theatre on W . 103rd Street . The play was shorter in cast than this film version ( which builds up the stupidity that Redgrave's character faced in the 1930s , leading to his cynical viewpoint ) . But the effect of the play was still strong then as when it first appeared in the 1940s . Civilization is always facing some disaster - but as long as someone speaks out and acts it can continue to survive .
Swan Song in Warsaw	In 1940 the American public was shocked when Charlie Chaplin released his first all talkie movie THE GREAT DICTATOR , in which he lampooned Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini . Despite the new European war , we were yet still at peace with both Axis states . Hollywood , with rare exceptions ( BLOCKADE , CONFESSIONS OF A NAZI SPY , ESCAPE ) had been gingerly tackling the Nazis and Fascists . Yet public reaction to THE GREAT DICTATOR was odd . It had a big box office success , and yet many were appalled because it chose to say Hitler could be laughed at . Chaplin's response was that if he had been laughed at to begin with he would never have become such a threat . Actually other voices were beginning to stir in Hollywood . One was the great comedy director Ernst Lubitsch , who poked an occasional jab at the Nazis . Lubitsch had to wait until 1941 for a full assault on the Nazis - TO BE OR NOT TO BE , a film that looked at the German invasion of Poland , and it's occupation of Warsaw . It had an interesting cast . The lead went to Carole Lombard , who had many comedy performances under her belt . She played Maria Tura , the leading lady ( and wife ) of " that great actor " ( as he always prefaces his remarks ) Joseph Tura . Joseph is Jack Benny . Of all the leading men in her career , Lombard never played opposite one who was really more of a star in a different medium . Typical co-stars for Lombard were John Barrymore , Fred MacMurray , Cary Grant , Ralph Bellamy , William Powell , Robert Montgomery , Clark Gable , and Fredric March . Here it was Benny , who while he had a string of movie credits was basically a radio comedy star ( and later would be a television star ) . His best films ( GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE , ARTISTS AND MODELS , CHARLIE'S AUNT ) were not record breakers at the box office . In fact , while his performances were good in these , he did not necessarily shine in them ( Laird Cregar , in one simple moment in CHARLIE'S AUNT , got the biggest laugh of the film ) . Nobody realized that his performance as Joseph Tura would be his best one , and that within two years he'd make his final starring fiasco in THE HORN BLOWS AT MIDNIGHT . Benny and Lombard proved to work well together as the egotistical , but oddly loving couple of theater hams . In fact the actors making up the Tura company are all good , including Lionel Atwill ( who briefly is seen playing Claudius to Benny's Hamlet ) , Felix Bressart as Greenberg ( who dreams of doing the Shylock speech from THE MERCHANT OF VENICE ) , Tom Dugan as Bronski ( who hopes to play Hitler on the stage ) , Charles Halton as Dubosch ( the stage manager , and the head of the Warsaw underground ) , and Maude Eburne as Lombard's cynical maid Anna . The screenplay did give plenty of time showing the difficulties and tensions of a stage company working together , and of handling temperamental stars and their egos . While putting on a play lampooning the Nazis ( whom Benny and the others dislike ) , the government of Poland ( Frank Reicher ) says that due to the growing problems with Germany the play can't be produced . So the troop put on Tura's production of HAMLET . Benny as the Prince of Denmark ( giving the great soliloquy ) goes through the proper steps , although knowing the comedian from Radio one expects him to start it with " WELL ! " . But he finds that a man in uniform ( young Robert Stack ) leaves his seat in the middle of the third aisles just as he begins , " To be or not to be . . . . " He does not know ( until later in the film ) that Stack had arranged to do this to keep a rendezvous with Lombard in her dressing room . Subsequently he treats her to a plane flight ( he is a Polish Air Force pilot ) . When war comes he and his fellows fight , but the survivors make it to England . The grimmest section of the film is the occupation scenes . Like the comedy in THE GREAT DICTATOR , because we know what actually happened these scenes seem slightly unreal . But in they still get the fears and difficulties of the occupation across . Signs of stores and streets we saw hanging normally earlier are in ruins ( including a delicatessen ) . The theater is boarded up . Had Lubitsch wished to do a tragic film he could easily have done so . But he allows the situation to blossom into a black comedy . Stanley Ridges plays Professor Siletsky , a secret German Agent who has fooled the Allies into going back to Warsaw . He has the names of families of the pilots . Stack is sent back to Warsaw to stop him , and contacts Lombard who helps . Soon the entire theater group gets involved . But will their theatrical egos blow their anti-Nazi plans ? That is the running theme of the concluding portion of the film . Also along for the ride is Sig Ruman as Col . Ehrhardt , the Gestapo Chief who relishes the name " Concentration Camp Ehrhardt " , but who keeps running afoul of Professor Siletsky ( it is the Professor , isn't it ? ) , when he makes seemingly harmless comments about Hitler . His reaction is usually to yell for his adjutant , Schultz ( Henry Victor ) , whose whole purpose is apparently to be there to be yelled at . The film was a great success , but the death of Carole Lombard in a plane crash a month after it was shot cast a shadow over it . Yet it was a fitting swan song for that divine comedienne's career .
Looking at Urban Life . . . through binoculars and voyeurism	Some of Alfred Hitchcock's films date badly , or are flawed by script points he chose to ignore as " Maguffins " , or just are not his cup of tea . But REAR WINDOW is one great movie - a film that just never stops fascinating it's audiences as much as the world of that Greenwich Village enclave fascinates L . B . " Jeff " Jeffries ( James Stewart ) . Hitchcock built a meticulous set of apartment flats with a common courtyard . Although extensive it is , in fact , claustrophobic , with the seemingly separate lives of the residents running into each other more frequently than one expects ( witness Raymond Burr's growling at a neighbor as he is working on his garden patch and she tries to give him some advice ) . The fact that it is supposed to be in the middle of a heat wave ( this is in the pre-air-conditioned apartment days ) adds to the feelings of closing in - even if the audience actually feels no heat from the set . At least five separate stories are going on that we are invited into during the course of the film , besides the main one of the fate of Mrs . Anna Thorwald ( Irene Winston ) . Jeff has been a widely respected and awarded photographer around the world , and he is nursing a broken leg ( from his photographing a careening racing car ) . His only contacts with the outside world are his nurse Stella ( Thelma Ritter ) and his girlfriend Lisa Carol Fremont ( Grace Kelly ) who is a supermodel of the period ( c . 1954 ) . Stuck with nothing to do Jeff starts looking out his window at his neighbors . They include a ballet dancer , a newlywed couple , a struggling pianist composer , a lonely woman seeking companionship , a couple with a dog , and a sculptor . Also there is Mr . Lars Thorwald ( Raymond Burr ) , a salesman , and his wife Anna . Voyeurism is intoxicating , because ( as long as you are unobserved ) you can imagine what is actually going on - illustrated by the newlyweds pulling down the blinds of their window , and Steward struggling for words to explain to Kelly about what the couple behind the blinds are doing . But it becomes a matter that we are increasingly urgent as Jeff is aware of what is going on in the lives of those people . In particular the Thorwalds , who are always arguing . One night he hears a woman scream , and wonders who it could be . Then he notices Thorwald acting very methodically ( and atypically ) in leaving his apartment with his salesman bag at late hours of the night . He slowly concentrates on Thorwald and his movements in his apartment - and the fact that the hitherto bedridden wife is missing . Both Stella and Lisa dismiss this , until they both are unconsciously drawn into watching some of Thorwald's activities themselves , and they start realizing there is something a bit odd . Jeff calls in a war friend of his , Police Detective Thomas Doyle ( Wendell Corey ) and he to is rather dismissive , but checks into the story . And he finds that everything on the surface seems explicable . But despite occasionally making Stewart and Kelly ashamed of themselves , sooner or later some other business by Thorwald or near his abode reawakens suspicions . The conclusion is memorable for giving Thorwald an opportunity to confront his main prosecutor and demand an ethics answer that just can't be simply answered . Hitchcock appears to have used elements of the Crippen murder for the story - based by the way on a short story by the gifted noir writer Cornell Woolrich . The cast is splendid , not only giving a bravura performance to Steward , but giving Kelly a chance to stretch her acting when in danger , and giving Ritter another one of her wise , wizened women roles . Burr had his best recalled moments on film here - if not his best performance ( I still favor his avenging D . A . in A PLACE IN THE SUN ) . Corey too is the voice of reason and common sense - until the last moments of the film when Stewart finally jars him . One of the finest thrillers ever constructed and filmed by a master director
A Gallant Enemy Commander in the Great War	If one really wants to get a glimmer of what Conrad Veidt's career would have been like in American cinema but for the coming of World War II just as he came to Hollywood , look at his British films from 1934 to 1940 . In many respects his best work was done then - he had a wider variety of roles , and was not typecast as villains as frequently as he was in the U . S . Among the films that I'd recommend watching is THE SPY IN BLACK . In World War I , Veidt is the commander of a U . Boat sent to Scottish waters . He is told that there is a British naval officer who is willing to betray the Grand Fleet at Scapa Flow . Veidt is shown interacting with his crew at the beginning , but he goes by life boat to the land , and meets his contact Valerie Hobson . She introduces him to Sebastian Shaw , the naval officer . Shaw seems to be drowning his anger in liquor , but he is prepared to give Veidt a naval document about a sortie by the Grand Fleet on a particular date , which would pass a narrow point the U-Boat would be stationed at . Veidt would then be in a position to sink several of the British dreadnoughts in what would be the worst disaster to strike the fleet since U-Boat Commander Weddigen sank the Hogue , Aboukir , and Cressy in September 1914 . It's too good to be true . But gradually Veidt realizes it isn't true . He's been set up , and Shaw and Hobson are trying to capture him . And the film becomes a chase - with Veidt running amongst the islanders in the Hebrides . But his conflict is that of the gentlemanly type . He will use force , if necessary , to still reach his boat and crew and try to do some damage to his enemy's ships . But he is not by nature cruel . A telling moment in the film is late in it , when he commandeers a ferry boat . He is armed and he tells the adults that he won't hesitate to use his gun if necessary . But having said that he hears the crying of a baby that one of the woman on the ferry is carrying , and his voice softens as he says that he certainly will not war against the innocent . Veidt never said anything like that in his Hollywood films - few Nazis ( as he himself would have been the first to point out from private knowledge ) would have hesitated in hurting an enemy's child or baby . The film was the best that Veidt made playing an enemy officer in either world war . It ends tragically , but honorably for the man , as he decides to join his crew for the last time .
The perfect western from Guy De Maupassant	In the 1880s the master of the French short story wrote a classic about the Franco Prussian War entitled " Boule De Suite " ( translation : " Ball of Fat " - a reference to the nickname of the heroine ) . It dealt with a coach of middle class Frenchmen traveling together in 1870 , who are captured by Germans ( it is during the Franco - Prussian War ) . One of the passengers is a prostitute the others look down upon , although she is a nice person . The Prussian officer in charge takes an interest in the prostitute , and the others notice this . They overcome her patriotic scruples and she agrees to sleep with the Prussian . As a result the passengers are released . But once they return to their journey , they snub the poor young woman - she is still just a whore , even if she saved them all . The story was actually filmed in the 1940s ( produced by Val Lewton and starring Simone Simone as the prostitute ) as MADEMOISELLE FIFI . It is not considered one of Lewton's classic films ( certainly not in the same breath as his three films with Boris Karloff ) . But in 1939 it was part of the basis of this film , one of the greatest Westerns and John Ford movies of all times : STAGECOACH . Claire Trevor is the prostitute taken from the De Maupassant story . But she is not given the same central ironic position that her French original had . Trevor does not have to sleep with the enemy to save lives , only to be spurned by them . That she is spurned by them is part of the plot , but her prostitute is far luckier than the original one . Trevor actually has a chance for real happiness in the end . Now set in 1884 , STAGECOACH is set in the southwest , where a stagecoach is leaving a small dirt town with a mixed crowd of passengers ( several of them are outcasts types - borrowing a little from Bret Harte's short story " The Outcasts Of Poker Flats " . The passengers to the larger city of Loudsberg include the town trollop ( Trevor ) , the town gambler and ex-Confederate ( John Carridine ) , the town's drunken doctor ( Thomas Mitchell ) , the wife of an Army Captain ( Louisa Platt ) , a liquor salesman with a satchel of samples ( Donald Meek ) , the town's Sheriff - going because of current dangers from the Apaches under Geronimo ( George Bancroft ) , and the stagecoach driver ( Andy Devine ) . Bancroft is going along because he knows the Apaches are on the warpath and have cut the telegraph lines to Loudsburg . Therefore he is surprised when the town banker ( Berton Churchill - in his possibly most disagreeable character part ) shows up on the town's outskirts with a single large carpet bag and the statement that he just got a telegram to head for Loudsburg for business . What's up there ? It is a crowded little world inside the stagecoach , with Trevor being cold shouldered by Churchill , Platt , and Carridine ( although the others treat her better ) . Carridine , proud of his Southern military heritage collides with Mitchell , a former Northern soldier . Mitchell keeps emptying out Meek's sample case ( at one point Meek tries to stop him very gently - it doesn't work ) . Churchill keeps bloviating about Government interference with banks ( to the annoyance of everyone else ) . Carridine shows most consideration of Platt , who is pregnant . This seems tied to knowing that at one time Carridine served under Platt's southern father ( but under his real name - not his current one of " Hatfield " ) . Bancroft , when not thinking of the mystery of Churchill's appearance , is watching for the arrival of the cavalry to protect the stage , and the dangerous Apaches . Then he and Devine see a figure on the road - it is John Wayne in the cinematic moment when he stopped being an actor in grade B westerns . John Ford just shows his tall figure rising out of the earth as the stagecoach screeches to a halt . Bancroft now has another problem - and a personal opportunity . Wayne is " the Ringo Kid " , a wanted prison escapee - he too wants to go to Loudsburg to kill Luke Plummer ( Tom Tyler ) and his two brothers , who murdered his own father and brother and stole their land . Bancroft , a peace officer , arrests him - but because of the situation Wayne is allowed to have free movement . Soon he and Trevor begin noticing each other - and becoming attracted . The film builds through a series of sequences that have classic , such as Mitchell's pulling himself together to deliver Platt's baby . The balance of the film is perfect , as is the casting . We end caring for these souls ( except possibly Churchill ) . And it concludes with one of the best filmed showdowns in movies . Made eight years after CIMMERON won the first Best Film Oscar , STAGECOACH was deserving of the same award , but it came out in the best year for Hollywood movies in the Golden Age of the talkies ( and GONE WITH THE WIND won instead ) . But it has maintained it's standard of greatness , and remains the yardstick for all Westerns that have been made since .
Another Don Siegel Thriller Masterpiece - and Walter Matthau Shows What His Villains Might Have Done	I always had a small wish , now totally impossible to consider doing . Up to the time Cary Grant died in the 1980s I wished he , Audrey Hepburn , and Walter Matthau could have re-shot the conclusion of CHARADES . Matthau played one of his excellent villains , although with comic moments . But after 1964 Matthau won a place in our hearts as Whiplash Willy Gingrich , Oscar Madison , Horace Vandergelder , and dozens of other curmudgeons . They were crooked at times , and could be nasty - but they were nasty to the idiots that annoy us . So I reedited the end of CHARADES , so that Walter Matthau remained Hamilton Bartholemew of the State Department , and Cary Grant was Carson Dial . Matthau , somehow blundering into saving Hepburn's Mrs . Lambert at the end would have been as memorable a conclusion as the actual film's end today - possibly more so . In 1964 Walter Matthau rarely played heroes . His wise television executive who tells off a destroyed but scheming Andy Griffith in A FACE IN THE CROWD was an exception . But afterward , with a well deserved Oscar for Willy , Matthau got better leading roles , as well as film partnership with his perfect " fencing " mate Jack Lemmon . As one of the fans of the evil as well as the " shady-nice " Matthau , I have often wondered if he could have appeared as more of a conniver and schemer ( outside of Billy Wilder's films ) in his later career . The answer ( outside of Wilder ) is found in this film , CHARLIE VARRICK . It is surprising that Matthau apparently disliked it , but he may have felt that it was too mechanical ( thrillers , like melodramas , can be like that ) . But it enabled him to play a man who was not beyond planning or setting up deadly violence for his own sake . And he gets away with it in the end . This film suggests a possible career twist that Matthau never had to follow , but could easily have been his had the motion picture business of the 1960s - 2000 been run like it had been run in the heyday of the studios . Just like the typecasting of Sidney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre , one can imagine the typecasting of Walter Matthau in such roles as Charlie Varrick back in the 1930s - 1950s . Varrick and his wife had been in a daredevil airplane act for years , but found less and less jobs . So they turn ( with their mechanic and Harmon Sullivan - Andy Robinson ) into small town bank robbers . But the bank they rob turns out to be a nightmare . There is a shoot out with unexpected local police ( headed by William Schallert ) . Schallert is wounded and a deputy killed , but so was Varrick's old mechanic and Varrick's wife . Varrick is able to transfer himself and the bank loot , and Harmon to a truck , and Harmon blows up the getaway car . Varrick and Harmon go to their home in a trailer park , and discovers that the money in the bags is far more than the $10 , 000 . 00 or so they expected ( it is more like $750 , 000 . 00 ) . When Varrick hears of the robbery report on the news , he learns a much smaller amount is reported stolen . Varrick soon realizes it is an illegal bank - a Mafia drop off bank . In the meantime , a hit-man named Molly ( Joe Don Baker , in a wonderful sociopath performance ) has been hired by the Mob to go after the thieves . But he has considered that it is odd that the bank robbery occurred when it did - just after the Mob sent so much money to the bank for money laundering purposes . He tells his contact ( Benson Fong ) of his suspicions , and Fong and he agree to include the head of the bank ( John Vernon ) as a leading suspect . Varrick has problems with his partner Harmon , who wants the money split now ( wise old Charlie realizes they have to wait at least ten years to do it safely , and they have to spend it very slowly not to raise any suspicions ) . Harmon warns Charlie not to cross him . Charlie , disgusted and angry , says , " Okay Harmon , you're calling the shots " . He subsequently leaves a drunken Harmon with no clothes and no money . Harmon can't do anything because he may be targeted now by the mob . Varrick sets things up to hide his own identity , tampering with his dental records ( and switching his records with Harmon's , whose file he removes ) . He starts studying the situation , and notes the involvement of the bank President , his local representative ( Woodrow Parfrey ) and Molly . Varrick decides to manipulate the mobsters into destroying Harmon and each other . And , due to the personalities of the characters involved , Varrick triumphs in the end . One can just imagine - thinking of Matthau's cleverness and ruthlessness in this plot - how he could have been the anti-hero of a series of B features in an earlier period of film history . You have to watch it to appreciate the Don Siegel " touch " as well , such as the scene where John Vernon frightens Woodrow Parfrey with images of torture with an electric cattle prod , and the various scenes of Molly's handling characters like a crippled wheelchair bound informant . Events mesh effortlessly into each other , and there is no wasted time . This is one thriller that never loses it's effectiveness .
Leslie Caron's Oscar Nominated Dramatic Role	This gritty little film is the victim of it's star's glitz . Leslie Caron has been identified with many classic films , but they tend to be musicals ( " An American in Paris " , " Lili , " Gigi " ) . Occasionally she is recalled for a dramatic performance - but it is usually " Fanny " which is pointed to , because the cast there is full of named stars ( Boyer , Chevalier , and Buchholz ) . But her second Oscar nomination ( after one for " Lili " ) was for the role of Jane Fossett in " The L-Shaped Room " . While " Fanny " is set in a colorfully shot Marseilles and environs , " The L-Shaped Room " is set in the mean streets and rooming houses of grimy London districts . It is shot too in black and white . This makes the sadness of the story all the more intense , and helped make Caron's performance here possibly the best she ever gave in an English speaking film . As for the cast here , only two ( Cecile Courtneidge as " Mavis " and Emlyn Williams as " Dr . Weaver " ) had reputations on par with Cevalier and Boyer in stage and screen work , and a third ( Brock Peters as " Johnny " , the Anglo - Caribbean who is the neighbor of Jane ) is better recalled for his smaller part of the defendant that Gregory Peck tries to save in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD . " The L-Shaped Room " is about Jane , a Frenchwoman who comes to England to get away from her puritanical and harsh parents in France , in order to have a child she got from a one night stand with an actor she met on one occasion . She checks into a boarding house ( on the top floor - attic rooms ) run by Doris ( Avis Brunnage ) . Initially Jane plans to have the baby aborted - and she got the name and address of a Harley Street specialist Dr . Weaver . But the self-satisfied Weaver is so sure of himself ( he knows all the answers from his patients , and he knows how to steer the patient to the story facts he needs to know to protect himself from prosecution for giving abortions , that he turns off Jane even before she realizes his price ( 100 guineas in 1962 - about two thousand dollars today with inflation rates ) . Caron tells off the amazed Weaver ( Williams just can't believe this one is not behaving like the other unwed mothers and taking orders ) , and tells him she is now convinced to have the child . The film follows Caron's interaction with the other people in the boarding house , including Doris , Mavis ( a one time West End headliner ) , Sonia ( Patricia Phoenix ) and Jane II ( Verity Edmet ) - two prostitutes , Toby ( Tom Bell ) - a struggling writer , and Johnny . In the course of her pregnancy she gets to see the secrets in most of their lives , in particular Mavis ( a decent woman , who had a secret lover who died ) , and Toby , with whom Jane falls in love . But the pregnancy becomes a major factor in Jane's sexual / emotional tie to Toby . Will it derail their love or not ? Caron is intense in the film , whether telling off Williams , or trying to come to an understanding with Bell . Without over-acting she does make one see a woman who has been deserted by everyone in a moment of need , but determined not to destroy what can be the best thing in her life up until now . The film observes her decision and how it pans out , and how the rest of the world accepts it , or rejects it , or just passes it by . " The L-Shaped Room " has never been a very popular film . My suspicion is that in a world where the issue of who has the right to have an abortion , and the right of the woman to choose , is so touchy to so many people , the fact that the abortion method is thrown away just not really popular with many modern audiences . Like it's contemporary film , LOVE WITH A PROPER STRANGER , despite the well produced movie results , the message against abortion ( even if thoroughly understandable ) is just not acceptable in many quarters as a solution to the problem . It so , the movie audiences at revival houses are missing one fine film and a grade - " A " performance by Caron here .
Wonderful combination of Americana and Morality Tale	THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER was one of several films that appeared in 1940 - 41 that were eventually acknowledged as great films but were , in their day , hidden in the shadows of at least three or four other films : GONE WITH THE WIND , STAGECOACH , THE GRAPES OF WRATH , and CITIZEN KANE . These films were stretching the way movies were being made , and they were also sharing technological and production values . For example , the use of shadows this film resembles the use of them in KANE , and the questioning of American values is in all the four films . Based on a short story by Stephen Vincent Benet ( the author of JOHN BROWN'S BODY ) , it follows how Mr . Scratch ( the traditional New England name for the Devil ) is picking up contracts with the locals , thus gaining their souls in return for temporary success . One of the locals is Jabez Stone ( James Craig , in the biggest role of his career ) . He is married to Mary Stone ( Anne Shirley ) , and lives on a farm that is not too successful with Mary and his mother Ma Stone ( Jane Darwell ) . However , Mary is pregnant , so Jabez is desperate to turn his farm around . But nothing is working , and he owes money to the local moneylender , Miser Stevens ( John Qualen ) . So when Scratch shows up , a contract is set up to give Stone seven years of prosperity for his soul . This is done with a real contract , but a tree is turned into a living symbol ( and reminder ) of the day the contract comes due and Stone has to yield his soul . Stone prospers - he pays off Stevens , but the Miser recognizes the gold used as identical to the gold that he has been using ever since he made a similar contractual agreement . He also begins to get corrupt in his behavior - from being helpful to his neighbors he starts being as greedy as Miser Stevens when he lends them money ( and gradually takes over their land ) . He picks up a mistress Belle Dee ( Simone Simone ) courtesy of the " helpful " Scratch , thus alienating his wife and mother . He builds the best mansion in New Hampshire , and alienates all the local gentry by his pretensions . The seven years end and Stone begins panicking . He realizes that his soul is far more valuable than the Devil told him . When he tries to cut down the tree , Scratch confronts him . He does offer Stone a chance to extend the contract , if Stone agrees to his son becoming an acolyte of the Devil . Stone hears that the great orator , lawyer , and Massachusetts Senator Daniel Webster is visiting his native New Hampshire ( Webster was born in New Hampshire , but served as Senator from neighboring Massachusetts where he had moved ) . Webster agrees to defend Stone . This leads to the great climax where Webster addresses his defense to a jury of the damned ( containing pirates Captain Kidd , Blackbeard , and Stede Bonnit ) . The resolution of the contract by the jury completes the film . Walter Huston is shown to best advantage in this film , playing the Devil , Mr . Scratch , and being a typical New Englander ( he even beats a drum in a marching band occasionally ) . It is apparent that he is enjoying this performance closely . Note the concluding shot of him in the film , looking for his next " customer " . And he did get nominated for the best actor Oscar role . Just as good is Edward Arnold as Webster . He was actually replacing Thomas Mitchell , injured in an accident . Arnold's Webster is actually an excellent performance , but he is not the historical Webster . First of all , as some of Webster's historical observers have noted - the " Divine " Daniel was very pro - business , and a big supporter of contracts . Here he is trying to destroy a contract . Not realistic historically . However , his political ambition ( he wanted to be President , but never got elected ) is shown , as is his biggest weakness : Webster was an alcoholic , and his love of " Mumford Rum " is shown twice in the film : Once when he is drinking some on a hot day at a public occasion when he was supposed to be giving a speech , and secondly just before he starts addressing the jury . ( Webster got nominated by part of the Whig Party for the Presidency in 1836 along with William Henry Harrison , Justice John McClean , and Hugh Lawton White , in a doomed attempt to defeat Andrew Jackson's clever protégée Martin Van Buren by forcing the election into the House of Representatives ( as it had been in 1824 ) . Subsequently , after serving in the U . S . Senate and twice as Secretary of State , Webster died in 1852 . That year , although never renominated by the Whigs , Webster received some electoral votes posthumously in the Presidential election . ) Besides the three good performances of Huston , Arnold , and Craig ( and note too the supporting acting of Qualen , Gene Lockhart , Darwell , and Walter Baldwin , the photography of the film is memorable . See the speed-ed up sequence of the lost souls of the damned visiting the newly opened Stone mansion . It ends with Belle Dee dancing Miser Stevens to death . The music is good too , and the score won an Oscar for Bernard Herrmann , who worked with Welles on CITIZEN KANE and with Hitchcock in the movies of the 1950s . It is a superior morality fantasy film , and makes a comparison between the evil of foreign elements threatening our society in Scratch threatening the good character of the New England men . It is quite good as it is produced , and worth watching and re-watching as an example of first rate movie making .
Even Devils and Millionaires Need Tender Loving Care	John P . Merrick is the world's richest man , and owner of a department store in New York City like Macy's . He lives in a nice mansion in Manhattan with his butler George ( S . Z . Sakall ) , and conducts the daily running of his empires ruthlessly . He is the " Devil " in this movie , and would not care if anybody disliked him for that . But he discovers a worm in his garden . There is a budding labor union in his department store . The apparent key to it is one Joe O'Brien ( Bob Cummings ) who is outspoken , fearless , and a trifle feckless . Joe's chief allies in the store are his girlfriend Mary Jones ( Jean Arthur ) and her closest friend Elizabeth Ellis ( Spring Byington ) . Their activities are watched by store detectives ( like William Demerest ) who report to the store manager Mr . Allison ( Walter Kingsford , in one of his less likable parts ) . But they ( and Merrick ) are aware that many on the staff are members of the incipient union , and Merrick is determined to locate and discharge them . Merrick disguises himself as a new employee and starts working undercover in the department store's shoe department ( where Mary works ) . It becomes quite an education for Merrick . On the one hand he is still looking for the union members , but he is also getting a taste of what his employees are up against - especially when he meets the department head , Mr . Hooper ( Edmund Gwenn ) . When we think of department stores and Gwenn we think of his Oscar winning performance as Kris Kringle in MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET , but we rarely recall that while Gwenn was good at eccentric , nice elderly men ( like the counterfeiter in MR . 880 ) he could plays nastier types ( like the would-be assassin in FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT ) . Hooper is one of the most supercilious snobs imaginable - and all he really is is the head clerk of the shoe department ! Merrick also discovers a gentler portion of the universe . Mary introduces him to her friend Elizabeth ( whom Hooper is interested in - the triangle here is similar to the triangle in LOUISA ) . At home , due to nerves and ulcers from his hard grind , Merrick is stuck eating broken crackers in milk for dinner . But Elizabeth is so relaxing , he's able to eat her regular chicken dinners for lunch . Soon Merrick finds himself a fourth with Mary , Joe , and Elizabeth on the weekends . And he's enjoying it ! With THE LADY EVE , THE DEVIL AND MISS JONES showed that Charles Coburn was capable of good comic performances , and his sharing film screen time with Jean Arthur ( and his friend Edmund Gwenn and Spring Byington ) showed that their styles of comedy mingled perfectly together . It points the way to his Oscar winner THE MORE THE MERRIER , and his wonderful work in LOUISA . My favorite parts are his scenes with Gwenn here , trying to beat him as a salesman ( only to discover he can't handle the kid that Sakall brings in to buy shoes ) , and his scene where he tries to impress Arthur , Cummings , and Byington at Coney Island with a rare wine from his cellar - only to be told by Cummings , who spits it out , he's been robbed ( and he goes berserk watching Cummings spill out the rest of the " bad wine " ) . Also note the rest of the cast - in particular Frank Conroy as a police sergeant who knows when to cut a loss ( a far cry from Conroy's Major Tetley in THE OX-BOW INCIDENT ) . A well made comedy , it reminds us that even the richest man in the world may need personal attention that money can't buy .
An added poignancy with the years	Do people watch Astaire and Rogers films for more than the pleasure of their dancing and singing ? Both performed the dialog parts in their musical comedies well too , but most people think of their movies as a series of opportunities to see great dance numbers and to hear music by Gershwin , Kern , Berlin , Porter , or Youmans . I doubt if they recall the plots . " Flying Down To Rio " deals with a traveling orchestra that assists in advertising a hotel in Rio De Janairo . Nobody recalls that , but they recall Youmans ' melody " Orchids in the Moonlight " and his dance ( for Astaire and Rogers ) " The Carioca " . They also remember the big production number of the young women on the airplane wing ( " Ah , Rio , Rio by the Sea - Oh ! " ) . Except for that , few recall the hero is Gene Raymond and the heroine is Delores Del Rio . The running gag of the three agents of the bank that is trying to sabotage the new hotel ( and who are only seen as top hatted shadows ) may be recalled - but it isn't really worth recalling . In the later musicals the same problems exist . The story of " Gay Divorcée " ( originally " Gay Divorce " on Broadway ) is how Rogers hires Eric Rhodes to be found with her at a resort hotel so her husband can have grounds for divorce . The Porter score including " Night and Day " and " The Continental " was good - but who recalls the plot ( though Rhodes is very funny as the perpetual hired " other man " for instant divorces . The final irony of the plot ( almost like a flat joke's punch line ) is that Eric Blore knows a nasty secret about the husband , who ( for his own reasons ) does not want a divorce . The series did try to tie the couple down to more than frivolous plots dealing with mistaken identities or fake personalities . FOLLOW THE FLEET and CAREFREE tried to have plots dealing with sailors putting on a show and with a psychologist falling in love with a patient who was engaged to his best friend ( Ralph Bellamy , of course ) . Both were amusing , but rather slapdash . CAREFREE had a curious concluding moment , when a hypnotized Rogers is literally slapped out of her state of hypnosis . Rogers looks like she has been the victim of domestic violence as she is married . By 1939 Astaire and Rogers were tired of the series , and wanted to go their separate ways . The public was also getting tired of the series . So finally they were given a property that reversed the formula . Instead of the music and dancing ornamenting a bare plot , the plot incorporated the music and dance by telling the story of the greatest ballroom dance team of the first half of the 20th Century , Vernon and Irene Castle . I have often felt that had Vernon Castle lived beyond 1917 into the period of talkie movies , and stayed married to Irene , they might have been in some of the Astaire Rogers films ( the choreography of two rival couples dancing would have been fascinating ) . Vernon might have played a mentor or rival or father to Fred . But it wasn't to be . As the film shows Vernon ( who was English-born ) enlisted in the Air Corps in 1917 , and was killed in a freak accident saving the life of a pilot he was training ( the scene in the film is quite savage in showing the crash ) . In the four years ( 1913 - 1917 ) when they swept the world with their mastery of dancing , Vernon and Irene Castle became leading celebrities . The film follows the slow steps to fame they took , including getting stuck for awhile in Paris because Vernon was hired only to be a comic actor , not to be a dancer . It shows how Edna Mae Oliver ( as their agent and friend ) gets them the breaks they deserve , and how they end as figures of social change ( ballroom dancing regained popularity , and they did create not only fashions for men and women but also " the Castle Walk " dance step ) . That this all happened in four years suggests what their impact would have been if they lived into the 1940s together ( Irene Castle died in the 1960s ) . There are some delightful moments in the film : Ginger Rogers auditioning for her date Fred Astaire by doing " Yama Yama Man " complete with a costume in her parlor . She is imitating the originator of the song , Bessie McCoy . Walter Brennan trying to protect Rogers from Astaire ( whose intentions he constantly suspects ) . Watch him in a small scene watering the grass of the lawn , and ignoring Astaire's questions . Oliver noticing the rhythmic swaying of the overhead lamp in her apartment due to the dancing going on upstairs ( where Fred and Ginger are dancing ) . But what is best is the feeling of impending doom over the couple . We know Vernon is going to die so that means their success and their life together will end soon . This sense of doom makes " The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle " unique among the Astaire - Rogers films - it is a downer . There is no getting away from the loss of happiness Irene Castle suffered , nor the loss of talent the theater and dance world suffered . The concluding moment of the film always haunted me - Irene and Vernon dancing in spirit together , twirling in a never-ending , eventually disappearing embrace . When I saw the film the first time , Irene Castle was still alive . The second time she was gone but the two stars were still living . Now Fred and Ginger are gone too . That final ghostly dance manages to encompass two sets of dance legends , and increases the sadness that surrounds this - to me - best of their films .
George Orwell visits Grace Brothers	With the rigidity of it's archaic rules , one would think the fictional department store Grace Brothers could not get more oppressive on it's staff . This episode demonstrates it can and would . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) announces to the staff that there have been too many cases of shop lifting and pilfering in the store , so Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett ) has ordered the installment of cameras on the floor of the women's wear and men's wear departments as a test . If the system helps reduce thefts there the cameras will be set up in the entire store . Although the staff is aware of the need for the security system , they soon find the annoyance of it . At first , they are preening themselves for the camera , trying to get their best sides photographed ( the worst offenders are Mrs . Slocombe , Captain Peacock , and Mr . Humphreys - Mollie Sugden , Frank Thornton , and John Inman ) . Then Rumbold shows off the central television monitor to Mr . Mash ( Larry Martyn ) , and they are actually spying on the staff , not looking for various shop-lifters . Soon small rule infractions ( too much time smoking or goofing off ) are visible , as are conversations as well ( the system has an audio component ) . The staff suddenly becomes aware of " Big Brotherism " and does not like it . Leave it to Mr . Lucas ( Trevor Bannister ) and Mr . Humphreys to figure out how to properly use the system to force it's removal . The plan needs a great deal of misinformation and the Department Store's doctor to work . And it does .
Henry VIII v . the man from Utopia	Except for Henry II and his family , and Richard III , the first monarch to really get center stage ( in terms of chronological history ) in motion pictures is Henry VIII . He has been in or near the center of at least seven or eight pictures ( including at least one biography ) . So far ( this list is far from complete ) he appears in : " The Private Life of Henry VIII " ( Charles Laughton - and his Oscar . ) ; " The Six Wives of Henry VIII " ( Both television series and film starring Keith Mitchell " . ) ; " A Man For All Seasons " ( Robert Shaw as the monarch . ) ; " Anne of a Thousand Days ( Richard Burton as the monarch . ) ; " The Prince and the Pauper " ( 1936 version with Montague Love as the monarch . ) ; " Crossed Swords " ( The latest of the remakes of " The Prince and the Pauper " with Charleton Heston as the monarch . ) ; " Young Bess " ( Actually Jean Simmons as Elizabeth is star , but daddy is played by Laughton again . ) His was a very involved and complex reign , with the development of the navy ( Henry's hobby ) and the English Reformation ( Henry's sexual desires and his anger ) at the center of much historic churning . He comes across as a man of great ability and self-absorption - nothing would stand in his way to achieving an end that was for his pleasure . It is easy why so many ( including Jane Austen and Charles Dickens ) came away seeing the monster . The monster was there , but it was a monster with a mind . Whether that was good or bad I will not take a stand on . For all the good in Henry's naval policies , his willingness to take life is not easy to swallow . Especially when his victims include Bishop Fisher and Thomas More , two of the best men of that generation . Although he appears in " Anne of a Thousand Days " , John Fisher is not the subject of any film . Pity , for ( although he did not write a great political fantasy like More ) he actually tried to live by Christian precepts ( something his more worldly colleague Wolsey never thought about until he was on the verge of trial and execution ) . Unlike More , who was circumspect ( " A Man For All Seasons " shows how he was an exceptionally clever lawyer for so long ) , Fisher was outspoken in his opposition to Henry's divorce . That was why he got executed first . More is the subject of this film based on John Osborne's brilliant play of the same name . Like Wolsey he did not come from a noble family but worked his way up by his brilliance . He did demonstrate honesty ( a rare quality in that period . . . in public servants in particular ) . However Osborne does hint that his rise to the Lord Chancellorship was more due to the political scheming of Wolsey ( his predecessor ) and Henry himself . Both apparently felt that they could either impress or awe More into being a loyal subordinate , or could threaten him , or bribe him . Since he felt he was loyal to God he did not need their stroking or their clawing . He was a grown man and knew that today's favorite of fortune could be on Tower Hill tomorrow ( as Wolsey almost was , and as the Duke of Norfolk ( Nigel Davenport ) almost was ) . And as Henry's cousin the Duke of Buckingham ( briefly heir apparent ) definitely was in 1522 . So More was aware of the threat , but also aware that for men such threats are eventually meaningless . More did not speak out against Henry's divorce and marriage to Anne Boleyn until backed into an impossible corner . He made his conviction for treason impossible until a rogue ( Richard Rich - John Hurt ) perjures himself . When that dooms him , then and only then does he admit he is in the Fisher camp - that the divorce is a sin against God . Of course , today , we might be more willing to accept Henry's divorce of Catherine of Aragon because divorce is more acceptable . . . or is it ? Witness the current mixed feelings about the coming morganatic marriage of the Prince of Wales to Ms Parker-Bowles , which fans of the late Princess Diane are upset about . Charles problems are compounded by the fact that he will be head of the Anglican Church , and as such his wife is supposed to be only his wife . Camilla is a divorcée ( whose ex-husband is still alive ) . This situation is due to Henry's antics in 1530-33 when he " overthrew " the Roman Catholic Church in England and set up the Anglican Church with himself as head , gave himself special dispensation to divorce Catherine ( on spurious moral grounds ) , declared his daughter Mary a bastard , and married Anne . It was to allow the King to have a male heir ( he had an illegitimate male heir , the Earl of Richmond , but wanted a legitimate one ) . More , Fisher , one can add the worried Wolsey , knew it was for this reason , but the King had the muscle to make his camp supreme . And when the monasteries were seized , the lands to bribe his camp followers . As his two ( or three ) critics guessed it would not work . Anne produced a brilliant heir , but it was a girl named Elizabeth . Disappointed and angry , Henry lashed back and within a year of killing England's greatest lawyer and humanist ( of that time ) had Anne executed as well ( and Elizabeth branded a bastard now ) . The third wife , Jane Seymour , would live long enough to bear one son , the sickly Edward VI ( who would have a seven year reign ) . Three others would follow Jane , including another who went to the block . So did other political figures ( including Cromwell , so deviously played by Leo McKern here ) . In the end Henry made England one of the big three Western European states , but he was a paranoid old man when he died ( of syphilis , as the film says ) . Posterity respects his achievements , but cringes at his excesses of cruelty . They also still adorn More and Fisher , the men who had guts to say no .
Neat reworking and rewriting of an early classic	It is very rare for a film leader to have a second chance at his first big success . The closest I can think of is Alfred Hitchcock , making THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH in 1934 and again in 1956 , and reworking the plot of THE 39 STEPS in SABOTEUR and NORTH BY NORTHWEST . But Mel Brooks's experience with THE PRODUCERS is really unique . The first appearance of the story in the 1960s led to Brooks success as a film comedian and satirist of the top class . It also won an Oscar for best original screenplay . Then , in 2001 , he created a musical version of THE PRODUCERS that starred Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick as Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom . Like it's predecessor it won recognition - it swept the Tony Awards . It is more than repeating the original with a few more big numbers ( though it certainly has more big numbers in it ) . Brooks reworked the central events of the original script . For example : the beginning . In the original Gene Wilder ( as Bloom ) goes to the dingy office of Max Bialystock ( Zero Mostel ) and interrupts an apparent tryst between Mostel and one of his little old ladies . Mostel basically orders him out of the office . Bloom goes around the corner and finds a mysterious man there before him . The old lady leaves , after giving Mostel a check . Mostel loses the check within a minute to the mysterious man ( the landlord demanding his rent ) . Then Mostel confronts Bloom , and invites him into his office . Here Broderick comes to the office ( which is also where Max lives ) , and finds Lane asleep under newspapers . He explains why he is there , and they are interrupted by a lively old lady . Broderick is pushed into the bathroom , and does emerge briefly to see the tryst . The old lady leaves , and the reviewing of the books of Bialystock is completed . THE CHARACTER OF THE LANDLORD IS TOTALLY ABOLISHED . It is a small loss . A larger one is the loss of the drug addicted hippie actor , " L . S . D . " He is chosen by a desperate Mostel to play Hitler , because he is so totally against the right type . Dick Shawn played the part perfectly , and it is hard to imagine that the new musical or film could have duplicated it . But the first film was set in the late 1960s , and " L . S . D . " represented the drug counter-culture of the 1960s . The musical version ( and this film version ) is set in 1959 - 1960 : the last years of the Eisenhower Administration ) . It would be anachronistic to have " L . S . D . " in the film at all . Instead , Brooks came up with an interesting change in character roles . First he makes Franz Liebkind ( here Will Ferrell ) demonstrate a musical dancing and singing ability and he is chosen to play Der Fuhrer . But he is unable to go on stage on opening night , and is replaced by director Roger DeBris ( who apparently always wanted to be a singer and dancer on Broadway himself ) . Building up the role of DeBris for Gary Beach would also mean that DeBris ' boyfriend / confidante Carmen Ghia ( Roger Bart ) has a bigger part in the musical and second film . Also , although Kenneth Mars performance as Liebkind was excellent , he did not show the total commitment to Nazism that Ferrell has - when we see Ferrell the first time , he is using those pet pigeons on the roof of his apartment house to keep in touch with Nazi pals in South America . And at the end , he is pushing the sale of MEIN KAMPF on the film's audience . ( Unfortunately another loss in the new script is the landlady in Liebkind's building in the original film - the concierge - has been discarded . ) The changes do not hurt the story of the film - though we miss the lost characters . The musical has a bit more depth because of additions to Bloom's character , and even to Bialystok's character ( like the opening - the flop of his latest musical ) . The addition of a romance between Ulla ( Uma Thurmond ) and Bloom makes sense ( in the original Mostel hired Ulla as his secretary / mistress as his toy ) . My favorite addition is the scene with Jon Lovitz as the hideous Mr . Marks ( the boss of Bloom ) . It leads to the wonderful " I WANT TO BE A PRODUCER " number for Broderick , as he realizes he is an imprisoned drudge as an accountant . One of the pluses to the scene is the surprise shown by Lovitz when he is given Broderick's resignation , and the chorus girls ( who are theoretically in Broderick's imagination ) pop up and surround Lovitz . Certainly different in many ways to the original , but now a first rate musical comic film .
" We're just wild about VIP ! "	The second of the three Doris Day - Rock Hudson - Tony Randall romps , LOVER COME BACK actually is a slightly sharper film than it's closer rival PILLOW TALK , with SEND ME NO FLOWERS a bit behind them . The reason for this positioning is that PILLOW TALK did not really spoof anything ( Randall is producing a show and needs music composed by Hudson ; until the end when Hudson decides to allow Day to decorate his apartment - with horrendous results - Day's interior decorating career really was just a mild peg in the screenplay ) . SEND ME NO FLOWERS comes closest to satire in the business with Paul Lynde's friendly , helpful cemetery plot salesman . Most of the rest deals with hypochondria and the world of the suburbs . Only in LOVER COME BACK does the center of the script involve itself in the profession of the three leads : Madison Avenue Advertising Agencies . Hudson is the right hand man ( one might say the central brain ) for an ad agency that is owned ( by inheritance , not character or brains ) by Randall . Hudson has a formula for getting accounts - find the client's weakness , and play to it , pushing booze and girls at the same time . We see him steal the account of Jack Oakie ( his final performance on film , but a nice one ) as a Virginian who is still a loyal Confederate , and likes his booze ( " jest a tetch " is a mantra of his , with Hudson or anyone else filling up the glass ) , and likes his fair ladies as well . Unfortunately for Hudson , Day had been scheduled to give a presentation to Oakie , and is really angry by the way Hudson stole the account . She starts asking questions , and finds the chief one of the chorus girls that Oakie was set up with ( Edie Adams ) . When Hudson learns Adams plans to talk he tries to talk his way out by saying he was planning to make Adams the new " girl " for a new product . " Well , what is the product ? " , Adams asks . Hudson looks at a newspaper headline referring to V . I . P . s and says it is called " Vip " . Adams does not testify against Hudson because he has a number of specious and vague , but sexy commercials shot with Adams selling " Vip " . All this might have still remained under wraps , but Randall , in his first attempt to show he can make decisions rather than Hudson , tells his assistant ( Joe Flynn ) to release the commercials and saturate the television airwaves with them . Only later does a horrified Hudson tell him that there is no product called Vip . Day learns of " Vip " from Adams . She starts more of an investigation , and discovers that nobody is quite sure what VIP is . Her boss , Howard St . John , is dubious of any result . Her own job on the line she decides to investigate on her own . Hudson has decided to use an eccentric Nobel Chemistry Laureate ( Jack Kruschen - in a fun performance ) to concoct a product called Vip . At one point Day shows up at Kruschen's house , and sees Hudson wearing an apron . She jumps to the conclusion he is Kruschen , and starts trying to prevent him from signing with Hudson's agency . Hudson decides to take full advantage of this situation : it preoccupies Day in her snooping , and she is more attractive than he imagined . The plot then follows that of PILLOW TALK with Day not realizing she is dating the man she loathes , not the imagined great man of science with a fragile psyche . Hudson plays it to the hilt ( his comic abilities were first brought out by Day in their films , and it possibly enabled his career as a star to last really as long as it did ) . As for Randall , his desire to show he is worthy of his father " the Commodore " ( a forbidding portrait of Randall in yachting costume is above the desk the son sits at ) is confronted by his total lack of understanding his business , of making decisions , or taking responsibility . He keeps hoping either Hudson or Flynn will fall on their sword ( symbolically will do , but he is open for actual suicide ) to save his firm from being wrecked . His only apparent close relationship is with his therapist Dr . Melnick ( Richard Deacon - in a sadly wasted single scene with Randall at the end ) , and even Randall mentions that Deacon has said he finds him boring . So what does the great Kruchen concoct out of chemicals and smoke ( multi-colored , as Randall finds to his cost ) ? Put it this way : It is very possible that that great Vice President of the U . S . , Thomas Marshall , would have fully appreciated the perfect companion invented by Kruschen for Marshall's really good five cent cigar !
Somebody Stole the Purse - for some booze !	Up to THE LOST WEEKEND , Billy Wilder was a talented script writer from Austria , who had done ( after some noise and badgering ) several movies that he and Charles Brackett wrote the scripts for , but the way he felt they were intended . So Paramount let him go ahead and produce and direct their own films , and he proved the studio was wise to do so . By 1945 Wilder had done a wacky comedy , THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR about a military academy . The film was a box office success . It was followed by FIVE GRAVES TO CAIRO , which gave a fictional account of the war in North Africa , and gave a stunningly good performance by Eric Von Stroheim as General Erwin Rommel . But Wilder and Brackett wanted to tackle a " message " picture . They found one in the best selling novel THE LOST WEEKEND by Charles Jackson . It tackled the issue of alcoholism . Alcoholism had actually been noted in motion pictures almost from the start , usually in comedies where a character ( possibly the star , like Chaplin in ONE A . M . ) would do his or her business while tanked . The 19th Century drama , THE DRUNKARD , was used by W . C . Fields in THE OLD FASHIONED WAY as the play Fields ' troop is putting on . Another version of THE DRUNKARD was made into a full movie in 1940 called THE VILLAIN STILL PURSUES HER , with Alan Mowbray and Buster Keaton . Now and then a more serious problem would be shown . D . W . Griffith made his last film in 1931 about alcoholism , THE STRUGGLE ( which was a flop ) . In SADIE MCGEE , Joan Crawford marries Edward Arnold who is an alcoholic ( she eventually helps on this problem ) . Aside from Griffith's flop nobody made a serious film about the disease . Wilder and Brackett turned in a good screenplay that did just that . Don Birnan is a young man who claims to be a writer , but has published very little . Three people are aware of his weakness : Don's older brother Wic , the local bartender Nat , and Don's girlfriend Helen . The crisis occurs the last weekend of the summer . Don is to go with Wic and work on his novel . But he disappears when he is supposed to be ready to leave . Wic has rearranged his own life for Don and is fed up . He leaves to go to the country house alone . He tells Helen not to waste her own life with Don , as Don is so far gone that he is not worth it . Helen ( more troubled than Wic ) does make herself scarce too . So Don , when he gets home , finds that he is really all alone on that long weekend . Well not totally alone - he's inventive , our Don . He hides bottles of liquor all over the house ( the old joke about the whiskey bottle hidden in a chandelier comes from this film ) . Wic does try to find the hiding places , but Don comes up with new ones ( including suspending a bottle from a window by a string . However even this is of little use , as Don's demons drive him deeper and deeper into drinking . He has little money left , and soon is out of credit at Nat's ( who hates to give him credit for drink because it's harmful to Don ) . He even steals a purse at one point . He tries to hock his typewriter . All for the money for a drink . And then he ends up in Bellevue's " Drunk Tank " where he meets the cynical nurse Bim , who has heard all the remorseful stories of reform from Don and his ilk forever . There is far more to the screenplay than this synopsis suggests . Don's behavior is centered only on getting the sauce into him - and he does not care who is " inconvenienced " along the way , so that he finds himself quite isolated by the conclusion of the film . The movie's ending is hopeful , but just vaguely that . Somehow Don is such a weak character we can not be sure if he will ever turn his life around again . Wilder used Ray Milland in this film , and it is usually pointed out that Milland was normally in comedies like EASY LIVING , SKYLARK , or Wilder's own THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR . But he had played serious parts , most notably in BEAU GESTE , I WANTED WINGS , and ( more recently ) THE MINISTRY OF FEAR and THE UNINVITED . But Don Birnan was the first three dimensional figure he tackled , and he did splendidly in it . His Oscar guaranteed a decade of stardom , and a really interesting career afterward in directing and character parts . Jane Wyman plays Helen as a character who struggles to recall the man she loves up to the conclusion of the film - his weakness constantly threatening the relationship . Philip Terry's Wic is equally good , putting on the best face possible , until the straw breaks the camel's back . As Bim , Frank Faylen is understandably fed up with his ward charges at Bellevue - all claiming they aren't ill , but quite evidently recurring so . And Howard Da Silva , normally playing villains in the 1940s , played the understanding Nat as harsh but compassionate - he wants Don to straighten up and write as he claims he can . How real is the story here ? There is an anecdote that Milland mentions in WILD EYED IN BABYLON , where he and Da Silva were in the set of the bar rehearsing a scene . They were interrupted by a bowler hatted little man with a familiar face , who came in and ordered a shot of whiskey . He paid for it , gulped it down before the two actors , and left the bar . They watched him go and did not say a word . It was Robert Benchley , working on another picture at Paramount at the next set . And Benchley had his own alcohol problems too .
Sometimes Mush History is more acceptable than reality	In 1936 Errol Flynn appeared in a film called THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE , directed ( at Warner Brothers ) by Michael Curtiz . It was a box office smash , guaranteeing the greatness of Warners adventure star Flynn in a series of swashbuckling films that would last until 1941 , and would remain imprinted on his career until he began to age too much from drink and debauchery . But the history presented about the most infamous blunder in British military annals during the Crimean War was mushed up . Elements of the Sepoy Revolt were tacked on , to build up an understandable motive for the Russian - English confrontation in the Crimea . Yet for all it's mush , most people in 1936 , or even today , enjoy THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE with Flynn . It holds a kind of stately dignity to most people because Flynn represents a type of bizarre honor at all costs type that we admire . The film is , of course , named for Tennyson's poem about the Charge . Yet the Tennyson poem is not totally quoted , and only pops up on screen during the last seven minutes , inter-cut in the background of shots of the charging British cavalrymen . For a poetry lover the effect is not what one could wish . ( Lord Tennyson was criticized about twenty years after writing this poem by a member of the larger unit , " the Heavy Brigade " that was also at the battles of the Alva and Balaclava in October 1854 , but followed the correct orders , lost few members , and successfully carried out it's assignment . Tennyson took it to heart , and wrote - believe it or not - a poem called THE CHARGE OF THE HEAVY BRIGADE . If you get his complete poems you can find it . It is a competent poem ( one can hardly expect an incompetent poem by Tennyson ) , but it is totally without any merit in comparison to the earlier work . It is not quotable . I have put a copy of this poem down separately on the thread . ) In the meantime , Cecil Woodham - Smith wrote THE REASON WHY , a book ( whose title is lifted from Tennyson's line , " Their's not to reason why . Their's but to do or die . " ) that documented the generally bad leadership of the Light Brigade and the British Army in the 1840s and 1850s , leading to the debacle at Sebastopol . The villains were James Brudenell , Seventh Earl of Cardigan , his hated cousin George Bingham , Earl of Lucan ( great grandfather of the missing Earl / murderer from the 1970s ) , Lord Raglan ( the General-in-Chief ) , Lord Airey ( Raglan's second in command ) , and Captain Louis Nolan . Between these five geniuses the blunder occurred . Woodham - Smith pointed out that Cardigan was an insufferable perfectionist and snob . He made the Light Brigade a crack fighting and riding group . But he sneered at non-aristocratic officers from India like Louis Nolan . Ironically Errol Flynn's character would have not risen far in the Light Brigade under Cardigan ! There were a series of scandals involving this snob , one of which ( the " black bottle " affair ) is shown in this film . An illegal duel that resulted in Cardigan's trial for attempted murder before the House of Lords in 1841 ( he won acquittal on an aggravating quibble regarding the name of his dueling opponent ) is not in this film . Cardigan might still have performed reasonably well if Lucan had not insisted on being put over him as head of Cavalry ( Lucan , who lived to be 91 , would eventually be a Field Marshall ) . The two kept on sniping at each other . The Duke of Wellington had died in 1852 , and Raglan , his gopher , inherited his post as commander in chief . Raglan constantly wondered how the Iron Duke would have handled every situation , thus blinding his own powers of thought . Airey was even more of a non-entity . As for the angry , hot-headed Nolan , he was desperate to prove himself in battle to show up Cardigan and his snobs . It was a recipe for disaster . The spark was the stupid , vaguely worded order that Nolan delivered to Lucan who sent it ( without comment ) to Cardigan , to take the Brigade to " the guns " . It is believed Raglan meant the British guns . Nolan got into a fit of temper with Cardigan and Lucan , and pointed in a way towards both the British and Russian guns . Cardigan , shrugging his shoulder , started after the Russian position . Two thirds of the 600 + men were lost , but to Cardigan's credit they did seize the Russian guns . Cardigan himself survived ( he would later have to explain this - did he leave his men to die in the battle when they reached the guns ? ) . Nolan was killed trying to stop the insane charge when he saw the error he caused . Trevor Howard is wonderful as the snobbish , ego-maniacal Cardigan - also quite a womanizer , and jealous of preserving the appearance of a fine figure ( watch Peter Bowles trying to hastily push Howard into his girdle before battle ) . Guilgud is wonderful as the vague , out-of-it Raglan , who barely notices his men are being killed too easily . Hemmings plays Nolan well too , as we sympathize with a fairly intelligent officer being wasted , who makes just one rash mistake too many . Harry Andrews is only in the last half hour of the film , but his bull in the china shop character bodes nothing good for the situation . Howard would repeat the character of Cardigan , under a different name , in the comedy THE MISSIONARY with Michael Palin and Maggie Smith , where he was a reactionary old general who was the richest man in England ( and who liked the sound of the word " flog " - so would Cardigan for that matter ) . Also note the use of 1850 political cartoons from PUNCH that are animated in the film at several points . " No , though the soldiers knew someone had blundered ! "
Capra , Claudette , and Clark - and an auto-gyro landing on the lawn	The first film to sweep the main categories of the Oscars ( of that time - 1934 ) was IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT . In it Clark Gable plays Peter Warne , a newspaperman who is having problems with his boss Joe Gordon ( Charles C . Wilson ) , when he latches onto one of the big scoops of his time . Willful Ellie Andrews ( Claudette Colbert ) , the daughter of millionaire Alexander Andrews ( Walter Conolly ) , has fled her powerful father's yacht , in order to reach the man she claims she loves , an aviator named King Wesley ( Jameson Thomas ) . Ellie is very strong minded and snobbish . She has common sense , but her will sometimes overcomes it . Peter hooks up with her on a bus that is going from Florida to New York . He soon lets her know that he knows her identity , but he will assist her if she will allow him to write of the bus trip for the newspaper . Capra movies are fun because he did not hesitate to throw in pieces of Americana into them . Here it was bus travel . The interstate highway system that we know of today really dates back to the 1950s ( possibly it was the most useful internal achievement of Eisenhower's Presidency ) , but more and more roads between states were being built in the 1920s and 1930s due to the growth of the use of automobiles . However , Mr . Andrews ( well played by Conolly as a stern but loving father - and a good judge of character : he doesn't think highly of Wesley ) , concentrates his agents at railroad and seaport ( and even airport ) depots and stations . He doesn't think Ellie will travel in such a plebeian manner as a bus . The bus is driven by Ward Bond , who has a nice , simple comic scene with Gable where all Bond repeats like a dummy is " YEAH ? " , to which an increasingly confused and befuddled Gable is forced " YEAH ! ! " . The passengers are a mixed bag , and include Roscoe Karns as a heel and opportunist , and several others who entertain themselves singing " The Man On the Flying Trapeze " . Ellie finally shows her humanity giving away most of her money to aid a boy and his mother who are so broke the mother fainted from hunger . Early trailer parks are shown in the film , as well as the rest stops of the 1930s ( note a brief moment when a man in great distress makes a very quiet request for information to a waiter - he is told the comfort station is in the back ) . It's interesting to see a film like this to catch the changing scene in America in the 1930s or any period , and the things that we now take for granted . My one partial criticism of the film as it is it that Wesley is never really built up as a villain - although he is obviously a fortune hunter . He has some celebrity as an aviator ( this was the age when men and women of real stature became public figures for aviation achievements : Lindbergh , Earhard , Post , Gatty , Hughes , Amy Johnson , Doolittle , Turner ) . But even Gable ( admittedly jealous after he falls for Ellie ) calls him " the pill of the century " . As a stunt at the wedding ceremony , Wesley lands an auto-gyro on the lawn . Mr . Andrews feels it's silly . But for real villainy in the story , we are left with the treacherous Alan Hale ( in one sequence ) and Karns as a lecherous and greedy pest . That true love finally wins is to be expected . But the journey of Ellie Andrews and Peter Warne is a colorful one that takes us back to a moment when auto travel on the east coast was still quite a little adventure . The film won best picture , Capra best director , Gable best actor , and Colbert best actress . Ironically Colbert , a fine actress , never won another Oscar , and Gable ( whose signature role was Rhett Butler , not Peter Warne ) lost that Oscar of 1939 to Robert Donat ( and lost the 1935 Oscar for Fletcher Christian to Victor MagLaglen ) . However , Peter Warne added more than an Oscar to Gable's legend . His scene where he undressed in a roadside motel room in front of Colbert revealed he did not wear an undershirt . Sales in men's undershirts declined precipitously for a number of years as a result .
Boy , look who's the murderer in this film !	Sequels are rarely as good as the first film in a series so AFTER THE THIN MAN is atypical . It actually fits the first film quite well ( almost not quite though ) . As THE THIN MAN ends , Nick and Nora ( William Powell and Myrna Loy ) are headed back to their home in San Francisco , accompanied by Maureen O'Sullivan and her husband . We even are aware that they are having a private moment of sex as the film ends , in their own Pullman births . AFTER THE THIN MAN begins as the same train is pulling into San Francisco ( but Ms O'Sullivan and her husband are not seen anymore ) . At the tail end of this sequel the result of that moment of sexual satisfaction is given to us when Loy turns coy about sewing baby booties , etc . I like the continuity here . The series manages to keep it up for awhile . We also find that Asta has a sex life in San Francisco , that Nora's aunt ( Jessie Ralph , splendidly haughty and stiff ) does not like Nick ( she keeps referring to him as " Nicholas " ) , and that the police in San Francisco have a businesslike chief in Sam Levine ( who is less dumb than his New York counterpart Nat Pendleton was ) . The plot is as complex as the first film's , but it is in the resolution that we are really amazed . While " the least likely suspect " is frequently used in popular movie series ( perhaps most often in Charley Chan films ) , it is a toss-up if the killer in this film is the most unexpected in the series of " Thin Man " movies , or the one in THE THIN MAN GOES HOME is the most unexpected one . To be fair , this actor made another film in this period when he was a wanted murderer , but his performance here goes so over the top that one cannot forget it once you've seen it to the conclusion . THE THIN MAN dealt with the disappearance of a famous inventor / industrialist , and whether or not he is responsible for a series of murders . Here , we are taken into Nora's socially prominent family , and how her cousin Elissa Landi is having problems with her two-timing husband Alan Marshal . Landi's problems are compounded by the murder of Marshal , and the revelation of the involvement of a gang ( led by Joseph Calleia ) in manipulating Marshal for it's own purposes . Landi becomes the chief suspect , although Calleia and some of the others are suspicious enough . Besides Powell and Loy helping Landi , she counts on the support of an old boyfriend , Jimmy Stewart . Among other odd , and threatening figures , are our old friend George Zucco , wearing bottle cap eyeglasses , as a psychiatrist on salary to Jessie Ralph , and a rare film appearance of Teddy Hart ( lyracist Larry Hart's younger brother ) as a crooked , obnoxious lawyer . The casting , acting , and direction ( and the story ) are pretty good again . And the solution ends up being simple - it all depends on an old photograph .
A Submarine Disaster Situation	Every now and then we are reminded of the so-called " silent service " - the submarine arm of the navy . It is hard to believe nowadays but active use of submarines in warfare is barely over one century old . There had been three attempts at getting submarines into warfare before the 1880s : in the American Revolution , when Connecticut inventor David Bushnell designed the " Turtle " to attack Admiral Howe's flagship in New York Harbor ; when Robert Fulton attempted to interest Napoleon Bonaparte in his submarine as a weapon against the British fleet in 1800 ; and when the Confederate ( and Northern ) navies experimented with torpedo boats and submarines - culminating in the success of the C . S . S . Hunley - in the American Civil War . But the real spur was anti-British animus in Irish-American circles in the 1880s , when they financed the researches of John P . Holland . It was his successful submarine that became the model adopted by most navies . But that was after 1900 , and the early submarines were small and unpleasant and smelly craft ( due to the closed space and the gasoline fumes ) . Disasters occurred frequently enough . It was not until the sinking of three British cruisers on one day in 1914 by U-boat Captain Weddingen that their power became widely realized . The number of maritime fatalities ( led by R . M . S . Lusitania ) demonstrated how deadly these ships could become . So by the end of the war everyone was improving their submarine fleets . But the ships still had major disasters in the 1920s and 1930s . 1939 was a banner year with major French , British , and American sub disasters . But the last one , the U . S . S . Squalus off Portsmouth , New Hampshire , was important for another reason . For one of the few times in modern history , the crew of a disabled submarine was mostly rescued . Diving bells and decompression chambers saved nearly two thirds of Squalus ' crew ( and the sub was raised , repaired , and recommissioned to be of use in World War II ) . But Squalus sank very close to land , and the depth was not an impossibly deep one as a result . Still it was quite a rarity to have survivors of a sub sinking . With a normal shipwreck ( of a surface vessel ) the crew has a chance to use lifeboats , life preservers , floating wreckage , rafts . You can't readily do that if you are underwater to begin with . For some reason submarine disaster films have rarely appeared on screen . There were films about submarines ( several versions of Jules Verne's TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA , for instance ) , and even of the wartime subs . For instance RUN SILENT , RUN DEEP , and DESTINATION , TOKYO were two . Some misfires also appeared . Charles Laughton appeared as an insanely jealous submarine commander opposite Gary Cooper and Tallulah Bankhead in THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP ( he scuttles his own vessel at the end , going down with the ship ) . But films about actual tragedies never popped up . Except for this British film . John Mills is the commander of a submarine out on maneuvers in the British Channel . A mechanical failure causes it to sink . Mills is able to get most of his men out using snorkel breathing apparatus , and shooting them out of the torpedo tube . But he is unable to do it for the last three men in the sub with him : James Hayter , Richard Attenborough , and Nigel Patrick . In their situation they have to just wait out official attempts at rescue . But this is based on the amount of oxygen left on board , and how long it will last . Also , it is turning the ship into a huge tomb for them . And Attenborough , who has claustrophobic problems to begin with , is going over the edge . Patrick turns out to have physical problems that if not treated will possibly be fatal . It is not a happy situation . It is a gritty little movie , and it has it's moments of unexpected reality . Hayter was not supposed to be on the cruise , but at the last moment he agreed to go in place of a fellow seaman who had to attend an ailing wife . Details like that make one realize what a gamble our daily life experiences can be . As a look at a disaster that is normally uncommon ( but still possible - remember the Russian tragedy of the " Kursk " ) , with four good performances in it , I strongly catching this film .
A Serious Look at Axis Allies , and a chilling performance by Donald Moffatt	Costa - Gavros has never been afraid to voice his political views , come what may . This includes indicting the U . S . Government in MISSING for collusion in the behavior of the Pinochet regime's killing an American citizen . He also has spoken harshly about Greece's junta in Z and other governments . In MUSIC BOX he looks at the issue of open collaboration in Eastern Europe by right wing governments from 1938 to 1945 with the Axis governments of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy . Hitler at his death in April 1945 , and the trial of his leading minions and cut-throats in the immediate post-war years , did a favor of sorts for their allies in Hungary , Roumania , and other Eastern European states ( as well as Western European states ) who gleefully assisted in the Holacaust for their own reasons . Hungary was able to prevent the liquidation of the Jews there until 1944 , due to the reign of the anti-Semitic but careful " Regent " Admiral Horthy . Horthy was unwilling to shed blood , as he was aware that Germany might not win the war and not be able to rubber stamp such a massacre in the future . But in September 1944 Horthy's regime was shattered when S . S . Colonel Otto Skorzeny kidnapped Horthy's son as a bargaining chip . Horthy basically retired from office , and a more pro-Nazi regime came in . It only lasted until the Russians came in the following March , but most of the Hungarian Jewish community ended up in the death camps . Several thousand were rescued thanks to the work of Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenburg . Hungary's newly installed Communist Government quickly tried and executed the leading Hungarian fascists ( Horthy was imprisoned until he died ) . The Hungarians had had a pretty sophisticated and successful capitalist society in the inter-war period . They did not take kindly to the Communist regime , and in 1956 they revolted ( see the film THE JOURNEY ) . That revolt was smashed due to western indifference . Hungary did not try it again , but as the decades slid by it practiced more and more capitalism - and closer ties to the west . When the iron curtain finally collapsed , Hungary was very quick to reemerge as a " western " style country ( with the " Czech Republic " ) . But the fall of the Soviet empire also released tons of material for the West to read , not only about Communist collaborators , but also Nazi collaborators . The problem was that the west had to consider if the attacks on " Nazi collaborators " were honest reporting or attempts to smear innocent people . That is the theme of this Costa Gavros film . Jessica Lange is a lawyer , whose beloved father is Armin Mueller - Stahl . He was a refugee from Hungary who came to the United States in the late 1940s , under the wing of Donald Moffat , a Army intelligence officer . Moffat's son married Lange , and they had a child , before the father died . Mueller - Stahl has grown close to the boy , and Lange is happy about this . Then , one day , charges are filed against Mueller - Stahl by the Federal Government's prosecutor ( Frederick Forrest ) that Mueller - Stahl was an active , high ranking Hungarian Fascist who assisted the Nazis in the murder of Hungarian Jews . Lange is angry at this and becomes her father's attorney . Unfortunately as the case progresses , more and more documentation turns up that forces Lange to re-evaluate her father . She fights as long as possible - aided by the questionable people who supply the " proof " . But as it builds , the facade of kindness and love by her father cracks . Mueller - Stahl has repeatedly appeared in films showing a lovely restraint in his acting . Look at his work as the immigrant to America in AVALON . But here he is playing against his normal type - when he finally shows Lange his basic repellent manner and fury he is chilling . He basically tells her to keep her thoughts to herself , or he'll take her kid away from her . But even more chilling is Donald Moffat . He apparently found that saving Mueller - Stahl from a deserved trip to the gallows was quite useful for his own career in military intelligence . He certainly did well in that sphere . But it helps him immensely that he either does not care about the fate of the Jews , or that he openly questions the Holacaust ( in one scene he even tries to start indoctrinating doubt into Lange's son , who is his grandson too ) . That such a character did so well in our country is a bitter pill to swallow , and yet it probably is not far from the truth in many cases .
Stevenson , Richard Mansfield , the Autumn of 1888 , and Frederic March	Three things of note happened with the Academy Awards in 1931 that were unique . For the first time in it's history the best picture of the year was a western , CIMMERON ( which , though dated by today's standards , cemented the stardom of Richard Dix and Irene Dunne ) . For years CIMMERON would be the only western to win the best picture award ( despite films like STAGECOACH , FORT APACHE , RED RIVER , SHANE , BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID coming along ) . Then in 1992 THE UNFORGIVEN won the best picture award too , so now it looks like western may be allowable to compete more often . But science fiction is another matter . For in 1931 ( for the only time in Oscar's history ) an Oscar was awarded for a performance in a science fiction role for best actor . It went to Fredric March , that consummate actor , for Dr . Henry Jekyll / Mr . Edward Hyde . Perhaps because that year was the first time a category had two tied winners ( the third unique event ) March's performance remains the only science fiction performance to win - he tied with Wallace Beery for the latter's end of the road pugilist in THE CHAMP . This may explain why Boris Karloff was overlooked for Frankenstein , Imhotep ( the Mummy ) , and Grey the coachman ( THE BODY SNATCHER ) in later years . Even today people try to differentiate between March's character and say Bela Lugosi's Dracula or Lon Chaney's Wolf Man . Yet it is a science fiction situation : Henry Jekyll does separate his personality with chemicals into good and bad components - just as Griffin ( Claude Rains ) separates his body from visibility with chemicals in THE INVISIBLE MAN . There is some snobbery here - Stevenson is not quite the same author as Mrs . Shelley , Bram Stoker , or even H . G . Wells . This is nonsense - all these writers worked hard at their craft , which is why they are still read ( although Stoker's prose is frequently laughable ) . Be it as it may , no other science fiction figure has won an actor an Oscar ( including Spencer Tracy for his performance as Jekyll and Hyde ) since 1931 . Stevenson later said that his idea came from the story of Deacon William Brodie , an Edinburgh carpenter and city official who was discovered to be a successful burglar and hanged in 1788 . He had a nightmare about this situation , and turned it into the novella THE STRANGE CASE OF DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE . The original story is basically about how the unleashing of unfettered evil cannot be controlled or restored to normal no matter how hard one tries . In it , Hyde is responsible for severely ( and unconcernedly ) injuring a child , and for murdering a member of Parliament named Carew . Eventually he also causes the death of a friend of Jekyll's , who learns the secret to his own cost . But when Stevenson's story was turned into a successful stage play for actor Richard Mansfield ( in 1887-88 ) , the murder of an unfortunate " barmaid " ( Ivy ) was added , as was a marriage being planned for Jekyll and Carew's daughter ( which leads to the murder of Carew ) . Mansfield was one of the great actors of his day , and with a minimum of make-up ( and special lighting tricks ) managed to change from the proper Jekyll to the evil Hyde every night before his audience . Possibly one person who saw the play in London was influenced by it that year of 1888 . We shall never know now . The similarities in barbaric , carefree evil between Edward Hyde in the novella and play , and Jack the Ripper was very evident so a connection of influence is possible . It certainly adds to the story's continued fascination . March was made to look rather simian in his " Hyde " make-up . Sort of like the drugs he used made Hyde a throw-back to an earlier , ape-like creature ( in the story Hyde looks younger than Jekyll , which is why he is not recognized by his acquaintances ) . His creature of evil is quite a violent type ( see him jumping up and down when fighting , and enjoying it ) . It is not as subtly evil as Spencer Tracy's cat-and-mouse Hyde of ten years later ( which , I must admit , I think is superior ) . Still , March holds one's attention throughout the film . Miriam Hopkins similarly shows a forward sexiness and a frailty as the doomed , unhappy Ivy . Witness how she is forced to sing the jaunty " Champaign Ivy is my name " tune ( based on a popular song , " Champaign Charlie " ) into a nervous number when Hyde demands she sing it for him . The other performances are capable ones but not as good as the two leads . Mamoulian's direction is strong , although he does not stick to his " I am a camera " approach after the first twenty minutes of the film . All in all , it is worth a .
The Problem of Publishers	For some reason ( despite a tendency to join forces to protect the first amendment's freedom of speech ) , movies tend to make publishers look venal and awful . Even that most sympathetic of publishers , Charles Foster Kane , is a megalomaniac ( albeit one robbed of a happy childhood ) . Look at the news publishers in " Five Star Final " or even " Unholy Partners " . . . anything for a story , for circulation , no matter who gets hurt by the publicity . Look at Walter Burns in all the versions of " The Front Page " . Look at Sydney Kidd ( Henry Daniell ) in " The Philadelphia Story " . In this film the publisher is a trifle closer to Charles Foster Kane . Earl Janoth does not own and run a newspaper or a magazine , but a whole empire of different magazines with names like " NewsWays " and " CrimeWays " . He even centers it in one single building in New York City . And he has no doubt about his prominence . When his right hand man ( George Macready ) suggests he was not recognized by a witness , Janoth moans ( a trifle loud for affect ) , " Everybody knows me . " This film is a nice combination of film noir and study of a publishing empire . Kenneth Fearing had worked in advertising in a magazine , and had an idea of how they actually ran . His novel ( which was recently published in the two volume edition on noir novels in the " Library of America " series of books ) became a best seller and classic of that field of writing . The movie ( with some changes ) is a classic too . The issue of this film is can the hero ( Ray Milland ) manage to sabotage the investigation he is ordered by Janoth ( Charles Laughton ) to conduct , without Laughton or his ally Macready realizing he is the man they are seeking . It is done with style and comic timing ( thanks to Elsa Lanchester , Philip Van Zandt , and several other character actors ) . Even Laughton and Macready are used for humor , although their characters are menacing . Macready has just set up the orders for Milland's investigation , and Milland ( confused but trying to buy time ) , says " Right . " Macready looks at him and says , " What do you mean " Right " ? " And look at Laughton's silent reaction to Lanchester's portrait of the sort for witness Milland has to find . This is one film noir that gets better with every new viewing . Watch it by all means .
Lon as the great bell ringer	Let us face it - the 1923 version of THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME is as good in it's way as the 1939 sound version with Charles Laughton and Maureen O'Hara . The only reason the Laughton version is better recalled now is that it is accessible to Americans born through or after 1927 : when movies starting talking . Just like the 1956 version is accessible to people who speak French . But given it is a silent movie , it is remarkably strong work . Chaney's Quasimodo is the most monstrous looking of the personifications of that character ( Laughton's make-up is good too , but he somehow seems less frightening ) . The scene that everyone recalls from this version , of course , is the public whipping scene , when Quasimodo has been captured trying to " kidnap " Esmeralda ( actually ordered to do that by Frollo ) and is whipped . The gypsy takes pity on him and gives him water . It is the point that he starts falling for Esmeralda . Aside from making Phoebus more conventionally heroic ( to be with the gypsy at the end ) , this film gave a memorable death scene to Clopin , dying amidst his beggar army in front of the Cathedral ( Ernest Torrence's Clopin gives the role the right degree of gravitas in the face of death ) . Also , the conclusion wraps up the confusion of the end for the hunchback . Unlike the 1939 ending , which has a sad Laughton bemoaning his perennial lonely state , and the 1956 version which follows the novel in mentioning that years after the execution the skeletons of two people , one deformed , were found in the crypts of the Cathedral , and crumbled into dust together , this one killed off the Hunchback . It was not a bad ending , but at variance with the other two films .
Possibly the Best Corman film	When Edgar Allan Poe wrote THE MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH , I keep thinking he was thinking about some classic literature of the past . First , he is taking ( and inverting ) the basic plot of Boccacio's collection of short stories THE DECAMERON . If you recall , ten young people ( five men and five women ) of aristocratic families go to the country to avoid the plague in Florence . They entertain each other by each telling ten stories a night to the others - mostly dealing with love . They survive the plague as a result . Poe's Prince takes all his friends and fellow aristocrats out of a plague drenched countryside and they go to his castle in the hills . But at the end they all die . The other classic story is William Shakespeare's final great play , THE TEMPEST , wherein the master of the island and of all the elements nature ( which he controls as a wizard ) is Prospero , former Duke of Milan ( pronounced Millon ) . Here , the Prince Prospero is unable to control nature and all die as a result . The story THE MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH is about the inevitability of fate and death - nobody can avoid it , no matter how hard they build up walls , and in the end they end up searching out for it ( and finding it ) . Roger Corman , as I mentioned in discussing his film about Richard III , took to Edgar Allan Poe as no other major director of horror had before him . But he had to expand it . Poe only wrote one novel , THE NARRATIVE OF ARTHUR GORDON PYM OF NANTUCKET ( although he tried to do a second one called THE JOURNAL OF JULIUS RODMAN ) . Most of his writings are short stories , poetry , one play , and essays of criticism or philosophy . His best short stories are meant to be read within one hour or two at most . A great story , like THE TELL-TALE HEART , can be read with forty minutes , as it's story line is fairly concise and it is the choice and sound of words that carries it's best affects ( i . e . , the sound of the heart of the victim ) . So a filmed record of a Poe story should really be about thirty minutes tops , as visual effects replace ( or enhance ) the verbal ones . Corman , therefore , had to expand the story line - good as Poe made it originally . First , he makes Prospero a Satan worshiper and sadist . Then , he adds a mild subplot involving one of Prospero's guests ( Alfredo - Patrick Magee ) and Prospero's dwarf jester Hop - Toad ( Skip Martin ) , which is actually the plot of Poe's story HOP-FROG . There is also two expansions of the plot tied to the Prince : his kidnapping of Francesca ( Jane Asher ) , Gino ( David Weston ) and Ludovico ( Nigel Green ) and the doomed hope of Juliana ( Hazel Court ) to achieve the goals of total acceptance by Satan in order to secure her hold on Prospero . The end result is not bloated , phony-Poe , but a serious philosophical debate that the evil Prospero actually articulates : He explains to Francesca that he became a Satanist because of serious questions he had about the validity of Christianity . He sees the world as a mess , kept in order only by the powerful and wealthy . He feels that the God of Christianity ( of " Love " ) is actually dead - killed centuries before . Whatever is running the world is not a God of Love . Francesca , of course , is a simpler type who keeps insisting that love and hope make life far more pleasant and bearable than Prospero's view implies . She is as set in her views as he is in his . This philosophical balance remains to the end , although until the end does come through , Francesca actually commits herself to trying to see it from Prospero's point of view ( a very remarkable willingness to get a complete view of things - but she never does have to follow through with this offer ) . Is there some truth to Prospero's viewpoint ? Many viewers are turned off by his willingness to make sadistic tests and punishments ( even sadistic " joke " games on his willing guests ) . But what do people like Francesca and Gino , despite their love , have to look forward to ? The townspeople who die at the hands of the Red Death had very poor , awful lives ( it's the Middle Ages folks ) , and at the end the Red Death and his fellow deaths comment that at least they brought peace to the people who died . But that hardly seems a worthwhile conclusion or goal . Die and you'll be peaceful and happy ? While Satanism is no answer , certainly some way of pushing up living standards would be . The film holds up very nicely , and leaves one thinking at the end - what is the point of balance that makes life more than mere temporary existence and actually worth living ? It is certainly one of the most thought provoking horror films Corman created .
The Kidnapping Murder That Will Not Die	Who kidnapped Charles Lindbergh Jr . in March 1932 from his home in Hopewell , New Jersey , and in kidnapping him apparently killed him , has never been totally settled . If it was , regular movies , or television movies like this one , or novels and plays and movies suggested by the story ( like MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS ) , or serious new studies on the case every decade would not appear . In my own criminal history library I have at least three studies on it , and I do not own every one ( another board commenter mentions Ludovic Kennedy's book , THE AIRMAN AND THE CARPENTER , which I don't have , nor do I have Anthony Scarduto's book from the 1970s - both are leading titles in the " Hauptman was framed / Hauptman was a fall guy " theories ) . My own opinion ( for what it is worth ) is that Hauptmann was involved . That does not make him the primary planner or agent in the crime . I would like to know more about others involved in the case , like Isidor Fisch ( Hauptmann's mysterious roomer , who " left " the ransom money that was traced to Hauptmann - but it wasn't all of the ransom money , and most of that money has never been traced ! ) . Or Oliver Whateley , the butler at the Lindbergh house , or Violet Sharpe , the servant who killed herself . Or Betty Gow . There are others I can think of , but whose names escape me . This movie basically stuck to the main outline of the events as are popularly known . Certain details that have since been revealed ( the fact that Dr . Condon's telephone number was written on a wooden board in Hauptmann's ceiling by a reporter covering the story , for example ) , were not mentioned - I wonder if they would have been . But given it's flaws , it is a good film and makes some valid points for Hauptmann not getting a fair trial . One has to place his 1935 trial into proper context . In the 1930s the rules of criminal and civil procedure in most of the U . S . were still in the air . In 1932 the Supreme Court ( in what was considered a surprising victory for liberalism at that time ) overturned the death sentence convictions in the " Scottsboro " Rape trial in Alabama and ordered a new trial . The reason was lack of adequate representation for the African-Americna defendants . I say it was a surprising victory , in that the decision was not written by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes , Louis Brandeis , or Benjamin Cardozo , or even Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes , but by that highly revered spokesperson for " laissez faire " in government , George Sutherland , who was furious at the racially charged unfairness of the trial . Hauptmann could not claim racial bias ( although one wonders if by 1935 his German ancestry may have made him less liked due to the Nazis and Hitler ) . But his counsel , Edward Reilly , was an elderly ladies man and alcoholic - once a good trial lawyer , but now a hack . Hauptmann got this attorney , apparently , by agreeing to publish a statement for the Hearst newspapers ( Hearst hired Reilly ) . This was not unusual . The notorious conman , member of Parliament , and magazine editor Horatio Bottomley footed the bill for counsel for Dr . Hawley Crippen , in return for a final article from Crippen . The atmosphere of the trial was half-carnival / half-lynch mob . People bought " models " of the ladder that was used as souvenirs outside the courthouse . Hauptman is well played by Anthony Hopkins , who looks very much like the German carpenter . He really comes into his own in the second hour of the film . The first hour is dominated by Joseph Cotton as Dr . John Conlon , the school principal who willingly got involved in the kidnapping in the hope of getting the child of America's hero back . Cotton could see the humor in the self-important Conlon , such as in his declaration in court that he lives in the prettiest of the five boroughs of New York City : the Bronx ( as though the New Jerseyans really care ) . Cliff De Young does well as Col . Lindbergh , trying to keep a level head in the dizzy investigation , but cruelly , silently , suffering from first not knowing where his son is , and then learning the truth . Martin Balsam does well as the hack Reilly . Dean Jagger , as wood expert Arthur Koehler , is treated unfairly , as a figure of confusion and boredom ( most students of the case find Koehler's examination of the history of the ladder's wood one of the finest examples of expert testimony in court up to that time ) . Laurence Luckinbill portrays Hauptmann's last chance , New Jersey Governor Harold Hoffman , as a skeptical critic as the trial , who tries to give the convicted man more time for rational review of the evidence . In real life it ended Hoffman's political career ( until a later appointment in the 1940s and 1950s handling pensions led to Hoffman committing massive embezzlement before he was caught and died ) . Certainly not the last word on the case , but certainly worth watching .
The Italian Tracy & Hepburn ?	Starting with " Yesterday , Today , and Tomorrow " in 1963 , Marcello Mastroianni and Sophia Loren began a series of films together that were the comic equivalents of the series of movies made by Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn in the 1940s to 1966 . The comparison is an apt one , surprisingly , because the two sets of performers perfectly complemented each other in their films together and literally examined the relationship of man and woman in these films beyond most of their contemporaries . If the Italians were able to be more explicit about sexual relations than the Americans were , I remind the reader that in " Sea of Grass " the paternity of Tracy and Hepburn's son Robert Walker becomes a questionable matter to the former , and in " Adam's Rib " Hepburn's last comments about the similarities of man and women boil down to only one major difference ( a small one - she does not say a penis but it is hinted ) . Tracy's response is to say " Vivre la difference ! - Well hooray for that difference ! " " Matrimonio all'italiana " ( " Marriage , Italian Style " ) is based on a play by writer and actor Eduardo de Filippo , and is not a sequel to Mastroianni's great international breakthrough comedy " Divorce , Italian Style " . The latter had dealt with a Sicilian baron manipulating events and people to set up an unwanted wife into the position of being adulterous so that he could " legally " kill her and be free to marry a younger female cousin . " Marriage , Italian Style " deals with responsibility and growing old . It's a serious theme actually , and there are moments when the film turns serious with stunning effect ( when Loren confronts Mastroianni on his suspicions and behavior towards her and her sons ) . The conclusion is not funny but given the antics of the entire film understandable and true . Loren is Filumena Maturiano , a young woman who became a prostitute towards the end of World War II . She meets Domenico Soriano ( Mastroianni ) , a hard headed businessman in a brothel in 1945 and a long term sexual relationship develops ( though there is a two year gap at the start ) . Domenico treats Filumena as a sex object , but she is a smart woman and soon rises to be his business assistant , helping him run a series of stores ( several of them bakeries or coffee shops ) . After twenty two years he tells her he is planning to settle down and marry a younger employee . But Domenico is informed by another employee , Alfredo ( Aldo Puglesi ) that Filumena is dying . Domenico runs to her bedside , and agrees to her dying wish to marry . But as soon as the ceremony is over Filumena rises from the bed and tells Domenico that she isn't dying , but now they are finally married . Furious Domenico tells her he will get the marriage annulled as it was under false pretenses . She has her options - Alfredo has known her as long as Domenico , and offers to marry her if she wishes . She thanks her friend but she explains that she has another real secret to unload on Domenico . Eventually she explains to him that she had three sons , and one of them is Domenico's . The boys have been brought up separately , and she is now getting them together for the first time . Domenico is naturally quite interested in this situation , but when he asks which of the three boys is his Filumena acts quite coy , and later more belligerent . She finally explodes , pointing out to Domenico that if she ever tells him which of the boys is his , the two half-brothers who are not Domenico's will grow up to hate the third half-brother . This doesn't register at first , so Domenico tries to find out by himself , with some very comic results ( in trying to compare his hand with one of the boys , all he ends up doing is overhearing the boy tell a co-worker that Donenico must be a homosexual ) . Gradually it does sink in that he has no right to put the three boys and Filumena through the ringer trying to pick out his actual son . In the end Domenico remarries Filumena , but one sees after the ceremony that while it is her victory it is not a complete one - Domenico is far from totally pleased that he has had to accept a situation that he never had any control over . Our last sight of them is of Domenico looking exhausted and old , and Filumena crying - possibly for joy at her victory , but just as likely out of realization that this is going to be a difficult marriage . Believe it or not " Marriage , Italian Style " is a comedy but one that is grown up in it's sensibilities . There are no quick remedies here - just like Domenico could not find a quick solution as to which of the three sons was his real son . One likes the final result of the film , as it is a realistic result of the battle of the sexes waged by the two protagonists , but the final results are funny only in the most extreme cynical way . It is hardly a merry ending . Still for a solid entertainment " Marriage , Italian Style " is hard to beat .
God Bless Their Happy Home	Thorne Smith is one of those novelists who were really popular for a decade or so and then either prematurely died ( like Smith ) or faded with their popularity . Today he is recalled for the creation of banker Cosmo Topper , and the ghostly couple of George and Marion Kirby , but they are remembered ( probably ) more for the movies and television series where they appeared , then for the actual novels . I'm not even sure if the original TOPPER or TOPPER TAKES A TRIP or THE NIGHT LIFE OF THE GODS is still in print . Basically Smith took normal sex and twisted it by adding the supernatural to it - such as the original story to I MARRIED A WITCH . In TOPPER the Kirbys are a fun-loving young couple who are the wealthiest depositors in Topper's bank . George has stock in the bank too , and at the start we see him attend a stockholder's meeting of the Board of Directors . As Topper drones on about banking matters we see George writing down something in front of him . When he gives up at last he explains it is impossible for a person to write his signature backwards and upside down at the same time . The director sitting next to him starts trying to do the same thing , and them remembers why he and the others are still there and throws down his pencil in disgust . That situation is what is developed in TOPPER . Cosmo ( Roland Young - possibly in his signature role , as he repeated it twice afterward ) is married to Clara ( Billie Burke ) and they are a staid , childless couple , whose only other " family member " ( to stretch a term ) is their butler Wilkins ( Alan Mowbray ) . Cosmo's wife organizes his life around an unbreakable timetable , and Cosmo ( although following it ) is reaching a midlife crisis . George and Marion ( Cary Grant and Constance Bennett ) try to encourage him to experiment with some occasional fun . But they get killed in a car accident , and Cosmo feels that that is the conclusion of their influence . But after an argument with Clara ( she feels the Kirbys got what they deserved ) , Cosmo buys the car they got wrecked in , and takes it for a drive . He gets into a minor accident , and while recovering discovers that the ghosts of the Kirbys are still around - and they are determined to rescue Cosmo from his middle aged rut . It seems that the Kirbys have never helped anybody , and to enter heaven they have to rescue someone . The comedy of the film follows how the two ghosts get Topper into a series of odd circumstances and adventures , including a visit to night court for causing a public disturbance ( Topper punches a cab driver in the nose - the driver is Ward Bond , by the way - and causes a massive fight ) . As he is reported as being accompanied by a pretty woman ( Marion , before she dematerializes ) , Clara gets upset about the scandal . Subsequently she gets upset that Cosmo is flaunting his infidelities in their home . And then he flees to just get away from it all . It's a weird tightrope , with Topper trying to enjoy himself with Marion ( and hide the fact he is accompanied by a woman who is not his wife ) , and also avoid a jealous George who is threatening to break his neck . The supporting characters are as good as the four leads , with special notice for Mowbray as a staid , proper butler who finally does break character to push Clara into a more proper frame of mind towards her husband . Also note Arthur Lake as a befuddled elevator operator , and later a hotel bellboy , bedeviled by Topper and " those crazy Kirbys " , and the marvelous Eugene Palette as a good hotel detective who just cannot get the goods on Topper and his two friends . TOPPER was interesting for another reason . It was one of the films that producer Hal Roach Sr . created in the late 1930s in his attempt to expand from just being the producers of Laurel & Hardy , the Little Rascals , and several other comedians in short subjects . It was a great success for him , leading him to produce two sequels , but it helped create the frictions that led to his eventual split with Laurel & Hardy by 1940 . As the only non-TOPPER film that he produced of note was ONE MILLION B . C . it looks like Roach made a tactical mistake here , even if the TOPPER films were pretty good ones .
Second of the Maugham Short Story Trilogy	Made after QUARTET was , TRIO continued the quality of the earlier film versions of the short stories by Maugham . Here the three stories are THE VERGER , MR . KNOW-IT-ALL , and SANITORIUM . The first two are comic ( THE VERGER is like a prolonged joke , but one with a good pay-off ) , and the last more serious ( as health issues are involved ) . Again the author introduces the film and the stories . James Hayter , soon to have his signature role as Samuel Pickwick , is the hero in THE VERGER . He holds this small custodial-type job in a church , but the new Vicar ( Michael Hordern ) is an intellectual snob . When he hears Hayter has no schooling he fires him . Hayter has saved some money , so he tells his wife ( Kathleen Harrison ) he fancies buying a small news and tobacco shop . He has a good eye , and his store thrives . Soon he has a whole chain of stores . When his grandchild is christened by Hordern , the latter is amazed to see how prosperous his ex-Verger . The payoff is when bank manager Felix Aylmer meets with Hayter about diversifying his investments . I'll leave it to you to hear the unintentional but ironic coda of the meeting . According to Maugham he met a man like Max Kelada ( Nigel Patrick ) on a cruise . In MR . KNOW-IT-ALL Kelada is a splashy , friendly , and slightly overbearing type from the Middle East who is on a business trip ( regarding jewelry ) by steamship . His state-room mate is Mr . Grey ( the ever quiet and proper Wilfred Hyde-White ) who is somewhat , silently disapproving of Max . Max likes to enliven things , and soon is heavily involved in the ship's entertainment . At this point the story actually resembles part of the plot of the non-Maugham story and film CHINA SEAS ( 1935 ) , as Max makes a bet that he can tell a real piece of jewelry from a fake ( after insisting that a piece of jewelry he spotted is real ) . I won't describe the way Max rises to the occasion . SANITORIUM is the longest segment . Roland Culver plays " Ashenden " ( the fictional alter-ego of Maugham - a writer and one time spy as in Hitchcock's THE SECRET AGENT ) . Here he has to use a sanitorium for a couple of months for his health . He finds a remarkable crew of people , including Jean Simmons as a frail but beautiful young woman , Finlay Currie as an irascible Scotsman , John Laurie as a second irascible Scotsman who is " at war " with Currie , Raymond Huntley as a quiet patient who only shows his internal anger at his situation when his wife shows up , and Michael Rennie as a young man who has a serious life threatening illness . Culver watches as three stories among these characters play out to their conclusions . The last , dealing with Simmons and Rennie , is ironic but deeply moving . It was a dandy follow-up to the earlier QUARTET , and well worth watching .
Robinson in " duel " roles	In 1933 Edward G . Robinson had finally essayed a comedy , THE LITTLE GIANT , with passable results . There he tackled the plot of a former racketeer discovering how unworthy the leaders of " good " society could actually be . The same type of a plot would be used again in Robinson's A SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER . But in 1935 Robinson was able to tackle a variant on gangster comedy . It was closer to Dr . Jeckyll and Mr . Hyde , as he played good guy wimp Arthur " Jonesy " Jones and public enemy # 1 Killer Mannion . Identical twins , they find they are drawn together by a physical chance . Mannion discovers that Jones looks so like him that he might be able to avoid police surveillance by switching places with Jones ( who , for safety sake , won't try to stop him ) . Jones finds his job at jeopardy , his safety at jeopardy , and his girl friend " Bill " ( Jean Arthur ) possibly at jeopardy . There are some choice moments in the film - Ed Brophy , as the chief witness against Mannion , wandering away to his doom accompanied by " Jonesy " ( or was it " Jonesy " ) , and the antics of two particularly dull comic cops ( James Donlon and - surprisingly bright in the role - Arthur Hohl ) . Robinson as patsy and fiend is equally effective , particularly as Mannion decides the time has come to get rid of his harmless doppelganger and take over his place in the world . But will he succeed . . . or will " Jonesy's " ineptitude and timidity upset his plans . The director of the film was John Ford - it was his first film with either Robinson ( who only showed up again in a supporting part in CHEYENNE AUTUMN ) and his only one with Arthur . As such it reminds us of his film ARROWSMITH , which was his only film with Ronald Colman and Helen Hayes . In both cases he did well with his stars , and one wishes he had tried a second major film with Robinson , Arthur , Colman , and Hayes later on . But at least he did make these two films .
One Superior Whodunnit	Towards the end of his career , Robert Preston was extremely fortunate . He had demonstrated on Broadway that he was one of the top talents of his day , after having been buried in supporting parts for most of his career in Hollywood . " The Music Man " , " The Lion In Winter , " I Do , I Do " , " Mack And Mabel " , " Ben Franklin In Paris " were just a few of his triumphs . And suddenly he was desirable in Hollywood again . When Lucille Ball made her movie version of " Mame " , Preston was Beauregard Burnside . Then he was used in two of Blake Edwards ' best films , " S . O . B . " , as a cynical Dr . Field-good type , and ( best of all ) as Toddy in " Victor / Victoria " . But on television he did a series of television performances that showed his dramatic / leading man abilities . The two best were " Finnigan , Begin Again " ( with Mary Tyler Moore and Sylvia Sidney ) and " Rehearsal For Murder " . With a script by " Columbo " creators Richard Levinson and William Link , " Rehearsal For Murder " was about an unsolved slaying in the theater world . During the run of a Broadway production that starred his girlfriend Monica Welles ( Lynn Redgrave ) , dramatist Alex Dennison ( Preston ) is shocked when she is apparently committed suicide by throwing herself from her window . The police make a thorough ( or apparently thorough ) investigation , only to find that it was suicide . Dennison won't believe it . A year later , Dennison invites the cast of the show ( Patrick Macnee , Madlyn Smith , Jeff Goldblum ) and the play's producer ( William Daniels ) to the theater that Redgrave's last play was shown at . He presents them with scripts and they proceed to read their parts aloud . Each part illustrates a possible motive for the murder ( Macnee made a play for her that she rejected - and he resented ; Smith as understudy wanted to have Monica's role - and Goldblum , her boyfriend , might have assisted her ; Daniels , not too certain that it would be a success , was looking into the insurance value of the life of his leading lady ) . Naturally they are discussing how each of them could not possibly be the killer - it must be one of the others . Unknown to them , a man is watching from the audience in the back . It is Laurence Pressman , who is a private detective - and has been invited by Preston to observe the suspects . But inevitably the somewhat bemused Pressman is dragged into the rehearsal . And then things take off . Given the best of the Columbo episodes , one can see that " Rehersal For Murder " was carefully planned as the former were . The surprises keep popping up , until the final one in a darkened theater - when the identity of Redgrave's killer is revealed . And it is not a disappointing solution for a change . This " whodunnit " was the best suspense film that Robert Preston starred in ( not appeared in - " This Gun For Hire " is probably that ) in his career . And , as I said before , it helped complete that career with a string of dramatic successes for his reputation .
The House With The Red Shield	HOUSE OF ROTHSCHILD concentrates on anti-Semitism , and the struggle of the Jews to get equality and recognition from their Gentile neighbors . It's presentation of the problem is simplistic , but given the time that this film was produced it was amazing that any attempt was made to attack anti-Semitism at all . In 1934 Adolph Hitler was Chancellor of Germany one year already . Strong anti-Semitic strains were felt all over Europe and the U . S . - in fact in most of the world . It took some courage to make any jab at it , and producer Darryl Zanuck ( a non-Jewish Hollywood film studio head - a rarity ) had plenty of that . He would repeat this in fourteen years producing GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT . George Arliss first plays the head of the famous banking family , Mayer Amschel Rothschild . A stereotypical Jewish money lender , he dies of a stroke after confronting the bullying , greedy tax men . Before he dies he tells his five sons two things : 1 ) The gentiles have prevented the Jews from competing in the regular professions leaving them in the role of money lenders . But the gentiles have thus put money into the hands of the Jews as an only weapon . So it should be used to force the gentiles to emancipate the Jews from their awful ghettos . 2 ) The boys should establish an international bank in London , Paris , Vienna , Frankfort , and Naples . They would be in a good position to build a mighty economic weapon to use against the Jews ' foes , so that ( as Mayer says ) the Jews can live with dignity . For most of the picture Arliss plays Nathan Rothschild , who is lucky enough to be set up in London . The five branch bank soon is one of the great financial institutions of the world . Nathan has managed to support the British Government and it's allies in the wars against Napoleon . But after Napoleon is sent to Elba the British and their allies ( led by the German , Count Ledranz ) are freezing the Rothschilds out of a major bond issue . Nathan realizes that this is due to the anti-Semitic Ledranz , and uses his position at the stock exchange to bear down on the bond issue , threatening to ruin the men who are pushing the issue . Hastily calling a meeting , Lord Baring ( Arthur Byron ) prevails on the aristocrats to let Rothschild in for a share of the bond issue . Ledranz does it with ill-feeling , warning Nathan that this is not the end of the matter . Shortly afterward there are pogroms all over central Europe . As Ledranz ( Boris Karloff , in a splendidly evil performance without ) puts it , " The House of Rothschild - The House with the Red Shield : I'll make it RED ! " There is little Nathan can do about this . But shortly afterward Napoleon escapes from Elba , throwing the alliance ( especially Ledranz ) off balance . They need Nathan to stabilize the stock exchange , or the Little Corsican will win an easy victory against them . And ( although they don't know this ) Napoleon has already reached out to Nathan with a counter-proposition : help him and Jewish Emancipation is assured . That Nathan throws his support to the alliance is no real surprise . He feels that if he supports Napoleon the image of the Jews suffers with the bulk of the Gentiles - they traffic in human lives and blood . But he does save the stock exchange , and he ends having proved that the Jews can be as good citizens as their Gentile counterparts . How true is the story ? Well I recommend Frederic Morton's classic book THE ROTHSCHILDS to get the accurate story . Mayer Rothschild was the financial agent of the Prince of Hesse-Cassel . The money made from the renting of Hessian troops was shepherded by Mayer into a vast fortune , and he got a commission . It staked out ( and trained ) his five sons , who did make their private bank the biggest in the world . The French Revolution had announced that the Jews were equals of the Gentiles ( the bill ending French legal discrimination against the Jews was presented by Maximillian Robespierre ! ) . Napoleon reestablished it , and ( in 1807 ) called the first meeting of the Jewish Sanhedrin since 70 A . D . Whether he did this for publicity or he meant it is still debated . The spread of the reform by the Revolutionary and Napoleonic armies achieved was hurt by the reaction in Europe after Napoleon's final defeat in 1815 . Ledranz is a splendid villain ( and a German one , for all that ) . But he appears to be based on Prince Claus Von Metternich , the Chancellor of the Austrian Empire . In fact , although he probably had some social anti-Semitism , Von Metternich was quite friendly to the Rothschilds , and he figured out a way of allowing them to be ennobled in Austria and in the German states . The film does seem a little simplistic . There is no reference to the blood libel as such , or to the blame Christianity placed on the Jews for the death of Jesus . And to make a case that economic muscle alone would change people's minds was silly and short sighted . It could equally awaken jealousy and hatred for a successful people . But that it was advanced at all in 1934 , and that the film was an attempt to confront a hideous , growing problem , was deserving of praise . Ironically it was too little , too late . Goebbels would produce an anti-Semitic film called THE ROTHSCHILDS during World War II , and his pet director Veidt Hartmann would direct THE ETERNAL JEW ( where Jews were compared to rats , and scenes from HOUSE OF ROTHSCHILD appear to have been cut in ) . Hartmann would also direct JUD SUSS , regarding another Jewish financier of an earlier period , who was hung for " crimes " - of course , Hartmann insisted he Jud Suss Oppenheimer was guilty of those crimes . So , for all the good intentions of Zanuck and Arliss and the others , history had a dreadful commentary awaiting in the wings .
The Movie Version of the Sterling Drama about Big Business	There are two interesting changes in the film version of PATTERNS and the previous television drama version . First , Richard Kiley ( unlike Ed Begley Sr . and Everett Sloane ) was replaced in his part by Van Heflin . Secondly Begley's character Andy Sloane was changed in name to Bill Briggs . This may have been because of confusion for the audience in Begley's original name and his co-star's last name ( Everett Sloane ) . But it is a minor change . The thrust of the film's views on corporate philosophy in America remains as tough and unsentimental here as in the television version . Heflin's Fred Staples is a bit older than Kiley's , which slightly undercuts that figures ' weakness ( his naivety when he arrives in the world of high corporate politics ) but it enables his growing friendship with Begley to seem more realistic - they are from closer age groups , and Begley can tell that Heflin is not trying to be a threat that a younger man might be . Sloane's Ramsay is still the human icicle , who is only interested in the growth and development of his corporation - and not with outdated ideas that Begley keeps pushing . That said , he still shows regret - after Begley dies we see Sloane back in the fatal board room where the tragedy occurred , and he is upset about the deadly result of his actions on Begley . But when confronted by a furious Heflin Sloane is ready to defend his policies and philosophy of the bottom line of business as well as anyone can . The film is excellent , and if I favor the television play more it is simply that the television play was there first - and hit the right notes as well . I still recommend seeing the film if you can't see the original kine-scope of the television version . You won't be disappointed .
The Jesse We Somehow Have Gotten to Want to Remember	It was the luck of Tyrone Power that he became the pet male star of Producer Genius Daryl Zanuck of 20th Century Fox . He was constantly finding decent adventure film properties for Power to use , resulting in a huge public following for the star . Unfortunately in 1938 Power was lent to MGM to appear in the extravaganza historical film MARIE ANTOINETTE with Norma Shearer . He gave a fine performance as her friend / probable lover Count Axel Fersen , but his fans were puzzled , and some critics had a field day . It was like a problem a decade and a half earlier suffered by silent idol Rudolf Valentino , when he made some costume films like MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE . Then Valentino suggested the choice of these rolls proved Valentino was a " powder puff " ( i . e . homosexual ) . Now they suggested the same ( after one film only ! ) for Power . To recoup meant taking Power into a particular historical film - a western . Long before the idea of a homosexual cowboy found any open acceptance on the screen , most actors found that the most masculine American role was as a cowboy . And if Power was going to play a westerner , he should play one who did not take nonsense - indeed was downright dangerous to people he disliked . Such a person was Jesse Woodson James ( 1848 - 1882 ) . Zanuck's genius at picking the right properties showed up here to such great affect , that a year later MGM copied the idea for their resident star with a huge female following , Robert Taylor , with the film BILLY THE KID . In first rate Technicolor , we watch a screen-writer's version of Jesse's complicated and violent life , in the last days of the Civil War ( for the South ) , fighting carpetbaggers , banks , and railroads from the North , turning bandit against these aggressors , and then controlling the best bank and train robbing gang from 1868 - 1876 in the Mississippi / Missouri Valley . It also follows the love and marriage and tribulations of Jesse and his wife Zee Cobb ( Nancy Kelly ) , and the events leading to his assassination ( which more of below ) by Robert Ford ( John Carridine ) a member of his gang . His brother and gang partner Frank is played by Henry Fonda . His love rival but occasional ally , the Marshall is Randolph Scott . Besides Carridine , the villains are a half-way comic banker / railroad owner played by Donald Meek , and his agent played by J . Edward Bromberg ( possibly his best known role ) . And as for that " great " editor , Col . Rufus Cobb ( Henry Hull ) anyone who does not think him a great character should be taken outside and hanged like a dog ! Henry King , a good journeyman director used by Power and Zanauck in several films , turned in a first rate job , even as the screenplay really improves Jesse's record . It is questionable if he was in the Confederate army or even served with Quantrill ( as Frank and the missing Cole Younger , his cousin , did ) . But he was thoroughly tied to the lost cause , and the post war poverty that hit his part of Missouri did not endear the victors to him . Given the way money ruled the Gilded Age millionaires , one can see that the avariciousness's of the banks and railroads would have worsened the situation . But did that give Jesse and Frank and their gang the right to kill any former Union foe they encountered in what was technically peacetime ? The Northfield Bank Raid is rightly seen as the destruction of the James - Younger Gang , and as a model of overreaching . Unlike the fictional version in the story ( the plan is betrayed , so the bank becomes a trap ) , Jesse and the gang tried to rob two banks in Northfield , Minnesota , and thought the locals there would be as indifferent as Missourians or Kansas on-lookers ( they weren't ) . Many were shot and killed on both sides , but worse Cole and his brothers were captured and sent to prison . Jesse and Frank and several others escaped - but regrouped in Missouri . It lasted for six more years with bank and railroad robberies before Jesse was killed by Ford . There is no denying ( as Hull says at the end ) that James was a criminal . But to be fair , the Federal Government and the Pinkertons did not behave well either . Keep in mind , in 1870 Federal intervention in the states was limited to the Reconstruction policies , not to policing action . But Ulysses Grant , although from Ohio , had lived in Missouri for years , and took a personal interest in the James Gang . He was willing to use the Pinkertons as his agents , including one incident where a bomb-like device was used against Jesse's mother's family , injuring several ( his mother lost her arm ) , and killing his half-brother . So furious was Jesse about this , for a couple of months he was in Chicago seeking a chance to attack and kill Allan Pinkerton ! And then there is that final killing - Governor Crittenden of Missouri , from a distinguished Kentucky family , smashed his career in setting up a " hit " by Ford , in which Jesse was shot in the back in his parlor ! I don't think any other criminal of the top rank in American History ( maybe Dillinger in his demise at the Biograph Theater in Chicago ) ever came across as having had his bad list of actions cleaned by the manner his death was caused . In 1881 Crittenden was considered a possible future Democratic Presidential candidate . After 1882 his career was finished . As for Ford , he was shot down years later - his killer given a judicial slap on the hand . JESSE JAMES cuts down the negative issues a bit too much , and builds up his good characteristics too much . Yet it works splendidly as film . Other " James " films like I SHOT JESSE JAMES or THE GREAT NORTHFIELD RAID may be truer somehow , but this is the JAMES we like to recall - and the JAMES that will live .
The Start of the Horrible Hubbards	Lillian Hellman , wrote her dramatic masterpiece , THE LITTLE FOXES , in 1940 . It is about Regina Hubbard , her brothers Ben and Oscar , her husband Horace Giddens and daughter Alexandra , and Oscar's wife Birdy and son Leo , and how the entire Hubbard clan ( except for the husband and daughter and Oscar's sad misused wife ) are corrupt . The first play shows how Regina manages to allow her husband to die so that she can end up richer and more powerful ( out of a questionable business deal ) than her two brothers who are her partners in it . On stage it was a great dramatic triumph for Tallulah Bankhead . In 1941 it was an equally affective film directed by William Wyler , and starring Bette Davis , Herbert Marshall , Theresa Wright , Charles Dingle , Carl Benton Reid , Dan Duryea , Richard Carlson , and Patricia Collinge . A few years later , Ms Hellman decided to return to the story of the Hubbards , but this time with a " prequel " : How did this wealthy southern family turn out to be so rotten ? ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST goes back to 1880 ( THE LITTLE FOXES actually is set about 1905 ) . Marcus Hubbard ( Frederic March ) was what used to be called " poor white trash " ( another example of this type is the slave overseer turned carpetbagger Victor Jory in GONE WITH THE WIND ) . He is not a polished Southern Gentleman , but an opportunistic snake who lives and breaths to snatch his fortune in the potentially rich South . But along comes that unpleasantness of 1861 - 1865 , and Marcus does not consider it his war - why should it be , he's been too poor to fight for the right to own slaves ? Instead , he makes a small fortune buying and selling commodities that are in short supply or are considered contraband . In particular salt . Using the money , and the corresponding collapse of various gentleman's estates due to the reverses of the war , Marcus becomes a post-Civil War landowner . All of this has made him also the most hated man in the state . His oldest son Ben ( Dingle in the other movie - here Edmond O'Brien ) is his clerk ( not chief clerk , but clerk ) in his store in town . Ben is treated as a clerk ( and a poorly paid one at that ) . Ben is close to his mother Lavinia ( Florence Eldridge ) , who was married to Marcus for financial reasons by her father , and whom Marcus considers ( with some reason ) simple minded ( actually she is the most honest member of the bunch ) . Marcus ' second son Oscar ( Reid in the other movie - here Dan Duryea ) is a sullen sort , except he has joined the K . K . K . ( but is dumb enough to be the only one who's identifiable ) , and he is romancing a local " actress " at the town's dance hall ( Laurette Sincee - played by Donna Drake ) . Marcus favors his daughter , Regina ( Ann Blythe ) , who realizes he likes her and thinks she can manipulate him . To an extent she can - but there is a point he refuses to be manipulated . You see , she wants to marry John Bagtry ( John Dall ) , a member of a former Governor's family who are on hard times . Actually , Marcus would have none of this . Marcus is not adverse to further wealth and acquisition , but as he is now a large property owner ( and the richest man in town ) he's more pretentious . He is self taught , and he prides himself on teaching himself how to read Greek and Latin ( which does not impress Ben , Oscar , or Regina ) . He also tries to compose for the cello , and once every couple of months has two musicians ( Don Beddoes and Whit Bissell ) come down to play his latest compositions . The issues of the drama are 1 ) Ben seeking to find a way to break out of his unendurable bondage as his father's cheap clerk ; 2 ) Oscar's hope to run off with the attractive but socially disgraceful Laurette ; and 3 ) Regina trying to convince Marcus to give her his okay to marry the socially proper but dirt poor Bagtry . The three siblings are constantly sniping at each other , making cooperation impossible ( particularly Regina and Oscar with their separate prospective mates ) . The only thing that might unite them is Daddy's tyrannical approach to handling all three of them , two of whom he holds in total contempt . Lest it seems pure soap opera ( of the " Dallas " or " Falconcrest " variety ) , ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST actually gave Hellman a chance to do some comedy scenes . Marcus has a large dinner party in Act II , and has to suffer the mortification of Oscar's drunken girlfriend , and the chattering of the prospective fiancé ( John Bagtry's sister Birdie ) that he wants Oscar to marry . He also learns what John Bagtry's big desire is : he is going to enlist in the Brazilian Army because in 1880 only the Empire of Brazil still has slavery ! Marcus comment about that is quite droll . There is also the fiasco of Hubbard's Opus # 2 for strings . In the end we see how Ben finds Marcus's one Achilles heel - an unforgivable act to his fellow townspeople which can cost him his life . And we see how Ben takes his place , for the moment at any events , as head of the Hubbard Family enterprises . ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST is a good film that deserves to be better known . Well played , and carefully laid out ( with Dan Duryea here playing the father of the character he played in THE LITTLE FOXES ) we watch how power rots a family's morality , but does not necessarily weakens it . For the Hubbards remain rich and powerful , and aim to become more so as this story ends . Whatever lost dreams are seen by the audience , the damage is done and the gangrene remains to grow more threatening .
A Most Moving Teacher's Film	There are plenty of films about the effect of teacher's over the years on their students . The best known is GOODBYE MR . CHIPS with Robert Donat , but there are others ( GOOD MORNING , MISS DOVE , for example ) . The tragic personal life of the teacher as opposed to his or her dedication to the students is the subject of the drama . Yet the formula works when does well , and MR . HOLLAND'S OPUS was an example of such a successful version . Richard Dreyfus is Glenn Holland , who has been hired in 1965 to teach music appreciation at JOHN F . KENNEDY HIGH SCHOOL ( the principal is Olympia Dukakis , and the vice principal is William H . Macy ) . Holland's wife ( Iris - Glenne Headley ) and there child Cole are in a house in the town , and we watch his domestic tragedy - not so much with his wife , but that their son is deaf . Holland concentrates over time on his students , and his constant warfare with the vice principal on matters like rock and roll or the values of music appreciation in learning . Among the students he helps are young athletes trying to accomplish academic achievement , young women trying to break into the field of entertainment or trying to bolster their self-confidence . But he is constantly brought up short by the problems of his relations with his family - especially as his son Cole grows up ( Joseph Anderson - age 15 Cole here ) . Cole is deaf but he is intelligent , and he blows up when Glenn fails to realize that Cole is intelligent about music - a subject he thinks Cole can never share with him . The running thread through all this is that Glenn began the teaching gig as a money maker while he creates his musical masterpiece - a symphony . But both the home life and the school work take up all his time . Yet , as the film ends he realizes that he did leave an imprint on his students , and he did prove a warm and loving husband and father despite real strains due to Cole's condition . The film ends with a proper validation of his full success . Dreyfus was wonderful as Glenn ( ably supported by Headley , Macy , Dukakis , and Jay Thomas as his friend the sports coach ) , and got nominated for a second Best Actor Oscar . While he did not win , his career rejuvenated . And he would eventually try ( with Thomas ) to do a television show in the next decade that dealt with the problems of a teacher in a high school .
Without Tradition Our Lives Would Be As Shaky as a Fiddler On the Roof	Solomon / Sholom Rabinowitz was probably the greatest Eastern European Jewish writer ( his closest competitor is Issac Peretz ) . In the late 19th Century , writing as " Sholem Aleichem " , he wrote a huge amount of short stories , novels , and plays . When he supposedly met Mark Twain at the start of the 20th Century , Twain said he was told he was the American " Sholem Aleichem " . Most people who know of him recall his invention of the character of the philosophical and wry witted dairyman Tevye . Tevye , in his village of Anatevka , is struggling to make a living and raise his seven ( not five ) daughters with his wife Golde . The short stories not only deal with his philosophical point of view of how God and man ( in particular the Jews ) coexist , but also how to get the girls married without the financial muscle to give them dowries that are expected . Joseph Stein's play for the Broadway musical this film is based on reduces the number of the daughters to five . Actually only the stories of the first three daughters Tzeitel ( Rosalind Harris ) , Hodel ( Michele Marsh ) , and Chava ( Neva Small ) , are given in greater details - because the other two remaining daughters have stories that don't quite fit in with the film's conclusion . Shprinze ( Elaine Edwards ) drowns herself when jilted . Bielke ( Candy Bonstein ) does marry a millionaire war profiteer ( the stories went up to the Russo - Japanese War ) , and Tevye has a brief period of prosperity ( though he loathes the son-in-law as a bullying ignoramus ) before the son-in-law's fortune collapses . In the movie the two girls end up heading for America with their parents . But Stein's play manages to get the spirit of Aleichem's stories across , so that the changes I mentioned are not too important . Tevye ( Topol ) can't understand why he is made to struggle daily and never get's a chance for some prosperity . " You have made so many poor people . " , Tevye says to God . " I realize it is not a crime to be poor . . . but it's no great honor either ! " There is a chance for Tevye when the local butcher , Lazar Wolf ( Paul Mann ) reveals he wants to marry Tzeitel . Tevye agrees to the offer of Lazar through the marriage broker Yente ( Molly Picon ) , much to the happiness of his wife Golde ( Norma Crane ) . But Tevye learns that Tzeitel is in love with the village tailor Motel Kamzoil ( Leonard Frey ) . How Tevye gets out of the marriage contract is straight from the original story - it shows how useful the supernatural can sometimes be . Subsequently Tevye faces the love affair of his second daughter Hodel with the young revolutionary Perchek ( Paul Michael Glaser ) , who ends up getting sent to Siberia ( whither Hodel follows him ) . And then comes the third daughter , Chava , who falls for Fyedka ( Ray Lovelock ) , which ends in a peculiar tragedy for Tevye - Fyedka is Christian , and when they marry it is in a Russo Orthodox ceremony . Tevye's love for his faith and tradition - the backbone of Jewish existence that Tevye insists on - causes him to renounce his living third daughter as dead to the family . The collapsing days of the old Romanov Empire are illustrated , showing the use of official anti-Semitism as a manner of controlling the situation ( it really didn't help much ) . As the viciousness of the old regime towards Jews ends the film with the forced removal of Tevye and his people from their lands . And the only thing to do is head for America or Poland or Israel - any place but Russia . The play / musical's numbers are well done , as are the violin solos played by Isaac Stern . Topol was a fine Tevye - although one misses seeing Zero Mostel's great performance there are some television sequences of Zero singing " If I were a rich man " that give us an idea of what he was like in the role . Topol emphasizes the even tempered , realist who is Tevye , who has a heart , sorely injured at times . He is abetted by his wife , a role well played by Crane . Molly Picon has a good time as that yente Yente , who is constantly trying to make a living making arranged marriages . Leonard Frey is fine as Motel , singing " Wonder of Wonders " . Also note Louis Zorich as the local police constable , who has a " decent " relationship with Tevye , but who finds it collapse when ordered to force the Jews from the village ( Topol puts him in his place quite well here ) . This film was a brilliant example of how to film a musical classic , and make a classic movie musical at the same time .
The Biggest Poker Game of All !	One can make a case that Henry Fonda appeared in many westerns that were dramatic - mostly directed by John Ford . FORT APACHE , MY DARLING CLEMENTINE , YOUNG MR . LINCOLN , and DRUMS ALONG THE MOHAWK come to mind . One can add JESSE JAMES and THE RETURN OF FRANK JAMES and WARLOCK to this list too . But towards the end of his career he also did two comedies , one being a black comedy ( THERE WAS A CROOKED MAN ) and the other being this film , which is a very satisfactory straight comedy . The story is about how three travelers from the east headed west land in a town where once every year a set of local heavy hitters ( Jason Robards , Robert Middleton , John Qualen , Charles Bickford , and Kevin McCarthy ) hold a really big poker game with a big pot for the victor . It's actually limited to these five men , but Fonda , who has a small cash fund for himself and his family , shows interest . He manages to get himself into the game - much to the distress of his wife ( Joanne Woodward ) and their son ( Jean-Michel Michenaud ) . Fonda loses hand after hand , despite occasionally coming close to a decent hand of cards . Then , when he's out of money , he tries to raise money somehow . He claims he can't get out of the game - especially the next hand . He insists he has a brilliant poker hand ! He becomes so insistent that he collapses . The local doctor ( Burgess Meredith ) says it's a mild heart attack . The others figure that it means the end - but Woodward insists that she have an opportunity to continue playing in order to try to win the family money back ! The five big hitters can't believe this , and struggle to restrain themselves from reminding her that she is not supposed to be in a big gambling game at all . But she is insistent . Fine , they insist on her ante - ing up . So . . . she decides to go for a loan to the local banker ( Paul Ford ) . And I will leave the story at that point . A BIG HAND FOR THE LITTLE LADY is a western , and a comedy . It is also one of the handful of good movies ( THE CINCINATTI KID is another ) dealing seriously with card playing . The resolution of this clever comedy is a joy , and I recommend catching it when you can .
" There's not much meat on her but what there is is cherce ! "	The last six of the Tracy-Hepburn films each examined the relations of the two stars in settings where public attention was frequently occupied by other factors . STATE OF THE UNION looked at the pressures of a Presidential campaign on a failing marriage . ADAM'S RIB looked at the professional competition of a married couple handling a major criminal case on both sides . The current film dealt with the sports world . DESK SET dealt with corporations and computers . And GUESS WHO'S COMING FOR DINNER dealt with race relations in America . PAT AND MIKE ( as mentioned above ) is about the sports world . Pat Pemberton is a physical education instructor at a California College , who is engaged to Collier Weld ( William Ching ) one of the College's administrators . Collier frequently asks her assistance in getting donations for the college by playing golf and losing to the potential donors . But the one they are playing with has a loud-mouthed wife who keeps lecturing Pat on how to perfect her swing , until Pat can no longer stand it and demonstrates how much better a player she is than the loud-mouth . She is approached by Jim Bacchus to try to turn professional , and she does enter a series of games , and is approached by Mike Conovan ( Tracy ) about throwing a game . She refuses . He watches her playing and sees how wonderful she is , but he also notes her collapse in the last round of playing against Babe Zaharias . He does not see the reason - Collier showed up to lend his support , but he has a face on him that suggests he secretly does not expect Pat will succeed . So his face unnerves her and causes her to lose . Gradually Pat decides to let Mike become her manager , and finds that it calls for his total control of her life in terms of diet and exercise , although he treats his heavyweight boxer Hucko ( Aldo Ray ) the same . But it works . . . and as she is good in other sports besides golf ( such as tennis ) she can work throughout the year . But in the course of an exhibition game in San Francisco Pat loses her careful control when she sees Collier and his family in the stand . She soon thinks the tennis net has jumped up several feet , or that her racket has shrunk . She collapses . Mike is concerned for her health but he now knows ( as he saw her reaction to Collier ) that Pat's boyfriend is " Joe Jinx " . Mike resolves to keep Pat from Collier as long as possible , and her game improves . However , while he is now clearheaded about being honest in the games ( the money from the games is quite good ) , his business partners ( George Matthews and one Charles Buchinsky - later better recalled as Charles Bronson ) are less scrupulous . In fact the film reminds us of the seedier side of sports in general , regarding betting and fixing events . Will Mike keep his partners under control ? Will he find a way of getting rid of Collier's evil eye effect ? These occupy the conclusion of the film . But the movie is funny , in particular when Hepburn uses her physical abilities to help out her manager - who is less than enthused by her actions . So are the problems Mike has with his heavyweight champ Hucko , with Aldo Ray drinking too many beers when he should be training , or when he has to be reminded of Mike's importance by repeating a three sentence mantra . MIke is intelligent enough to realize the mantra is not likely to be acceptable to Pat , so she does not repeat it . . . until the movie ends , and then she is asking Mike the questions . A worthy follow up to ADAM'S RIB , I can only say that this film comedy is " cherce ! "
Before The Women There was Stagedoor	I have always found this wonderful film neglected and I can't understand why . It's director , Gregory La Cava , was highly respected for movies like RUGGLES OF RED GAP and STAGE DOOR in the 1930s , but never got the sort of notice he deserved . Students of film talk of the De Milles and the Wilders and the Lubitschs and the Fords . They may take serious note of Michael Curtiz or Leo McCarey . But La Cava is sort of relegated with Henry Hathaway or George Marshall as well crafting with his material , but nothing outstanding as a type of symbol of their singularity or originality . In fact , many people probably think of La Cava more as one of the intimate friends of W . C . Fields ( like Eddie Sutherland , another director ) than for his films . But in 1937 , two years before George Cukor did an all female cast movie THE WOMEN , La Cava did this film version of the George F . Kaufman and Edna Ferber drama STAGE DOOR . This film does have men in the cast : Samuel Hinds as the wealthy father of Hepburn ; Adolphe Menjou as the stage producer with the moral code of an opportunist ; Jack Carson as a suitor for Lucille Ball and Grady Sutton as a suitor for the servant in the boardinghouse ; Franklin Pangborne as Menjou's too perfect butler , Frank Reicher as the stage director - who finally sees his troublesome star perform the role properly in her own way . But most of the really meaty parts go ( as they should ) to the women in this cast . The women are all the inhabitants of a boardinghouse in Manhattan for aspiring actresses . As the film progresses we concentrate on Ginger Rogers , Katherine Hepburn , Andrea Leeds , Gail Patrick , and Constance Collier . Three others in the supporting cast are notable ( as their subsequent careers showed ) : Lucille Ball , Eve Arden , and Ann Miller . Rogers is interested in advancing her career ( as is Patrick , as is Leeds , and - as we learn - is Hepburn ) . But Rogers is street smart , and initially she sees that her chief rival is her roommate Patrick , who has been romancing Menjou . When Rogers manages to replace Patrick ( momentarily ) she does nicely materially ( as Patrick did ) , but she does not see her career notably advance . She ends the relationship with Menjou by suggesting marriage . Hepburn is determined to show what she can do as an actress ( she's been to college ) . All she succeeds is to get a lead role ( through nothing that she has done - but through outside influences she knows nothing about ) , and her gain is at the expense of the delicate , talented , and ill Leeds . Hepburn does pick up various pointers about acting from coach and supporting actress Constance Collier , but most of the women in the boarding house think the pair of them are snooty phonies . Eventually Hepburn does give the performance of her life - but it takes a tragedy to get her to do it . Up to then her lack of training keeps preventing her from reciting the lines correctly ( to the dismay of the dramatist as well as Frank Reicher the director ) . When she is aware of the tragedy ( an unforgettable moment in the film when it occurs ) , she is transformed into a figure capable of delivering the performance correctly . Hepburn used dialog from a failed Broadway play she did called THE LAKE , and the opening scene is shown in the film . It sounds pretentious , but her " The callalillies are in bloom again . . . . " became part of her legend ( whenever attempts were made to imitate her in cartoons for example ) . All the characters and actresses show their strength in the conclusion , with Collier demonstrating a surprising strength of character to steel up Hepburn's weakened backbone . Rogers vents her spleen to Hepburn , doubly hurtful because she and Hepburn had slowly been working out the problems between them . And so it goes with the rest of the cast . I don't know of too many other ensembles films where everyone had a moment to shine as here ( THE OX-BOW INCIDENT comes close ) . It was a first rate film , and deserves more attention than it has been given over the years by the critics and public .
" Ask What You Can Do For Your Country ! "	VOLUNTEERS was the second and last time Tom Hanks was teamed with one of the few television based comedians who could match him as a film actor : John Candy . They had been brothers in SPLASH , and VOLUNTEERS makes them fellow members of the Peace Corps . They proved to have good chemistry again here - but no follow-up film showed up for them after this . Pity , but maybe just as well as they each would make their own line of comic masterpieces . VOLUNTEERS is also one of the first times that Hanks plays a somewhat unlikeable ( if charming ) type . Lawrence Osborne IV is a patrician who has just gone through four years at Yale University . We never know what his major was , but he certainly has enjoyed extra-curriculum activities ( such as dating the valedictorian of Smith College ) , and winning multi-thousand dollar poker matches with vicious opponents . But Lawrence owes a gambling hall owner ( Alan Arbus ) $14 , 000 . 00 , and decides to bet it all double or nothing on the outcome of a basketball championship the next day ( his graduation date from Yale ) . He is listening to the game on a radio ( while missing the speech by guest speaker President John F . Kennedy ) at the ceremony - and hears his bet going down the tubes . That night he asks his father ( George Plimpton ) for the $28 , 000 . But the senior Osborne actually is very realistic - he feels that being beaten and injured for such a stupid bet is just what Lawrence needs , and he refuses to pay the bet . Chased by Arbus's bouncer / collector ( Ji-Tu Cumbuku , as a no-nonsense collector who will go as far as possible to get Lawrence , whom he hates ) , Lawrence hies to New York's Idlewild Airport , and manages to get onto a plane as a member of the Peace Corps group going to Thailand . Lawrence meets Beth Wexler ( Rita Wilson - now Mrs . Hanks in real life ) , a New York medical student , and Tom Tuttle from Tacoma , Washington ( Candy ) who is an intensive student of management psychiatry . Candy is also an engineer . When they are taken to a village for their service by helicopter operator John Reynolds ( Tim Thompson ) they find they are assigned to build a bridge connecting this village with the other shore . Soon it turns out that others are interested in that bridge : the local war lord and opium dealer ( Chumg Mee - Ernest Harada ) and the local Communists insurgents . While Lawrence tries to get back home ( and finds his wise father has made it impossible for him to do so ) , he finds that he has annoyed Beth ( who is more impressed by Reynolds ) , and he is dealing with the over-active and inept Tuttle . But soon Tuttle vanishes into the jungle ( and into the hands of the Communists ) while Lawrence finds he needs to rely on a smart local villager ( Gedde Wantanabe ) which is good because both men are threatened by the war lord to get that bridge built or else . What follows is a delight , as Lawrence does build the bridge , and then realizes ( much as Col . Nicholson does at the end of THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI ) that it was a dreadful mistake , and the poor villagers are in danger from two evil groups as a result . Hanks never loses his charm and insouciance , even as he grows into a responsible local leader . Candy is a wonder as an would-be world saver , an over-achiever who insults people as he tries to show he has a heart . Wilson is good explaining how she wants to help the villagers , speaking in Thai - but telling how she wants to kill them ! Wantanabe is constantly finding his warnings and realistic view of the situation is ignored and he gets injured as a result ( or even sexually threatened by a trio of sumo-wrestler guards of the War Lord ) . And Thompson has only one really close friend - his knife . He makes George Macready's relationship with his sword stick in GILDA look matter-of-fact in comparison . Finally there is a definite love affair with David Lean in this film . Besides the similarities with THE RIVER KWAI ( including Candy whistling " Col . Bogie's March " and saying , " What have I done ! " ) there is the concluding shot of Hanks ( having brought prosperity to the village ) being cheered by the people with cries of " Lawrence , Lawrence ! " . Wonderful comedy here .
A Worthy Cinematic Retelling of a Tragedy	Today , in the U . S . , there is a strong desire to restore the death penalty in homicide cases on most premeditated levels . In most states that have a death penalty it is only supposed to be used in murders of police officers and public officials . Certain states use it in any homicide case which fit the minimum for making the perpetrator seem to be planning to kill his victim for some time . There is no clear right or wrong point on this controversy . Anti-death penalty advocates ignore the damage done to the family and friends of homicide victims , while pro-death penalty supporters forget that there are cases where the perpetrator is not as hopelessly bad as one imagines but had reasons that might mitigate . It is of interest to Americans to see the same problem has and bedeviled other nations . In particular Great Britain . From 1950 - 1960 a series of great homicide cases shook up British belief in capital punishment . Some have been the subject of movies . The first was the Christie / Evans Tragedy that was the subject of the film 10 RILLINGTON PLACE . Christie , a strangler and necrophiliac , killed over a dozen women burying the corpses in the walls and garden of his home . Two of the victims appear to be Mrs . Evans and her baby daughter . But Christie had been the chief witness for the prosecution of Timothy Evans for these murders in 1950 . His testimony sent Evans to the gallows . Christie followed three years later . It took nearly a decade for the British Government to admit an error in executing Evans , who was posthumously rehabilitated . In 1954 came the Craig - Bentley tragedy , the subject of the film LET HIM HAVE IT . Chris Craig , a youth of about 15 , went on a criminal spree , followed by his mentally challenged playmate Derek Bentley ( age 19 ) . Chris hated policeman , and he and Bentley were cornered on a roof . Bentley was in police custody , and seeing a constable confronting the armed Chris shouted , " Let him have it , Chris ! " The meaning of this sentence is in dispute to this day . Most likely Bentley was telling Chris to hand the gun to the constable . Instead , Chris shot and killed the Constable . Chris was underage , and could not be put to death . Bentley ( who you remember was in police hands at the time of the shooting ) , was of the right age for possible execution . He was tried , convicted , and executed . Craig served a long term for a juvenile , was released , and eventually became a farmer . The following year came this story : the Ellis - Blakeney tragedy . There have been other female killers who have been executed in Britain before Ruth Ellis . Edith Thompson , in the 1920s , comes closest to her in sympathy because she was a remarkable woman , and her conviction for killing her husband seemed due to her jury trying her more for adultery with the actual killer ( her lover Frederick Byswater ) than proof that she tried to murder her husband Percy ( whom Byswater eventually did kill ) . She appears to have been in a physical state of collapse when she was hanged in 1922 . More sympathy had been shown to Alma Rattenbury in 1935 when she and her lover were tried for killing her husband Frances , a prominent architect . She was acquitted ( her lover got the death sentence ) , but she committed suicide thinking about the lover - who , ironically , was given a reduced sentence . Edith Thompson and Alma Rattenbury were both good looking , and talented . Rattenbury was a part-time song composer , and Thompson's letters to Byswater shows a remarkable intellect at work . Similarly , Ruth Ellis was a good looking blonde , who was helping to run a social club ( i . e . bar ) . She had a boy and a girl , and was cool and collected looking on the outside , but capable of having real emotional turmoil on the inside . She met an upper class amateur racing driver named David Blakeley , and they had a romance . But he dropped her , basically at the advice of his upper-crust friends and family . Ellis could not get him out of her system ( despite the attempts of her friend and boss Desmond Cusins , who wanted to marry Ellis himself ) . Eventually , after Blakely and she had several public scenes , Ellis shot him to death on a public street . When asked later on ( at her trial ) if she intended to only wound him , she admitted she wanted to kill him . She was found guilty and hanged . But there was a tremendous uproar from the public . It was a typical French-style crime passion-ale , and deserved different treatment from say a murder connected to a robbery . As a result of the large revulsion felt by the British public , Ruth Ellis turned out to be the last woman in Great Britain to be executed . The top three roles are Miranda Richardson as the doomed Ruth , wishing that she could get the right signals back from the self-centered Blakeney ( superbly played by Rupert Everett ) . Between them they let Americans understand the crazy state of snobbery that exists in Britain even after two World Wars and the collapse of it's leadership position in the world . Blakeney does not really need too much convincing to dump Ruth - his friends the Findlaters ( Tom Chadbon and Jane Bertish ) put up the social pressure to do it ( Ruth later blames the tragedy on their meddling ) . As for Cusins ( Ian Holm ) he is a man of abilities and some position who is hopelessly in love with a woman who won't look in his direction ( but he's always ready to return being the doormat or helper of the same woman ) . It is a fascinating view of a doomed trio of losers , who could not break out of their interconnections and their incompatibilities .
Nothing Ever Happens . . . etc . l	I still like this film . It has some grievous over-acting by Garbo as a ballerina on the skids . But the film works for all that . Grushinskaya has passed her prime as a ballerina , and her world weariness masks her awareness that her days of international greatness are over . She has nothing to look forward to - in fact her position is not that different from Anne Bancroft in THE TURNING POINT , who can teach ballet , but has no family life to comfort her like her old friend / rival Shirley MacLaine does . She momentarily does get a shot for happiness in retirement : she meets Baron Geiger ( John Barrymore ) and finds he would be able to satisfy her . And he finds she would be fine for him . But his problem is he is broke , and owes his criminal partners for the money that set him up in this great hotel in Berlin . He has to pay them back - he was going to steal Grushinskaya's jewels , but he won't do that now . GRAND HOTEL is like that , every time you watch it . It was written in the aftermath of World War I , and keeping that in mind you see the fractured bodies and lives that are colliding in the hotel . Lewis Stone , for example , is the man who makes the famous statement about " nothing ever happens " at the conclusion of the film . His Doctor Otternschlag is the hotel doctor , and is not very observant ( by the time he makes the comment a murder has occurred in the hotel , and he is unaware of it ) . His face is scarred by a gas attack in the war . The war has probably made the doctor relatively quiet - and seeking quiet as much as possible . Hence his blindness . Wallace Beery is Preysling the textile manufacturer who is there for a big business conference and is facing bankruptcy - as was all of Germany ( which had terrible inflation in 1923 , due to war reparation and debt ) . Geiger's Pre-war cushion of wealth and position were swept away with the Hohenzollern dynasty in 1918 . He was unlucky enough to survive his world , and most of his friends . And the small fry in the film : Kringelein ( Lionel Barrymore ) and Flaemchen ( Joan Crawford ) find their futures in considerable doubt too . Lionel is dying ( we are never quite sure of what , but it sounds like it's industrial related - he works for Preysling's firm ) , and Crawford is aware that secretaries are a dime a dozen and needs to better herself - even if it means sleeping with the likes of Preysling . One can also add Senf ( Jean Hersholt ) who has to stay at his hotel job , while his wife is facing a dangerous childbirth which is worrying him to death . The collisions between the characters is fascinating too , as the Pre-war standards of social class is up in the air now . Preysling is aware of his feet of clay but he is still known as a big textile manufacturer to the public . So he is not deeply impressed by John Barrymore's Baron , but every time they confront each other , the Baron's superior breeding outshines Preysling's pompous bluster . Kringelein too is confronted by Preysling who thinks the bookkeeper's appearance at that expensive hostelry suggests embezzlement . Kringelein not only shows that he is not in a position to be threatened by police or discharge , but adds that Preysling's blunders are such as to have merited being fired if he hadn't been boss . Preysling does make a kind of headway with Flaemchen but it is only on a cash basis - she really is far friendlier to the Baron and Kringelein . GRAND HOTEL had been a major Broadway stage success when it was acquired by MGM . Preysling was originally played by Siegfried Ruman ( later Sig Ruman ) and the Baron by Albert Van Dekker ( later Albert Dekker ) . Neither ended up in the MGM production , though both had distinguished film careers later on . The producer of the film was Paul Bern , who would be found dead in his home in 1932 just before the final cut was made on the movie . This is not the spot to analyze whether Bern was a suicide ( officially he was ) or was murdered by his wife ( Jean Harlow ) or some other person ( a previous wife who killed herself a day or so afterward ) , but it led to Bern's friend and mentor Irving Thalberg completing the film as producer . Neither man's name is on the credits . However , Bern's hand is on the film - including the casting . He would have been facing a great producing career if he had lived . The most notable thing about the leads is that ( except for Garbo's Swedish accent - here as a Russian ballerina ) only Beery tries a German accent . It comes and goes , unfortunately , but Beery's lost bull in the china shop performance is good enough not to be harmed by it . Preysling is a weak man , who married the boss's daughter to get ahead but lacked the brains to keep the firm going . In the end he has to lie to try to survive his conference with rival Tully Marshall . Unfortunately he cannot control his passions and anger . It is said on this thread that Buster Keaton was supposed to play Kringelien . Presumably his alcoholism prevented it . But Lionel Barrymore gives a good accounting as the dying man . Yet Buster actually liked the idea . He tried to create interest in a comedy to star himself , Edward Everett Horton , and Marie Dressler called GRAND MILLS HOTEL , set in the " infamous " flop house in Manhattan . The same blending of the film's plots would have occurred . It never got beyond the drawing board . Laurel & Hardy would have been in the Tully Marshall and Wallace Beery roles , as button manufacturers who are trying to make a contract . Pity , it might have been a good comedy .
The only made for the movies Rodgers and Hammerstein score	Shown tonight on the Turner Classic Film Network , the 1945 version ( second of three versions ) is the one that most viewers feel is the best of the versions . It happens to be the first musical version ( Will Rogers version was actually just a straight film ) , and is better than the 1962 version with Bobby Darin and Alice Faye . It is a nice score with two ( possibly three ) standards : " It Might As Well Be Spring " , " It's a Grand Night For Singing " , and the title song of " State Fair " . But there are actually about seven numbers , and they include a ballad sung by Viviane Blaine , and a duet Blaine sings with Dick Haymes ( a later song , somewhat reminiscent of " Oklahoma " but about " Iowa " had Charles Winninger , Faye Bainter , and even Donald Meek sing with Blaine and William Marshall ) . Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein were at the beginning of their fantastic Broadway musical career , OKLAHOMA having first been produced in 1943 . Most people do not realize this but Oscar Hammerstein was more than just a lyricist ( like his predecessor with Rodgers , Lorenz Hart ) , but also wrote the scripts for the shows . This was to help insure that the songs pushed the story along . Rodgers had long wanted to integrate music and dialog . In the early 1930s , when he and Hart came to Hollywood and worked at Paramount , they had whole sequences in their best work ( HALLALUJAH , I'M A BUM , LOVE ME TONIGHT , THE PHANTOM PRESIDENT ) that did just that . But this was the total script , not just sections of singing dialog . It is late August 1945 , and the Frake family are preparing to attend the Iowa State Fair . The father ( Winninger ) has been grooming his great boar " Blue Bell " for the best boar prize , and the mother ( Bainter ) has been grooming her sweet and sour pickles and her mince meat for the best prizes . Their son ( Dick Haymes ) is determined to get back at a crooked barker at the fair ( Harry - then Henry - Morgan ) , besides enjoying it with his girlfriend . But she can't attend , due to her mother's illness . The Frake daughter ( Jeanne Crain ) has a boring boy-friend , a future farmer who wants to build a modernistic farm ( Crain tries to be interested but isn't ) . Winninger is quite happy to be going , but his friend and feed merchant ( Percy Kilbride - who also does a little singing at the start of the film ) is a " Gloomy Gus " type , and insists that there may be serious problems ahead . He and Winninger set up a bet ( of $5 . 00 - but this film is set in 1945 after all ! ) to see if it really turns out to be a totally happy experience for the four members of the family . The family goes off , and we watch the results of the weekend . This includes the two romances that occur between Haymes and a singer at the fair ( Blaine ) and Crain with a reporter ( Dana Andrews ) . We watch these adventures , and how the romances bloom , as well as how the parents do with their contests . Among other things we see Donald Meek as a contest judge who gets the D . T . s and enjoys it . We see Frank McHugh as a song plugger , who turns out to be a decent fellow . We see how Blaine teaches Morgan a lesson . We learn that even big fat boars like " Blue Bell " have sex drives . And we see if Winninger or Kilbride will win that $5 . 00 . The cast given on this thread is not complete . John Dehner has a small role as a contest announcer , and Emory Parnell is a Congressman addressing the state fair , and Will Wright is one of the judges at the boar contest . The film is a feel good film - a worthy cinematic follow-up to OKLAHOMA , and worthy of preceding the next stage musical triumph CAROUSEL . As such it is fully deserving of the I have given it .
Charles Coburn's Oscar : " Damn The Torpedoes . . . "	A brief historic note : On August 5 , 1864 a Union fleet commanded by Vice Admiral David Glasgow Farragut , attacked the Confederate Gulf Port of Mobile , Alabama . Farragut had a flock of new monitors in his fleet ( although he was aboard his flagship , U . S . S . Hartford ) , and one of the monitors , the U . S . S . Tecumseh , hit a mine ( called a " torpedo " back then ) laid by the Confederates . Except for the ship pilot the entire crew of the monitor was lost . There was a wave of uncertainty following this disaster , and the Union ships began seeming to fall apart rather than keeping their lines as planned . Farragut , surveying the disaster from the rigging of his ship , yelled through a megaphone , " Damn the torpedoes , full speed ahead ! " The line became immortal - like John Paul Jones ' " I have not begun to fight " or George Dewey's " You may fire when ready Gridley " or Oliver Perry's " We have met the enemy and they are ours . " Farragut won the battle , and it remains the greatest naval battle of the American Civil War ( outside the " Monitor-Merrimac " duel : see IRONCLADS ) . The victory happened to be the first good news the North had had in months of stalemated fighting ( or worse ) in Virginia and Georgia . It was the first of a series of victories that helped change President Abraham Lincoln's certain defeat to reelection victory in November of that year . I know that it is odd to begin a discussion of a World War II comedy with a brief explanation of a Civil War battle some eighty years earlier , but Farragut's quote is frequently mentioned in the course of THE MORE THE MERRIER - indeed it is sung at one point in an old song by the real star of the picture , Charles Coburn . The song and the quote show his philosophy of life - to get to the heart of the problem and take care of it effectively . Benjamin Dingle is a millionaire , now doing a " Dollar a Year " job in wartime Washington . There is a housing shortage that Dingle is confronting everywhere , but he finds that there is an advertisement for a roommate that he is determined to grab . It was put into the newspaper by Connie Milligan ( Jean Arthur ) and Dingle lies his way into getting ahead of anyone else into the apartment . When Milligan points out the obvious sexual problem ( male / female roommates ? ) Dingle points out he's too old for her , and he would actually not be as much of a pest as another woman would be ( who might try to borrow her clothes ) . Subsequently Dingle discovers a young engineer named Joe Carter ( Joel McCrae ) who also was interested in renting part of the apartment . Dingle decides to rent to Carter , without immediately telling Milligan . There is a great moment when ( before Dingle has a chance to tell her ) Connie and Joe are able to go through the narrow apartment several times just missing each other . Connie does not mind the problems of renting to two men , as the presence of two men protects her . But she has an understanding with a bureaucrat , Charles Prendergast ( Richard Gaines ) , who is very image conscious and ambitious - so she hopes to keep the renting of the rooms regarding Joe Carter from him . This becomes more and more difficult as time goes by , as she and Joe find they like each other . Dingle notes this and is soon playing matchmaker . The film was a great comic showcase for Coburn . Charles Coburn had been a successful Broadway actor in the period 1910 - 1930s , frequently appearing with his wife in Shakespearean roles . If one goes to the 42nd St . Public Library's second floor there are two portraits of the younger Coburn and his wife in Shakespearean costumes . Then Mrs . Coburn died . Coburn had been ( like his contemporary Sidney Greenstreet ) rejecting offers to go to Hollywood . He went to Hollywood in 1938 and soon was appearing in good supporting parts , such as YELLOW JACK ( he was Dr . Finley ) and as the German cancer specialist in IDIOT'S DELIGHT . The parts got larger as time passed : he is the incestuous uncle after Bette Davis ( who subsequently finds he's going to die ) in IN THIS OUR LIFE . He is the anti-Semitic family head who loathes Peter Lorre in THE CONSTANT NYMPH . He is the sadistic surgeon who cuts off Ronald Reagan's legs as punishment for sleeping with his daughter in KING'S ROWS . As you can see , most of Coburn's parts in the late 1930s and early 1940s were dramatic , and they were getting bigger , but his comic gifts were rarely pushed . His performance in Preston Sturgis ' THE LADY EVE was an exception . George Stevens , a director who ( like Leo McCarey ) had a background as a comic director with Laurel & Hardy , decided to use him in the atypical part of Benjamin Dingle . The part was a large one , requiring a good actor . Coburn did well with it and created ( like Greenstreet would differently with Caspar Gutman in THE MALTESE FALCON ) a persona that remained his to the end . Coburn would be playing the common sensible , straight talking grandfather , uncle , or elderly friend in films until he died - occasionally varying the role with a bit of silliness like in MONKEY BUSINESS . Here it resulted in Coburn's Oscar for best supporting actor . He'd been in Hollywood five years by then , but his real beginning in film was here - and it was a fine beginning . It was Coburn's second movie comedy with Jean Arthur ( the first was THE DEVIL AND MISS JONES ) , and they certainly play well against each other . Similarly Joel McCrae's comic timing is a sure here with Stevens as it was with Preston Sturges . It's funny how , due to McCrae's long career in westerns , people forget all the screwball comedies he made earlier in his career .
A Bit of Graham Greene's Wit and Wisdom	SHADES OF GREENE was a wonderful little series based on short stories that Greene had written over the years . Each episode was just over an hour in length , and had such stars as John Guilgud , Leo McKern , Virginia McKenna , Paul Schofield , and Roy Kinnear in them . Many dealt with Greene's fascination with guilt and with Catholic faith and dogma . But he also looked at life , with a witty and jaundiced eye . In one episode , I think it was entitled " The Ten Japanese Gentlemen " , the narrator is a writer who has been invited to lunch with a young woman who has just published a best selling novel called " The Chelsea Set " . The narrator has been writing for years , and is fully aware that while it is wonderful to have a best seller , it is not the case that every book you put your blood into ( which is every book a writer writes ) is going to be a best seller . The young woman is prattling on and on about her success , and she starts lecturing about the importance of catching onto life as it is live - of observing the world around us . The narrator is heard thinking about her prattle , and about the fifth or sixth time she mentions " The Chelsea Set " , he thinks to himself , " In ten years will she ever recall she even wrote a book called " The Chelsea Set " . " In the meantime his eye is wandering over to a nearby long table in the restaurant , and the ten Japanese gentlemen sitting there , who seem to be performing rather odd ceremonies over the dishes and with each other . These men leave before the narrator and the young woman . After they have left , the narrator makes the comment , " I wonder what those ten Japanese gentlemen were doing ? " The young woman looks at him quizzically , and laughs . " I don't know what the joke is , " she says , " I didn't see any Japanese gentlemen at all . " One hopes this series may be released one day on DVD or video .
Buster Meets Becket	It was really somewhat unique in the history of film comedy . I can only think of one near miss on a similar level , and in that case the artist involved had made movies . Samuel Becket , dramatist , novelist , secretary to James Joyce , and Nobel Literary Lauriate , loved comedy . His first and greatest play , WAITING FOR GODOT has a pair of hobos ( Vladimir and Estragon ) who in the course of the play frequently do music hall turns reminiscent of Laurel & Hardy among others . Others have situations that are certainly odd in a striking and comic manner ( like one woman who is half buried in sand throughout a one act play ) . In the hands of a lesser writer these oddities would vaguely amuse , but Becket structured his comic turns and sight gags to have a value in the themes of his plays , so that gradually ( even as we are amused ) we are fascinated and learn of aspects of the human race we frequently bury or try to ignore . " Shall we go ? " , one of the two hobos says to the other as WAITING FOR GODOT ends . Godot ( God ? The Wonderful Future ? The Messiah ? ) is not coming as they hope . " Yes , " says the other hobo , " Let's go ! " . They stand perfectly still as the curtain goes down - and that conclusion makes perfect sense to the audience . When he wrote WAITING FOR GODOT , Becket offered it to Buster Keaton . Keaton's career had revived , especially after his duet with Charlie Chaplin in LIMELIGHT . But Keaton was uncertain about doing it , so it was done by Bert Lahr instead . But Becket always admired Keaton , and in 1965 offered him what was tantamount to a solo appearance ( there are only three other actors in the film , very briefly ) . It is Buster's only philosophical movie . Can we escape any form of examination of our activities ? Keaton's character is shown for 95 % of the film from the back or side ( towards the end something of the " Great Stone Face " is shown but still from the nape of the neck ) . He is constantly running from view . He knocks down a clergyman and a woman , but both when watching him see something else that horrifies them . So does an elderly flower seller in Keaton's rooming house ( who faints when she sees the unseen presence ) . Keaton enters his room and slowly does everything to remove any watchful eyes from staring at him . This includes pets he has , and even a picture of a sculpture head ( interestingly of a Sumarian or Babylonian figure with wide eyes - these statues were usually meant to represent pious priests ) . When certain that he is unobserved Keaton looks at some photographs he got , and only then ( for the first time ) we see a picture of Keaton facing us - and with an eye patch ) . After getting rid of the photos Keaton apparently falls asleep , but then . . . he faces the ultimate intensive critic looking him over - and his final scene shows a tragic resignation that even death won't avoid . It's philosophical beat makes it unique among Keaton's silent movies . It remains a nice final highpoint towards the end of his career - and one that fellow silent comics Chaplin and Lloyd did not quite match ( although Chaplin's social comments , and Lloyd's spin on the success ethic are close to it in other areas of thought ) . The only other time a similar arrangement appears to have been tried was when Salvador Dali offered a surrealistic comedy script to the Marx Brothers , and sent Harpo a specially designed harp . The script was never seriously considered by the Brothers ( although Dali had been involved in surrealistic films in the 1920s and 1930s , and would work with Alfred Hitchcock on SPELLBOUND ) . Except for that one attempt no other major 20th Century artist appears to have approached any of the major film clowns to collaborate on any work .
The Problems of Capitalism v . Communism solved by Parisian Champagne	If any film is chosen by most people as the typical Ernst Lubtisch comedy , it is NINOTCHKA . TROUBLE IN PARADISE is usually pointed at as his best comedy , and his best musical comedy is THE MERRY WIDOW with Chevalier and MacDonald , but NINOTCHKA is the elegant comedy of some point that people recall . I think the real reason is that it is , for most people , the best known of Greta Garbo's movies ( after all , she laughed in it ) , and it does dismiss Communism with such sweet aplomb . Actually it does not do so that well . It shows that given an opportunity to relax and speak one's mind , and not worry about informers and gulags , people will be happier . That is true , but one could also say ( as Lubitsch would show in TO BE OR NOT TO BE , that a form of extreme capitalism mixed with racist ideals called Nazism could be just as deadly . Moreover , Leon ( Melvin Douglas ) does read up a bit on Marx and his theories , and has an interesting conversation with his elderly valet ( Richard Carle ) . Douglas feels that Carle has been oppressed over the years as a servant . Carle , though , reminds him that while he does not mind that Douglas has not paid him in quite a while , the thought that in a Communist world he ( Carle ) would have to share his money with Douglas , frightens the hell out of him . Douglas is the lover of Grand Duchess Swanna ( Ina Claire ) whose property was appropriated by the Soviet Government in the Revolution . Her jewelry is now in Paris , in the hands of a trade mission led by Sig Ruman , Felix Bressart , and Alexander Granach . They plan to use it to get needed farm equipment for the Soviet Union . Douglas goes to work to corrupt the three men , which is not too difficult , so he can try to get his hands on the jewels for Swanna . But the Russians send an additional member to head the mission : Garbo as Ninotchka . She is quite hard nosed and business like . Ruman and company try to get her to understand what is going on is a good thing , but she keeps reminding what they are there for . She is not impressed that she is in the " City of Lights " . Instead , on her first afternoon in Paris , she is determined to see the city's power plant ! Douglas sees her and is instantly charmed , but she keeps resisting his efforts . Her background is quite different from what he is used to - we learn , for instance , that she actually distinguished herself in the Russo - Polish war of 1920 - 21 , getting wounded , but killing the Polish soldier who wounded her ( and comforting him as he died ) . She is not without a heart , but she is determined to do her duty . What finally breaks her down is not Douglas ' attempts at romance , but his making a fool of himself trying to tell her a joke . She does break down , but she never loses sight of the reason for her mission . And she and Swanna finally reveal their willingness to sacrifice in a showdown scene , where the Grand Duchess gives up the jewels for Leon , while Ninotchka gives up Leon for the needs of her country . Leon too grows , determined to try to bring her back . The scene between Douglas and George Tobias is one of the funniest in the movie , as Douglas desperately offers to return to Soviet Russia , and Tobias ( knowing what people like Douglas think of the Soviet regime ) refuses to give him a visa ( he might try to blow up a dam ! ) . How he succeeds in the end I will leave to the viewer to find out . My only other comment is that this film is also recalled as the only time Greta Garbo shared a scene with Bela Lugosi , as her supervisor Commissar Razinin . It is only a three minute scene , and has only one funny line for Bela ( describing the antics of Ninotchka's old mission buddies ) . He seemed stern and properly in control of his job , but he was far more funny in INTERNATIONAL HOUSE . Please also note Sig Ruman's comment to Garbo , asking her if she wanted to be alone . It is an interesting little reference to her most famous line of dialog from GRAND HOTEL , six years before .
Donald Sutherland's best corpse scene	This is a fun movie , and I recommend it with only two reservations which I'll get back to . Sean Connery rarely is in historic costume films ( the only two that come to my mind was " The Red Tent " and the " Indian Jones " movie that he made , and they are set in fairly modern times - 1928 and the 1930s to be exact ) . He pulls off Edward Pierce with elegant aplomb , a brilliant and inventive gentleman thief who one roots for . Leslie-Anne Down is properly coquettish and sluttish when her goals require it . And Donald Sutherland is properly lovable as a successful pickpocket and thief ( I loved his snapping his knuckles to make his hands more limber ) who allies himself with Connery to carry off the theft . He also makes the most purple faced cholera corpse on film ( you have to be there to understand why ) . The sense of the film setting is good too , from the vintage 1850 train and carriages to the use of Joseph Paxton's Crystal Palace in a scene . The original palace burned down in 1936 , but the model ( although it looks like a model ) is a nice reminder of the time and place . Now my reservations : Michael Crichton's novel was an examination of the hypocrisy of Victorian England . Taking an actual 1855 robbery ( probably the first really great theft committed on a train - of gold bullion needed in for the Crimean War ) , Crichton examined the existence of the very rich and privileged and the very , very poor in the slums . He looked at bordellos that the rich frequented , or the public executions . Much of this is in the film . Downs repelling the advances of the fat bank official in the train is an example , as is the public execution of a poisoner - the chant the " good people " yell as the woman is hanged , " Oh my , I think I have to die " is an actual chant used by the public at those occasions . But Crichton also notes the irony of the way the public attack the train thieves while embracing the idiots running the Crimean War that the gold was for . In the novel Pierce brings up the murderous James Brudenell in court . He refers to Lord Cardigan , the fool who led the Charge of the Light Brigade . The court rebukes Pierce . That is not in the movie . Secondly , in reality Pierce was more villainous than the film ( and Connery ) makes him . We do see Connery's character strangle Willie , the human fly who he used to steal one of the keys he needs . But Willie had " peached " on Connery and the gang to the police . In the actual case Pierce had cheated several of the others in the division of the spoils . He was better covered when the prison sentences were handed out ( because he planned the crime , and the others performed it ) . The judge in the case , angry at how Pierce behaved , sentenced his one or two year sentence to solitary confinement - which is very hard on most prisoners . And he served the sentence - he did not escape the police as the film has it . Despite those reservations this is still a grand film to watch .
" Like The Beat , Beat , Beat of the Tom-toms . . . . "	The movies that paired Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers between 1933 and 1949 ( the last one being an unexpected MGM feature , as the rest were all made by RKO ) remain one of the joys of movie lovers everywhere . The gracefulness of the pair as dancers was matchless ( although Astaire would later be said to have done better with Eleanor Powell or Cyd Charisse ) . The music remains fresh too . And they are amusing films for the most part ( except , of course , " The Story Of Vernon And Irene Castle " , which ends tragically ) . But there is one major problem we have to overlook - the story lines are ( for the most part ) idiotic . Because of the casts ( especially with regulars like Eric Blore , Edward Everett Horton , and ( in only two films , unfortunately ) Erik Rhodes , we are willing to overlook the weaknesses of the plots . But occasionally the plot has a bit more meaning to us . Such is the case with " The Gay Divorcée " . Here , Rogers is trying to get out of a marriage to a leach-like husband ( William Austin , who only pops up in the last five minutes of the film ) . She is wealthy , and he knows she is a great meal ticket - so he will never think of divorcing her . But Rogers and her aunt ( Alice Brady ) think they can arrange for Austin to be forced to confront Rogers in a compromising position by hiring a professional " correspondent " . The idea is that this fellow will be caught at the right moment by Austin , and he will have no way of avoiding divorcing Rogers if he has any self-respect left . ( Small spoiler here : This scheme is actually faulty because it is based on the scheming Austin having self-respect enough to demand divorce ; it turns out he couldn't care less , and even " forgives " Rogers ! ) . The fact is that Astaire , a professional entertainer connected with Horton , is mistaken as the professional " correspondent " by Rogers , and finds himself being romanced by her in a cool , un-romantic spirit . Rogers , after all is clearly interested in her use of this fellow only for the necessary divorce . But Astaire likes her , and slowly woos her into a more interested and romantic situation . Unfortunately , at this point , the real " correspondent " ( Rhodes ) shows up . This part and his subsequent role as the egotistical Bedini in TOP HAT are the two roles that ensured Erik Rhodes ( a capable performer ) of movie immortality . At the time of his demise in 1990 his obituary in the New York Times mentioned how whenever he showed up for a revival or either film he would start speaking in his clipped Italian voice , to the cheers of the audience . Bedini is a pretty unsympathetic idiot , but one likes Tonetti , the part he played here ( and that Rhodes played in the original Cole Porter stage production of THE GAY DIVORCE a few years before - opposite Astaire ) . Tonetti is also all business , and it is not monkey-business ( he happens to be happily married ) . His famous statement , " You can trust your wife with Tonetti ; he prefers spaghetti ! " happens to be true . But Tonetti does become ( unwittingly in part ) a pest , as he keeps gumming up the romance that is developing between Rogers and Astaire . The latter even happens to try to divert Tonetti's attention at one point with a cut out of himself and Rogers apparently turning back and forth around the room ( the cut out is on a phonograph turn-table ) with their shadows showing up on a window screen . But Tonetti keeps finding out the deceptions and turning up like the perennial bad penny . Still by the time the film is over Tonetti is fully supportive of the romance - and is still willing to help Rogers against Austin . The film is kind to Rhodes - he even joins in singing the song that wins the " Oscar " for best song : " The Continental " . Except for one number of the original Porter score , all the tunes here were not by Porter ( including " The Continental " ) . Porter , one of the greatest of Broadway musical composers , never won the Oscar that the Gerswins , Berlin , and Kern all got Highly ironic , especially as " Night And Day " is the surviving tune of the original show that is in the film . But the tunes were lost ( including a number for Eric Blore about the disappearance of old England ) , while " The Continental " and " Let's Knock Knees " were added - at least the latter gave Edward Everett Horton and Betty Grable a song together . Despite the loss of Porter's score it remains a first rate musical , and an enjoyable look at the problems of divorce in the 1930s .
Can a diffident and shy travel bookstore owner find happiness with the reigning female movie star ?	With few exceptions that the public recall , both Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant have been singularly blessed in their film choices . My own recollection for Roberts was some unfair carping about her nice follow-up ( with Richard Gere ) to PRETTY WOMEN , RUNAWAY BRIDE . Basically a different storyline , the fans of the former film were confused by the nuttiness of the latter one . For Grant there has never been a negative comment about his films that I recall , but rather that embarrassing prostitute incident a few years back that really just showed that the actor was human . Both have a nice film charisma that makes their myriads of fans very happy . In NOTTING HILL the charisma of both mixed well on screen . It is a very sweet comedy . Anna Scott ( Julia Roberts ) is basically a clone of Roberts - she is a multi-talented and beautiful film star who is known around the globe . One day she is doing a " Haroun - Al - Raschid " act ( like the Caliph in the stories of THE ARABIAN NIGHTS who goes in disguise among his subjects ) . She is doing some simple sightseeing and shopping in London's Notting Hill Section . She enters a bookstore specializing in travel books . It is owned by William Thacker ( Hugh Grant ) , who lives in the neighborhood . Thacker's business is struggling along , with too many people coming in expecting it sells best-sellers ( John Grisham ) or classics ( Dickens ) . He keeps correcting them about this . ( And the script writer makes a mistake - a minor one . Dickens , unlike what Thacker tells a stupid customer , did write several travel books : THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER and PICTURES FROM ITALY are two of them . ) Due to an accidental collision between the two in the street , Thacker invites Scott into his home to clean herself . He behaves with typical charm and care not to offend her . She leaves , but a moment later rings the bell again , and when inside kisses him . Later she leaves a message ( that is nearly lost due to Thacker's idiot roommate ( Spike - Rhys Infans ) ) to visit her at the Ritz Hotel in London . Thacker does see Scott , but has to pretend he is a movie reviewer for the magazine HORSE AND HOUND . He ends up asking questions to her and her co-stars about their latest film ( which he knows nothing about ) , and how it relates to horses and hounds ( it is a space epic , so it doesn't ) . But Scott and he go out together that night to a dinner party at Thacker's family's home . The film progresses like this , as we see the attraction between the two develop . Both are basically simple types , and the glitz of Scott's film reputation belies her feet on the ground approach to life - except for her fear about scandal . Like all celebrities she tries to avoid that shade of limelight that Holly Golightly says really ruins many girls complexions . This makes things difficult for Thacker's dating of Scott , as she frequently is aware of cynical comments made about her ( watch the scene in the restaurant for this ) , and she has to also put up with hyped publicity stories such as her long standing relationship with a prominent film actor ( Alec Baldwin in a nice single scene ) . Finally , she flees to Thacker after a couple of months , when she is facing an embarrassment over some nude photos and an old ( secret ) nude film that was shot of her . Thacker gives her what seems to be quiet and protection in his home , only to find that the press is tipped off . Scott is aware that while Thacker will be able to shrug this off in a short time , she will have the scandal of their relationship follow her for her life . She leaves him in anger . Will that be the end of the line for the lovers ? I'll let the viewer see the film . Savor the performances of the leads who do fit well together , but also of Infans , who is the guileless dimwit who never realizes the long range results of his blunders . Yet in the end he proves to have more sense than Grant does in what to do about the relationship with Roberts . NOTTING HILL is a real charmer for the movie fan , and a rarity in the present age of angst and bloodshed in our films . I recommend it heartily .
Quite Good Early Psycho-Therapy Drama . . . And Dali Too !	SPELLBOUND is one of Hitchcock's experiments that worked . If ROPE demonstrates some kind of technical experiment of minor interest that Hitch decided test out ( nine minute filmed sequences without breaks ) , SPELLBOUND was an experiment regarding dreams and psycho-analysis used in solving a murder mystery . It wasn't the first to set part of the action in a mental institution . PRIVATE WORLDS had done so in the 1930s . And the supernatural film THE UNINVITED actually suggested something less than clean or healthy in the running of a mental institution . But both films did not go into a case history as closely . Due to the time limitations for a typical Hitchcock film ( roughly two hours ) the psycho-babble today does not impress people : it takes years of therapy to get some grasp on the emotional problems confronted by Gregory Peck here . But unless one wanted a series of films over a period of twenty years ( say one a year ) detailing the actual speed of real psychotherapy , you had to accept Hitch's consolidated fictional approach to counseling . The plot deals with Gregory Peck arriving at a rest home in upstate New York that is run by Leo G . Carroll . Carroll is overworked , and is expecting his replacement . Peck shows up claiming to be the replacement . On the staff of the home is Ingrid Bergman , John Emery , and Steven Geray , and Bergman notices the new doctor is certainly acting peculiarly at dinner ( he is upset looking at parallel lines his fork makes in the dinner table cloth ) . Eventually the new doctor flees the asylum , and Bergman follows him . She is also aware that he has been unmasked as an impostor - he is not the missing new head of the asylum . Bergman links up with Peck , who is suffering whenever he tries to recall certain past events . She is trying to get him to work with her , but he resents her efforts ( though when not concentrating on his past and mental state he and she are falling in love ) . She is also aware that she and Peck are being sought by the police regarding the disappearance of the actual new head of the asylum . Eventually she gets him up to the home of her mentor ( Michael Chekhov ) and they analyze a dream that Peck tells them of . Although part of the dream is sexual ( Peck sees Bergman as a waitress in a gambling club ) , most of it deals with his relationship with the missing man . And it becomes more interesting as the dream is designed by artist Salvator Dali , complete with melted wheels , eyes staring from walls ( and being cut open ) and mysterious , threatening men , wearing bandages around their faces . Soon the dream is interpreted enough for it to lead Bergman and Peck to a skiing resort , where the dream seems to find the solution to Peck's angst . But he is also arrested - the missing man has turned up shot to death , and Peck is the chief suspect . Bergman believes he is innocent now , and we wonder if she will prove it in the last ten minutes of the film . Like all Hitchcock films , once one sees it the mystery is no longer a mystery . Years ago my sister , wanting to see something else while I was watching SPELLBOUND looked at the television screen and said " . . . . . . . is the murderer ! " I have never quite recovered from her spoiling the conclusion of the film for me . The performances are all good , including one by noted Russian actor and teacher Michael Chekhov . When I studied acting in high school I had to read his book TO THE ACTOR , and it is interesting to see he was a really fine actor . In fact , his performance as Bergman's wise old mentor was given the ultimate accolade when Mel Brooks highlighted it in his Hitchcock spoof HIGH ANXIETY , with Howard Morris playing Professor Olman ( " Little Old Man " Brooks keeps calling him in the film ) . Morris even kept the little white beard that Chekhov wore on his face in the film .
A Satisfactory Conclusion of a Rivalry to . . . Die For ?	SPOILERS AHEAD - SO BEWARE : Lana ( Maho Nonami ) and Nozomi ( Eiko Noike ) are the real " Odd Couple " . In fact they are far worse . Oscar wanted to ring Felix's neck , but he restrained himself . Lana and Nozomi find too much pressure from each other to maintain a civilized restraint . And one evening they find the pressure finally explode . 2LDK was one of two films about " dueling " that were part of a friendly bet between two Japanese directors . The stories were to be limited to two or three people , and the actions resolved by them dueling to the death with one survivor . Yukihiko Tsutsumi directed 2LDK . I have not seen the other film yet ( except a clip on YOU TUBE - it looks interesting ) , but Tsutsumi made his duelists two young women who literally find each other is standing in their way to what should be a fulfilling career and life . Both of them are actresses . Nozomi ( the dark haired actress ) is from a small island of Japan's , where she has gotten rave reviews . She is determined to expand her career in Tokyo but she is getting very small parts . Nozomi is pretty , but her straightened earnings prevents her from looking well dressed . Lana lectures Nozomi about the need to be big in movies ( like Nozomi does not realize this ) . However , although Lana got supporting parts in several " B " features , and enough money to have nice clothes and accessories , she is willing to use sleeping with her producers , etc . to get roles . Nozomi resents Lana for her success . She is also upset at Lana's material possessions and beauty pageant awards ( Lana treats these like a shrine ) . Lana thinks Nozomi has good looks , but thinks her frumpish in appearance , and resents her apparent penny - pinching ways ( she marks her eggs with a magic marker , putting on her initial ) . They did not choose to be together , but they use the same casting office and it owns the apartment . They have this apartment with two bedrooms , kitchen , bath , and living room at free rent . Fine with both of them , putting up with each other . But they both , in the course of the evening , discover that they both have been seeking a lead role in a film called YAKUZA WIVES , that they are the only alternative for the part to each other , and have been dating a man who is connected to the film . A telephone call will settle the casting . That sets it off . Initially their negative views are simply said by the two characters to themselves in their thoughts ( frequently at counterpoint to what they say to each other civilly ) . But when the rivalry blows up civility is dead . There is a rising tide of violence between the two young women ( interestingly enough the actresses are both the same age , born in 1980 and about 22 at the time ) . Nozomi is soon demolishing Lana's beauty contest awards . Lana grabs a hammer and knocks out Nozomi . Then she returns to the reviving Nozomi with a chainsaw , demolishing parts of the latter's room . But the plug falls out . She drops the useless weapon , and Nozomi grabs it and chases Lana . And so it goes with escalating mayhem between the girls reminding one of the " reciprocal destruction " scenes in Laurel & Hardy comedies . They try to bash in each other's head , suffocate each other , use drowning and electrocution . . . you can see how this goes . Finally , after a night of mutual mayhem , they momentarily calm down and discuss the hopelessness of their lives . They even kiss . But their adrenalin is still guided by that job and that guy . Finally they confront each other with ice picks one at the jugular of the other's neck , the other at the carotid in the the other one's neck . They momentarily realize it is a Mexican standoff , and both relax . But a moment later they both plunge their ice picks in the right spot , each reacting with a mixture of shock , anger , and surprise at the other for daring to do that to her . Their arms ( unfortunately ) equally drop , and they shoot out most of their life blood into each other's face . Facing each other they collapse and die at the same moment , but possibly they hear the phone message that comes in - the script was rewritten and both will share star billing ! It sounds grim , but the film is very funny - one of the funniest dark comedies ever done . Both stars are quite good , and ( although it would be pointless to consider this for any changes ) , one wishes they could have continued the calming down for their own sakes . They both did have their better points , and they could have helped each other . But they each were so annoying to the other and in the way . By the way , such a result is not unusual . The most notorious duel in English history was in November 1712 . The 4th Duke of Hamilton and the 4th Baron Mohum were brother-in-laws by marrying two sisters . The sisters were in a lawsuit involving Mohun as well about one of the richest estates in England . Hamilton , a Scotsman , was a Tory and a Jacobite , and while not poor he was not as rich as he needed to be to be a major player in British politics . Mohum was English , a Whig , and using the wealthy estate to cut a figure in British politics . For a variety of reasons they saw each other as an impediment to their own success and security . A slight comment by Hamilton was considered an insult by Mohun . He sent a challenge , which Hamilton accepted . They met at Hyde Park at dawn in London , and ran each other through enough times to fall dead together . That was an actual event unfortunately . Lana and Nozomi are a pair of dead fictional characters . I think the latter are the luckier pair .
The Naval Hero and the Ambassador's Wife	Nations need their heroes , sometimes with great desperation . Such was the case in the series of wars from 1792 to 1815 which were fought between Great Britain and first Revolutionary France and then the First French Empire . Britain had to finance this series of wars , because the various major continental powers it tried to ally itself with again and again against the French ( and later against Napoleon I ) were financially unable to support the war efforts ( especially after the French would defeat the armies of these countries , march in , and change their government ) . The British also fought the French army and navy face to face . But here was the problem : Up until the second period of the wars ( 1802 - 1815 ) Britain produced no field commander of real stature . The General-in-Chief of the Army was George III's favorite son , Frederick , Duke of York , who was ( apparently ) able but little else . He is the one in the old nursery rhyme song , " The good old Duke of York , he had 10 , 000 men . . . . " Frederick never showed more than moderate abilities as a field commander , but it was smashed when his mistress , Mary Ann Clarke , was caught selling commissions in the army for a " commissions fee " . Fred resigned . Mary did not go to prison ( her grandson was the author of PETER IBBETSON and TRILBY , George du Maurier ; her great grandson was the stage star Gerald du Maurier ; her great granddaughter and biographer the author of REBECCA and JAMAICA INN and FRENCHMAN'S CREEK Daphne du Maurier - not bad for a so-called " fallen woman " . ) . It would not be until the appearance of those two stunningly good generals , Sir John Moore ( who built up British field performance before his death at Corunna in 1809 ) and Arthur Wellesley ( later the Duke of Wellington ) { who learned military technique in India , took it to Europe , drove the French out of Spain , and defeated Napoleon at Waterloo ) that the army finally got good commanders . Notably after their arrival Napoleon and the French were defeated . But for the first part of the wars 1792 - 1802 it was the Navy that really gave England her heroes . And the hero it gave was Horatio Nelson , who even today is considered England's greatest naval tactician . When he came on the scene there were others : Richard , Lord Howe , who won the " Glorious First of June " in 1794 , and Adam Duncan , who won the battle Camperdown in 1798 ( following the Great Fleet Mutiny of that year - see DAMN THE DEFIANT ) . But Nelson had a string of them , from Cape St . Vincent ( in 1797 ) , to the stunning battle of the Nile ( 1798 ) to Copenhagen ( 1800 ) to his greatest victory Trafalgar ( 1805 ) where he was shot down in battle . In these battles he repeatedly bent or threw away the textbook regulations that had fossilized most naval officers . He also built up a group of fellow officers who continued his innovations ( Cuthbert Collingwood , Thomas Hardy , Troubridge , Lord Cochrane ) and pursued the French until the end of the war . These men stiffened that impregnable wooden wall that kept the French from taking Britain and ruling the world . THAT HAMILTON WOMAN deals with the one flaw in his record as a man - an understandable one . In command of the Meditteranean Fleet in 1797 - 98 , Nelson frequently docked in the allied Kingdom of Naples . The royal family was advised closely by Sir William Hamilton , the British Ambassador there . Sir William and his wife Emma held a miniature court , advising the locals and meeting celebrities . Emma Hamilton was a very beautiful woman , and Sir William married her because of that - her background was not great ( one of her best jobs was working for a quack doctor in London ) . Emma met Nelson , and the two fell in love . Hamilton was aware of this , but as it was England's greatest hero he winked at his wife's new lover . Eventually it became known . As Nelson was married ( to a clergyman's daughter ) and had a child it did not sit very well . . . as far as Emma went . Horatio was allowed to do whatever he wanted - he was saving the country . In fact , in 1803 he actually gave testimony for the defense of Colonel Marcus Despard , a friend who went mad and tried to overthrow the government and assassinate King George III ( Despard was still found guilty and executed ) . Up to his heroic death , Nelson could do no wrong . But Emma was left after 1805 to go into poverty and exile in Calais , France , where she died in 1818 . This film is a rare one . It is one of the few made by Olivier and his wife Vivien Leigh , and only FIRE OVER ENGLAND merits comparison . Both give good account of themselves as the lovers , although their relationship was a bit more boisterous and noisy than this account makes it . Gladys Cooper is splendid in her one scene as Nelson's wronged wife confronting Leigh . Alan Mowbray has a rarity - a moving dying scene . Sir William was one of England's great art collectors , but the ship with his wonderful collection was wrecked when he returned home . He suffered a stroke that killed him , and that also affected his mind . Watch him request his servant shift a now non-existent painting on the wall because it's crooked . Quite unforgettable .
Gaston's search for domestic contentment	Although several of Vincent Minelli's films can be given consideration for being his best , particularly " An American In Paris " , " Meet Me In St . Louis " , " Some Came Running " , and " The Bandwagon " , a solid case can be made that " Gigi " is the best one . Based ( or developed ) from a novella by Colette , " Gigi " boasted a score by Learner and Loewe that sparkled with hits like " The Night They Invented Champaign " , " Say A Prayer For Me Tonight " , " I Remember It Well " , and " I'm Glad I'm Not Young Anymore . " The cast was impeccable , with Leslie Caron as the gamin girl who " blossomed like a flower " , Hermoine Gingold as her sensible ( but practical grandmother ) , Isobel Jean as her too practical aunt , Eva Gabor as the mistress / lover whose " little heart " was " crooked to the core " , the great Maurice Chevallier ( in what is his signature role ) as the lovable aging roué Honore , and Louis Jourdan as the bored Gaston Lachaille . All the elements , including an impeccable sense for the time , decor , and color of 1900 Paris , came together under Minelli's direction , so that the film nearly half-a-century later remains excellent . I imagine that everything about this film has been mentioned in these reviews , so I will just comment on one odd point . Gaston , the son of a very rich sugar refiner millionaire , is a public figure of great importance in the 1900 Paris social scene . He is acute in terms of business ( witness how he buys a French railway at one point , correctly guessing it's stock would go up a certain level of points ) , yet he is unable to win a simple card game . He has entry to every posh event in that poshest and showiest of world capitals , but he is bored by it all . He has apparently had it ladled down his throat so much it does not excite him anymore . All this sets up the ironic twist of the story : this man who is a known regular at Maxim's , who can rent the Eiffel Tower for a special party at any time , finds his best contentment with the simple apartment of Madame Alverez and her granddaughter Gigi . Instead of guzzling sparkling wines and vintages of Château Rothschild , he likes Madame Alverez's chamomile tea . He finds joy in domesticity , and one senses that ( at the end ) he finds a perfect mate in this in Gigi ( except for their occasional visits to the casinos at Deauville , as Gigi likes gambling ) . On the other hand , his uncle Honore ( a character who was only mentioned in passing in the original novella ) is totally different . Honore tells Madame Alverez that he actually was so seriously in love with her when they lived together years earlier that he considered marriage , but panicked and decided to have a fling with an opera singer . While this story does not placate Madame Alverez ( who feels it is one of the oddest reasons ever given for infidelity ) , it suggests that domesticity did attract the Lachaille family members ( we are informed by Honore that Gaston's father and mother are boring ) , but that Honore rejected it out of fear - probably for his freedom . Honore's song , " I'm glad I'm not young anymore " shows that he is not in need of constant companionship , and looks forward to a lack of responsibility towards the opposite sex as he gets older . It's the total reverse of Gaston's rushing for it . It does suggest that it takes all types to make up society .
Three Cheers For the Guacamole Act of 1917 ! ! !	The premise of this film is really simple : if two families are about to enjoy the union of their children in a marriage , is it not likely that the in-laws involved can come to depend and help each other out in times of need ? Most of us would probably say no , or want to know the extent of the help . However , when Vincent J . Ricardo ( Peter Falk ) asks Dr . Sheldon Kornpett ( Alan Arkin ) to assist him in retrieving something from a safe in Ricardo's office , Kornpett is willing ( if somewhat suspiciously ) to do it . The reason that Kornpett is suspicious is he is not quite certain what to make of Ricardo . They only met at Kornpett's house the night before , for a dinner party introducing the families of the bride ( Kornpett's ) and groom ( Ricardo's ) to each other . Ricardo acted . . . well oddly . He told tales of his business travels in Central America , including how in one country babies are being carried off by huge bats that are protected by the Guacamole Act of 1917 . Kornpett hears this with a blank face , although his eyes do bug out a little in disbelief . Later , when Ricardo gets testy with his son over a comment about the former not being home enough , Kornpett can't believe the near rage that Ricardo demonstrates at the table . So his suspicions about his future in-law seem well based . Shortly , after being chased and nearly killed by two men who are after the items that Kornpett picked up , the suspicions seem confirmed . Ricardo explains to him , over pea soup in a restaurant , that he actually is not a successful salesman but a C . I . A . operative ( a photo in Ricardo's office confirms this : it is of President Kennedy , and the autograph refers to the Bay of Pigs Invasion ) . He is in the middle of a critically important mission in Latin America dealing with international finance and a conspiracy against the richest nations . Kornpett hears him out , and is upset to hear that there is more material that Ricardo hid in Kornpett's home the night before . He wants no part of it , and leaves to go home - only to find the police there . He flees , and does evade capture - at the cost of having his car repainted in a way he never would have wanted it to look . Soon Kornpett is forced to join forces with Ricardo , and enters the deadly serious but ( here ) quite farcical world of international espionage and intrigue . At the end of the road is the ringleader of the conspiracy , General Garcia ( Richard Libertini ) who has a special little friend that makes Al Pacino's little friend in SCARFACE lethal but sensible in comparison . THE IN-LAWS is funny . Arkin with his tight-ass repressive personality works well against the free-wheeling , anything goes Falk . Libertini appears only in the films last twenty minutes , but he does equally nicely as the ultimate in screw-ball dictators . Well supported by a cast including Nancy Dussault , Arlene Golonka , Penny Peyser , Michael Lembeck , and Ed Begley Jr . the film is just a laugh fest until the happy ending . As mentioned elsewhere in these comments Arkin and Falk should have made several films together . They have only done one other movie together since THE IN-LAWS . Pity .
Going My Way in New England	The success of Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald in GOING MY WAY would lead to the second of Crosby's three successful male teams ( the other two being Bob Hope and Fred Astaire ) . Oddly enough nobody ever thought of putting three of them or all four into the same film , but problems regarding budgets and a decent , sensible script would probably have prevented it . In any event , such a script would have relied on Crosby being at the center of action / activity . In his individual pairings he does share the screen time with each partner . But GOING MY WAY created a sequel that did not bring back Barry . It was THE BELLS OF ST . MARY , a Christmas story about a Catholic religious school run by Ingrid Bergman . It too was a success , but it did not have Fitzgerald's elderly , wise but cantankerous priest in it . Fortunately WELCOME STRANGER was made a few years after , and gave Bing and Barry another good script with equal time to shine in their roles . Basically it is the same plot : A small New England town has had the services of Fitzgerald as their doctor . He's been a good doctor , and has been campaigning for a new hospital for the town . The town council , represented by Charles Dingle , has finally agreed . But Dingle has doubts about the elderly Fitzgerald running the hospital - he wants a younger man , with scholarly attainments . But this is all in the future . Fitzgerald has to go to Boston on a business trip , and he comes back on one of the crack railway trains that used to crisscross our country . He is sitting in a compartment with a young man , Crosby , who is going to answer an advertisement for a doctor who can assist an elderly doctor in a small town in Maine ( you guessed it - it's an advertisement the crusty Fitzgerald was pressured into putting into the paper ) . Soon the two are arguing ( correction : Fitzgerald is arguing - Crosby is calm , as always ) , about a missing pipe belonging to Fitzgerald ( Crosby finds Fitzgerald was sitting on it ) . Crosby leaves the " chilly " compartment for the dining room , and orders the fresh trout for dinner . Unfortunately Fitzgerald follows soon after , and he has been looking forward to his favorite dinner on this train ( you guessed it : the trout ) . He's definitely deflated to find that 1 ) they are out of trout now , and 2 ) Crosby got the last trout . So begins another typical " opposites " attract Bing and Barry story . Instead of Catholic priests it is country doctors . But Crosby slowly , begrudgingly gains the respect and friendship of the older man again , and likewise he finds that Fitzgerald is a first rate , sensible doctor . Crosby also starts dating Joan Caulfield , which annoys Robert Shayne her present beau . What's worse , Shayne is the son of Charles Dingle , and this makes Dingle less than friendly to Crosby as a doctor , or a potential assistant head to the new hospital . Both are soon pushing a friend of Shayne's , Larry Young . The film is an amusing , well-made comedy , and the townspeople are quite realistic . Even the pompous Dingle has a moment of realism that lifts him from his usual villainous activities into the real world of cynicism . He is finding the town has a possible medical emergency , and a vaccine might be needed . He contacts the town's Congressman , Thurston Hall , who we see in his office in Washington . The two have a so-called serious conversation about the vaccine , with Hall going through his typical bluster , while Dingle ( who whatever his pomposity was always straight to the point ) tries to keep to the topic . Hall keeps forgetting or confusing his Dingle's identity or name , until finally Charles zings it very nicely to Thuston : " Why is it you can only remember my name around election time ? " It was a brief moment but Charles finally spoke for all of us !
Did the aged composer kill his talented rival Wolfie ?	The 1980s was unique in that twice within two years the star of a three hour historical film ( playing the lead historical male character ) won the Academy Award for best actor in such a picture . Normally biographical films are considered box office poison , even the superior ones like Daryl Zanuck's " Wilson " in 1944 . But both " Gandhi " ( 1982 ) and " Amadeus " ( 1984 ) were box office successes , culminating in the above mentioned Oscars for Ben Kingsley in the former and F . Murray Abraham in the latter . Both deserved the award for a change - both did fantastic jobs in bringing Mohandas Gandhi and Antonio Salieri to life . By the way , if Kingsley seems to have had better roles since then in films than Abraham , the latter has had a far more interesting career on Broadway in a number of plays such as " Angels in America " . Based on Peter Shaffer's dramatic hit play , " Amadeus " is a study of frustration and jealousy in art - here in the world of 18th Century music . In 1785 the leading composer in the court of Emperor Joseph II of Austria ( Jeffey Jones ) is Antonio Salieri . He is well regarded by the Emperor and the other leading musical figures in the court . In comparison to them Salieri really merits this high regard . But along comes a young , fun-loving , and unpolished figure named Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart ( Tom Hulce ) , or " Wolfie " to his wife Costanza ( Elizabeth Berridge ) . Salieri is always the proper courtier - he came from a poverty background in Italy , and really worked hard at both his music ( which he hoped pleased God and through God man ) and his diplomatic skills until he reached his position . He first comes upon Mozart fooling around with Costanza in a break before a concert he is going to give . The unpolished bumpkin does not strike Salieri as a threat . But then he hears his music , and Salieri's self-esteem begins to crumble a bit . He tries to put it out of his mind , sensing that Mozart is his own worst enemy due to his unpolished manner . But when Costanza brings him some of the music her husband has worked on , Salieri ( whose knowledge of music is really high ) realizes it is the work of a genius . Sure enough , despite roughing the court's feathers , Mozart is slowly gaining massive public and court support . Occasionally there is a sticking point . When some jealous rivals ( slightly goaded by Salieri ) argue against the length of one of his operas , Mozart teaches them a lesson by having the orchestra not play the music during a ballet between acts . Emperor Joseph is fascinated by this odd idea and asks why no music is being played . Mozart explains that the others think there is too much music . The Emperor ( in my favorite piece of dialog - which appears to be true ) suggests maybe they were correct . Mozart shows the Emperor the music , and asks what notes to take out . Joseph II can't give any answer to that one . The effect of Mozart's rise is to make Salieri feel that God tricked him in their deal - he would serve God by making beautiful music . But this bumpkin makes far better music . Bitter he watches for any opportunity to undercut his rival . Then Mozart's estranged father Leopold ( Roy Doltrice ) dies , and Salieri sees that this has an emotional effect on Wolfgang . Building on the latter's guilt , Salieri tries to send him into a decline . And soon Mozart's health begins to decline . He has been composing a requiem , and Salieri intends ( pretending to befriend the dying Mozart ) to steal it and claim it as his own work . I'll leave the outcome of that to the readers when they see the film . " Amadeus " is told in flashback , with Salieri having attempted suicide about 1819 ( a few years before his death ) , and recovering in a mental institution . He has also made a statement that he poisoned Mozart . This issue is not really settled in the film , and historically it is still debated with most musicologists thinking Salieri was hallucinating . Abraham's performance is wonderful , as he slowly comes to realize he has become the symbol of the mediocrity we mostly fall into . Hulce shows the bumptious reality of pure genius in Mozart , and how fragile it all was . Berridge is fine as the loyal Constanza , as is Jones as the rather good natured but fatuous Emperor , and ( in his few scenes ) Doltrice as the disappointed Leopold . The historical Salieri was not the equal of the big three of Vienna in the 1780s to 1809 ( besides Mozart , Beethoven , and Joseph Haydn ) , but he was respected , and even gave musical lessons to Beethoven in this period . His serious music will never quite be accepted by the public after the big three , but both the play and the movie reopened interest in him - his work is beginning to reappear in some concert halls .
John Wayne's First Technicolor Film	THE SHEPHERD OF THE HILLS was made into a silent film in 1919 . Harold Bell Wright , the author of the story , was a popular novelist of the day , and a number of his stories were turned into films . He usually concentrated on stories regarding people who lived in mountainous regions ( one hesitates to call them hillbillies as they are usually shown to be non-stereotypes ) . As was mentioned in another of the comments here , Wright also wrote the story that was the basis for the Henry Fonda / Fred MacMurray film THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE . John Wayne is not the central figure of this film , although considered the star nowadays . In reality this film should be considered one of the best in the career of Harry Carey Sr . A leading movie cowboy actor in the silent period and early sound years , Carey had slowly moved into character parts after 1933 . Possibly his best recalled non-western role is the Vice President of the United States in MR . SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON . As a Western star , he proved to be Wayne's own model of the perfect western film actor . In fact , in the shooting of John Ford's THE SEARCHERS , Wayne purposely honored Carey by copying a mannerism he had ( holding his arm with his hand in a particular position ) in Wayne's last visible moment in that film . In the movie Wayne is a member of a family centered around James Barton and Beulah Bondi ( Wayne's blood aunt ) , and his cousin Marc Lawrence . Bondi has never forgiven Wayne's father for abandoning the family , and indirectly causing the death of her sister . She has instilled in Wayne a hatred of the father . At the same time , the death of the sister is tied to the other tragedy of the family - that Lawrence is a mute . He has been unable to speak since he survived the fire that killed his aunt ( Wayne ' mother ) . The only one who occasionally stands up against Bondi's vicious hatred is Barton , but he admits in his best scene in the film that he really lacks the nerve to openly condemn her behavior . This is a great film for character actors . Besides Barton , Bondi , and Lawrence , please take note of Marjorie Main in one of her most prescient performances . She is blind , and she requires expensive surgery to have a chance for the restoration of her sight . At a critical moment Carey will lend her the money for that surgery . When her eyesight is restored everyone in the community rejoices , until Main recognizes somebody in the crowd she did not expect to ever see again . Her comment when she reveals this person's identity , and realizes the tragedy she may have unwittingly caused , is devastating in it's simplicity and ironic truth . Carey is a newly arrived rancher in the area , who ( as witness his assistance to Main ) gets involved trying to do good for his neighbors . And all usually benefit . Yet he too has his secrets , and they nearly rip him and several others apart . THE SHEPHERD OF THE HILLS is a movie about redemption and forgiveness , and it's cast shows the difficulties faced by common people when presented with these seemingly simple acts of behavior . All of the stars of the movie gave first rate performances in it , and for Wayne it was the first big follow-up to his overnight success in STAGECOACH . But the best performance remains Carey's , who in the end has to commit an act of violence in order to try to save his last chance for acceptance from those who count the most .
A Man Who Proved That Size Does Not Make A Giant	His was a rather short life . He was born in 1864 and died in 1901 . But in the 37 years Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec helped change modern painting and advertising illustration , with a vivid but light line and an ability to capture movement . One of the best remembered Post-Impressionists , he managed to be the one to best illustrate the fin-de-siec age of Paris in the 1890s . While Monet and Van Gogh concentrated on the countryside , and Gaughin took his genius into the colors of the tropics , Toulouse-Lautrec concentrated on the theaters , dance halls ( such as Moulin Rouge ) and racetracks that the society of Paris frequented ( the same society that would be shown in Vincent Minelli's GIGI six years after this film was made ) . It is hard to find a really dramatic story about most great artists . LUST FOR LIFE ( dealing with Van Gogh ) dealt with that artist's failure to find any responding human being to his affections and search for purity . It also dealt with his descent into madness and suicide . REMBRANDT followed the 17th Century master into his years when his artistic ability was misunderstood ( after he did THE NIGHT WATCH ) and he fell into financial difficulties . THE MOON AND SIX PENCE was Somerset Maugham's comment that Gaughin's brilliance as a painter did not mean he was a decent human being ( his anglicized version - Strickland - uses people right and left in order to paint ) . THE NAKED MAJA showed Goya to be a man having to navigate his way through a corrupt royal court . THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY shows how a titan in art ( Michaelangelo ) painted his masterpiece ( The Sistine Chapel ) despite his personal war with an equally determined Pope Julius II . The story in MOULIN ROUGE is how Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec had everything ( talent , money , aristocratic position ) but had nothing . For due to an accident in his teenage years , Henri fell down a stairs and broke his two legs . His parents were cousins , so genetically his bones could not knit properly : He became a dwarf . He could perform as well as a full grown man , but he looked the size of a top-heavy child complete with mustache and beard , and pince-nez eyeglasses . He could not attract women the normal way ( we see his teenage female friend reject him when he offers himself to her ) . So he moves into the bohemian center of Paris , and starts painting . Unlike his fellow Post impressionists , Toulouse actually had money , so he never suffered for lack of rent or for no food or torn clothes ( like Van Gogh and Gaughin occasionally did ) . But his loneliness , and apparent helplessness led to his becoming an alcoholic , in particular of the then popular but dangerous drink absinthe . The subject matter of this film happened to get the right director . John Huston was usually seen as dealing with grittier and more adventuresome material ( like THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRES ) . But Huston actually was very interested in art , and his use of color and casting is almost flawless here , choosing supporting players who literally look like Toulouse ' poster drawings of them dancing the " can can " and other popular dances of the day . So is the choice of Jose Ferrer as Toulouse . Although the dwarf was half Ferrer's height , special braces were used to enable Ferrer to walk " normally " like his real life counterpart . It must have been painful but Ferrer never bats an eyelash . Ferrer's turmoil deals with the women in his life . He is known to the cast of dancers and singers at Moulin Rouge ( led by Zsa Zsz Gabor as the resident chanteuse , who sings the theme song of the film , " Where Is Your Heart " ) . We see him meet a prostitute , who briefly lives with him , but cannot live with him or without him ( she sees he is a good , kind man who can provide for her , but he is a dwarf ) . They split up twice in the film ( he seeks her out and finds her in a more natural milieu in the gutter ) . This almost breaks him but he recovers , and his most creative years follow . Then he meets a more acceptable woman ( Suzanne Flon ) whose genuine friendship and affection he fails to recognize until it is too late . Ferrer also played the artist's father , a man who fails to realize just what an amazing son he produced . It was a first rate production and Ferrer got another nomination for best actor . It remains a good biography of a great artist , and one that is as pleasing to the eye as LUST FOR LIFE . It would not be amiss if both films were shown in tandem by some film society or other .
It's Sad To Grow Old Alone	I recall when this film was first shown in 1969 , that excerpts of the " silent " film segments were shown on THE TONIGHT SHOW to give the public an explanation of what the spoofing was . The film is a spoof of " Dr . Jeckyl and Mr . Hyde " , but the spoof is also a salute to an early Stan Laurel satire ( without Oliver Hardy ) called " Dr . Pickle and Mr . Pride " . Dick Van Dyke was a fan of Stan Laurel ( and even a friend of his at the end of the latter's life ) and he and Reiner was saluting Laurel and other silent clowns who in their heyday were great stars but who ended on a somewhat reduced level . Of the great silent film comics , Charlie Chaplin and Harold Lloyd were the luckiest : both were very wealthy men at the conclusion of their lives , and had lived long enough to be recognized by their film peers . Less lucky than them were Buster Keaton , Stan Laurel , and Oliver Hardy . Keaton had fallen on hard times due to studio hostility , alcoholism , and his wife Natalie Talmadge's messy divorce ( in which she kept his two sons ) . However , in the 1950s he made a tremendous comeback , and was ( if not as wealthy as Chaplin or Lloyd ) recognized as a film genius . Stan and Ollie were in demand as entertainers until ill health began plaguing them in the 1950s ( Laurel looks very bad in their last film ATOLL K , and Hardy suffered a heart attack before his death in 1957 ) . But neither was impoverished - Laurel having been smart enough to have bought annuities in his heyday . As for the others , Harry Langdon was employed up to his death in 1940 as a gag writer ( he even appeared in ZENOBIA opposite Hardy ) . Raymond Griffith's damaged voice prevented him from continuing as a comic actor in sound films . After a stunning " silent " performance as the dying French soldier in the trench with Lew Ayres in ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT , he became a film executive . One can also note W . C . Fields sound film career which is better recalled than his silent film career - and Fields died well off in 1946 . But what of Snub Pollard , Chester Conklin , Hank Mann , and Ford Sterling ? There were large numbers of popular comedians in the silent period who did not remain public favorites after sound came in . Even one great comic , Roscoe " Fatty " Arbuckle , was not a favorite - although a murder charge can do that . Still Arbuckle was trying to make a comeback at the time of his death in 1933 . THE COMIC was an attempt to show what happened to these film originals due to their personal / private problems and the changes in the film industry ( especially due to the coming of sound ) . Billy Bright ( Van Dyke ) is one of the great silent comics , but he has marital problems with his wife Mary Gibson ( Michele Lee ) : His extra-marital affairs , and her attraction to film director Frank Powers ( Cornell Wilde ) . Even the birth of a son does not help . On top of that , his films ( while artistically great ) begin losing money at the box office . He ends a failure in a business that requires money as a symbol of success . In the end he is living in a single room apartment watching his old films , living on his memories . The films copy elements of the great comic films . His masterpiece , FORGET-ME-NOT , is about an innocent man sent to prison , and is somewhat reminiscent of Laurel & Hardy's comedies THE SECOND HUNDRED YEARS and PARDON US . But Mary appears in it as the heroine ( like Harold Lloyd , whose wife was his original co-star ) , and her role is of a blind girl ( reminiscent of Virginia Cherrill in Chaplin's CITY LIGHTS , and the heroine in Harry Langdon's THE STRONG MAN ) . Part of the fun of the film is trying to second-guess the films that are the basis of Van Dyke and Reiner's spoofs . With Mickey Rooney as " Cockeye " ( a fond remembrance of silent clown Ben Turpin ) , THE COMIC is a good film , and Van Dyke's strongest dramatic part .
" We solve nothing ! We cure nothing ! ! "	Patty Chayevsky was years ahead of most successful screenplay and drama writers in tackling sticky subjects . In this 1971 film he followed Sinclair Lewis and A . J . Cronin ( in respectively ARROWSMITH and THE CITADEL ) in looking critically at the world of medicine , although his target is centered on a special stage : a modern hospital in Manhattan . Chayevsky's point of view is quite direct : are hospital's places for people to go to to get well , or are they money making organizations where people frequently die due to incompetence . As a person who has recently been to a hospital too many times ( and will shortly have to return again ) I find THE HOSPITAL a very timely and rewarding satire . George C . Scott is Dr . Block , one of the heads of the Manhattan Surgical Center , a major teaching hospital . He has just started his day when he is told that one of the second year residents has died during the night in an apparent mix-up . It seems he was sedated and drugged while sleeping on a bed ( he'd been having a tryst with a nurse ) , and someone tampered with an i . v . that should have contained water with glucose in it ( later it turns out he got an overdose of insulin in the i . v . ) . Soon Scott finds that whenever he turns around some other member of the staff dies of a heart attack or of a botched operation . The key to all this appears to be one patient who came to the hospital ten days before for a regular check-up , and has since lost one kidney , nearly lost his other kidney , and is now in a comatose state ( Barnard Hughes ) . Hughes ' daughter ( Diana Rigg ) wants to bring the comatose dad back to his home on an Apache Indian Reservation in Mexico . Scott is not totally opposed to the idea - after all , hospital errors almost killed Hughes . Also , Scott is suffering a mid-life crisis with the collapse of his marriage and family , and his growing doubts about what his chosen profession really accomplishes . It is not only looking at a case like Hughes ' . The hospital is in a constant state of chaos wherein the regular staff ( Scott , Stephen Elliot , Nancy Marchand , Stockard Channing ) is overworked and overtaxed , and is at war with the business staff ( typified by Frances Steenhagen in a really chilly performance ) . The local community is hostile because of the expansion plans of the hospital - but when they meet to " discuss " matters with Elliot they prove to be as divisive among themselves ( militant Black Panthers versus local clergy versus birth control seeking women and pro-abortion clinic types ) . Rigg ( who falls in love with Scott in the course of the film ) becomes more and more certain that leaving the insanity of the city makes sense , and Scott also toys with the idea . Scott was at his acting height in this film , what with ANATOMY OF A MURDER , THE HUSTLER , DR . STRANGELOVE , and PATTON under his belt before THE HOSPITAL was made . His angst registered when he and Rigg get to know each other ( she prevents him from killing himself due to his despair ) . He can't tell if anything done in the hospital is worthwhile , and screams out the window the words in the " Summary Line " . Though he does later relax a little about how good his teaching has been for doctors studying with him , Scott really never fully is sure about it all - he does , however , fully accept his own sense of responsibility that others just dump . Rigg too was at the height of her international fame ( if not her acting abilities ) - her stint as Mrs . Peel on THE AVENGERS was a few years old , but she was recognized as a leading stage talent in Britain at the time , as well as one of the sexiest women performers of that period . The supporting actors are good too . Besides the chilling Steenhagen ( demanding Medicare / Medicaid / insurance information from comatose patients in the E . R . ) , there is Hughes as a religious maniac who wins , and Elliot as the fed up head of the hospital . There is also my favorite caricature : Richard Dysart as Dr . Elwell . Elwell is a butcher who has found a real home for himself on the Big Board of the Stock Exchange , having incorporated himself for tax incentives . Anyone recalling his performances as ethical types such as the head of the law firm in L . A . LAW or as the friend and physician to Melvin Douglas in BEING THERE , upon seeing his greedy Dr . Elwell see another facet to this underrated actor's talents .
He Whips To Glory !	James Mason ( like Richard Burton , Edward Arnold , and many other splendid actors - and actresses ) never received the Oscar for any of his performances . This is one of the unfair side issues regarding the Academy Awards , as a measuring stick to film stardom . Everyone who has seen Mason's performances ( and the others I mentioned ) may know they are appearing in a " turkey " , but they are serving their sections of the " turkey " with deluxe dressing . When they are appearing in " filet mignon " or the like , they really reach the heights . So , despite his lack of Academy recognition , Mason is remembered with great fondness by everyone who enjoys movies . To this day his voice is imitated in cartoons if you want to see a snooty , aristocratic villain . Yet I said " villain " . How can I call the wounded , deserted IRA gunman Johnny ( ODD MAN OUT ) or Norman Main ( A STAR IS BORN ) or Humbert Humbert ( LOLITA ) a " villain " . Yes , he did play Mr . Van Dam in NORTH BY NORTHWEST , but even that fellow had his less villainous moments ( too few perhaps ) . The fact is , when Mason came to the U . S . to appear in Hollywood films in the late 1940s , it was as one of Britain's best villains . This was odd . He had been in films since the late 1930s , and had played a shell shock victim in THE HILL HAVE EYES as well as other parts . In FIRE OVER ENGLAND ( an early role ) he was an English Catholic nobleman who is planning to aid King Philip of Spain ( for reasons of politics and religious freedom ) but who is drowned fleeing the police of Elizabeth I . None of these performances had gained him his fame , deserved as it was . It was THE MAN IN GRAY that gained him fame . Set in Regency England ( c . 1790 - 1837 ) , Mason was what was termed " a Regency Buck " . This was a fashionable , upper crust Regency aristocrat or wealthy man who enjoyed his privileges - frequently at the expense of everyone else around them . When Leslie Howard played Sir Percy Blakeney in THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL , his character is a foppish version of " the Regency Buck " , acting the buffoon at the expense of Col Higgensbottom and even the Prince of Wales - regarding cravats - to hide his serious mission ) . Mason's character is actually a more openly forceful version of this character . The Marquis of Rohan is a great grandee of England ( despite having the last name of a noted French Aristocratic house - connected to the " Affair of the Diamond Necklace " ) . He is fully aware of his position , and the subservient position of everyone else involved with it . Phyllis Calvert is Clarissa , the daughter of a local good family , who was a close friend of Margaret Lockwood ( Hester ) . Their relations is similar to that of Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp in VANITY FAIR , as good girl and bad girl . Rohan chooses to marry Clarissa because she is a proper ( and subservient ) wife to breed an heir . Clarissa tries to help Hester by getting her a good position in the household ( bad mistake ) . Rohan is soon bored by marriage , and Clarissa mistakes this as a signal that she is on her own . She meets a traveling actor named Rokeby ( Stewart Granger ) and starts a relationship with him - egged on by Hester . Hester intention is to reveal it at the right time to Rohan , and replace the disgraced Clarissa . And she does . But it actually does two things . He does go after Rokeby to kill him . But after taking care of that problem , Rohan finds Clarissa going into physical decline . And his better character comes out . He tries to help his wife , but nothing he does helps . . . and she finally dies . The Marquis is heartbroken . SPOILER COMING UP : Hester still blind to the reality of the situation , confronts Rohan , and reveals her own passions . But now Rohan is fully aware of why Hester made her revelations , and what it has led to . Furious at being used , and at his own cost and of the woman he got to love , Rohan grabs a horse whip and whips Hester to death ! It is an orchestrated , violent conclusion ( and it's violence may be why the film is rarely shown on television ) . Despite making Rohan a killer at the end , because he is killing the real villain in the plot Rohan gets the audience to cheer him on ! He becomes the " anti-hero " of the story . It gained Mason his international standing as " a man you love to hate " . And it opened the doors to future Hollywood stardom .
Ironically , our Navy's best remembered " mutiny "	Historically there were two great United States Naval mutinies . In 1842 a naval sloop , the U . S . S . Somers , had a court martial for three crew members ( one , Midshipman Philip Spencer , was the son of Secretary of War John Canfield Spencer ) , which ended with their being found guilty and hanged . To this day there is debate if Spencer ( a troubled youth ) was even serious about seizing the " Somers " . The other occurred in 1944 at Port Chicago , California , when , a few weeks after a terrible accident that killed many men loading ammunition on a boat , their replacements refused to work under existing unsafe conditions . This led to a U . S . Supreme Court decision - against the workers , who claimed they were not under military law . But the best known mutiny in the American navy is that on the U . S . S . Caine , during the hurricane that preceded the battle of Okinawa . That this is a fictional mutiny does not seem to attract any attention . THE CAINE MUTINY was a successful novel , Broadway play ( " THE CAINE MUTINY COURT MARTIAL " ) and a great movie . It remains the American equivalent of the mutiny on the H . M . S . Bounty . The performances of the leads , Bogart , Johnson , MacMurray ( his second of three great heels ) , Ferrer , Tully , and E . G . Marshall are all first rate , as are the supporting cast ( which includes Lee Marvin , Claude Atkins , and Jerry Paris - all of whom had quite substantial careers after this film ) . Only Robert Francis did not have a substantial career after his fine Ensign Keith - he died in a plane crash in 1955 . There are mental images from the film ( mostly connected to Bogart's Queeg ) that people remember - even spoof . Every time you see some character showing nervous ticks , if he or she pulls out a pair of small metal balls and roll them in their hand , it is a salute to Bogie's originally doing it in THE CAINE MUTINY . And his magnificent moment of success : " the strawberries " , and how he proved the theft with geometric precision , remains a signal that the person speaking has too many fixations . Interestingly , the film makes Queeg better ( if still sick ) than the play does . When cross examined by Greenwald at the court martial of Maryk and Keith , Queeg is asked about whether or not he overused his right to free transport of liquor and other items from Hawaii to the mainland from the navy . Queeg at first denies it , but when Greenwald says he can bring in ( as witnesses ) people connected with the sale of the items and the transport of them , Queeg suddenly remembers that he might have . This is not in the film , but it shows that Queeg was not all that clean an officer . That aside , the impact of the film is still terrific half a century after it was shot . It illustrates that personality flaws frequently causes the problems that affect all of us , and that we need more understanding of each other's problems to avoid the bigger ones . From a case of over-extended battle fatigue , the crew of a warship are driven to accept an act of mutiny against it's captain in an emergency situation . And it almost gets two officers disgraced or hanged .
The Threat of Sidney Stratton ?	THE MAN IN THE WHITE SUIT , like I'M ALL RIGHT JACK , takes a dim view of both labor and capital . Alec Guinness is a scientific genius - but an eccentric one ( he has never gotten his university degree due to an . . . err . . . accident in a college laboratory ) . He manages to push himself into various industrial labs in the textile industry . When the film begins he is in Michael Gough's company , and Gough ( in a memorable moment ) is trying to impress his would-be father-in-law ( Cecil Parker ) by showing him the ship-shape firm he runs . While having lunch with Parker and Parker's daughter ( Joan Greenwood ) , Gough gets a message regarding some problems about the lab's unexpectedly large budget problems . He reads the huge expenditures ( due to Guinness's experiments ) , and chokes on his coffee . Guinness goes on to work at Parker's firm , and repeats the same tricks he did with Gough - but Parker discovers it too . Greenwood has discovered what Guinness is working on , and convinces Parker to continue the experiments ( but now legally ) . The result : Guinness and his assistant has apparently figured out how to make an artificial fiber that can constantly change the electronic bonds within it's molecular structure so that ( for all intents and purposes ) the fiber will remain in tact for good . Any textile made from it will never fade , get dirty , or wear out - it will last forever . Guinness has support from a female shop steward , but not her chief . He sees Guinness as selling out to the rich . But when he explains to them what he's done , they turn against him . If everyone has clothes that will last forever then they will not need new clothes ! Soon Parkers ' fellow textile tycoons ( led by Gough , Ernest Theisinger - in a wonderful performance , and Howard Marion-Crawford ) are equally panic stricken by what may end their businesses . They seek to suppress the invention . With only Greenwood in his corner ( although Parker sort of sympathizes with him ) , Guinness tries to get the news of his discovery to the public . In the end , Guinness is defeated by science as well as greed . But he ends the film seeing the error in his calculations , and we guess that one day he may still pull off his discovery after all . It's a brilliant comedy . But is the argument for suppression valid ? At one point the difficulties of making the textile are shown ( you have to heat the threads to a high temperature to actually enable the ends of the material to be united . There is nothing that shows the cloth will stretch if the owner gets fat ( or contract if the owner gets thin ) . Are we to believe that people only would want one set of clothing for ever ? What happened to fashion changes and new styles ? And the cloth is only made in the color white ( making Guinness look like a white knight ) . We are told that color dye would have to be added earlier in the process . Wouldn't that have an effect on the chemical reactions that maintain the structure of the textile ? Alas this is not a science paper , but a film about the hypocrisies of labor and capital in modern industry . As such it is brilliant . But those questions I mention keep bothering me about the validity of suppressing Guinness ' invention
Such a Charming Radio Host and Guardian . . .	Years ago I actually saw a paperback version of the novel by Charlotte Armstrong that this movie is based on . . . and foolishly I did not buy it . That was before I saw it on television ( about 1979 ) . It rarely is shown , possibly because it's excellent title is overshadowed by two other excellent films THE UNINVITED and THE UNFORGIVEN ( not to mention the television series and Kevin Costner film THE UNTOUCHABLES ) . Victor Grandison ( known to his admirers , friends , and loving family as " Grandy " ) hosts a radio program which retells classic true murder cases from America's and Britain's past . He is based ( like Waldo Lydecker , Sheridan Whiteside , and - to an extent - Addison DeWitt ) on Alexander Woolcott , the critic and member of the Algonquin Set and radio host ( " The Town Cryer " ) who loved to discuss old murder cases too ( in THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER Woolcott / Whiteside meets Lizzy Borden / Elizabeth Sedley ) . Grandy is the guardian for two nieces , Audrey Totter ( married to the frequently drunken Hurd Hatfield ) , and Joan Caulfield . Caulfield is presently abroad , but word has come back that she was killed in a fire . On top of this , Grandy's secretary has apparently committed suicide - although Totter is not quite sure it was a suicide . Shortly afterward , a man shows up ( Ted North ) claiming to be Caulfield's husband ( and , if she is dead , heir to her estate being handled by guardian Rains ) . Then Caulfield shows up - back from the dead as it were - and she can't recall marrying North ! The film's villain is not difficult to fathom - Rains has no real rival figures to play against here for that honor . Jack Lambert gives good support as Rains ' criminal assistant . Several comments are made about the very witty screenplay , particularly Constant Bennett's lines . But there are other moments of humor for some of the other characters , including one for Rains which caused me to momentarily feel some compassion for him . In one of his schemes , he has to isolate a potential victim in his country mansion . His butler Kent ( Harry Lewis ) will probably be upstairs in his apartment that night . With his kindest looking face , Rains goes over to hard working Lewis and says that he needs to relax and gives him two tickets to his radio program on the night the mansion has to be empty . Lewis is speechless for a moment , but then says something " unexpected " . " Thank you Mr . Grandison , " says Lewis / Kent , " but I have to admit that I don't think I'll take them . " Rains is amazed . " Why not ? " , he asks . " Well , you see Mr . Grandison , I know it sounds odd but I have never listened to your program at all . " Rains face is beginning to redden up a bit . " The fact is Mr . Grandison , " says Lewis / Kent , " Your murder stories scare me too much ! " Rains has heard enough by this time . This is more than just clearing his house for his own private murder plot - it's his reputation at stake here . " Let's put it this way Kent . " Rains says with white pursed lips , " Do you like your job here ? " Kent took the tickets , and Rains looked satisfied if a bit less than amused . Good film this .
Judy Holiday's Most Tragic Role and Aldo Ray's First Star Turn	THE MARRYING KIND is the saddest part Judy Holiday ever played because of one sequence in the middle of the film that is every parent's nightmare . I won't go into the details about that scene , except that when it winds up the way it does the audience has no idea of what is about to happen . George Cukor , if any director , was the one who most frequently directed Holiday in her films from ADAM'S RIB to IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU . She was a New York City based actress / entertainer , and Cukor had a love affair with the City , using it as a live backdrop whenever he could ( such as using an old theater that was going to be demolished in A DOUBLE LIFE ) . Here we get glimpses of the city in the early 1950s in Central Park , on Ninth Avenue , in the Butter and Egg district , and elsewhere . But Cukor was also using the film as a hoped for runway to stardom for actor Aldo Ray . Ray had made about four films , mostly in bit parts , and this was his first star turn . The film follows how Holiday's and Ray's seven year marriage is facing obliteration in Madge Kennedy's divorce court . Kennedy is closing the court for the day as the couple's lawyers are arguing , and she notices how the couple is not responding at all . So she closes down , but returns and sits with the couple and asks why they want the divorce . We then follow the story of their early courting ( they meet in Central Park ) , their early dating , the decision to marry , their honeymoon ( paid by Holiday's brother-in-law George Alexander ) in Atlantic City , their apartment in Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan , and Ray's attempts to better his job and financial position . The early section shows the marriage got off well enough , but that certain strains began ( Holiday's yakking causes Ray to seek out a gag gift of ear plugs his fellow workers gave him ) . The years add growing problems as Ray keeps just missing some financial success that might put them into an easier way of life ( an invention he comes up with is also developed and marketed by a better organized rival ) . Family problems and jealousies undermine the marriage , and the tragedy does not help . Finally , of all things a legacy to Holiday from a former employer is the last straw . But Kennedy is not convinced the two still don't love each other , and she decides to try to push them to settle it quietly - will she succeed or fail ? The film has nice moments , like Holiday singing " Dolores " ( briefly ) on a ukulele , Ray doing the Rumba at a party at Alexander's , and Ray's brother-in-law Mickey Shaughnessy giving a really nice little speech of how he is not ashamed of being a humble little butcher in Manhattan , daily , rather than reaching for the stars . The supporting cast includes several familiar faces ( some in bit parts ) like Peggy Cass , Frank Fergusson , Charles Bronson , Frank Ferguson , and Nancy Culp . Holiday and Ray make an appealing couple , and one ends up hoping they come to their senses in time . On the whole it is a very worthy piece of work by it's stars and directors , and a fine film .
One of the Best Kaye Vehicles	His first film success was in UP IN ARMS with Dinah Shore and Dana Andrews . But the first film that Danny Kaye made that has his real hallmarks is WONDER MAN . Kaye not only had the regular film plot to work with , but tackled cultural satire as well . From his performance of that tongue twisting tune " Tschaikowski " in LADY IN THE DARK , Kaye had done some spoof in his films and music about culture . In UP IN ARMS it was his musical number about the plot of a Hollywood film , but it was done quickly and had nothing to do with the rest of the film . In WONDER MAN it is the conclusion of the film , wherein Kaye has to pass a message about a missing key witness to a murder to the District Attorney without being arrested or killed , and does so by taking over center stage in a performance of an opera at the Metropolitan Opera . It is , after the mess done to Il Trovatore in A NIGHT AT THE OPERA , the destruction of an opera by Paul Douglas in EVERYBODY DOES IT , and the miss sung performance of Mae West in Samson and Delilah in GOING TO TOWN , the best spoof of an opera I know of in movie comedies . I don't know what is the opera supposed to be ( I keep thinking it is from Verdi's SIMON BOCANEGRA , but I am not sure ) . The film is good , and was the first to show what to expect from Kaye . Soon would come THE SECRET LIFE OF WALTER MITTY , THE INSPECTOR GENERAL , and THE COURT JESTER . It did get better and better for a decade or so .
" The Blackmailer's Charter "	I doubt if many people know him . . . have you ever heard of Sir Henry Labouchere ? Labouchere was a prominent wealthy Victorian - Edwardian journalist and politician , who was radical in someways ( he was highly critical about the expenses in supporting the Royal Family ) , and was usually supporting the " Liberal Party's " policies . He was a firm supporter of Charles Stewart Parnell and Irish Home Rule , for example . But Labouchere did father one peculiar piece of legislation . He was a vigorous heterosexual , and while ( supposedly ) happily married to a former actress had had affairs with other ladies . He detested homosexuality . In the late 1880s he authored a statute in Parliament that made any homosexual act ( even between consulting adults ) a criminal act . It was this act that eventually destroyed the dramatist Oscar Wilde in 1895 . Labouchere probably never thought of what his legislation " allowed " . While blackmail certainly existed without this law , it encouraged a peculiarly vicious form of it . If you were willing to set up a homosexual rendezvous , you could surprise a wealthy , prominent victim , and drain him dry . After all , he would be guilty of violating a serious criminal law . Homosexual scandals had always erupted in British society ( as in other countries ) . Kings William II ( a . k . a . William Rufus ) , James VI of Scotland and I of England , King William III of England were all gay monarchs . James I's court , with his two favorites Somerset and Buckingham , may have had the most corrupt court in British history . In more recent history , Lord Castlereigh may have killed himself because he believed he was suspected of sodomy . In 1889 , Labouchere pushed for serious investigation of the Cleveland Street Affair ( about a male bordello , that Queen Victoria's grandson and others may have been members of ) with the intention of applying his statute to these illustrious figures . Victoria's courtier , Lord Arthur Somerset , had to flee to France and spend the rest of his life there as a result . As you can see , the atmosphere of Great Britain to homosexuals was already poisonous , and Labouchere's law solidified this . VICTIM was one of the first attempts to attack the law as harmful and needlessly cruel . Dirk Bogarde is a successful barrister , married to Sylvia Sims . He discovers that someone has latched onto his homosexuality , and is threatening to reveal it to the police . Of course , this not only means possible criminal charges , but disbarment as well . But Bogarde is of sterner stuff than most , and he starts tracking other victims of the blackmailers . One is Dennis Price ( in real life Price was a bi-sexual , and Bogarde a homosexual ) who is a prominent actor . He won't assist . Few of the victims will ( it's cheaper to pay ) . But Bogarde finally goes to the police , and since he is willing to testify they start really looking into the case . It turns out that it is tied to a suicide by a young friend of Bogarde's who was also being blackmailed . Homosexuality was rarely shown in movies so seriously before VICTIM . Several people on this thread mention THESE THREE ( Lillian Hellman's THE CHILDREN'S HOUR ) , but the play's discussion of a lesbian relationship was changed into a slander campaign against two innocent teachers in the film . It was only in the later film remake in the 1960s that the lesbian theme was really emphasized . A better example was the German film MAEDCHEN IN UNIFORM , about a lesbian relationship between a student and a teacher in a German School . But it was easier to discuss the alternate lifestyle in continental films ( at least before the Nazi and Fascist regimes of the 1930s and 1940s ) then in the British and American cinema . Yet it was well suspected in British and American society . Certain cultural figures opened up suggestions by their behavior . Liberace in the 1950s , or British actors Noel Coward and John Guilgud ( who was caught in a nasty little scandal in the early 1950s ) , and composers Cole Porter , Marc Blitzstein ( who would be killed while doing some " cruising " on a vacation in Martinique ) , Aaron Copland , and Leonard Bernstein . But ( for the most part ) these people were protected by being extremely discreet in conducting their affairs ( Blitzstein was a sad exception ) , or were so well liked they were not bothered by the scandal sheets . For giving a serious sounding board on the legal difficulties facing British homosexuals , Basil Dearden , Bogarde , and the crew of VICTIM deserve high marks . For stimulating the British public to reevaluate " THE BLACKMAILER'S CHARTER " , and finally repeal it , they are owed the thanks of millions of people who no longer have to fear arrest or ruin as they once did .
The Dark Side of a Public Icon	Jose Ferrer's career has not been given the study that it deserves . In an industry that enjoys " firsts " it is rarely noted that if Emil Jannings was the first Oscar winner for Best actor , and first German to win that award , and if George Arliss was the first Englishman to win the Best Actor Oscar , and if Claudette Colbert was the first actress of French ancestry to win the Oscar , and if Hattie MacDaniell was the first African-American actress to win the Best Supporting Actress Oscar . . . Ferrer was the first Puerto Rican , or actor of Spanish ancestry , to win the Oscar for best actor . His bravura performance as Cyrano in the 1950 movie ( based on his stage production ) is still worthy of viewing . But it came after years of Broadway performances , at least one of which should have been filmed : his Iago opposite Paul Robeson's Othello . Actually Ferrer's Iago may have been a better acting job than Cyrano was . Ferrer never did badly on camera - he was equally effective as the romantic , doomed Cyrano , the crippled artistic genius Toulouse Lautrec , the Jewish American naval officer who saves the defendants in THE CAINE MUTINY , the anti-Semitic German salesman in SHIP OF FOOLS , and the alcoholic ham actor training the hero in ENTER LAUGHING . It was rare for him to be in a role he could not control . And he was still doing Broadway productions into the 1980s , and doing television shows ( like a recurring comic turn as an eccentric billionaire in NEWHART ) into the 1990s . In the 1950s he directed several films - not sufficiently enough to merit discussion by film societies or film critics . Of these , THE GREAT MAN appears to be the best one . It has been compared on this thread several times to CITIZEN KANE for two reasons . First it is based on a real life model in public communications . Secondly it's structure resembles KANE . Ferrer plays Joe Harris , who works for a network headed by Philip Carleton ( Dean Jagger ) . Harris comes to work one day , and learns that a leading network icon , Herb Fuller , has been killed in a car wreck . Carleton assigns Harris ( who works in the news division ) to do a television special honoring " the great man " . He is put underneath Fuller's producer , Sid Moore ( Keenan Wynn ) . Harris is told that if he does a really good , memorable job on this assignment . . . well his own career will take off . Now on the surface this is like Jerry Thompson's assignment by Rawlston to investigate Charles Foster Kane's life , and figure out what " Rosebud " means . But Rawlston is never shown telling Thompson that if he does a good job he will get bigger and better assignments in the future . Welles was taking a look at the character of Kane ( whom we see in that film - Welles plays him ! - from young man to middle aged man - to elderly man - to corpse ) . We never see Fuller ( though we hear him once on an old radio broadcast ) . Kane is a sympathetic figure ruined by having too much ( i . e . , a fortune ) and not having the strength of a good home life as a kid . We really never know much about Fuller's youth . Presumably he grew up in a middle class environment , but was always a louse . No , THE GREAT MAN , is a KANE-like film , in the central figure is obviously supposed to be someone well known ( like Hearst ) , but it is more . For as the facts reveal how lousy and selfish and cruel Fuller was to everyone who was around him , Harris discovers traces of the same cynicism and misuse of power in everyone above him . Moore is not mournful at the loss of Fuller - he felt Fuller was a trial to work with , and he feels it is typical of Fuller's selfishness that he died while driving drunk ( of course , Moore refuses to notice his own defects of character , such as basically ordering Harris not to do any negative show on Fuller . . . if he knows what is good for him ) . Carleton is more distant and smoother , but it is soon apparent to Harris that he is enjoying playing one underling ( Moore ) against another ( Harris ) to see who will do the station better service . Fuller is based on Arthur Godfrey , the popular radio and television personality first on the news ( he broadcast-ed the coverage of FDR's funeral in 1945 ) and then on morning and afternoon television shows . Actually this is not the only assault on Godfrey , who was an egomaniac , and noted for petty vicious acts ( the firing of Julius La Rosa on the air is the most notable one ) . Godfrey was a southerner , and the character of " Lonesome Roads " in A FACE IN THE CROWD is based on him ( especially as Godfrey played a mean ukulele , like Andy Griffith's mean guitar as Roads ) . A hint of Godfrey may have been in " Wee Geordie MacGregor " ( Peter Sellers ) , the nasty television host in the comedy THE NAKED TRUTH , who is liked by elderly viewers mainly ( as was Godfrey ) . Harris slowly discovers nothing in the record that is used ( except for the love his fans felt for Fuller ) . He used and discarded people left and right . His most moving service ( in a blood plasma drive ) was really faked . And the last straw is hearing the story of how he physically wrecked a small radio station he worked at that belonged to Ed Wynn ( a very moving performance by the comedian turned actor ) . But he still is being countered by Moore's moves , including using a hack to do a pro-Fuller show to be put on at the first sign that Harris may " tell the truth " . It becomes a battle to the last moment whose version of the story of Fuller is going to be told . And Carleton is watching with avid interest . Definitely different in approach to CITIZEN KANE . Definitely worth watching .
What is the value of winning any contest if you go too far ?	This was a nice episode of BONANZA which was a balance between comedy and serious ethical problems . A bunch of Virginia City businessmen ( led by Edward Andrews ) decide to hold a contest for the most beautiful baby in town . Naturally every mother with a baby enters the contest . The judges include Hoss ( Dan Blocker ) and soon he and the others find a second contest going on , as the women try to use any trick or advantage they have with the judges to win for their baby . Hoss is trying to keep an open mind on the contestants ( and try to help keep his fellow judges in line ) when he zeros in on the one woman in the group that has little to use as a key to winning the contest except for the beautiful baby she has . Unfortunately there is also a well-to-do woman who is pulling out all stops : not only bribes mind you , but economic threats to the judges and the group who set up the contest . SPOILER COMING UP : Hoss sees he cannot fight the actions of this wealthy from allowing her to buy the prize . But at the conclusion of the episode the woman discovers three points that Hoss mentions to her . First all the other mothers know she bought the prize ( or extorted it ) as do the businessmen , the judges , and the townspeople . Second after getting the ribbon for the prize , she goes to show it to the others , and everyone is concentrating on their own babies , and if not they are shunning her because they don't like her . Finally , Hoss points out that her baby is going to grow up having it thrown in his face that his mother did not think the baby could win on his own beauty but had to have her buy the vote for him . The baby won't forgive her either . It was a rather nice example of how this series sometimes took the wispiest of material and made a good episode out of it .
A Year Before a Better Remembered Use of Urban Sewers in a Thriller	Only a year separates Richard Basehart's fleeing through the sewers of Los Angeles with Orson's Welles ' similar flight through those of Vienna . Yet although the flight of Basehart's Roy Martin has precedence over Welles ' Harry Lime , and both are terrific thrillers , more people are acquainted with THE THIRD MAN than with HE WALKED BY NIGHT . It's probably due to the " exotic " nature of post-war Vienna , with such touches as the zither music , and the scenes in the ruins ( and the classic moment in the Prater's ferris wheel ) . Also the last flight of Harry Lime has overtones regarding why Holly Martins ( Joseph Cotton ) kills his old friend - is it to save him from the humiliation of a trial ? That does not happen in the Basehart film . It's unfair , for HE WALKED BY NIGHT is a tidy and tense little thriller and police procedural . Told like a documentary , it follows Basehart's criminal career wherein he seems always one step ahead of the police . The film begins when he commits a murder in a robbery ( he shoots a policeman ) and flees leaving a remarkable set of skeleton keys and picks behind him . The Los Angeles police led by Roy Roberts start looking into whatever clues they have and realize they don't have really much . But Roberts has assistance from the crime lab ( Jack Webb , in a prescient - pre-DRAGNET role ) , and detective Scott Brady as well as others looking into every aspect of the case . But despite some minor advances ( they can see how clever the criminal is in the lack of fingerprints and traces ) they are not getting anywhere . They get an opening when an electronics firm headed by Whit Bissell discovers that the devices that have been leased out for one Roy Martin are actually stolen items . Bissell is forced to work with the police , and a stake-out ends with Basehart shooting another cop ( crippling him ) and being shot himself ) . But Basehart ( in a somewhat over-the-top sequence ) removes the bullet at his home . That's his secret . Basehart plays the perfect loner . Except for his pet dog nobody gets close to this killer . In fact it is the only flaw in the story that nothing about the reason for Basehart's anti-social point of view is ever given . On the other hand , there is no psychiatric gobbledy-gook that we have to swallow to " understand " the poor man . For he is totally amoral , and vicious , and one can properly dislike him throughout the movie . But he is smart . He is an electronics whiz , and he has two radios on the police frequency to keep track of what they are up to . He also is clever enough to alter the method of his robberies ( this before the use of profiling by police ) to confuse the cops . Finally he discovers a perfect way to avoid notice by the police : he uses the sewers of Los Angeles as a private highway around that wide city . The film shows how Roberts , Brady , Webb , and the other police gradually manage to get a picture of Basehart from the witnesses ( one that Bissell recognizes ) and then to zero in on his probable background . It is a film showing police procedural for what it really is - the pounding of city streets asking questions and questions and questions . Sometimes a break comes through , but frequently there is more that confuses the issue ( when Brady - in disguise as a milkman - goes to spy on Basehart towards the end of the film , he meets a neighbor who says something evil is going on in the neighborhood , but turns out to be insane about a landlady ) . It is a film noir that works quite well , and should be better known . But it was not written by a great English author like Graham Green , nor was it directed by Sir Carol Reed . The more colorful film using that great climax in the sewers was still to come . Unfairly that was not the end to this irony . The best known film about the city of Los Angeles with a great fight sequence in the sewers is THEM , the science fiction film of seven years later . HE WALKED BY NIGHT deserves better renown , but it is hard to believe it ever will get it .
Cary Grant as a South Sea Island " Rat "	It was not quite what Cary Grant wanted , but it was certainly different . In his whole career he wanted to play a negative role - a person who was not debonair or likable but a villain . At time he was defeated by his own agent and the production studio from being a wife killer ( SUSPICION ) or a labor agitator suspected of arson murder ( THE TALK OF THE TOWN ) or he played a Cockney gad-about who confronts a mobster ( NONE BUT THE LONELY HEART ) or he played a gambler thinking of swindling a war-time tragedy ( MR . LUCKY ) , or a suspected jewel thief ( TO CATCH A THIEF ) or a successful university professor who was targeted by a jealous rival ( PEOPLE WILL TALK ) . But while some of these parts approached the villain he wanted to play , none hit the actual target . In 1964 Grant finally got a chance to undercut his sophisticated , sharp dressing style . He got the chance to play South Sea island rat Walter Eckland , a grizzled loner who has little use for the modern world , and a large appetite for alcohol . The film was the film comedy FATHER GOOSE , co-starring Leslie Caron as Catherine Freneau ( the daughter of a French colonial governor ) , and Trevor Howard as Commander Frank Houghton of the Royal Navy . Again , Grant was cheated out of the full chance of playing a disreputable type . Eckland is disreputable ( he is first seen trying to steel gasoline supplies needed by the royal navy which is fleeing a threatened dockyard - for his own cabin cruiser ) . But by the time the film ends he is shown to be heroic . Fortunately it is a comedy , with it's three leads playing well off each other . Grant is dragooned by Howard into being an island watcher for the British navy against Japanese planes and ships . To keep Grant from splitting , Howard wrecks the cabin cruiser , and he hides Grant's supply of alcohol . It works , but a few months later Grant is informed he has to perform a rescue from another island across the sea . He only does it when Howard informs him where the rest of the alcohol is hidden . Then he goes , only to find it is Caron and six little school girls left in her care when evacuating a French island . Almost immediately there is friction between Grant and Caron as to proper behavior in front of the girls , and in serving the young ladies and Caron first . When they get back to Grant's island , Caron has the young girls hide his liquor all over again . It has been suggested that Grant and Caron were playing roles similar to Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn in THE African QUEEN . Certainly in the relationship of Charlie and Rosie in that film there is a definite resemblance to that of Walter and Catherine . But this kind of " opposite attracts " appears before THE African QUEEN did . In VESSEL OF WRATH ( set in the South Seas in the 1930s ) the hard-drinking Charles Laughton ran afoul of missionary Elsa Lanchester . As with the other two pairings they eventually fall in love . But the humor in FATHER GOOSE is Grant's attempts to maintain his control over the island , even while thrown out of his hut by Caron and her charges . Every time he tries to show who is boss , he's undercut by the ladies . Howard ( although at a distance ) is no real help - the war is of first importance to Allied planning , not rescuing angry drunken island rats . It is only when Grant shows that he can fish but Caron cannot that he starts reducing her ascendancy over him , and the cap-off is when he believes she is dying of snake poison , and she is made comfortable by large cups of Grant's booze in a coconut cup . With her hair down she suddenly is not so inhumane to Grant . FATHER GOOSE is Cary Grant's last lead role . He hoped he would soon pass into supporting parts , but although the film did well at the box office ( I saw it when it came out - the audiences were packed ) , it confused many who did not care for Grant being scruffy . The result was that Grant made one more comic film ( WALK DON'T RUN ) wherein he played the Charles Coburn part in this remake of THE MORE THE MERRIER . After that , Grant retired from motion pictures until his death in 1986 . He never did get the chance to play that movie heavy he always wanted to - but he did leave a first rate record of sophisticated leading men comedies . That's not the worst reputation to leave behind one as a performer .
Hooray For Captain Spaulding , the African Explorer	The first two surviving Marx Brothers films were based on their second and third major Broadway successes : THE COCONUTS and ANIMAL CRACKERS . As early movies they suffer from the rigidity of the early talkies . Papers used as props on the set had to be wet in order for the crackling of paper to be reduced as much as possible from being picked by the microphones . It is remarkable that the films survived to continue to bring pleasure to audiences . In the case of ANIMAL CRACKERS , for years it and the later A NIGHT IN CASABLANCA were tied up in copy-write problems that prevented them being released to the public . I did not see it until I went with my sister to see the film in 1974 in Manhattan . This film is the one that established Groucho Marx's theme song , " Hooray For Captain Spaulding . " Groucho's Jeffrey T . Spaulding has just returned from Africa , and has been invited to the Long Island estate of Mrs . Rittenhouse ( Margaret Dumont ) . Her guests include the noted art collector and expert Roscoe W . Chandler ( Louis Sorin ) . He's going to reveal a masterpiece of art that he has purchased . Mrs . Rittenhouse's " friend " and rival Mrs . Whitehead plans to steal the painting , and hide it to embarrass her hostess . Her daughter and her ex-butler Hives ( Robert Greig ) are in on this plot . Meanwhile Mrs . Rittenhouse's daughter Arabella ( Lillian Roth ) is trying to help her boyfriend John Parker ( Hal Thompson ) , a struggling artist prove his abilities . Other guests include the musician , Signior Emmanuel Ravelli and the Professor ( Chico and Harpo ) and Spaulding's secretary Horation Jamison ( Zeppo ) . There are many similarities between this musical's book and THE COCONUTS , such as both having detectives named Hennesey , and both naming Zeppo Jamison . The struggles of Roth standing by her struggling painter-boyfriend mirror the struggles of Mary Eaton supporting her struggling architect-boyfriend Oscar Shaw . But here Groucho is a visitor , not the hotel owner / manager . And here there is more use for Zeppo . In fact , except for the third film ( MONKEY BUSINESS ) and the fifth film ( DUCK SOUP ) , Zeppo never had as much to do that was funny in any of the Marx Brothers movies than here . He has to take dictation from Groucho regarding the legal team of Hungerdunger , Hungerdunger , Hungerdunger , Hungerdunger , and McCormick ( pronounced " Hoongerdoonger " ) . It is a classic Marx routine . There are some topical humor . Roscoe W . Chandler is a spoof on the noted millionaire and culture maven Otto Kahn , head of the Board of the Metropolitan Opera . Kahn was trying to find a location for the new opera house in the late 1920s , and we hear Chandler and Groucho discussing possibly putting it into Central Park . Kahn was from the old Wilhelmine Empire , and was an immigrant ( though one who made good in banking ) . Chandler , in one stunning moment with Chico , turns out to be Abe Kabible , a fish peddler from Czechoslovakia ( Chandler has to pay some blackmail to Chico and Harpo about this , but he does shoot back at Chico an inquiry of how long he's been an Italian ! ) . Another topical jab is regarding Eugene O'Neill's STRANGE INTERLUDE , where O'Neill had characters speak their minds separately from the regular dialog with each other . In fact , Groucho even admits he is going into a strange interlude of his own . His comments are spoken in a clipped , sad voice , and include a final set of lines where he sounds portentous - talking about strange figures , weird figures . Then he starts giving stock quotations ! The film is a little slow at spots , as was THE COCONUTS , but the brothers do well , as does Lillian Roth and Margaret Dumont . The film is very entertaining , and it is good that it is still around .
A Bumpy Road Trip In a 10 Year Marriage	TWO FOR THE ROAD is probably the least recalled of Audrey Hepburn's major movies . She is such a succulent elfin personality that most movie lovers think of her best work as between 1953 and 1965 . In those films , even if she is glamorous ( Holly Golightly or Regina Lambert ) she is fragile , confused , endangered , and young . She occasionally shows vast amounts of competence in grown-up professions , as in THE NUN STORY , but she is most often a young person who barely understands what she is involved with ( FUNNY FACE , LOVE IN THE AFTERNOON , SABRINA ) until slapped in the face . TWO FOR THE ROAD was something different for her . She was entering her thirties , and she could not really play young elfin types for much longer ( when she and Albert Finney appear as the younger Joanna and Mark , she has the same energy as Finney , but he is able to hide his being older better than she can - but the film is so good we accept this ) . So here she is entering the films where she is into middle age . Only WAIT UNTIL DARK remained to show the elfin victim type again ( helped by her character having a major disability : blindness ) . After that her films concentrated ( like TWO FOR THE ROAD ) on Hepburn having children or aging ( ROBIN AND MARIAN ; THEY ALL LAUGHED ) . She meets Finney when she is a member of a woman's chorus traveling ( back-packing ) through Europe . Having had chicken pox in her youth , she is the only member who is free of danger from that disease when a case of it infects everyone else . She and Finney ( a struggling architect on vacation ) go through a series of picaresque adventures that gradually bring the two together when he proposes marriage . But these events are cut into chunks that are mixed with other events in the couple's marriage in a ten year period . Subsequent chunks of their lives shown are a trip they took with William Daniels and Eleanor Bron ( and their bratty daughter ) , a continuation of the trip in a second-hand MG that leads to a fire , their introduction to Claude Dauphin who ends up hiring Finney , and the resulting alienation between Finney and Hepburn because of his success driving a wedge between them . The fun loving lovers of the initial two and half years are replaced by the upper class people with a daughter , who have found each other's less pleasant characteristics more grating . And those characteristics are increasingly centered on Dauphin's continuously demanding business " conferences " with Finney , and the " le dolce vita " life style of Dauphin and his family and friends . By cross cutting between the different chunks of story , the differences are heightened . A comment or incident of one year , is shown to ironic commentary later ( example : the lovely Meditteranean Beach where Finney proposes to Hepburn ends up being developed by Dauphin and Finney for houses - and at one point Dauphin asks Finney to have the workmen stop working while he and his friends enjoy a picnic . The film's cast and director ( Stanley Donen ) and composer ( Henry Mancini ) did very nicely here - Mancini creating a memorable theme tune that is still played . On the whole , it is a bumpy and complex trip on the road of life , but a fascinating one - and one that we are uncertain of the final outcome up to the moment the hero and heroine make their last comments to each other before they kiss .
The Pooka and the Dipsomaniac	The role of Elwood P . Dowd was played by Frank Fay on Broadway and in London - and to universal acclaim . Fay ( who had alcohol problems of his own ) could bring that aspect to the role ( Stewart brushes it when he goes to Mr . Cracker's bar ) , but Fay also showed ( from some of the descriptions I have read ) a muscularity of mind that Stewart does not quite show . Fay's Elwood has wondered about the phenomenon of his invisible / invincible friend , and while he accepts it he truly is in awe of the phenomenon . But Stewart has grown to just enjoy his friend's remarkable powers . He accepts them , and never tries to fathom them . As the play continues we see how the harmless Elwood and Harvey distress so many people . His sister Veta and niece Myrtle Mae blame them for isolating them from their social register friends . Judge Gaffney sympathizes with Veta , and her determination to put Elwood into an asylum . Dr . Sanderson and Nurse Kelly see Elwood as a potential patient , as does the dismissive Dr . Chumley . And Wilson has the most experienced ( and realistic ) view of insanity of anyone - he doesn't trust the inmates ( more of that later ) . The thing that is amazing in HARVEY is that everyone ends up accepting the Pooka - and in the case of Dr . Chumley actively seeking to take Elwood's place . It's because of their disillusionment with the society that they try to placate . Myrtle Mae and Wilson both think Elwood is a nut , but they find they like each other . They both are on different levels of the social scale , but both are lonely , and they click ( much to the dismay of Veta , who was briefly manhandled by Wilson as an asylum guard ) . Gaffney is supportive of Veta's actions towards Elwood ( although he always liked Elwood ) because he is in love with Veta . But he gets fed up because of Veta's own unwillingness to remain consistent about what to do with Elwood . Sanderson and Kelly get their wires crossed , and Sanderson actually thinks Veta is the mentally ill person ( and it is sometimes feasible to believe it ) . It leads to Chumley briefly firing his assistant , and in the temporary disaster Kelly and Sanderson revealing their deeper feelings about each other . Soon they are just as willing to listen to Elwood's philosophy of life as they are in locating him for giving him the medication that may cure him - but turn him ( in the words of the taxi driver ) into just another stinker like the rest of us . Chumley is more interesting . He later admits that Harvey is so remarkable that everything that science has discovered is child's play compared to him . He does end up wanting to replace Elwood in Harvey's affections , but it is only for a temporary loan so that he can have an emotional release in some motel in Akron , Ohio with a simple , sympathetic woman and some beer . It's as though the society that has honored him actually chokes Chumley - his dream is a general rejection of respectability for two weeks only , as it is impossible to imagine he can get away with much more . As he is married it is very probable that the two weeks would be about all his need for release and freedom can guarantee him . The people who do accept Elwood and Harvey are not people with responsibility or position . Mr . Cracker and his customers ( except one wise guy at the start of the film ) see nothing odd at Elwood having an invisible friend . The taxi driver likes people like Elwood - they appreciate the trip to the asylum , and his driving . Mr . Schimmelplusser ( Clem Bevans ) is usually ignored by the Chumley's of the world who employ him , but he is very proud of the electronic fence and likes Elwood's notice of it . Elwood and Harvey have the support of the little people . As Elwood explains it , he could have been successful or pleasant , and he chose to be pleasant . Most people do want to be pleasant . HARVEY is one of the world's best fantasy plays , and it's success far transcended what was expected in the late 1940s when Mary Chase wrote it . Tragically , the reality of mental illness does not always allow for Elwood's " pleasant " disposition . Wilson actually has the most realistic moment in the play when he explains to Sanderson and Kelly that he has seen the insane close up - that frequently they are all sweetness until they know that they are not being observed , and then they do really life threatening damage to you . He actually happens to be correct . Although his reactions throughout the play are meant as comic blunderings or such ( witness the marvelous moment when he reads the dictionary definition of " Pooka " ) , he does show one moment that ( to me ) makes his roughness understandable and even heroic : when Dr . Chumley has disappeared after going off with Elwood , Wilson suddenly shows deep concern for the poor doctor , imagining him lying insensible in a pool of blood . It doesn't happen , but in reality it could happen very easily in the real world . The entire cast , especially Stewart and Josephine Hutchinson ( Best Supporting Oscar ) were wonderful , but at that moment Jesse White was superb .
The Holmes Story that influenced Thomas Stearns Eliot	Recently I watched the Jeremy Brett & Edward Hardwicke version of THE MUSGRAVE RITUAL for the second time . THe first time was when it was shown in the U . S . originally in the 1980s , but now it was being repeated on channel 21 in New York on a Tuesday night . It holds up quite nicely , with a good cast including James Hazeldine as Brunton and Michael Culver ( Roland Culver's son ) as Sir Reginald Musgrave . The period style of clothing and furnishings and transportation help keep the story's realism alive . Most people are aware of THE MUSGRAVE RITUAL from the Basil Rathbone - Nigel Bruce Universal film , SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH . Like all of them it has been brought up to the 1940s , and the war is involved in the background , but the basis of the story is the meaning of the ritual and what it entails . In the film it was expanded a bit ( in a bit of rewriting ) to have more value than what Holmes and Reginald Musgrave discover it means in the story . It also is the reason the villain in that film commits his murders . SPOILER COMING UP : The original story is Holmes telling Watson of an adventure of his prior to their meeting in 1881 in A STUDY IN SCARLET . In 1878 Holmes is visiting a friend from his university , Sir Reginald Musgrave . During the visit Holmes notices the extremely able butler in the Musgrave Manor , Brunton . But one day Holmes learns from Musgrave that he was forced to fire Brunton because he caught him going over personal family archive papers late at night in the Master's Study . Brunton manages to coax a week more at the job from Musgrave ( so as not to lose face in front of the other servants ) . However both Musgrave and Holmes discover that the butler has disappeared . Brunton had a reputation of being a Lothario type , and one of the maid servants ( Rachel Howells ) is acting peculiarly . Soon she too is missing . Holmes asks Musgrave what Brunton was looking at , and the so-called " Ritual " , an old family coming into title ceremony is read . Holmes notices that it seems to have meaning regarding movements and measurements around the estate . Using some calculations he and Musgrave follow it until they reach an ancient section of the Musgrave Manor , and find it leads to a cellar with a heavy stone door on top . They lift it , and find Brunton inside , dead from suffocation . They also find a bag of odd looking items that has been tossed in the pond on the estate . Gradually Holmes concludes that Brunton got Rachel to assist him in opening the cellar , and he handed her the bag of items , but she dropped the door on him in revenge for him trifling with her earlier . As for the items in the bag , Holmes in reciting the ritual's lines realizes the ritual refers to Charles I's execution , and that the bag's contents are the original crown of the Stuart monarchs . Except in two differences the script sticks close to the story . As pointed out in the trivia on this production , Watson is included in the story itself - he is not just listening to Holmes retelling it . In fact , Holmes ' use of cocaine is brought in when Watson silently watches Holmes shooting up when the Detective thinks he is alone . The other difference is that the maid ( played by Johanna Kirby ) is never seen again at the end of the story , but in the episode her body appears in the pond , an apparent suicide . The actual story ended up in the verse play MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL ( about the killing of St . Thomas a'Becket ) by T . S . Elliot , where he uses the opening words of the ritual ( " Who had it ? He who is gone . Who shall have it ? He that will come ! " ) in the play . Elliot was a keen fan of Conan Doyle , and would even spoof Professor Moriarty in OLD POSSUM'S BOOK OF PRACTICAL CATS as " McCavity " . The fate of the regalia of the Stuarts is known , but not quite as simple as the story has it . Charles I lost most of the royal regalia in a ship disaster in Scotland in the Civil Wars in that country , and attempts have been made to try to locate the site of that wreck . Only one other monarch's jewels is the subject of as much keen interest : King John's regalia and property were lost in a sudden flood that drowned many retainers of his in 1216 in a place in England on the channel known as " the Wash " It too has never been located .
A Warm Short Film About Religious Fervor and Acceptance	The Turner Classic Movie Channel occasionally has " A festival of shorts " , and I watched some of them tonight . The first one was this film starring Edmund Gwenn , Lumsdale Hare , and Hans Conried . Set in the Middle Ages , Gwenn is a struggling street performer - a juggler . He is trying to get to Italy before the winter snows stuff up the passes of the Alps - there are street fairs in Italy that he can make a living at . But he is ill , and collapses in the snow outside a monastery . The Abbott ( Hare ) brings him in , and nurses him back to health - despite the snobby suspicions of Conried ( he notices that the gold and silver monastic treasures are in a cabinet in the room next to that Gwenn is in , and starts closing the locked cabinet very openly in front of Gwenn ) . Hare , a kindly man , more than makes up for Conried's negative vibes , but he is willing to dismiss Gwenn's efforts to show his religiosity . Gwenn has no normal method of work or ability to use to show his fervor or devotion . But it saddens him when his juggling tools are belittled ( tactfully as it is done ) by Hare - but at the conclusion of the short Gwenn demonstrates that one can win divine acceptance of one's love of God by any means that comes from the heart . This is a very sweet short religious film .
The Best of the Pre - 1970s Agatha Christie films ?	After the artistic success of AND THEN THERE WERE NONE , the only notable film based on Dame Agatha Christie's stories was a remake of LOVE FROM A STRANGER with John Hodiak and Sylvia Sidney as the ill-matched couple , but re-staged in the 1890s rather than 1930 England . Then , in 1957 , Billy Wilder made this production of a short story by Dame Agatha called WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION . With a tip-top cast of Charles Laughton , Marlene Dietrich , Tyrone Power , and Elsa Lancaster , the film was a brilliantly done version of Christie's short story , changed in it's ending ( but to a changed ending found in Christie's own dramatization ) . Leonard Vole ( Tyrone Power ) is a salesman who meets an elderly , wealthy woman ( Norma Varden ) and gains her affections - much to the dislike and mistrust of her servant ( Una O'Connor ) . O'Connor claims she saw the two together the night that Varden was beaten to death in her apartment . Vole is arrested , and his solicitor ( Henry Daniell ) wants England's best barrister , Sir Wilfred Robarts ( Laughton ) to defend him . Robarts is recovering from a heart attack , and is being nursed by Miss Plimsoll ( Elsa Lancaster ) . He is a difficult patient , and is not looking forward to an enforced rest in Bermuda . So , despite the protests of Plimsoll he takes the case . He does promise her he will listen to his doctor and take his medicine . She does not trust him . Sir Robert meets Vole's German born wife , Christina Helm ( Dietrich ) , who alarms him . She is too cool , to detached at her husband's peril . But he goes ahead , and is soon in court fighting a first rate opponent ( Torin Thatcher as Myers ) , and scores some impressive points against the prosecution , especially in cross-examining O'Connor . But at the critical moment he finds that by a subtle point of law , Dietrich can testify against Power , and does so . So the plot becomes , how to defeat this " witness for the prosecution " ? Is there something that can turn the tables on her and her testimony . And the evidence to use against Dietrich does appear - from an unexpected source . Is it effective ? Will Power be saved in the end ? Or is there something going on ? Although the conclusion of this film has been pretty well known for years , I will refrain from explaining what it is . A good mystery should surprise the audience , as this does every audience that sees it for the first time . Laughton and Lancaster make a funny pair ( and in the end , an endearing one from Lancaster's point of view ) . Power gets to play his most sinister part since " the Great Stanton " Carlyle in NIGHTMARE ALLEY . And Dietrich does pull off the biggest surprise twist in her career . As for Wilder , after some questionable films in the mid 1950s ( THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH , THE SPIRIT OF ST . LOUIS ) he was back in form . His handling of the courtroom scenes ( which make up nearly 60 % of the film ) are far more realistic and speedy than Alfred Hitchcock's plodding THE PARADINE CASE a decade earlier . It was the best of the Christie films prior to MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS .
