Somebody call PETA !	I caught glimpses of this show which feature a gay male couple and their dog , Liberace . First of all , they come across as the most stereotyped gay couple that I have seen and yet they are real . I couldn't watch them with their dog as they took this tiny lap dog ( I mean the dog weighed under 10 pounds and was not fully developed ) and pushed into these contests . I thought Showbiz Moms and Dads were ridiculous but this young gay couple are obviously immature and neglectful of Liberace . I understand that some people want to place their animals for show but don't put Liberace on for show like a doll . Liberace is a dog and a small one . I had a rabbit who weighed more than this dog and I wouldn't put it in contests . Liberace isn't even attractive . Look I know people love their animals , I still can't get over the loss of my rabbit but even I have a good sense about what she wanted . I don't think Liberace wants to be paraded around like show dog . He probably just wants to sleep and then when they started going on about his penal development , I just cringed and prayed for somebody like the PETA people to see this as animal abuse and cruelty . If they don't conclude that , I don't know what else is my opinion . Poor Liberace , he is the one suffering the most . As for his owners , if they want to parade dogs , they should get bigger sized dogs which show interest in performing .
Just Awful ! Mail Rosie a mussel to shut her big mouth !	Believe it or not , I watched this show in the beginning in 1996 and I was a fan of it then . Not anymore , I grew to lose respect for all of the co-hosts at one time or another . Never did I think that Meredith Viera would announce to the world that she is not wearing underwear . Debbie Matenopoulos was far better than her replacements despite her sometimes idiotic comments . Until yesterday when Star Jones Reynolds announced her departure from the show did it hit me , I can't stand Rosie O'Donnell to begin with because she is a lying hypocrite of a human being and for her to succeed Viera's departure only supports my decision to have stopped watching . Who wants to see Rosie O'Donnell again as a talk show host anyway ? That was what was behind Star's departure was the Rosie's arrival . Not that Star is herself blameless , she has changed a lot since her surgery and her marriage but she managed to maintain some of my respect . After all , she is a lawyer and I don't think she's no dummy . Barbara Walters , what have you done to this show since it first aired 9 years ago . I could see why Meredith is leaving for better opportunities . I can't stand Joy Behar anymore who I used to enjoy watching as a comedian . I had respect for Star Jones until this show and watched it deplete over the years . Debbie's replacements have never had the same magic as the show once did when it premiered and even less when Rosie joins the show . With Star , I wish her and Meredith the best . But come on , Barbara , you can go outside and get somebody off the streets of New York City who doesn't talk English and do a better job then Rosie . They could be homeless , drunk , and wasted and I bet they would be funnier and more original than Rosie O'Donnell could ever be . I was reading that you were going to ask Marcia Cross about those lesbian rumors in front of her parents even though she was engaged to a man at the time but Marcia's quite a lady but you lost her respect . How many other people's respect are you going to lose now . Maybe Barbara should retire herself . Now if Barbara was smart , she would have gotten Kathie Lee Gifford to take over Meredith's spot . I plan on watching something less argumentative , maybe I'll switch over to Jerry Springer from now on .
It's not for me ! I just hated it !	After only watching a few minutes of this adaptation of William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet , I couldn't take much more of it . It was something that I could laugh at rather than take seriously . I tried after a few minutes more but it's hard to take Leonardo DiCaprio who I believe is a very talented actor and Clare Dane who is just as talented playing in modern times . We know nobody talks like that . If they had adapted Romeo and Juliet to more modern language , I think I would have bared the film in general . But the language and the modern day scenery do not mix well for me . I'm old fashioned I guess in general . I know the director wanted something different for Romeo and Juliet . Few films can beat the 1968 version with Olivia Hussey and this film would not be very welcome if I was teaching Romeo and Juliet . It's too far fetched and ridiculous . I know it's modernized for the audience . But I like my Shakespeare to be precise and old fashioned . I love Miriam Margolyes as the nurse and Christina Pickles as one of the mothers but it just doesn't feel right . Mercutio's supposed to be a drag queen which I felt was really something that made my stomach turn in general was out of this world . It's not for me and I accept that . If there are others happy with it , so be it but not for me .
Rosie O'Donnell , Barbara Walters , What has this show turned into ?	I'm sorry but Rosie O'Donnell talking about her mother's death and Barbara Walters ( who has never really acted ) on the actors studio . I have suggestions as to who should be on the Actors Studio in the future . What about your former wife , Nina Foch ? What about the following ? Kim Novak ( retired and very much alive in Oregon . I bet she can teach acting ) , Dame Elizabeth Taylor , Barbara Windsor , Susan Lucci , Erika Slezak ( she has 6 daytime Emmys ) , Jeanne Cooper , Emma Thompson , Susan Flannery , Helen Wagner ( she celebrates 50 years playing one role on AS the World Turns ) , don't forget your soap roots , John Lipton . You spent 10 years on daytime with some of the finest around . You could have some longtime actors and actresses on your show . I bet they have better stories and can teach about acting . I look forward to your Liza Minnelli interview which will be a deservedly 2 hours long . Don't forget the Redgraves as well , Lynn , Vanessa , and Corin ? What about Broadway stars like Cherry Jones , Zoe Caldwell , Angela Lansbury , John Lithgow , Oprah Winfrey , etc . There are plenty of wonderful actors and actresses out there waiting to be interviewed for your show . Kim Novak is a good example of somebody . She is a golden girl from the golden days of Hollywood . She would be worth watching as well . Come on , Lipton , you can do better than Rosie and Babs .
I thought the Kardashians were bad !	Okay , the reality show premise is five housewives of New York City . Housewives do housework but they have maids and housekeepers to take care of that and nannies and Au pairs to look after their children . I know this is supposed to be the East Coast version of the Real Housewives of Orange County , California . Okay , these five women are pretty shallow , self-indulgent , vain , conceited , and totally in love with themselves . I forgive their husbands who pay the ultimate price of the marriage . They look like fools ! The wives don't really need a lot of the luxuries but they have so much money that they have to spend it endlessly on themselves . Of course , there is the charities and fund-raisers but they probably spend more money on the dresses to go to the functions to be seen and heard . I bet there were a thousand or hundreds of eligible housewives . They narrowed it down to those who look like they posed out of swimsuit issues . They are as deep as a shallow pool and are as nearly interesting . I find it incomprehendable when one of the wives makes a snide comment about living in the suburbs . I live in the New Jersey suburbs and I know that many people can't afford to live here neither . There are thousands or millions of us struggling to get by on small paychecks . Maybe Bravo can do a show on the real housewives of New Jersey . They don't have the time to socialize with each other when they are too busy working two or three jobs and chauffeuring their children from place to place . I was appalled by the cost of a purebred dog at $1800 . 00 . Where is PETA ? This is an outrage when are thousands of dogs and cats eligible for adoption . The show is just too shallow for me . It's like watching a train wreck .
Why Brokeback Lost the Oscar ?	Do you really want to know why it didn't win the Oscar ? Well maybe because prior to the Academy Awards , we were bombarded with how great this film was . It was considered groundbreaking , controversial , etc . and it widely praised . Did it ever occur to anybody that it would turn off the Oscar Voters ? Of course it didn't that would be too easy , you make a film and promote it so heavily that brokeback fever became brokeback annoyance . You just wanted to get away from all the hype . I hated seeing the signs on the London tubes and billboards everywhere . This film was not going to get to me as it did others . I'm too strong for that . Just like Titanic which I never saw , I got sick of hearing about how wonderful Brokeback is . I think Mad TV depicted a great sketch about it with two girls . When one said " I wish I could quit you but my husband won't let me ? " and the other replied " My husband drove me up here . " THe first replied " My husband is over there . " I have to say that I never laughed so hard because that was the depth of the film itself . So Crash beat Brokeback , finally a film inspired by life in Los ANgeles for a change , set in Hollywood and filmed there . Who are the Hollywood Oscar voters ? The people who work there that's who . THey didn't film Crash in Vancouver because they could for cheaper but anyway , who gets the last laugh . Now if only I bet on Crash in the first place . By the way since I wrote this interview , I got a very negative email about my comment . Funny , I have written over 400 reviews for this site and this one came back . I won't delete this review because I think I have something important to say about the film itself . I don't care about the homosexuality . I am a liberal lefty feminist who does support gay rights to marry , adopt children , divorce and equal rights to benefits . I am not homophobic in the least and if you think I am then I recommend reading some of my other reviews for Portrait of a Marriage and Paris Was a Woman . Just for the record , this is only a movie .
The Guide to Parenting Not !	Remember Robert Kardashian , he was the attorney and best friend of O . J . Simpson ? Of course , you do . Everybody remembers the dream team of the Simpson trial . Bobby's first wife , Kris , married Bruce Jenner and had two more children , Kylie and Kendal . Kris and Bobby were married for twelve years and produced four children-Robert Jr . , Kourtney , Khloe , and Kim I believe . In this show which is produced by Ryan Seacrest , the blended family which includes Kris Jenner who is also producer of the show has quite a reality premise . When one of the girls discover that she's not pregnant , they rent a bus to take the family to Las Vegas where the Kardashian decides to marry her boyfriend . Of course , Kris has gone behind her husband's back to purchase a puppy and not to tell him while she's away with the girls . Their home life in Calabasas is quite luxurious because it's worth millions of dollars . There are touching moments like the tribute to their father , Robert Kardashian . Kris and Bruce have been married for 16 years . I think Kris should stop acting like a teenager and grow-up and wear more age-appropriate clothes . She must think that she's still a kid and has some immaturity . I don't think much of Jenner anymore . I used to have respect for him but it's deteriorating while watching this show .
Just a Disgrace !	I tried to like Will and Grace . Believe me I tried . But i always get the wrong impression watching this show . Even when they advertise for Will and Grace , he has his arms around her . Isn't he supposed to be gay ? I don't get the relationship between a straight woman and this metro homosexual played by Eric McCormack . There always seems to be unspoken attraction and desire for Will and Grace to get together . Now Will is gay so forget about it . But I think it provides the wrong impression that straight heterosexual women need the company of gay men for platonic friendship . Heterosexual women are very competitive and vicious about going after men and they probably feel comfortable with gay men as friends but it's still sending the wrong message of heartbreak and the lack of realism . I also find Megan Mullally's character as Karen annoying and Sean Hayes ' Jack equally annoying . These four characters are the most shallow , vain , characters on television . Why would anybody straight or gay want them ? Over the last 8 years , this show has been considered a breakthrough but I think it sets women back . I liked Debra Messing better on Ned and Stacey . DOn't get me wrong about gays and straights having friendship . I think it's possible and happens all the time but Will and Grace's relationship should have ended when Will got out of the closet in the first place . YOu shouldn't run back to your best female former girlfriend for love and support if you're a gay man . Thank God , these characters ' haven't reproduced . They're too vain and shallow for that in the first place . So don't get me wrong about gay rights ? I support gay equal rights and discrimination and even gay marriages or civil unions but I don't support this show because I'm a feminist and I don't think this will help women like Grace .
Sorry , this isn't it , Seth ?	I love Seth Green . His appearances on THat 70s ' Show is always worth watching but last night , I felt the show needed to overhauled . Four single young guys inherit a New York City apartment that most of us would die for . The grandmother must have been an heiress to have such space in the first place . So I felt the need for realism should have been brought out . Anyway the plot about four best friends getting this apartment was not believable . I would have been thrilled if they had to move in with one of their parents which would have provided great humor and dysfunctional about the show's set up . There did not seem to be much humor in it . I am only watching it because it falls before My Name is Earl on a winning Thursday night . I think they should go back , scrap this series , and start over . We need more family involved series . How about Seth and his friends move in with his wacky parents in the suburbs after a fire burns their place down . THey could have Dabney Coleman play the father and Christine Estabrook , play the mother and dysfunctional siblings . The list of possibilities with somebody like Seth Green are endless and the network is blowing it .
one of the worst movies ever made	My Stepmother is an Alien has to be one of the worst movies ever made in the eighties . Alyson Hannigan makes her film debut . Now she's a lesbian witch on Bffy : The Vampire Slaver , this movie is dreadful with a fine cast of actors like Saturday Night Live's Jon Lovitz , Dan Ackroyd , and the beautiful Kim Basinger as the title character . It is almost unbearable to watch it now . I have seen on TV and I thought it was much better than on video . I'm sorry I bought the videotape . Now , I want my money back because it's just horribly written maybe that was it's true intent but the film never really becomes worth watching even for the humorous moments . I'm glad that the cast has long moved away from this film's history . Basinger is now an Oscar winner and Golden Globe winner for her performance in L . A . Confidential . Hannigan has become a regular television actress in comedies now . Jon and Dan have gone on to do much more .
Four Hours of Today !	I have to admit it that I don't watch the Today show . I prefer the Imus show on MSNBC because I feel like it's real , candid , and authentic with great guests . I have stopped watching morning shows like Today because I can't stand the pretentious and falseness . Everybody appears a little too happy for me especially in the morning if you are not a morning person like myself . I am happy for Meredith Viera because she probably felt like she was saving from the Titanic or the The View as it's called so she seems so much happier now . but for NBC to ditch daytime soaps like Passions and Another World is ridiculous . The Today Show is becoming more and more like cable television . We don't need four hours of the Today Show . We do need shows like Passions though . It's a well-known fact that NBC has wanted to ditch the soaps for a long time . The only problem now is Days of Our Lives which has a strong fan base that will do anything to keep it on the air . Anyway , NBC is going in the toilet faster than the View . remember when there was Saturday morning cartoons for kids and television programming for teens with shows like Saved by the Bell . Sorry , the Today Show for 2 hours is too much and four is just awful .
Why not expand Entertainment Tonight to an Hour Instead ?	The Insider and Entertainment Tonight are just two annoying television shows regarding the entertainment industry . I get more information from the TMZ show . Most of the time , they are just promoting stories and teasing the audience about it . When they get to the promoted story , they spend less time than you can imagine . I remember Lara Spencer who was a reporter for ABC in the New York City affiliate before coming to The Insider . She is promising reporter but she spends so much time on fluff stuff . Entertainment news shows are past it's prime with competition E ! , internet , and other shows . Entertainment Tonight was the first and probably the best until now . The Insider is just the expanded hour and promo into Entertainment Tonight anyway . Besides , they used to focus on all kinds of celebrities back in the day when you couldn't miss it . Today , the celebrities that are covered on these shows aren't worthy of the attention . I remember when they remembered celebrities who passed away . At the end of the show , they would roll clips and play music . I was hoping that with Estelle Getty that they would do the same thing by remembering her with clips from her career and interviews while playing the Golden Girls theme song . That was a missed opportunity . Instead , they talked about what's coming up next . They used to do that before the credits rolled .
A Big Fat Mess of Epic Portions !	Okay , I wanted to like this movie because I love spoofs and satiric films but this movie was way over the top . It was a combination of Pulp Fiction , A Big Fat Greek Wedding , and other films but the script lacked sense and the cast of characters were nobody familiar . I applaud first time directors who try to be innovative but the film needs some type of structure and I hope that they keep trying to spoof films whether classic or sensational . You can spoof so much more like Titanic and other popular forms of film . There is so much but you can't do it all in one film . First , the casting should have been better . The location shooting was fine but like again the film kept shoving popular film spoofs in our face . Most of us haven't seen all the films that they are spoofing .
It's all stereotypes !	If you want my opinion , this show is very negative stereotype of Bostonians especially the blue collar family of the O'Neils as typical Irish Catholic . Harriet Sansom Harris and Lenny Clarke could have a better show without the rest of the cast . They're both really the stars of the show and they are much more interesting together . So their son falls in love with a daughter of two gay men . I don't anything about her mother which makes the impression that she did not have a mother or who is actually her father . I only saw a couple episodes and was not impressed by the writing . The rest of the cast seem easily forgettable in their roles . The gay couple is wealthy , educated , and cultured stereotype of the gay community . One male owns or works in an art gallery . Another male is a teacher in an elementary school . It kind bothers me that the Irish catholic O'Neils owns a bar in Boston . It's just all stereotypes and I'm not crazy about watching stereotypes or being preached too . I think the daughter's mother or actual parentage should be addressed .
Waste of talent !	James Earl Jones is poorly used in this terrible horror film that looks like from the seventies and not the eighties . Lila Kedrova and Jose Ferrer are also misused . The story is crazy about a Loch-Ness type of monster who is beneath a Greek island . The island has secrets but there are not that worthy to know about the sacrifices of virgins to the monster for whatever reason and I didn't care . The film is a poor thriller with a good cast including Lydia Cornell , Mary Weller , and Martin Cove . It starts off with a search for sister Madeline in Greece where she takes up with Jones ' character for whatever reason . Her brother played by Cove comes with his newlywed wife searching for her and discover the mystery of the island . The whole plot is far-fetched and not worth knowing . The special effects are amateurish at best . It's a forgettable film in all respects .
Couldn't be a better title !	I'm not much for movies nowadays about teens but this garbage was on in my hotel room . Loser is unrealistic but thoughtful love story between a commuter female college student sleeping with her professor and the boy who falls in love with her . It has its moments and charming scenes but overall it's lame just like most of the movies out there . Anyway the film could have been better because it seems to just move in a predictable direction rather than maintain some memorable moments in the film . The acting was mediocre along with the writing and I don't think they shot it in New York City but I can't be sure . Anyway , it's just another teen movie that grossly underestimates the college experience .
Interesting film about the end of the world	Left Behind is a hard film to swallow unless you are a believer . While I believe in the possibility of Armageddon , I find it hard to believe that children and people would disappear without their clothes everywhere off the world . They don't explain the cause of their disappearance or where they go too . I am glad for Kirk Cameron to have an opportunity . I always liked him since Growing Pains . He does his best work yet in this film with his wife , Chelsea Noble . But I loved Colin Fox and he was totally miscasted for the role as the Jewish doctor , Dr . Chaim Rosenzweig , with the formula to feed the world . While this story is hard to believe , its still watchable but don't panic about the end of the world yet . These books are partly fiction .
Wanted to enjoy it !	I hope there will be another Kissel movie out there . I read two books about the Kissel Brothers . I felt that Robin Tunney gave the best performance as unhinged Nancy Kissel . You hated her one minute and felt sorry for her in the next minute . She felt like property than a wife . It is true that her father-in-law looked down upon his daughter-in-law from day one . The two hour film which is really only 90 minutes plus a few couldn't unfold the events that led to the downfalls of both Kissel brothers . Robert Kissel was the good brother who succeeded in the financial world and even landed a job in Hong Kong but was troubled by an unstable wife . Andrew Kissel played by John Stamos is the only other standout performance in the film . He is both troubled and devious in deceiving his investors of the actual losses . Their spouses aren't as memorable as Nancy and Andrew . Maybe they should have gotten together in the first place but it would be a deadly combination . Sadly , since it is based on the true Kissel story . I felt that there wasn't enough details but only hints of Nancy and Andrew's falls . The film comes across as disjointed with people like Hayley , Andrew's wife , and his driver giving a statements along with other Hong Kong wives who were expatriates whose husbands and never came home to the Parkview complex . Nancy's crimes were brought on by a combination of things and a culmination of despair and utter desperation . Nancy was tired of being Robert's wife . Robert tried to buy her happiness but nothing worked . She was miserable in Hong Kong and the only light was a cable guy in New England . The Kissels ' sister spoke about maybe if she didn't meet the cable guy or that there were too many maybes . The tragedy of the Kissel family is well-documented in books . I felt sorry for both Nancy and Andrew who longed for happiness , love , and acceptance . Nancy felt out of place with her in-laws easily .
Don't Insult Alaskans !	Okay , the premise is that the great New York Rangers hockey team would play against an unknown Alaskan team in a small fictional town known as Mystery where they like to keep things as they are . They don't want Price World because it would mean local businesses would lose money and be forced to close . I love Alaska , it's our largest state . It has more resources than all of our states put together . It is a beautiful place to live and Alaskans have pride in living there despite the cold weather , endless amounts of snow , and difficult weather conditions . They still live in one of the most incredible places on earth . The plot is pointless and it wasn't even filmed in Alaska which makes it worse .
Sillier than most !	When Vint gets an invitation to join the secret society of the snakes , he agrees to join and must learn the book which is considered sacred kept against women . So he spends his free time learning to get into the Cobra lodge ignoring his neglected wife , Naomi . He gets help from his nephew , Bubba , in learning all there is to know about the Cobra . It turns out that Iola's father is a member too . When Naomi and Mama decide to switch his cheating cards with recipe cards for his induction ceremony , they learn that it could be not only disastrous , humiliating , and ostracizing for Vint's life . So Mama sneaks into the men's lodge only under the Cobra robe to switch back the cards . Hopefully , Mama doesn't get caught and if she does , how embarrassing for Vint .
Funny but mean at times !	I have to say that the premise of a young couple moving into a beautiful New York duplex especially if it's played by Drew Barrymore and Ben Stiller . There is definite chemistry there between them . The problem is that they have elderly female tenant who lives on the second floor . She is beautifully played by an British actress . It would have been interesting if they casted somebody else for this role . No offense to the actress who played Mrs . Connolly because she did a wonderful job . I would have suggested casting some other actress in the role but she did do an excellent job . Anyway , the casting includes Wallace Shawn as Drew's boss and Swoosie Kurtz as Ben's editor . Ben's character is a writer and a novelist . Harvey Fierstein plays the what else gay realtor in this role . Does he ever play straight ? Anyway , we find out at the end of the film the truth which might be both shocking and even cruel .
Butcher Jill Farren Phelps does it again !	After Santa Barbara , Guiding Light , Another World , and One Life to Live , the Soap Butcher Jill Farren Phelps has placed her friends in high position often ruining such high quality shows . When I was watching Guiding Light , it was at its peak in 1991 . They fired the producer and replaced them with Butcher Phelps . She drove Beverlee McKinsey away by overworking her to death . She killed off beloved Ellen Parker's character Maureen . So Parker won an Emmy but the loss was much worse for the audience . On Another World , she killed off Alice Barrett Mitchell's beloved Mary Frances Frame Winthrop in a ridiculous storyline . On One Life to Live , I could only imagine what she did to that show which took years recover . Now she is ruining General Hospital by driving the great John Ingle away to Days Of Our Lives where he received a contract role . I feel sorry and sympathy for Jed Allan because he has a tough act to follow . The Quartermaines used to be the funnest family on television completely . She drove the great Dame Anna Lee away right before her death . Now Kristina Malandro Wagner refuses to return unless she gets a contract for playing Felicia Jones . Why aren't the veterans of this getting the short end of the stick ? I bet Gloria Monty is livid over the show getting Best Drama Emmy under Phelps . I know Monty's heart was always in the right place with this show and her last time around wasn't successful as the Luke & Laura days but still , I know Butcher Phelps track record with soaps . Nobody in the real workplace would allow somebody whose cost so much damage to so many people . I am glad that Robin Strasser is speaking against Phelps ' known favoritism for certain actors . I am going to single them out now on General Hospital because it would be unfair . But I know after 25 years of watching soaps , I could do a better job to satisfy both fans and the cast and crew . I am sorry but Phelps is just a Soap Opera Butcher to me . I know Guiding Light was great at the time but she made terrible decisions which cost fans . Now Guiding Light might be up for cancellation ! the cast and crew took a pay cut to keep the show afloat . Remember Another World ! Phelps was there before she jumped ship to One Life To Live . What goes on behind the scenes must be more fascinating than on screen . Guiding Light and Another World were creations of another daytime diva or queen Irna Phillips who would be turning over in her grave if she knew what this woman has done to her children . Now Phelps is killing off Alan Quartermaine who has been played faithfully by Stuart Damon for 30 years . I'm concerned that she is going to lose one of the show's best attributes , the Quartermaine Family . She and the network practically drove Anna Lee out over a contract dispute . Even with John Ingle's welcome return , the shadow over the show is still different . I don't blame cast members like Leslie Charleson and others for being so vocal about Damon's departure . It's as shocking as it comes . This is what you get when you have somebody like Phelps at the helm .
I am so sick of the countess bit !	I am so sick of LuAnn needed to be called by her title . In this episode , there is a humorous moment when she calls to order pizza and says " countess De Lesseps . " Now I don't know if you order pizza in the real world but the pizza place doesn't care about names as much as getting the right address and paid with a tip . LuAnn seems so transparent as if she earned her title . She married for it . Just remember that the French aristocracy were decimated by the French peasants during the Revolution . Regardless of her husband's job , even people with titles don't flaunt it or demand it as much as LuAnn . If she was in England , it would be different because they are used to titled people but not in America . Even people with titles like dame or knighthood after they earned it , don't demand the recognition that Luann seems too . I was surprised to see her actually doing dishes because her housekeeper / nanny Rosie went to visit her family in the Philippines for a month . Still we don't see the housewives do housework . Even her book on manners and etiquette is coming out with her title of course as if it matters in this day and age .
A cute romantic film	Let it be Me is nothing more than a cute romantic film about couples who falls in love during dance lessons . I remember James Goodwin from his Another World days . It's nice to see Leslie Caron again as Patrick Stewart's love interest . The dancing could have been better though without being corny at times . Otherwise , it is well worth a watch to see couples fall in love . It's not Dirty Dancing but it's from the writer who created that phenomenon . Let It Be Me is about couples who get together during dance classes . The cast is first rate with Leslie Caron , Patrick Stewart , Jennifer Beals and Jamie Goodwin . It's not what you expect but it's okay and fare .
Naomi gets amnesia !	A typical episode in which Naomi gets amnesia from her head being slammed in the door . By forgetting her identity , she forgets that she's married to Vint and Thelma's daughter-in-law . Naomi spends time with Thelma and Iola who mold her more into their image instead of who she was before the accident . It's a typical amnesia episode in which a character forgets who they are for the episode . Naomi has to find her way back to reality from her memory loss and the episode is predictable if not typical in sitcoms at all . Naomi's personality changes from her bubbly self to somebody more fitting for Iola and Thelma than her own husband who she doesn't know and won't fool around with him like they usually do . One of the charms of this show is the general affection between Vint and Naomi .
Give Me A Break !	First of all , I know this was only filmed a couple of years ago . They progressed Stepford by having a white gay couple but you are telling me that the perfect world of Stepford is lily white . I mean if you can have a gay couple , you can't have an African American couple and Hispanic couple in Stepford . This is 2004 . As for the remake , this movie is a comedy . The first movie version at least had the effort to make it a thriller . I love Roger Bart as the gay husband / wife but it's redundant for him . After all , when he's cast as straight like George Williams on Desperate HOusewives , he becomes a homicidal maniac obsessed with Bree . Nicole Kidman is good in the role that Katharine Ross made famous . Bette Midler is always welcome although not on film sets because of her difficult behavior . I love the casting of JOn Lovitz as her husband , John Malkovich and Glenn Close as the all too perfect Stepford couple . The movie is entertaining but it's 30 years later , times have changed . I guess the message is that it's changed for gays but not for African Americans or Hispanics in this country .
Okay , it's silly but lots of fun !	First of all , Glynis Johns should be made a Dame of the British Empire by now . She is in her 80s but she provides a service playing Mary Catherine Gallagher's loving grandmother . Molly Shannon is also incredibly funny if you enjoy her role as Mary Catherine Gallagher who sniffs her armpits when she's nervous and knocks over everything from pianos to tables . Will Ferrell is very funny as the guy she chases . There are lot of familiar faces from Saturday Night Live besides Will and Molly . Of course , I don't think this movie should have been in the cinemas . It would have fared better on Comedy Central just for laughs . Oh well , I have one question is that when the beloved Glynis Johns will be made Dame Glynis and that is the question .
British version of ER	I'm sorry but I am beginning to see a pattern of British dramas which I dare say is quite bland . The acting , the writing , and even the sets are just similar . Holby City and Casualty are two separate shows but I can't tell the difference . The actors and actresses look the same and I'm sure that the cast of characters of one show end up in the other at one point . Does it matter ? Is Casualty popular enough to have spin off series like Holby City ? I can't answer it because I don't live in the United Kingdom . It would be nice to see a familiar face among the cast . I watched Coronation Street and see the familiar faces of some cast members . EastEnders is popular simply because Wendy Richard who played Pauline Fowler for 21 years was the heart and soul and not to mention that she was a cast member of the popular comedy , Are you Being Served ? and Barbara Windsor who is better known for her roles in Carry On series . That's the problem , I think the shows are stepping stone . In America , we have actors and actresses who have stayed and that's important is the regularity . I'm not saying that British soaps are bad . No way , British soaps like Casualty and Emmerdale are an important factor of British culture . I encourage people especially tourists to watch them . British soaps can be both funny and sad , happy and entertaining as well as enlightening . Don't think that I don't appreciate the British contribution to soaps because I think Britons are quite appreciative of their existence where as in America for example , soaps are only the stepping stone to their careers and sometimes the highlight .
I'm fascinated but disappointed !	I consider myself to have some paranormal ability like the those characters in the miniseries . I can't wait to see the rest of this miniseries . I can't wait to buy the book and read all about this beautiful , mysterious mansion in Washington . I hope they did not tear it down for condos . it's a historic landmark . IT is also haunted and so is the land . It should not surprise anybody that David Dukes died during the making of this film . It should only add to the mystery and allure of Rose Red . I thought it was just another Stephen King story until I saw a story on the news . Rose Red actually exists . There were some entertaining moments but I felt that the mini-series never explained the truth about the disappearances and other mysteries that occurred . It had a great cast featuring Nancy Travis and Judith Ivey .
Disappointed	I am disappointed because the film never explains the disappearances or the circumstances around Rose Red . I think it would have been better if they tried to convey the cause of the mysterious disappearance of April , Ellen , Sukeena , and anybody else who vanished for no reason . I wish Rose Red existed so we can visit but it's too far-fetched and it doesn't explain the paranormal around the house to the audience . I admired the actresses who played Ellen and Sukeena but I never did understand the relationship as a whole . I felt there were too many unanswered questions about the whole house in general . The house Rose Red mini-series should have answered what happened to the people trapped in the house whether by body or spirits . I was hoping for answers but I didn't get them .
So much promise only to be disappointed !	I have to say that I was expecting more from this film . Heath Ledger is great as the devoted priest and Mark Addy has his fellow priest from the same order . The beginning of the film has questions that are never really answered at all . I was not surprised by the fact that they had to bring in a character , Mara Williams , for sexual scenes . Yes even though the film should be about priests and their quests for the cause of their beloved mentor's death . That's what it should have been about but it becomes something else completely . I spent 2 hours watching this on a cable station . I was intrigued by the beginning but then the priest played by Heath Ledger which began fine but he is sidetracked by his lust for Mara which I think ruins the character . These priests are member of a dying order , the Carolinians , and are involved in exorcism supposedly . But yet when Heath's character meets with the Sineater who wants him to take over his job of absolving sins . He is torn which becomes preposterous . I love Mark Addy and he is being wasted and the same for Heath Ledger . There was not much integrity into developing the story of this film .
Not that Bad !	I gave it a try a second time . Years had passed since I first bought the tape , look , it's a spoof of Pulp Fiction , Reservoir Dogs , Forrest Gump , and other films . It's not supposed to be serious , it's supposed to stupid . I thought the nuns were funny trying to rob a bank . Sandra Bernhard plays the Amanda Plummer role from Pulp Fiction . Dan Castellanata plays the Forrest Gump character in this film . I love Julie Brown and I don't understand why she does not have a hit sitcom or is working as much as she is . Everybody remembers her from Just Say Julie show on MTV don't they , she's the funniest woman in Hollywood as we speak . Her role as Mimi Hungry is unforgettable . First , the movie is not meant to be taken seriously . It just wants to spoof Tarantino films and Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers . Okay , it's not masterpiece theater but you can watch it .
It's just annoying !	Okay , you have a great cast like Sally Field , Tom Skerritt , Calista Flockhart , and others to make this large unnecessary ensemble . But after only watching a few minutes , I got really annoyed because the siblings were always calling each other on the phone . It got to much to me . First , we see Calista's character in New York City who is on her way home to Los Angeles to celebrate her birthday with her family . She calls her gay brother regarding her meal for her date . Of course , there has to be one gay character in every show on every network but no other minorities like Hispanic or African American characters . Anyway , I just got tired of the show right away . It was too annoying with all that cell phone nonsense . What gets me is that they killed of Tom Skerrit who could have been a core character rather just somebody in the first episode like Concetta Tomei was on Providence . They killed only they missed her enough to bring her back as a ghost or figment of Sydney's imagination . I didn't think that Tom's character would be the first one axed off . There was so much to be done with him that it's so cruel that they discarded him in the first place .
Never Made It Up High Enough !	I was thrilled that Jean Smart and Mary McDonnell were going to do a sitcom probably inspired by the British comedy , Absolutely Fabulous , about two upper class spoiled New Yorkers . Faith Prince was terribly underused and under-rated . She was supposed to be huge after her triumphant performance in Guys and Dolls opposite Nathan Lane but Smart and McDonnell did what they could with a terrible script . I was hoping that the show would last longer than it did which was only a few episodes . Both actresses are accomplished veterans of the sitcom genre that they should have used their experiences to make this show better . Maybe the idea of two rich and spoiled divorced women are reminiscent of The First Wives Club . I didn't care for that much neither .
Great if You Want to See Hollywood's Finest Getting Smashed !	I preferred last year's ceremony where the announcements of the nominations and the winners were declared without the fanfare . A year later after the Writers Strike , I was stunned to see the stars to be inebriated on stage . I would recommend that they don't serve liquor until after the awards are complete . In fact , Mickey Rourke's speech was memorable because he remembered to thank his dogs - - his canine pets alive and gone . I think Kate Winslet's double win wasn't right but it's long overdue since she was nominated before . It's kind of sad that there are not enough good female roles around in the movies . I was really happy about Slumdog Millionaire winning all four awards including Best Drama . Still , I felt like the awards also forgot to remember those who passed away over the last two years . They omitted that to the television audience . I don't care what people wear but I think people should be better behaved at these events like staying sober . Tina Fey's wins are no surprise since her show is the only one that seems to get critics approval . There were funny moments in the show and they avoided showing clips . Steven Spielberg's moment receiving the Cecil B . DeMille Award was probably the best of the night . It was good to see John Adams , the mini-series based on David McCulloch's amazing book , to win awards for Best Mini-Series , Actor Paul Giamati , Actress Laura Linney , and Supporting Actor Tom Wilkinson OBE who played Ben Franklin . He wasn't there to pick up his Emmy so it was finally nice to see him there . I was surprised to see Dame Eileen Atkins CBE there who was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for Cranford . She didn't win the award . I was surprised and embarrassed by Ricky Gervais ' comment that " if you do a Holocaust film , you get a GOlden Globe " regarding Kate's first win of the evening . I was happy for Bruce Springsteen winning for " The Wrestler . " In the time where our economy is suffering at a depression status , films like " The Wrestler " and " Slumdog Millionaire " are recommendations to avoid seeing the silliness , over-indulgence , and millions of wasted dollars in the industry . Those two movies are character based and can relate to most of us out here who are trying to survive . I believe Spielberg's Cecil B . De Mille Award was from last year and I don't understand why they didn't award a recipient for this year . But if the actors want to strike , they can go ahead because I wouldn't mind losing the Oscars .
Will Ferrell tries but the writing fails itself !	I love Will Ferrell . I was watching this movie yesterday . He works well with the brilliant Robert Duvall who plays his champion father , Buck Weston , who would do nothing but win . Will's character marries Kate Walsh's character and they have a son , Sam , and so does Will's dad and his new wife have a son named Bucky Jr . Years later , Duvall's soccer team exchanges his own grandson to the losing team in the league . On top of that , their coach quits and Ferrell takes over . One of the younger players is a foreign adopted boy , Byong Chun , whose lesbian mothers offer a book about their son's shyness . I love seeing David Hermann play the referee , Greg Kinnear play the opposing coach , Laura Kightlinger as the lesbian mother , and of course Mike Ditka as Buck's neighbor and nemesis . The story is typical and predictable but still watchable and enjoyable .
Golden Girls Grandchild !	If the Golden Girls gave birth to Empty Nest , then Empty Nest gave birth to Nurses , a sitcom , which featured the talented and underused Stephanie Hodge who left the show . Arnetia Walker was very good as one of the nurses as Ada Maris . The show also included Loni Anderson as a hospital administrator . The show was never as good as Empty Nest nor was it as brilliant as Golden Girls but sitcoms were abundant in it's day . Unfortunately those sitcoms haven't resurfaced or returned to the popularity it once had on the networks since the Golden Girls and Cosby Show days . Unfortunately , I think we need laughter that is not so based on sexuality like Will and Grace and annoyance like Friends . Good comedy does not have to be dirty or x-rated . The Nurses never became the huge hit nor was it supposed to be . It was there to fill a spot in Saturday's sitcom schedule .
A Sour Disappointment !	I have to say that after watching the housewives of Atlanta and New York City , I had high expectations for the housewives of New Jersey but I felt left with a sour taste in my mouth just after watching the preview . Five of the housewives live in the posh , elegant Franklin Lakes area which used to have residents like Kelly Ripa and her husband before her hectic schedule moved her to New York City . Three of the housewives are related . Caroline is the elder sister in a family of 11 , a large Italian Catholic family from Northern Jersey . She is married to Albert Manzo who owns and operates the Brownstone in Paterson , New Jersey which regularly hosts wedding receptions and other gatherings in it's lovely ballrooms . Carol and Al have three children . Chris and Lauren work at the Brownstone while one son is going to law school . Her youngest sibling , Dina , is divorced and remarried to Caroline's brother-in-law . Dina has a teenage daughter and is an event planner at the Brownstone where she works with her husband and brother-in-law and other relatives . The third wife is the sister-in-law and comes from Las Vegas , Nevada . The fourth and fifth wives are the only ones who aren't related to the family but stir up trouble . Teresa has three daughters and is married to a man who runs a construction company in New Jersey . She dresses her three girls ( despite different ages ) identical and wants one of her girls to become a star . The other wife is a divorced woman and mother of two girls who is seeking a man to take care of her , her daughters , and her lavish lifestyle . I do look forward to the upcoming episodes but still I would have liked a little diversity . I feel like the producers are aiming to maintain the Soprano stereotype about New Jersey .
Mama's Addiction !	After Iola gets some jewelry by home shopping on local television , she gets Thelma hooked beyond the extremes . She is so addicted that her credit card bill is long enough and the bill just got out of control . Of course , there is a funny moment when Mama is asked what she prefers her family or the jewelry and she pauses for a brief hilarious moment . Thelma has bought out the store much less lost her ability to function . The family and Iola perform an intervention in trying to get Thelma back to normal whatever that means . They return about everything to the station and have to help Thelma get back to normal without shopping on television .
Silly Love Letter !	After Vint gets in a fight with Naomi , he gets his nephew Bubba to write a letter to make up for the fight . Unfortunately , it gets in a lot of hands like Naomi who thinks Bubba is in love with her , Mama who thinks the repair guy wrote it , Iola who thinks Vint is finally coming around to her . Anyway , the whole mess is a silly love letter and the consequences can be quite enjoyable but I have seen it too many times in repeats . Iola wears her best dress which remains to be seen and she has the best lines ever . Mama is bothered that the old guy has heard that she is easy from other repair guys in town . Regardless , it's silly fun and Mama style humor .
A Disappointing Film with an All Star Cast and Crew !	When Barry Levinson wrote and directed this film , I had high expectations and now I'm needlessly watching the DVD so I can give it away . Oscar Winner Robin Williams is perfect as is Oscar nominee Laura Linney . Lewis Black comes across as himself in his role and Christopher Walken does a decent job but the script just doesn't work on this idea that a computer error elected a Jerry Springer type talk show personality into the White House . Linney plays the employee who could blow the whistle on her company's malfunctions and error to the whole world . Jeff Goldblum plays the boss and her character has to be brought down by reputation . The film has a lot of cameos like Chris Matthews and other political pundits but it just doesn't get off the ground and that is where the script is at fault because I like Williams and Linney together on screen but the script just fails the movie and it becomes a silly film that was supposed to be both serious and funny but it isn't either . I guess this is Hollywood's jab at the former president .
Iola dates a jerk !	Let's face it , life hasn't been too good to Iola Lucille Boylen , the forever old maid spinster who knits and creates while caring for her never seen elderly shut-in parents over the years . You just want her to get her due some day . Finally , she thinks that she's met the man who could whisk her away but he's totally wrong for her and everybody at the Harper house knows it too except Iola . Is she so desperate to want be loved by a man ? Sadly , her role is yes . There are not too many middle aged men who want the sweet , creative , and wholesome nature of Iola who has dedicated her adult life to caring for her mother especially . When Mr . Wrong says the wrong thing about his plans for him and Iola , it hits the roof and out the door .
Mama Sues !	Mama Harper decides to sue the bank after they refuse to loan her money to fix a household appliance and after she falls on a roll of pennies . The family gets together to make it seem that Mama Harper was worse off than previously thought . All know about the plan except neighbor and best friend , Iola , who sees a lot of her shut-in , ill-stricken mother in Thelma after the fall even though she witnessed it . So the family hires a sleazy lawyer and the bank sends over Miss Small to make a deal with Mama Harper . Of course , things never go according to plan at all . This episode was fine and pointed out that suing a bank or anyone doesn't really go as planned . But nothing in Mama Harper's life has ever gone as planned no matter how hard she tries .
Mama tries to sell Vint as one of the boys !	For once , Vint has invited three guys to spend a poker night at the Harper house while his mother , Iola , and wife Naomi go to the theater to see Medea , the Greek tragedy about a woman killing her two sons for revenge . When Mama learns the actress is the usual actress who plays the role all the time , she bows out and one of the players doesn't show up . Rather than forfeit the poker game , Vint asks Mama to sit in and play with the guys . There , she begins talking about Vint as the ultimate Mama's boy . Then he begs her to stop talking about him like a wimp and talking about him like a man , Mama does what he wants but nothing ever really goes according to plan .
Poor Iola !	Iola Lucille Boylan is a dedicated adult devoted to her elderly , sick parents . We hear about her mother and father often in the series but we never see them . Iola spends so much time the Harpers that she is an honorary one but not always welcome . In this episode , Naomi suggests to Mama Harper that they put an advertisement in the newspaper . They get slim pickings for Iola who is at first furious but later decides to try it out with Ralph . When Ralph enters Harper house which is the designated location for the first meeting , Iola is terrified about the prospect of being alone with a man that she convinces Thelma to stay with her but Ralph has other things on his mind concerning who he ends up with .
Why do they do this ?	I don't know why they didn't do the senior prom episode before Bubba's graduation . Regardless , this show seems to have some episodes that go out of order and this is one of them . Iola's niece , Vernette , is visiting Raytown for the week and their painting the town red . Bubba tries talking to her but he gets mostly silence . Vernette has a crush on Bubba and it's obvious . When his original prom date cancels out on him , Bubba is in a fine mess . Thelma and Iola get an idea of having Vernette be Bubba's date for the prom . They get her dressed and treat her like Cinderella . Then when Bubba's date decides to go with him , he has a problem with two dates . Vernette who is pleasant , nice , shy , and attractive in her way while Bubba's date is utterly sexual but undesirable as she cares for nobody but herself .
Bubba Joining the Army Not Without Mama !	Bubba Higgins is upset because Melanie Noble , the girl he was going out with , told her parents that Bubba was in juvenile hall and her father prohibited her from going out with him . Meanwhile Vint welcomes his old friend from the army in town . They go out celebrating one night and suddenly Bubba agrees to join the army without Mama's permission . Of course , Mama has to find a way to get her grandson out of another fine mess . She does by going out of her way to the army recruiting headquarters and revealing the truth about Bubba's past to the officer . It's not a great episode but they pull it off as best as they can with the writing .
Vint having an affair !	Mama Harper gets the impression that her son , Vinton Harper , is having an affair with the new co-worker at his locksmith job especially since the co-worker is played by Teresa Ganzel . Vinton doesn't want to worry pregnant Naomi and the family gets suspicious with Vinton going on emergencies and spending a lot of time at Kwik Keys shop with the new employee . Mama Harper doesn't want a divorce in the family especially between Vint and Naomi or trouble . So she and Iola are set to find out about Vint's new co-worker Heather Fayette and what it's all about . It's the usual misunderstanding sitcom episode with the usual results . It's a harmless episode .
Mama and the Baby !	Vint and Naomi dream of having a baby of their own but when it doesn't happen . They consider adoption which is where Mama Harper comes in as the primary caretaker . That's all Mama wants another face to wash and clean and feed in her house . The adoption agency wants to interview Mothe Harper with a psychiatrist which does not go considerably well at all for Vint and Naomi but still it's funny and humorous to watch Mama Harper with a psychiatrist being so defensive for the way that she raised all her children including Vint . I would have liked her to talk about her other daughters , Ellen , and Eunice but that's okay . Mama can make fur fly in the room with her sassy humor and sharp-tongued wit . I'll never understand why Vicki Lawrence didn't get an Emmy for this role and I never will .
Worthwhile role for Marilyn ! But there is so much more !	The Home Town Story didn't win Oscars or probably rave reviews . With the exception of Marilyn Monroe playing a receptionist / secretary at a small town newspaper , the film might as well have been forgotten . The story is about an unelected state senator who returns home to run the family newspaper with help and friendship from Slim ( played by Alan Hale Jr . who played the Skipper on Gilligan's Island ) . Blake Washburn is the main character who comes home to his mother and his 10 year old little sister , Katie , and his fianc , her school-teacher . Blake writes harsh columns about criticizing big businesses especially McFarland whose son beat him in the election . Blake writes harshly about the industry . It isn't until a crisis that he realizes his wrongs . The film is little over an hour . You only see Marilyn a couple of times . It's not about Marilyn but you see where she starts off .
Columbo in Waiting .	Another Columbo episode featuring Webster actress Susan Clark as the woman who wants to lead her life without her overbearing brother's interference over the decision of her life . After his murder or accidental death , we miss Marcia Wallace , the lady at the inquest . I saw this episode on television so I don't know if it was edited out of the original episode . I like watching Leslie Nielson play the man who loves Susan Clark's character . You wonder what happens to the woman who has murdered her brother . Tired of domination , she has had enough and had planned the murder so carefully but not carefully enough until Columbo steps in asking questions . This family is definitely one of a dysfunction . Like most of the families here , they are wealthy and prominent so their lives are not as easy as we think they are because they have money . Sometimes money can cause problems as well . If her character was given independence in the first place to make her mistakes and live her life in the first place , maybe she would have faired better . Anyway , I recommend feminist critics watch Columbo episodes featuring women killers because I think there is a lot there .
It's not as good as other shows !	Lately , Dateline has become a poor copy of , Sixty Minutes , and 48 Hours with hours spent on covering crime such as murders and scams . Much like A & E's American Justice , Investigative Reports , and other series . Dateline covering the Suitcase Murders was kind of inferior to other shows that focused on the same crime . There is plenty of true crime out there but you should pick and choose one that will engage the audience and expand on understanding it . They aired the Suitcase Murders after the verdict and before sentencing Melanie McGuire to life in prison for murdering and dismembering her husband , William McGuire . Even though there was no evidence connecting her to the crime but circumstantial coincidences . THe fact that Court TV was airing the trial made it easier for NBC Dateline to obtain access to the proceedings .
Sonja's Older than Buzz !	In this episode , we learn that Vint and his first wife , Mitzi , had Sonya or Sonja first followed by Vinton " Buzz " Jr . We also learned that Sonja was named after a family member , an aunt who was a school-teacher who went nuts and set fire to the gymnasium . In this episode , Sonja and Buzz go the Homecoming Dance with dates . We meet Michael Skinner who returns in a later episode as Sonya's date . Vint gives an extra hour to younger Buzz because he's a boy . Sonja gets furious and storms out with her date . She is leaving a girl and returning home a woman according to her . Anyway , Mama , Vint , and Naomi spend the evening playing go fish cards in the living room . Aunt Fran is not in this episode unfortunately . For Sonya , it's all about a double standard when her younger brother gets to stay later than she does on an important night .
Not so Perfect Movie !	I read the book and of course there must be a movie and in fact there was a mini-series for this book . I watched it and was a bit disappointed with it . I mean because we don't have a viable suspect even with John Mark Karr proclaiming his guilt and not being in the same state . He probably never met JonBenet Ramsey or knew about her existence until the tragic murder . I never thought the Ramseys were involve and they were finally clear after this film was made in 2003 . So it's not the couple and I always knew they were innocent of such a horrendous crime . Anyway it's Lou Smith who brings common sense when a bunch of silly police detectives pointing the wrong finger when they messed up the crime scene in the first place . Yes , the Ramseys are rich and hired attorneys to protect them . Of course , the beauty pageants was what Patsy and JonBenet loved to do together and I'm sure JonBenet would have been a beauty queen now if she was not gone . Anyway , the movie does try to be objective if possible . It's a shame that we don't know the truth even after almost 10 years , it's another dead end in the case with so many questions and few answers . We know that the Ramseys are innocent .
They Don't Need Another Housewife !	Well , the sixth housewife is actually a divorced mother of two children with a social column . Her name is Kelly and she's fond of riding horses . In the Hamptons , riding or abusing horses is an unnecessary sport in my opinion . Of course , the Countess is fond of riding as is her daughter , Victoria , who has wildly decided to attend boarding school somewhere in the country . I think they have enough material with five housewives so why bring in another one to the table . Well like the other housewives show , the producers like to see friction to keep the audience in tuned . I think Ramona is the weakest link and most volatile of the wives because she's not all together there in the first place . She dislikes Alex and Simon so much that she leaves Jill's party without saying goodbye or making a scene . From what I have seen of Alex and Simon , they are not really worried about Ramona as much as she is about them . Why does their presence unsettle her ? Maybe because Alex and Simon are always together even at girl parties . While Jill might complain , she's got a gay husband , Brad , along with her Bobby so I find that troubling . Bethenny isn't married and has broke up with Jason , the divorced father . She's spending the summer at Jill's place . Of course , I envy them for having such lavish estates in the Hamptons .
Great Cast but Weak Script !	The story of a dying woman's last request is to meet her favorite film actress . It wouldn't be problem but the actress is Greta Garbo who has remained in seclusion for years since her retirement from the film industry . Anne Bancroft plays the dying mother and Ron Silver plays her son . The rest of the cast includes Harvey Fierstein as what else a gay New Yorker , Liz Smith , Denny Dillon , Steven Hill , and others that are well-known in New York City . Anne Bancroft's performance is really something to watch in this film . You want what she wants . In a way , the film is more about her than her son who wants to please his dying mother and grant her one wish even if it's almost impossible . Greta Garbo's legacy and her reclusion in New York City life reads like a great fiction novel but it's true . Garbo who was one of the most famous of her generation didn't hide but didn't promote herself shamelessly and she didn't even make the movie . But it must be a compliment that so many of her fans still remember her fondly .
Dirty Dancing for the Mature Folk !	It has a great cast with Susan Sarandon and Richard Gere as a married couple in Chicago . Jennifer Lopez has a supporting role as one of the dance instructors and Stanley Tucci who is always fabulous plays one of Gere's colleagues and dance enthusiast . Anyway , the plot about the husband going to dancing lessons and the wife suspecting that he's having an affair is a bit far-fetched but the cast works well together even if the storyline is weak . They filmed some of it in Chicago , a great city to visit . Anyway , the film is somewhat corny and predictable about the dance contest . Still it can be worth watching anyway with a great cast and crew . I forget who played Bobbie , the star dancer , she is familiar to me .
It's disappointing !	Strapless is written by one of British theater's finest playwrights , David Hare . Strapless stars Blair Brown and Bridget Fonda as American expatriates in London . Blair and Bridget play sisters who are completely opposite of each other . While Blair's character is stable and a doctor , Bridget is unstable and unpredictable . The story gets bizarre with a stranger who courts Blair's character . His role gets bizarre during the film and it is never really explained away to me . Without spoiling a surprise , I don't think this film really lifts itself up from obscurity . They could have at least shown more of London , England .
I wish I was in a Carpool !	Tom Arnold and David Paymer are a terrific team together . The movie is silly and enjoyable with them and Rhea Perlman as a meter maid . The film is family oriented and fun to watch . It's no Oscar contender but it's just great for laughs . Maybe Paymer and Arnold should do a sitcom together . Alright it's not the greatest comedy of all time but it's one of those silly comedies where two people from different backgrounds get together and strike an unlikely friendship during unfortunate circumstances . Perlman is outrageous as the meter maid . Paymer does great to keep a straight face and Arnold is really a good performer as the guy holding up hostages . Whatever the flaws and there are some , it's still kind of fun to watch them again .
It's April Fools !	Unfortunately , Mama's Family has been on cable or on much in syndication anymore which is a shame because it can be a funny show at times . What I love and miss about it is the sense of humor which is an acquired taste . It's first two seasons of the show had guest stars like Betty White , Harvey Korman , Carol Burnett , and Rue McClanahan who appeared regularly . In this episode of the series , everybody seems to be in on the joke including Mama Harper against her family and best friend and neighbor Iola . If you love Mama Harper played by the under-appreciated Vicki Lawrence Schultz , you'll love her here . Ken Berry is her dim-witted son Vinton and daytime Emmy winner Dorothy Lyman is his equally dim wife , Naomi Oates Harper . There is of course the grandson and nephew , Bubba Higgins , who is the offspring of Eunice and Ed , Mama's daughter and son-in-law who moved to Florida but didn't bother to tell him .
Too Cute for Me !	Life Goes On reminds me of those movies of the week but made for a television series . It's one of those feel-good dramas starring the wonderful Patti LuPone who plays mother to Becca played by the annoying Kellie Martin , ( sorry but I avoid her whenever possible ! ) She's just too perky for me , and Corky played by the wonderful Christopher Burke who really has a down syndrome . The first episode has him getting ready for his first day at the same high school as Becca . She falls for Tyler , the cute good-looking guy who treats Corky like another student . Also Becca has a relationship with Chad Lowe's character who has AIDS . I guess it was groundbreaking at the time and he won an Emmy for it . It's one of those dramas and there is comedy too . Of course , Patti plays the second wife and is stepmother to an older daughter who we never see .
Not that bad !	This was not one of John Hughes ' greatest successes . Supposedly , the film critics trashed this film . But you know what , it's worth watching . Kelly LeBrock plays the model that Anthony Michael Hall's character and his friend create from a computer . They live in suburban Chicago of course which is one of John Hughes ' trademarks is to set most of his films in his beloved city . Anyway , his friends ' parents go away for the weekend . Once Kelly's role is created , they want to get girls and be popular rather than be humiliated by the lights of Robert Downey Jr . who is also in this film as one of the popular dudes from their high school . The film could have been better but it could have been a lot worse by today's standards too . The film works because you can watch the silliness and chuckle at some of the scenes in it . It's not award-winning stuff , it's kids ' stuff . LEt the kids today watch and judge for themselves . I'm not saying that adults can't enjoy it . I do to this day . So if you want to escape from depressing reality , watch this John Hughes ' film . It will at least make you smile .
Not so great ! Not so bad ! That's my good advice !	Charlie Sheen does best at playing playboy Charlie Sheen . In this film , he plays an investment broker ( Remember him from Wall Street ) , well , he gets fired and needs money to pay the rent . His girlfriend played by Denise Richards , dumps him and goes to Brazil . She leaves her job as advice columnist hanging for the Chelsea Journal . What's Charlie to do but take her job and lie about Cindy Styne's reasons for not going to the office . His boss is played well by Angie Harmon who is uptight and single and available . He falls in love but has to keep up the pretension . A great supporting player is played by Seinfeld's Estelle Harris as the secretary who works for fun . It's set in New York City and filmed on location . Another supporting roles are filled by JOn Lovitz and Rosanna ARquette as a couple of Charlie's friends .
No Cosby Clone !	Let's face it , Jaleel White's unforgettable role and performance as Urkel was the show's saving grace . After all the show had a stellar cast including the wonderful Rosetta LeNoire who played the grandmother , JoMarie Payton-France as the show's matriarch whose character was spun off from Perfect Strangers , Reginald Veljohnson who plays the husband , Darius McCary who played the oldest teenage son , Telma Hopkins who played the widowed aunt who lived with the family . The show might have been ABC's answer to the Cosby Show but it had quite a life of it's own especially when Urkel , the lovable geek next door , entered the scene . You couldn't forget him and that is why the show lasted as long as it did . I'm sure ABC realized Urkel's contributions to the show . Even though his character overshadowed the other characters , it kept the show floating for 8 years and it separated itself from being a Cosby Clone .
Makes me Wish I didn't know the truth !	Watching the true Hollywood story on E ! about the cast of Different Strokes was heartbreaking , after all , two of the three cast members had substance abuse problems and the star , Gary Coleman , had problems with his parents that he sued them . It's sad to watch the show , I wish I didn't know Dana Plato's problems because now I see how much she wanted her life to be like Kimberly Drummond . Conrad Bain was great as the father figure of the show . Of course , he was supposed to only be acting but I think he became a paternal figure to those youngsters . We went Mrs . Edna Garrett played by the wonderful Charlotte Rae who got her own show without all the drama of Different Strokes . She escaped it . I never approved of them dissing Dixie Carter for Mary Ann Mobley . I like them both in the role as the second Mrs . Drummond . Of course , there was the guest appearances of First Lady Nancy Reagan preaching against drugs . How little did we know the truth ? Gary Coleman never escaped the image of the chubby cute kid on Different Strokes . Dana Plato who is gone to a better place never did get to experience the life of Kimberly Drummond except when she was on the set . I only wish Todd and Gary best for their future . I only wished that the off-screen drama was cut down for their sakes . I feel guilty getting laughs knowing that they went home and cried or faced abuse .
Be Careful What You Wish For !	I don't know why I liked this show so much as a child . Maybe it was the fantasy island bit where people's dreams and fantasies come true only it was never an ideal . This show was a spin-off of Love Boat again with celebrity guest stars from other shows and a cast that included the wonderful Ricardo Montalban and Herve Villechaise who said the " Plane , the plane " in the beginning sequence of the show . Sadly , Herve killed himself . The show was never the same without him . I think the show provided lots of jobs to actors who probably needed the job outside their own shows . Of course , I remember the episode with Barbi Benton as a mermaid . It was pure fantasy but remember to be careful what you wish for because it might come true and it may not be all that you wanted in the first place . Also I liked the fact that they filmed in Hawaii too .
He's different from the rest !	Steve Wilkos spent years on the Jerry Springer Show as one of the show's bodyguards . Besides that , he has a police background and military experience . By given his own show from Springer's producer , Steve is a lot more serious about his topics and show itself . He holds nothing back when he goes head to head against a mother who is in prison for pimping her own seven year old daughter to a undercover police detective . Steve recalls how the mother appeared clueless and delusional regarding her actions . She blames the police for interfering . Steve also talks with the police detectives on the case who were so troubled by this sexual abuse that one of the guys had to get up and take a walk . These police detectives probably Chicago were horrified by this mother's actions towards her own daughter . She thinks God will release her in 9 years but it's too late for her daughter . The damage has been done . Her daughter is probably in foster care and getting proper treatment . The mother seems troubled by being blamed and lacks no conscience for pimping her daughter . She also reveals that she allowed her five year old daughter to perform oral sex on one of the customers . The idea of this is sickening but Steve lets her have it in the same way that we want her to have it .
The Prime of Your Life !	Uma Thurman and Meryl Streep make this film come alive . The story about Rafaela , a 37 year old career divorce , starts dating a younger Jewish guy , David Bloomberg . It turns out that her Jewish psychotherapist is his mother played by Waspy Meryl Streep . Okay , she's not Jewish and she's older . She details specific of their sexual relationship to his mother . There are some moments but really it's Streep's movie . Uma does her best in scenes with her . I don't get the religious because they are not really a religious family . The scene where David reveals when he introduced his African American girlfriend to his very Jewish grandmother , Bubbe , was quite memorable . There are moments about New York City life . David lives with his maternal grandparents on the Jewish Lower East Side . His maternal grandmother is played by a wonderful New York actress , Doris Belack . Apart from the story , the movie lacks steam and I didn't like the ending .
Maybe , Just Okay !	Long before Hugh Laurie OBE and Joely Richardson became known for their roles on American dramas like House and Nip / Tuck , they were already established and well-known in their native Britain as top professional performers . In this film , Ben Elton directs them with a first rate cast but the script needs some work and it has an ending that I was not too crazy about it . Of course , the setting is in London and the supporting cast is first rate with friends like Rowan Atkinson , Joanna Lumley OBE , Dawn French , Adrian Lester , and of course Emma Thompson . This film is a great comedy and drama at the same time but it is also quite believable too . I love the London locations and miss going there .
Spoofing the Model World !	Ben Stiller takes the crack at spoofing the model world in this film version where he plays Derek Zoolander , one of the top male models . Owen Wilson also plays his rival . Derek's not bright at all and it should come as no surprise . Will Ferrell has a supporting role as the man who is set to kill the prime minister of Malaysia using a brainwashed Zoolander . Anyway , it's reminiscent of the Manchurian Candidate . Christine Taylor from the Brady Bunch films and Wedding Singer , plays a reporter . She really is quite identical to Maureen McCormick and could be her daughter . Ben's dad , Jerry Stiller , is also in the film as manager Holstein and his mother , Anne Meara , has a cameo . It's quite hilarious at times and downright silly . Jon Voigt plays Derek's hard-working blue collar father who is ashamed of his son's chosen career .
I wanted to have an identical twin so much !	I don't know . I think there is something incredible about identical twins . Since twins don't run in my family , I doubt that I will ever have twins myself . The Sagal twins ( Liz and Jean ) are also sisters to Katey Sagal . The first season had them together in the Midwest . The second season moved them to New York City to live with an aunt played by the wonderful Barbara Barrie . Now remember that the show has not been seen in about 20 years so I'm going by memory , I remember it aired briefly on NBC and then it got cancelled . Back then , sitcoms had the time to develop . It might have surfaced in syndication but it never did . I think it would have prospered and remain popular .
Could have been better ! Could have been worse !	What a Country was shown on syndication rather than network . It was one of those shows that was never going to succeed there . It was not that bad . Yakov proved his comedic talents about himself as a Russian immigrant trying to learn English in class with other immigrants . The appeal was there but it never launched into madcap humor or anything to be unforgettable . Yakov was a regular face on comedy shows at the time and he deserved a chance like so many comics to have his own show . Clearly , this show only lasted a season probably 20 more episodes than they would on network . That was the difference between syndication and network was that syndication was a place more for independent comedies like What a Country and Mama's Family . No , they weren't big budget but they were on a half-hour every Saturday . Now those half-hours are replaced by info-mercials . I wouldn't mind sitcoms ( good or bad ) because at least , they try to entertain us instead of infomercials with the exception of the Dean Martin Roasts and Carol Burnett Shows . The infomercials should get cancelled because they put me to sleep . So if I had a choice between a syndicated comedy like What A Country or an infomercial , you can probably guess that I wouldn't mind watching What A Country . As for the infomercial , I just change the channel or shut it off .
First Rate Cast can't help weak script !	I love James Earl Jones and Cicely Tyson as a couple . They live in the ghetto or slums of Los Angeles , California in the 1970s . The rest of the cast includes the under-used Hilda Haynes and Louis Gosset Jr . The story of Johnny Williams as a poet and his ill wife played by Tyson is not so bad and their surroundings are undesirable as they battle crime , gangs , violence , and living in a tough part of the city . Jones and Tyson are a formidable pair and strong together on screen and they are worth watching the film alone even if it's not that great on paper . JOnes's performance elevates the role into a complex character of JOhnny Williams and there are familiar actors and actresses also in this film . The River Niger might not be that great but it's not that bad and Tyson and Jones are so strong together that you can see them at odds as well . Johnny loves his wife , Mattie , and strives as a poet but the scene where he reads to Mattie is heartbreaking , emotional , and worth watching . I didn't care for the other scenes involving the gangs , violence , and crime . I just loved watching Tyson and JOnes as a couple .
Show has jumped the shark !	I thought I was watching bloopers from Rosemary's Baby on Sunday night when I saw Mother Hodge and Alma set Orson up . It was ridiculous . If you watch soaps , they could have sent Bree to visit her ailing father in Rhode Island rather than causing more trouble . Anyway , Lynette quits her office job to work for her husband's restaurant . I will miss Currie Graham who played her boss Ed . Of course , Jane dies letting Ian free to be with Susan . Mike is free but Paul is in jail for a murder that he didn't commit but committed another . I don't know why they brought back Paul Young's character to have him fall in love with Gaby . It's ridiculous and silly to watch the show now . I never thought of it as a dark comedy . I thought it was a melodrama and still think it is . An hour is too long for a comedy . I hope Marc Cherry reads these reviews , maybe he could do something . I wish Marcia the best with her new arrivals . After all , Marcia didn't have to be in the scene . Orson could have just announced Bree went to visit her sick father and everybody would think otherwise or have Alma on the loose .
Forget George Lopez ! Give Belita her own show !	Now George Lopez Show is not a bad . It is worth watching a few times . But what I think is the best part of the show is Belita Moreno who plays Bennie , the mother of George Lopez . Belita Moreno is certainly worth watching out for ever since she played a secretary in the television film , Death Benefit . I am glad that she is getting recognition in her own right but I think she should get her own show when the George Lopez Show is over . There is something talented and brilliant in Belita's underrated performance . She really has the comedic perfect timing as the gambling , fun-seeking grandmother , mother , and mother-in-law . Bennie is not your typical granny making cookins in the kitchen . She works , gambles , drinks , and likes to have a good time with her friend , Gina , played by the wonderful Elmarie Wendel . She and George are great together with their exchanges . Belita is one to watch for in this series . It's why I watched her in the first place . As Bennie , she is always entertaining and delivers her lines as naturally and wonderfully to George's straight face . I didn't care for the opening segment . I think it's silly with everybody jumping up and down . I think with better writing , it could be a better improved show . We'll just have to wait for the upcoming season .
A Warm Family Holiday Film NOt !	I liked this film with Bryan Cranston as the Hippy poor cousin Woodrow Snider , town outcast , and Judge Reinhold as the straight-laced Los Angeles doctor . Both men have two wives one played by the fabulous under-rated Penelope Ann Miller and the other by Hallie Todd who does a great job as being the straight woman . Mitch wants a family and get together with long lost relatives in Idaho for Thanksgiving , the traditional American holiday . They get invited and are unaware of the Sniders in a small Idaho town . Cranston and Miller have great chemistry as Pauline and Woody versus the doctor and his suburban wife . There are great moments in the film like when they realize that their Idaho relatives are nuts and crazy than eating last year's fruitcake . In their case , they learn a lot about each other from each other . It's kind of a silly , comedic television movie so there is no swearing or inappropriate kinky behavior . I love the actor who plays Uncle Phil . I'm surprised this film didn't get a welcome reception or isn't shown repeatedly on television around Thanksgiving . It's a nice film .
Poor Liz !	Dr . Cruz has had quite a difficult season . First , she picks up a woman at a lesbian bar with Christian Troy . They go back to her place and she wakes up with one less kidney . That's another story . Now , she is dating another doctor , Poppy , played by Alanis Morrisette . The only problem with Poppy is that she is self-centered and very critical of Liz's physical appearances . I think the scene with Liz's surgery proves that Poppy's not all that she seems to be . Poppy's true side showed during Liz's surgery when she tried to do more than Liz's asked her to do . Anyway , you can tell the disapproval on nurse Linda's face and the doctors during the surgery . Poor Liz , she hasn't seen this side where Poppy compares her new girlfriend to a raccoon in the morning .
A disappointing end to the series !	I am kind of surprised that this episode would be the last one for a brilliant series like Columbo . The Conspirators is about Irishmen , I . R . A . , boats , wine , and books . Jeannette Nolan better remembered as the housekeeper in another episode also appears . Clive Revill is memorable as the prime suspect but it's Columbo who I remember the most . The Conspirators has a great script , memorable and forgettable casting , and an ending to remember . I always know it by heart after seeing it many times and I still enjoy the episodes . Columbo's run was never too long maybe just too short in the 1970s . It returned with a vengeance in the 1990s and there is sometimes another Columbo episode in the works on a yearly basis . I like Columbo because he's no dummy and he doesn't treat the prime suspects like criminals . He rather engages them and understand them . He never shows malice towards them . He always takes a delight in learning something new . I love Columbo and always will .
it's absolutely hell	While Dame Judi Dench is magnificent as always , this play is dreadfully depressing about the lives of London life after WWII . But my biggest problem with it is the more than average homosexuality in the drama . While Dame Judi plays the tragic lonely heroine who would plead for the companionship of a homosexual . The play is rather a grim and depressing too watch . Surprisingly , I did watch most of it . But I have to say that Doris is the only one sane reasonable character . Granted , she is a sexually repressed character who uses sports as an escape . She is the only one who makes the proper observation about the barflys or members as escaping into alcoholism and sex .
Wasn't All That Bad !	I remember when CBS and ABC had to have their answer to the huge success of the Cosby Show . CBS brought Flip Wilson and Gladys Knight as a middle class African American show living in an apartment with children played by Jaleel White who became better known as super nerd , Urkel on Family Matters and Kristoff St . John who is on Young and the Restless as Neil Winters . The show also included the wonderful Della Reese . The cast was first rate but the writing was forgettable at best . I don't recall much except that the network was trying to cash in on Cosby's success . Either way , the first rate cast moved on to better themselves .
A kind of silly movie but worth watching !	I never saw Strange Invaders until yesterday but I found it immensely pleasurable to watch . Diana Scarwid , Nancy Allen , Louise Fletcher , and the cast was pretty interesting to watch with their material about alien beings playing humans for 25 years . While it probably took off from E . T . in the previous year , Strange Invaders is worth watching for the fans of science fiction and fantasy . I enjoyed it immensely maybe because I think Diana Scarwid deserved better in terms of scripts and she should have been a household name ever since her performance as the older Christina Crawford in Mommy Dearest . Oscar Winner Louise Fletcher also deserved more than roles that were secondary , supporting or featuring . Nevertheless , Strange Invaders is strange but fun to watch for kids , adults , or anybody who doesn't take themselves too seriously .
Sugar and Sweet and Everything Nice !	Let's face it , it was not the best of shows but not the worst either . It had lots of wonderful guest stars who livened up the show . When I finally took a cruise to Alaska , I was expecting a love boat scenario but that's not what I got . Love Boat is indeed fantasy with a great theme song sung by Dionne Warwick and a decent cast that included Gavin McLeod , Jill Whelan , Lauren Tewes , Fred Grady , Bernie Kopell , and Isaac ( what is his real name ? ) . Anyway the scenario was usual about a three day cruise to Mexico and back to Los Angeles with guest stars that included several of Hollywood top stars and the ones that were not on top . For a while , I think the Love Boat provided a great service of keeping the B-list guest stars working . I won't name names but we know who they were and we don't care . Love Boat is a comedy mixed with a little bit of drama . They never did anything serious or offensive . Of course , it was a Spelling show which meant that it was eye candy , sugar and sweet , and everything nice .
Prematurely Canceled !	My Big Fat Greek Life could have worked if they allowed it too evolve on its own in time . Sadly canceled by CBS due to poor ratings ! It was aired on Sunday nights and not the Monday nights during the comedy lineup . When will networks learn to give comedies a chance like in the past , I could name several shows like All in the Family , Married with Children , Cheers , just to name a few that did not have great ratings in the beginning but they become decent funny shows . Unlike dramas , comedies are a lot harder to gain a solid audience . I remember the good old days of CBS ' Monday nights with shows like Kate & Allie , and Newhart . Maybe , syndication is where comedies can thrive without the network pressure . I remember watching sitcoms like Mama's Family and Charles in Charge in syndication after their network years .
A Television Adaptation of an Irish play !	Sean O'Casey , the Irish playwright , was known for his plays set in his beloved Ireland . This play is not much different . It is set in a tenement in Dublin during the 1920s where there were problems among the classes . In this drama , Frank Converse is dynamic as a leading role as an aspiring Irish poet who is caught with a sense of conscience and duty to his country and to his fellow Irishmen and women . The supporting cast is joined by Richard Dreyfuss without his famous mustache before he won me over in Jaws . There is a lot of monologues and verbal interaction between the characters but that is no different than any other Broadway theater archives except this drama was filmed for public television in Southern California . Broadway Theater Archives can now be only obtained on DVDs and VHS . It's a shame that there is no other way to show dramas and comedies from the stage to the masses .
Bubba is studying hard !	Bubba is now a college student and studying regularly with Toni Malone who is not a boy but a fellow female college student from Raytown Junior Community College . Mama has been trying to find out who is been sleeping in Bubba's bed when she finds a black bra while making the bed with Iola . The truth might be shocking than the assumption . Mama tries to get the truth out of Bubba . All the time , Naomi and Vint are trying to get pregnant as well and using a book to guide them along and somehow I believe it reads that you shouldn't have sex to have a baby which is news for Thelma . While Vint and Naomi are trying to get pregnant , Iola and Thelma are trying to play detectives in determining who is sleeping in Bubba's bed or not ?
Not as Good as the original show !	Redd Foxx was the star of Sanford and Son . Here he reprises his role as Fred Sanford without his son , Lamont . He has a new partner played by Dennis Burkley . His character is white , overweight sidekick but he's quite funny at times . The other characters include a wealthy widow , Evelyn Lewis , played by Marguerite Ray who does a great job . Lawanda Page comes back to torment her brother-in-law as Aunt Esther . The show was your typical sitcom from the early 1980s . Sadly , sitcoms are no longer in abundance nor are they packaged to be funny anymore . Redd Foxx was enormously funny and outrageous at times without being offensive to the audience regardless of your skin color . I was pleasantly surprised to see this show which must have been under my radar back when it first aired on television . BET has brought it back to new audiences who will rediscover Redd Foxx's wit and comedic genius .
not disappointing	This is not a disappointing film with a great cast including Dame Maggie Smith , Jennifer Jason Leigh , and Sir Albert Finney ( although he refused knighthood ) . Jennifer's shy awkward character is changed forever by a relationship with a poor distant man . The love story is quite romantic and tragic without giving the ending . It is truly a sad story and typical Henry James . The film was directed by Polish ex-patriat to Paris Agnieska Holland who directed Europa , Europa . The film is very visual with period costumes and outdoor architecture depicting the true Washington Square . Ironically , the author Henry James was an expatriate who travelled and wrote extensively about rich Americans whether in Europe or at home in America .
It was a decent show !	I was at a phase where I was watching lots of shows filmed in Hawaii but I never got into lost because it supposed to represent another island or the jungle . Anyway , I liked Cheryl Ladd in this role and Richard Burgi who is better known to us as Carl , the former husband of Teri Hatcher's character Susan on Desperate Housewives . I liked the show for the scenery , story lines , and guest characters . I don't know why we don't utilize Hawaii's beauty to film television shows and movies . It was shown on Lifetime for awhile but it's gotten lost in the mix along the way . I still would love to go to Hawaii . I guess it's Paradise on earth and I would like to get there someday .
We Loved Flo !	Kiss my Grits ! was Flo's line to Mel on the Alice show . Let's face it , Flo was a much loved character who overshadowed the show's titled star . Yes , Linda Lavin was great as Alice but Polly Holliday as Flo was a scene stealer with the wise cracking chewing gum attitude and beehive hairstyle . Of course , the show was never meant to be a hit but Flo should have been . I think the show never regained it's moment . It was Alice who played the straight character to funny Flo . I barely remembered the series but I remember Flo as being my favorite . I was thrilled to see her on in her own show but it never got picked up and Alice re casted the third waitress with Diane Ladd and somebody else . Nobody could have replaced Flo , she was truly one of the best television female sidekicks .
A Fictional Account of a Plane Crash !	It's a television film with Cheryl Ladd as the pilot's wife . She is happily married but she and her husband want a child . Their only child died as an infant . In this film , her husband and airline pilot are carrying a load of passengers from Washington-Baltimore to Kansas City but something happens . Nobody knows quite for sure about the cause of the accident but the pilot , a passenger , and a golden retriever survive the crash . Diane , Ladd's character , is convinced that her husband shouldn't be blamed for the crash and is determined to set him free regardless of the press , airline , and the authorities seeking somebody to blame and fault for the loss of lives . It's not a bad film but it's not great and Cheryl gives it her all and proves that she's not just another pretty actress .
Could have been a lot better ?	Dr . Bean comes to America . They think he's an art scholar and historian but he's only a watcher at the British Royal Art Gallery . They would like to fire him but somebody higher won't let them so they send him to America with a valuable painting of Whistler's Mother costing somebody 50 million dollars . Rowan Atkinson is one of Britain's best loved comedians . He becomes Bean , this man-child , that nobody understands maybe except for Peter McNichol's character . I love them together . They had a great chemistry with their comedic talents . He plays the art curator whose wife played by Pamela Reed thinks Bean is a certified weird and strange and won't let him stay with the family . He thinks it would be a good idea to welcome Bean into the family home . I think it would have worked to see how Bean interacts with his teenage daughter and son . There could have been great more comment moments with Bean interacting with the family . We don't know much about Bean .
You can't afford it ! Suze offers wisdom and solid advice !	Okay , I'm the last person to discuss finances but Suze Orman whose college degree was in social work and not in finance goes to show that she is trying to make the world a better place by spitting out wisdom and advice in her books , radio , and television shows along with lectures , speeches , and guest appearances on talk show . Suze Orman wants you to show her the money before you go out and spend yourself further into debt . Her advice is solid but goes to waste when people don't know how to save for emergencies . For example , a mother wants to send her son to Spain on a class trip but she's deep in debt . The mother is considering taking a loan but it's ridiculous because it will further deepen your loans . Suze's smart , brassy , has great white teeth , and could sell toothpaste . She knows about money and how to make it from her personal experiences long before she was a financial adviser . Before you go out and spend on some silly purchases , take the time to think if you need it rather than want it or will it sink you further in debt .
A Cute Sitcom of the 1980s !	This show was never meant to be a hit but it was with a stellar cast including a young Rick Shroeder as the spoiled but likable rich kid . Who could forget the train in the house ? His grandfather was played by legendary actor , John Houseman , and his father was well-played by Joel Grey . His stepmother and father's secretary was played by Erin Gray better known for her female role in the short-lived series , Buck Rogers . Everybody knew that they would get together . Anyway the Strattons live in Long Island , we also got to see Jason Bateman before he became famous . I liked Christina Belford who played the mother and former wife , Mrs . Stratton . She left an unforgettable impression on me that I always remembered her name . Well , the series had a nice five year run during the sitcom explosion of the 1980s .
As Creepy As It Gets !	The female cop in a small police headquarters is to spend the night with two male police officers , Mattingly and Miller . Don't forget the serial killer and cannibal who has killed as many as 32 victims is held up in the holding cell upstairs being guarded by one of her male counterparts . Strange things start happening once she looks at his file of terror regarding scenes of a young woman being tortured . This serial killer is as close to a monster as you can get . Lights go out and there seems to be trouble . The doors are locked to get outside the police station . Mattingly and Miller are acting stranger and the monster under the black blanket appears to be either dead or has run away . The female police officer must deal with the department's sexism and her superior's doubts about the strange ongoings at the police station . She faces her fear of the monster by doing something both admirable and destructive at the end .
Kaminski's attempt at film-making !	Janusz Kaminski is better known as Steven Spielberg's cinematographer in films like Schindler's List . In this film which aired late last night , this story is about Ben Chaplin , a psychologist Peter Kelson , and Winona Ryder , a French Catholic School teacher named Mia Larkin . Mia arrives and asks him about true evil . Slowly , the film does unravel to explain why she meets with him in the first place . I don't want to ruin the story but Peter Kelson's life is about to take a turn for the worse . Unexplainable things begin to happen to him and slowly a truth about his parentage comes up . There are lot of questions that are left unanswered . Maybe it's because it was edited for television . I would have liked to have seen more in the final scene in the church before the end of the film . I think the lack of explanation doesn't help the movie and the ending is rushed to finish the story .
Don't Lose Your Temper !	Since Fran's untimely death , Bubba moves into the room and posts a poster of his favorite rock band , Twisted Sister , much to the chagrin of his grandmother . Vint and Naomi are upset that they didn't get Fran's bedroom since it's across from Thelma's own room . Upon discovery , Fran left a will and information to contact her attorney . She was worth $35 , 000 in total . Everybody would be happy if Thelma followed not losing her temper for two weeks or forfeit and go the Little Sisters of Saint Ray orphanage or wayward home for girls . Vint , Naomi , and Bubba try to make everything comfortable for Thelma's two weeks so she can inherit her sister's fortune . With the inheritance , Vint and Naomi could purchase their own home and move out but things don't always go according to plan , do they ?
Like America's Most Wanted !	There is a large reward out for catching one of the Tri-State area's most wanted criminals who looks like the newcomer , Leslie LeMoygne , played wonderfully by Robert Mandan in this episode as the director at the Pepperpot Playhouse in charming Raytown . While the Harpers especially Vint and Naomi and even Bubba are out trying to catch the guy on Tri-State's Most Wanted for monetary gain , Mama Harper is trying to be persuaded by Iola to allow the playhouse to use some of their furniture as props . Mama believes that Leslie LeMoynge is the real criminal at large and does her best to apprehend him . It's a typical misunderstanding episode and worth enjoying if they put this show back on the air in syndication again .
Who really wants to be a Dame anyway ?	There are organizations in America that have women as Dames . Thelma desperately wants to join this snobbish organization maybe to make her snobby daughter , Ellen , jealous or green with envy . The three dames are expected to stop by Harper house and they are stunned to find out that Bubba is dressed as a woman for fraternity show . While Vinton and Naomi have finally found an affordable home which is a mobile home that needs some cleaning . They have a spot in the mobile home park where they planned to move just as soon as they can but their home isn't running properly and the dames have arrived . Thelma has cooked them a meal from a magazine that the dames complain that they eat too much . Well , Mama lets the dames finally have what they have coming to them anyway .
Stupid Inventions ! One slick con-man !	Vinton and Iola both have inventions . Vinton has a lock family home with a mama lock , papa lock , and baby boy lock in a silly lock house . After all , Vinton is a professional and proud locksmith . When he tries to sell his idea , Mama puts him in his place until a potential investor claims that he can make money off of his invention or stupidity or silliness . But that is before Mama gets involved in helping law enforcement out like a local police cop who is old enough to be her grandson gets her involved to stop the latest swindler in Raytown . I surely remember Vinton's invention as one of the funniest if not most ridiculous things in a long time . IOla has a more practical invention where she developed by helping her bed-ridden mother who we never see .
The Big Wheel is all about the Lottery !	When Thelma offers her children's birthdays for Iola's ticket for the lottery , she wins but there is a reason and Thelma believes that they should split the money . Regardless , huge amounts of money could wreck the friendship between Iola and Thelma . The silly lottery scheme aired on local television has the family after finally making mends and resolving their issue to settle before the chicken makes the decision . Yes , the lottery chicken , rooster , or hen is responsible for helping determine whether they win a million dollars in the drawing . Let's face it , if the Harpers or Iola ever won a million dollars then the show would never be the same but would their friendship survive after the big wheel is drawn ?
Mama Gets a Job at Food Circus besides Naomi !	When Mama goes shopping at Food Circus , she annoys her daughter-in-law Naomi and she gives advice to the store manager . Anyway , he decides to hire Mama as Ask Thelma , somebody you can go to advice regarding products . Of course , Naomi is devastated to learn that her workplace is being invaded by her mother-in-law . When Thelma makes rude comments about Naomi's easy job , the store manager insists that Thelma learn the job of a cashier while Naomi is demoted to bagger . Humiliated , Naomi goes through with helping Thelma out but she learns it's not that easy to be a cashier at a supermarket . It's not an easy job since you have to deal with the public on a regular basis .
One-way ticket to Bump !	There is a bus stop called Bump at the Raytown Bus Station Terminal . Iola's pearls go missing after her jewelry box is repaired by Vint . She starts making accusations against Bubba who wants money for a drum set . He gets a drum set right after her pearls go missing . Mama defends Bubba and sends Iola home . After Iola departs , she suspects Bubba of stealing her best friend's pearls . Frustrated with being treated as a thief in his own home and giving a story that is quite shaky at best . Bubba runs away from home to the Bus Station where Thelma goes to persuade him to come home after she apologizes for jumping to the wrong conclusions . The ending conclusion wraps everything up nicely .
This time it's Mama as teacher's pet !	We rarely see Mama go out on dates . Much like some widows , she was married once and probably doesn't want to do it again . In this episode , she is smitten with her teacher played by Joseph Campanella , another widower while Bubba is attracted to this nice girl , Amy . We watch Mama try to get his attention to ask her out on a dance or to the dance with help from Iola and Naomi . Mama Harper is smart but she lacks the confidence and we don't see much action between her and her teacher which is improper . Maybe that's why the episode is quite conservative . I have to say it's not one of my favorite episodes but it's the satisfactory fare of Mama's Family .
The Harpers are visited by a psychic !	Mama Harper suspects the psychic played wonderfully by Liz Torres is not who she appears to be so she does a little investigating and comes up with answers of her own . When the psychic visits the Harper House one night , the psychic is in for shock when she gets a taste of her own medicine in part and thanks to Mama Harper . This episode is quite harmless and Liz Torres is truly a gem of a comedic actress . Despite this one-time guest appearance , it was worth watching just for her to play a psychic who might be a con-artist but there is not much excitement or entertainment in Raytown anyway . Not that I don't love Raytown , I do . I would love to visit the real Raytown that inspired this comedy series in the first place .
Poor Sweet Iola !	Valentine's Day is supposed to be the most romantic night of the year thanks to Hallmark and other stores . In this episode , Iola claims that she has a date rather than explain to Naomi that she doesn't have a date on the most romantic night of the year . So Iola lies to protect herself . While Thelma also admits that she has a date rather than let her best friend stay with her and watch old movies on television as they usually do on St . Valentine's Day . Mama even goes so far as hiring from some escort service and is shocked by Mel who is more of a dancer and stripper than escort . Anyway , Mama and Iola have convinced the others that they have dates of their own anyway .
Presents Galore !	It was either Mother's day or Mama Harper's birthday or something of that nature . Since they don't air the episodes on television anymore nor is it on DVD , it's one of those holidays that presents are expected by Mama . For Vint , his boss , Mr . Carstairs , played wonderfully by the late Graham Jarvis asks Vint to hide a present for his wife at his house which is an expensive piece of jewelry . When Mama Harper finds the present hidden by accident , she assumes it's hers and exchanges it for something more practical . When Mr . Carstairs comes calling for his wife's present , Vint finds out and the mess has to get solved . How will Vint pay for an expensive present that he didn't buy in the first place ?
It's alright but it's not complete !	Kevin Spacey gives a command performance as Quoyle , the man who fears the water . The movie is rather surprising with Cate Blanchett as almost unrecognizable as Petal , his former wife . Quoyle is rather a tragic and sad figure of a man . He loves his daughter and his former wife but he has his own demons to battle like a father who had killed his wife and himself . His father phones and leaves a message about not having to depend on welfare . We get to learn more about his father from Aunt Agnes Hamm played by Dame Judi Dench . Aunt Agnes is rather very new to Quoyle . He probably was not aware of her existence . Dame Judi really knows how to speak with a Newfoundland accent without much help . What we don't know about Aunt Agnes ' past , we soon learn the horrible truth and why she detests her brother and seeks revenge on his remains . The casting includes Julianne Moore , who perfected the Newfoundland accent , as a native resident and widow with a small child . Julianne and Kevin have chemistry . In fact , Kevin also becomes part of the community by working on the paper . Pete Postlethwaite ( Spielberg considers him to be one of his favorite actors / OBE recipient ) plays Spacey's boss or fellow employee . Lass Hallstrom did a wonderful job but there are things I have trouble with this film . I feel that I don't understand what actually happened and the resolution . The movie leaves you asking more questions than answers and you want to see more and even dream about someplace like Newfoundland .
Mama goes after Bernice !	Mama Harper learns that her useless stock certificates may not be useless after all in thanks in part to her grandson Bubba's researching for his college class . At the same time , Vint learns that his locksmith shop might be sold to a company named Bernice who can turn it into a yogurt shop at the mall . Once Mama figures a connection in helping Vint solve her problem , she tries to save Kwik Keys from becoming another useless shop and save her son's job and need the money to the upcoming baby . Mama Harper does her best to help save Kwik Keys from becoming another casualty of corporation madness . This episode does touch a little on the corporation madness in our country then and now . A locksmith shop may not be the ideal lucrative business but it's a necessity since we all have keys .
Mama Gets a Job !	Mama Harper is upset because Aunt Effie has a job at the courthouse as a file clerk . Naomi suggests hobbies but then suggests that she gets a job herself . Thelma has not really had much of an education . She hasn't finished high school nor college experience . She has finished grade school which was not unusual in her generation . Anyway , she gets a job at the Raytown Travel Agency . Her first day is Saturday which would be fine if it wasn't for the constant interruptions of her family . Mama knows how to answer the phone and make coffee but she offends an elderly couple whose children are sending them to Tahiti . There are some hysterical lines and worth watching again .
Get ready to rumba !	When Naomi recognizes one of the wrestlers from the ladies of wrestling on television as an old friend , she gets her friend to come to dinner . It turns out that she might have to forfeit because her wrestling partner had an injury . Naomi resist but decides to help her friend out by being her wrestling partner . Naomi and her friend are fine until her friend suffers an injury and Mama comes in . You can imagine how Mama looks in the hideous costume and wrestles with the big girls from the wrestling . This episode is your typical Mama's Family fare with the family and Iola who are interested in the ladies ' wrestling . It was popular in syndication at the same time that Mama's Family was in syndication . I don't know the story behind this episode but I remember watching the ladies wrestling in Saturday afternoon and watching Mama's Family in the early evening on Saturday .
Another Burton & Depp Film !	Tim Burton and Johnny Depp have worked together before in other films like Ed Wood and Edward Scissorhands . In this film , Depp plays the strange Willy Wonka who has perfect teeth and a strange personality . We learn in this film about his dentist father played by Christopher Lee CBE ( he should be Sir Christoper Lee ) but that's another story . Poor Willy Wonka who wear a head brace to make his teeth perfect . He puts five chocolate bars with gold certificates . The lucky winners include the obese and slob , German Augustus , the spoiled rotten Veruca and her father played by James Fox , another great British actor , the blue girl from Georgia who is a champion like her mother , the troubled boy , and Charlie Bucket and his grandpa Jones . Charlie is poor and it is obvious that his family is struggling . Helen Bonham Carter's teeth are as poor as Willy's is white and perfect . The Buckets live in a shack with other notable British actors and actresses like the great Liz Smith who is not a gossip columnist in New York City but one of Britain's most under-rated and gifted comedic actresses in her eighties and going strong . She should also be on the honors list .
Mama Goes to La Maze !	Can you imagine Mama Harper at La Maze class with her daughter-in-law , Naomi , when she rather be playing bingo with Iola at a big tournament in town ? It can be funny at times especially when Mama scares the class about the realities of birth and having children . She only goes to fill in for her son , Vint , who was called on a work emergency . This is a typical episode with Mama helping Naomi out for a change . I enjoyed Lynn Milgrim who played the la maze coach and who is a very good actress in general . When she insists , " don't wake her up , " she's talking about Mama Harper . The show was winding down and trying to maintain some humor about the upcoming blessed event which Mama but not in this episode .
If only it did exist	I loved Twin Peaks . There has never been a show like it since or before . It's just so unique and bizarre . I loved all the characters even the minor ones . Twin Peaks is for the paranormal audience who can appreciate its dynamic creation . I long for Twin Peaks again . I would love to move somewhere like Twin Peaks , Washington . Screw the rain and the lousy weather . I would move there tomorrow if I could . Enjoy Twin Peaks the series , it was a legend of the time . Nothing beats it now . After the first season and the solving of Laura Palmer's murder , the series went in a crazy direction for it's cast . Of course , there were problems because everybody was a suspect in Laura's murder but when it was solved . It was like the end of a great mystery and you didn't want to know the truth . When the case got solved , McLachlan's character stayed around and I don't know why the FBI ever got involved in the first place . Twin Peaks is the kind of town that I would not mind moving too . It's mysterious and filled with colorful characters like the log lady , the Sheriff , and so many other great and unique characters . It was a visual experience on television that you would only get to see on film .
Finally Luann Fayette !	Naomi's best friend , Luann Fayette , and co-worker from Food Circus had just gotten through a divorce . She lives in a trailer park in Raytown . Luann has been spending so much time at the Harpers since her divorce that she has become a guest at dinner by Naomi's invitation . Jennifer Richards who plays Luann Fayette creates a complicated lonely attractive divorce . When Naomi sets her up with one of her husband's friends , he can't make it so they suggest having her young nephew Bubba go miniature golfing with them . Of course , Mama Harper is not too pleased with that idea and she tags along with Iola . I liked this episode because there is some attraction between young man , Bubba , and mature divorced Luann . It's still a charming memorable episode and played well by the cast .
Want a VCR ! You have to earn it ?	The Harpers want a VCR ( Video Cassette Recorder ) which was before DVD players and records but they don't have the money . They decide to hold a yard or garage sale and tries to unload some of Iola's handmade awful stuff off while she goes away to a wedding with her parents of town . When she returns unexpectedly early from the wedding , she learns that the Harpers are trying to sell her stuff . What they don't realize is that they place the money in her handmade tissue box cover and she takes it with her . Now the Harpers have to apologize to Iola and not only get their friendship back but the money as well . I felt this episode was quite the usual fare of Mama's Family in syndication .
Romeo & Juliet of Raytown !	The Harpers and their neighbors , the Gebhardts , have never gotten along when Carl Harper and Mrs . Gebhardt were alive so why should things be different after their deaths . Mama Harper and Mr . Gebhardt argue and bicker as old neighbors with a grudge between them . When Mama orders her grandson , Bubba , to clean up the front yard as does Mr . Gebhardt orders his grand-daughter , Teri to clean up his front yard do we see sparks when they both all in love with each other . I love Iola's remark . " It's like the Montagues and Capulets " and Vint replies " Do they live on our street too ? " The questions arise when both Teri and Bubba want to date each other despite their families ' disapproval . How will it work out like Romeo & Juliet or Maria and Tony in West Side Story ? Well , don't worry , it won't get bloody in the end .
A Mother's Day Affair !	When the Harper house gets a letter from a woman seeking her son about Vint's age , Vint begins to inquire about his actual birth . Thelma assures him that he was born on a farm and the birth certificate is actually wrong . He was born without red hair while both Eunice and Ellen were naturally red-headed . All this happens as the mother and son perform for an upcoming MOther's Day banquet at the church . When the Mrs . Minter comes to verify that Vint is actually her son , she is thrilled because she can move in with him and his wife . Her motives are not that clear until the final scene . After all they got the idea from watching a Donahue episode which the mother was reunited with a wealthy son . Bibi Osterwald gives a memorable performance as Mrs . Minter looking for her son .
Out of Order Completely !	This episode was aired after Vint and Naomi's wedding . Regardless , Vint is divorced , broke , and living with Mama Harper and his old maid , Aunt Fran , and his two kids in the basement of their home . Vint's friend , Claude Cainmaker , hatches a plan . He's also the same man that helped get Vint lose his home and move back home with Mama . Some friend , huh ? He speaks with a Portugeuse man who wants his niece Zaida to get married so she can get a green card . Claude thinks of nothing better than asking Vint . When Vint goes home , he doesn't tell Mama about his upcoming nuptials . He soon realizes that he's been had by Claude when the plan goes awry thanks to Mama .
Not Keeping the Faith !	Okay , the premise of this whole is about two men in love with the same woman . The only problem is that one man is a Catholic priest and the other is a Jewish Rabbi . I liked some moments in the film when Brian tries to explain why he is a priest and the whole celibacy vow that you have to take to become a Catholic Priest . It's like he's trying to rationalize why he doesn't have sex as his choice or vocation in life . Men don't become priests for the glory , the high income , or the power . Men who become priests do it as a service to their communities , their families , etc . Sorry but priests get a bad rap lately because of all the scandals and politics but the personal rewards are so much greater than money , power , or popularity . There are priests and rabbis who do so much services to their communities whether handling funerals , counseling distraught families , dealing with poverty , AIDS , homelessness , etc . that they don't have time to think about the celibacy vow . Maybe if we didn't live in this age where sex is counted , we could have lived in an age where deeds , services , contributions , and generosity counts . So , I'm not crazy about Jenna Elfman who is a Scientologist . Technically , Ben Stiller is Half-Jewish but his mother Anne Meara is Irish Catholic herself so technically he's not . Edward Norton is cast as Father Brian . The other cast members including the divine Anne Bancroft as Jake's mom is worth watching . The friendship between Jake , Brian , and Anna are enduring but the whole sexuality just messes it up for all of them . It might have been nicer to have just Jake and Brian's relationship despite their different religions which are not so much different . People are so fascinated with the whole celibacy that society practically dictates that if you're not getting any , there's something wrong with you . Maybe there is or maybe there is such a fuss about sex in the general , you wonder what's so great about it in the first place . Of course , love makes the world of difference after all .
Silly Film but what a cast !	Film director , Dorothy Arzner , was perhaps one of the first women directors in male Hollywood . Maybe her lesbianism helped in others forgetting that she was a female . Anyway this cast included Maureen O'Hara , Lucille Ball , Ralph Bellamy , and others who would have fabulous careers in Hollywood at the time . Dance , Girl , Dance is nothing more than a comedy and melodrama . Of course , Arzner's direction is not inspiring because she has such a wonderful cast . Who would have thought that Lucille Ball could have had a dramatic role for a change before her own hit show on television ? Maureen O'Hara is truly an Irish beauty who is still with us for now while most of the cast have gone to a better place . Dorothy Arzner paved the way for other women directors , lesbian or not , to put their stamp on Hollywood . Sadly , this film is not the greatest or worst film of all time but you can still watch it and debate on whether women have come so far in Hollywood .
Mama Goes to Her Class Reunion !	Mama Harper would surprise many people about the truth about her past . When Vint and Naomi get a catering job for her school reunion , she is mortified and tells a humiliating story to Iola , her confidante and best friend that she was known as Hot Pants . Anyway , Thelma gets the courage to attend her high school reunion and even eat some of Naomi's catering as well . This episode has a guest appearance by Pat Crawford Brown who is better recognized from various roles especially on Desperate Housewives recently and even Days of Our Lives . This episode will make you crack more than a smile and laugh at Mama Harper who gets the courage to fight back at her reunion and set the record straight .
Not so Bad !	Okay , this show is not so bad . When you have Stockard Channing , Henry Winkler , and Jennifer Tilly in the cast , you have to like it , I guess . It grows on you . I didn't care much for the three adult children-two male doctors and a lesbian which seems to be more of running joke but they do handle that carefully as to not alienate the viewers . I don't care that it's set in New York City . Since I'm pretty familiar , I think New York City has been done to death in sitcoms . They could have picked Chicago , Seattle , San Francisco , etc . for a change of setting . The writing is average . Still no matter what , Channing and Winkler's characters are the attraction to this mediocre show . I don't care for the adult children . They're not up to par or on the same level as the people who play their parents are . Even the father's mistress or girlfriend , Jennifer Tilly ( I hope I got the right Tilly sister ) manages to hold her own . It's a shame that the networks feel that they must put younger characters in the spotlight and keep the true stars in the shadows . That is Winkler , Channing , and Tilly .
Give This Show a Chance Please !	I saw last night's episode . While I have to admit , I was hoping for more . I just love John Lithgow and Jeffrey Tambor . I can't believe they never worked before . I am hoping that NBC will allow this show to evolve because I think it has a lot of promise especially with first rate cast . I believe that Tambor and Lithgow's relationship on screen mirrors off-screen . I wish the writing was better but I hope that the show will improve if given a full season . I prefer John in 3rd Rock from the Sun but I'll take him whenever he comes on television . Jeffrey Tambor is also a brilliant actor . They could have made it the Golden Boys of this decade . With Lithgow and Tambor , you can't go wrong . I hope they plan on getting stars like Dame Eileen Atkins , Jessica Walter , Jason Bateman , Jane Curtin , and anybody else they worked with in the past . Lithgow and Tambor could be the new comedy team of this century so please let this show developed into something that can last for years .
Silly but necessary sequel !	Ever since the Gods must be crazy premiered ten years earlier , there was a need for a sequel because the film generated a buzz not seen in years . With a native bushman in a starring role in the original , he returns . This time , his two sons go missing or on an adventurous journey through Africa . The cast also includes a female doctor , a white lady , who gets into the same mischief as in the first film . The cast and crew are alright . The story is not much different as African tribal people get introduced to modern society . In the original , the bushman thought it was an animal and not a car . The story is still heartwarming and entertaining as well .
COuld have had a better title ?	Robert Culp has appeared in several Columbo episodes . This time , he is again at it as the chief suspect in an unusual murder . Watching Columbo catch him is always fun . Dean Stockwell plays the victim who is a married cad . The woman who plays his wife is best known for her role on Dallas as one of the wives . Anyway , the plot is thin but the murder is quite complicated and not simple to explain here . I think you have to believe in Columbo's genius in figuring it out . I like the idea of ice cream truck which makes it interesting . The death is more unusual than normal but it's fun watching Peter Falk and Robert Culp together in another typical episode .
Don't Take this Film Too Seriously ! Don't recast Bethany !	I give this movie and 7 because it's a little out there and unrealistic about Catholicism and religion in general . I am entertained by this film and have seen it repeatedly . This film is not for the religious at all , so don't take it seriously . I also gave it an 7 because I think Kevin Smith could have done a better job . First , he has an excellent cast of actors like Linda Florentino , Ben Affleck , Matt Damon , Alan Rickman ( he deserves something in England for all his wonderful work like an O . B . E . or Officer of the British Empire ) , Kevin Smith , atheist George Carlin , Janeane Garofalo , Chris Rock , etc . The plot is complicated . Bethany is chosen to save the earth by stopping 2 angels-Damon and Affleck from entering a church in Red Bank , New Jersey ( Kevin Smith's territory ) . I won't get into details about why or where but I am always intrigued to watch this film on Comedy Central repeatedly over the weekend . I loved Alan Rickman's role as the voice of God . While I won't reveal my own personal religious beliefs , I don't think God is that cruel or unforgiving as it is believed in this film . But I loved Affleck and Damon as the Bartleby and Loki . It's worth watching ! I was reading about Kevin Smith not getting along with Linda Fiorentino on the set . Supposedly , she is difficult person but she admits it herself . The role of Bethany is wonderfully performed by Linda Fiorentino . Her best scenes are with Affleck and Rickman . Linda is the kind of person who doesn't take stuff from anybody especially directors and some male costars like Kevin Smith . Maybe Linda is the kind of person who prefers control over her own life especially on the set . Women in this business are never treated fairly . It's still a man's game in Hollywood . A game she won't play by their rules . I'm glad that Linda isn't on the cover of some tabloid with her own problems . Anyway last night I did research on Linda Fiorentino . Despite rumors , the director from Last Seduction would like to work with her again . She was in a film directed by Anthony Edwards and acted with him previously in another film as well . The rumors of her difficult personality might be the fact that she was also turned down for the Sharon Stone role in Basic Instinct because her breasts weren't big enough for them . Same thing happened with Kevin Smith , he cared more about her breasts and put a double in her place . How come there are male doubles out there of Ben Affleck or Matt Damon ? Sorry but I have to side with Linda . She is beautiful , talented , and intelligent . Regarding the Tommy Lee Jones rumor that he wouldn't do Men in Black II if Fiorentino was in it . THe director said that he offered the part to Linda but it was too small and her character was going to be killed off . She didn't want the role and didn't do it . Maybe jones and smith didn't want a woman like Linda Fiorentino to take away their thunder in the sequel as she did in the first movie . Sorry , I just thought I might try to defend Linda since she won't defend herself publicly . She is too cool for that . SHe is happy being a loving aunt , photographer , and living in New York City . I wish her the best . She said that she just doesn't suck up to people like directors like Kevin Smith .
Not so Bad , not so Great but worth watching !	I have to say that I watched some episodes of this show . I grew to like it . I didn't at the beginning . The family seem pretty ordinary and a bit dysfunctional but what family isn't . It is interesting that the parents have an interfaith marriage but religion does not seem utilized unless they have a special episode . The child actors on this show are satisfactory . The writing could be better but it's not so bad . You have to take what you get with situation comedies especially with family centered-comedies because there are little or none out there . Most sitcoms today are centered around the workplace environment . I rather watch the sitcom than the world series but I think that I am in the minority on that one .
One of the duller episodes !	I am sad to say that I disagree with other people on this Columbo episode . Death Lends a Hand is frankly kind of a boring Columbo to me . After a few times , I get bored and changed the channel . I still love Robert Culp and Patricia Crowley and Ray Milland in their roles but the story was weaker in this episode than in the others . First , Robert Culp plays an investigator for Ray Milland's character . He hires him to investigate his young pretty wife played by Patricia Crowley to see if she is having an affair . In return , Culp's character blackmails the cheating wife who plans to expose his scheme to her husband ruining his career . Out of anger , Culp kills her by striking her in the face and setting the up the body elsewhere . I don't know . Maybe I just didn't care for this one at all . Of course , Columbo gets him in the end . It's just the question of how .
Meant Well but still kind of disappointing !	Cate Blanchett is becoming one of Australia's best known actresses worldwide and with good reason . She has the class , style , and appearance of a female movie star from the golden era of Hollywood . She is still a classic beauty but conveys intelligence , wit , and seriousness about her roles as a work of art . In the title role of Charlotte Grey , she plays a British woman who goes looking for the man she loves in the midst of World War II . He was a member of the Royal Air Force and his plane was shot down . Determined to find out his fate regardless of all the dangerous consequences , Charlotte assumes a new name and is taken in by a French family . They filmed the village scenes in Toulouse with locals as extras . Some remember when the Germans invaded France with great pain and anguish even to this day . The film is quietly strong but not for the cinema . It might have gotten better reception on Masterpiece Theater . The scenery , art direction , costumes are all first rate but the writing lacked something in my opinion .
Odd Placement of Episode !	In this episode , we don't know what has happened to Fran , Ellen , Buzz , or Sonja , you have to see the next episode regarding their situations ? Anyway Bubba Higgins played by Alan Kayser , Ed and Eunice's son , is spending a typical Saturday at Harper house with his Aunt Naomi and Uncle Vint . Mama Harper and her best friend and neighbor Iola Boyland played by Beverly Archer are working on getting a cookbook together for their church . They argue over who has the best chili and then there is chili cook-off between Iola , Mama , and Naomi herself who gets involved . Who has the best chili according to Vint and Bubba ? I am just glad that the show resurfaced again but I don't understand how this episode was placed first instead of second . Regardless , I am a fan and was just as happy to have them back in any form .
You don't have to spend so much money to have a memorable episode !	I haven't been a fan of MacMillan & Wife . I prefer Columbo anyday but the local station airs a weekly episode of Mac and wife , Sally . Of course , movie star Rock Hudson takes the role as San Francisco Police Commissioner who is married to young Sally played by Susan Saint James , a model turned actress . In this episode , they are believable about a serial killer known as the asylum murderer who enjoys watching his victims die . In this episode , the murderer has a masterful plan in which his victims die while their home is being fumigated . The killer has already sent his mother-in-law away as well as the Police Commissioner's trustful assistant who would know something is up . This episode is memorable if not because the actors make it memorable .
From a True South Amboy Girl !	I was born in Amboy , Perth Amboy , right across the river from South Amboy where the girl , Violet Sanford , was supposed to be from . I was there the day that the film came to town to shoot the opening scene . They all ordered pizza from the pizzeria , Delios , right across the street whose owners are truly Sicilian born and bred who have been making pizza since before I was born . I met some of the crew members . The filming only lasted a couple of days but I remember it like yesterday . South Amboy is not so far away from New York City that Violet could have made the trek on her own like the hundreds who do from the South Amboy train station which goes directly to Penn Station . I really became a fan of Piper while watching the film last night on television as well as Maria Bello who plays bar owner , Lil . My family are huge admirers of Melanie Lynskey mostly from her role as Rose on Two and Half Men but she's good here except she plays the accent just a little too thick . Nobody in South Amboy talks like that . You can't help but love John Goodman . Anyway the film's alright with a story of Violet Sanford who wishes to become a songwriter .
If you are really into Terms of Endearment !	I was kind of disappointed . I was expected the same from the sequel with the role of Aurora Greenway played by Academy Award Winner Shirley Maclaine again . Of course , Jack Nicholson won his second Oscar for his role as her lover . In this film , Aurora deals with troubled grandchildren who she helped raise because the father was absentee . One grandson is in prison and her granddaughter is as stubborn as her daughter Emma played by Debra Winger was . Also Miranda Richardson plays a Texan friend that wanted to raise Emma . Also Marion Ross is cast in the role as Rosie Dunlop , Aurora's maid or housekeeper . There were some changes like ROsie lived at the house but Marion Ross earned a Golden Globe nomination and probably would have earned her Academy Award nomination if the film got better reviews . Marion does an excellent job in making us care so much for Rosie .
This Show was a Turkey !	Turkey Television was a spin-off of the hugely popular " You Can't Do That on Television , " another Canadian show from Ottawa , Ontario , Canada . Turkey Television or Turkey TV didn't last as long as it could have been . They would take skits , cartoons , and sketches that featured popular Christine McGlade and other alums of " You Can't Do That on Television " but without the green slime . Turkey Television was fine but it wasn't great as I remembered it . I don't miss it as much as I miss " You Can't Do That on Television " because there was really no cast of regular characters . The sketches and cartoons if I remember came from all over the world . They allowed cartoons and sketches and skits that the audience wouldn't normally see without it on Turkey Television . We could use some Turkey Television today with the increased animation industry and computer generated cartoons that we can watch and enjoy whether we are kids or adults .
Good Movie for Popcorn Eating !	Oscar winner Nicholas Cage is the leading role about a descendant of one of Ben Franklin's closest friends . Cage's character , Gates , is seeking the treasure that his family has been searching for . The movie begins with the wonderful Christopher Plummer ( one of today's finest actors on stage , film or television ) as his grandfather and Oscar winner Jon Voight as his father . Gates believes that there is a conspiracy to steal the original declaration of independence from Washington D . C . by thieves who seek the treasure . He decides to take it before they do . They are hot on his trail and he takes a female love interest and antique document restorer along for the ride with a trusty male sidekick . They uncover one clue which leads to another . I love the location scenery like in Washington D . C . and Philadelphia . It's a great thrill ride to watch but not take literally .
Never Given a Chance to Shine !	Before she was doing movies , Tea Leoni was coming alive in situation comedies . In this comedy , she plays Alicia which is quite artistic and lives in the artistic section of New York City . Corey Parker plays her boyfriend who I remember having a crush at the time . He comes from the suburbs and falls head in heels in love with her . They live together with Alicia's friends always dropping by her loft like Clea Lewis and others . The show was quite entertaining at times and I liked it a lot for Sunday sitcom fare . Unlike Friends , I thought Flying Blind was quite more realistic and entertaining without being condescending to the audience .
A must see movie	I believe Sarafina is a tremendous effort of Whoopi Goldberg . Besides her , there are no other stars in the film and her role is smaller than the title character , Sarafina . Since I work in a high school with urban children , I think this is an important film to show South African history of apartheid . Sarafina is a movie about education and a teacher's relationship with her student , Sarafina . I bought the video for practically nothing at a videostore . I watched it and fast forwarded through the musical numbers . But I strongly recommend this film to educators and their students to understand . Now while I don't know the other actors and actresses in the film , I assume that they are very popular in South Africa and I am glad that they filmed with a South African cast and crew with the exception of Goldberg in a small role but if it gets people to see this movie , than Whoopi reaches worldwide appeal .
Could Have Been a Bigger Hit !	I don't know why ABC wanted the Ropers spun off into their own sitcom . They were crucial to the success of Three's Company . They were succeeded by the amazing Don Knott as Mr . Furley . Anyway , this show wasn't the greatest or the worst television that I ever saw but I did enjoy watching the Ropers try to settle and deal with Jeffrey Tambor's snobbish character and neighbor . Helen and Stanley Roper will always be better known for their roles as the nosy landlords downstairs who were suspicious of Jack Tripper's sexual orientation . How ironic ? Anyway , the Ropers only lasted a season which was just too short . The audience loved the Ropers and they could have returned as tenants on Three's Company after not lasting in their own series . Regardless , Norman Fell and Audra Lindley as the Ropers left quite a legacy in television history that won't be forgotten . Too bad , it didn't last longer in their own show . I don't think ABC gave it a fair chance .
The French Notes of a Scandal !	I have to say that I don't like this film . I love French films because I think they are more in depth , thought-provoking , and spend more time developing relationships between the characters . Unfortunately , Tatie Danielle is cruel and mean . She criticizes everybody but herself . She makes everybody else's life worse than hers by her actions . The way she treats people including the old woman who cared for her in the beginning of the film is exceptionally cruel when it causes her death . She moves in with unsuspecting relatives who have two young sons . One son is obviously homosexual but the parents either ignore it just turned a blind eye to it . Not Tatie Danielle ! You can imagine what she has to say and do . Just look what she does to the family pet dog . Anyway , she finally meets her match in the caretaker assigned to her when the family takes a much-needed Greek vacation for a month . If only Americans could take month-long vacations , how I envy the French . Anyway , they get along until she has to leave her . Then Tatie Danielle gets famous for her poor treatment by getting national sympathy . When she's not in the old folks home after that incident , she is away with her caretaker somewhere . I don't know . I think Tatie's cruelty is just too much for me or anyone .
Another Crime Drama with a Twist !	Okay , there are just way too many crime dramas on television these days . I prefer sitcoms . I think the partnership of Simon Baker and Robin Tunney is interesting . They have a lot of chemistry on screen . Apart from the actual crime solving on the shows , Simon's character is a mentalist or a fake psychic or fraud charlatan before he became an investigator and working on the right side instead of the wrong side . The mentalists are not exactly psychics but people who are very in tuned with details almost obsessively . While there are people out there who are skeptics about psychics and paranormal , there are legitimate psychics who don't exactly make a living from their gift but share with others . The mentalist doesn't believe in psychics exist but I disagree . I think there are some things that are just beyond explanation . I wish well for the Mentalist but it has too much competition already .
What happened to the kittens ?	Iola's beloved cat , Midnight , is sick . Naomi describes him as the meanest cat ever . He is so mean that Midnight attacks the postman . When Iola's cat dies , she gets him freeze-dried or preserved . The family decides to bet on one of the abandoned trunks at an auction sale . When Midnight is on the porch freeze-dried , Vint thinks he's killed him again so he buried him in the yard . Mama Harper knows that Midnight is already dead and makes the family get him out of the grave for Iola's sake . In the end , cats are all the rage but since the Harpers have adopted them . We never see them again and then there is the unopened trunk with so many possibilities about having a fortune .
A Solid Funny Show !	To tell you the truth , I was never a fan of " I Dream of Jeannie " but I did see the reruns as a child when they showed reruns on local stations . I love Barbara Eden as Jeannie and Larry Hagman as her master . Although now several years later , I felt the show degrades Jeannie in the power of a man . I don't think it was ever meant to be sexist since it was over forty years ago . Still , the marvelous Sidney Sheldon did a fantastic job in writing the series which only lasted five years maybe it was because of the women's liberation movement . Regardless , I did enjoy the on screen chemistry between Hagman and Eden . Nobody could ever fill Eden's shoes as Jeannie . While there is production for an updated movie version , nobody could fill Jeannie's shoes like Barbara Eden .
Where ever he goes , murder follows should be his motto !	Columbo is on vacation in Mexico and he is a stranger to this country . Guest stars Ricardo Montalban stars as a celebrity matador who kills the man who knows his deepest secret . A . Martinez from L . A . Law , Santa Barbara , and General Hospital has a memorable role as the son of the victim . Anyway , it's typical Columbo with a usual formula . He gets entangled with his own problems . They mention a previous crime solved in another episode entitled " Troubled Waters . " Well anyway , this Columbo episode doesn't rank up there as one of my personal favorites but it is worth watching great actors like Falk and Montalban have exchanges and A . Martinez perform in a supporting role . Even today , Mexicans are rarely seen on mainstream television shows and it gave a very different exposure rather than everybody in the country crossing the border . Nobody seemed in this episode to be racing to get over the Border . Keep that in mind and nobody was smuggled in Columbo's car .
Double Exposed !	Columbo has to match wits with Robert Culp again in this episode . I don't know offhand how many episodes that featured Robert Culp but I remember this one . He is a scientist who specializes in mental manipulation . I couldn't think of another way to explain it . Anyway , Columbo has met his match in this episode . Robert Culp's character kills somebody who wants to destroy his professional reputation as a top scientist who helps improves sales in grocery stores and other ways . Anyway , you have to watch how Columbo catches him . Like a typical episode , he becomes interested in his line of work but does not forget the victim or the crime . It's worth noting that it's pretty sophisticated in 1973 and I would watch it again if I have too but it's not my favorite episode of his or with Robert Culp .
An interesting twist in crime !	A Stitch in Crime is a typical Columbo episode with it's usual twists . We know who did it from the every beginning . Leonard Nimoy is superb as the unlikable surgeon who is very vain and conceited in my opinion but I love Leonard Nimoy as an actor anyway . The story is better written than most . They don't spend that much time in the hospital which is nice . Of course , Columbo buts heads with Nimoy's surgeon character quite often enough to irritate him but you can't help but love Columbo . When he catches his man or woman in some cases , it's always the least likely way . He has a good supporting cast but forgettable since I can't remember any of their names .
Could have been better !	Columbo's Most Dangerous Match is about chess . An unlikely subject or motive for murder in my opinion . The star is Manchurian Candidate's Lawrence Harvey who plays a deaf chess champion . He is terrified of losing and will do anything to maintain his status as world chess champion . His competitor is a Russian chess champion who unlike Lawrence Harvey's character is well-regarded and loved instead . He lures him into an unusual trap to prevent him from defeating . Columbo always knows how to work a prime suspect and does it by being fascinated in their work particularly chess . One of Columbo's trademarks is that he gets interested in the character's passion and in this one , it's chess . He finds it a hell of game with a lot to lose on each side . You have to know that it's kind of hard watching Columbo catch this one . You almost feel sorry for him and in that , Lawrence Harvey gives a memorable performance since his role in the Manchurian Candidate .
Updated Version of a Classic Thriller !	The cast is largely unknown at least to me but they do a superb and unforgettable job bringing this story to life about a kidnapping that goes horribly wrong from the first instant . The three kidnappers , two men and a woman who are somewhat a love triangle , kidnap an eight year old boy named David SAnborn but not just any eight year old boy . David acts bizarre , drawing disturbing images , whispering evil into their ears , and creating a sense of fear among his own kidnappers . The tragedy is what happens to the kidnappers who don't deserve their fate . David is like Damien from the Omen but we're not really sure if he is the angel or demon or son of the Devil but he does act like one . The film is a good thriller but leaves some flaws in it . I kind of liked the film overall .
Great Cast ! Great Ride !	I happened to catch this film today on a cable channel . It was worth watching again . Unlike other disaster films , this film was an original set on a train with a plague ridden passenger . Aboard this Paris bound train , it's changed to a place in Poland which was a concentration camp to quarantine the passengers . What the passengers don't know is that they have to cross " The Cassandra Crossing " which is poorly constructed bridge in Poland that can't handle the train's weight . Even the former residents have left living there because of the bridge's danger . I thought this film has a lot of thrilling sequences even with the seventies music and score by Jerry Goldsmith . The cast is first rate with the late Richard Harris ( who should have been knighted ) , Sophia Loren , Martin Sheen , Ava Gardner , Lee Strasberg , even O . J . Simpson is cast in an unusual role . I haven't watched anything with Simpson since 1994 . I thought Lee Strasberg was brilliant as was Burt Lancaster and Ingrid Thulin as well .
An Enjoyable Grisham Flick !	Matt Damon plays a young , inexperienced lawyer in the South . It's a typical Grisham story of a young male lawyer who seeks to win his case . His case involves a young man who dies awaiting a bone marrow transplant . He is fighting the insurance company , Great Benefits . It must be fictitious but this book and story was out long before Michael Moore's Sicko and it's still relevant in today's world . Mary Kay Place plays the bereaved mother . Roy Scheider plays the Great Benefits CEO . Virginia Madsen plays the single mother who was also a claims adjuster who helped explain the insides of the company . While people lay dying , claims go unanswered and unpaid . It's your typical Grisham and relevant more as time goes on .
It's called sexual harassment , Naomi !	Mama's Family did take on some serious issues like homelessness , pornography , ageism , sexism , and sexual harassment in this episode . Naomi gets a new boss at Food Circus , the local supermarket , where she has worked her bones from bagger to checker to the express lane . Finally , she could get a management position if her sleazy boss played well by Jeff Silverman puts the moves on her . After the incident in his office , she is terrified to go back to work and feels ashamed . When she finally confides in Thelma and Iola of all people about how her new boss has told her to put up or get out like a previous female employee . Mama has plans of her own . Thelma and Iola watched a Donahue episode where they discussed the matter of sexual harassment . The episode is quite tame by today's standards .
An Unforgettable Crime in a Forgettable Movie !	Okay , the film was not that great but the story of the preppy murderer , Robert Chambers , played by William Baldwin in a chilling performance . Lara Flynn Boyle plays Jennifer Levin , the victim of the crime . Chambers was the son of a New York City nanny / housekeeper of prominent East Side families who wanted her son to have the same advantages as John F . Kennedy Jr . and Jennifer Levin was a true New Yorker from a family who was well-to-do . He was from the wrong side of the tracks while she was from the right side of the tracks . Her life would end tragically one night in Central Park . Joanna Kerns took a break from her role as Maggie Malone Seaver on Growing Pains to play Linda Fairstein , the prosecutor , and I believe she did a service to the role . The case itself was on the cover People magazine and the New York City tabloids . Of course , Robert Chambers was a good looking man and too nice to be a killer but I think that was why the case brought so much attention . If you have attractive people like Chambers and Levin , you want to know why . If they were unattractive , I think that we would not care for it .
Groovy and Out of Sight !	Okay , I'm glad that they made a sequel to the original film . In this film , Carol's first husband , Roy Martin , supposedly returns to reunite with his beautiful wife and three blonde daughters . Unfortunately , he's not who or what he appears to be . He seems trapped in Brady's world where cable television is far too out there for them and where dysfunctional seems to be the norm . Greg and Marcia get new digs in the attic with creepy sexual tension between them while Jan fakes a new boyfriend . I love the coffee house scene where Greg and Marcia are double dating and where Jan and her fake boyfriend show up . Well , the fake first husband is only after Carol to get a horse that could pay him 20 million dollars to Hawaii to the anxious buyer . Yes , the plane ride to Hawaii is one to remember . There's singing and dancing and those Bradys are at it again . It's just a fun film to watch over and over . Nothing serious !
Too bad , Mr . Wizard is gone !	The real Mr . Wizard is gone now but during his years on Canadian Broadcasting Company , he was really the science guy of my generation . Episodes of the show were aired frequently and on Nickelodeon in it's hey day or when I was growing up . Nickelodon looked to the North for children's programming . Since they stopped showing Canadian shows , the network has never been the same . Mr . Wizard played by Don Herbert made science fun without being intimidating or without being a snob . Mr . Wizard was one of those shows that allowed science to be fun but it was not as entertaining as Bill Nye . It didn't have to be because we still watched the show anyway . I believed the show was film in Calgary or somewhere in Canada . I still desire to visit there since the 1988 Winter Olympics . Today's Mr . Wizard is Bill Nye but still I do miss Don Herbert's Mr . Wizard and the kids who made science fun for thirty minutes .
You can't buy what you wish for !	You can survive Surviving Christmas . I thought the television version was a bit edited way down . I like Ben Afleck . He plays Drew Johnson , a family-less adult , who is willing to pay complete strangers . The Valcos starring James Gandolfini and Catherine O'Hara as the parents and Christina Applegate as Lisa Valco , the daughter . Drew is lonely around the holidays because he doesn't have a family of his own so he rents out a family in the Chicago suburbs for a quarter million dollars . Bill Macy who I best remember for playing Maude's husband Arthur is hired to play Duda , the grandfather . When the whole situation comes crashing down , the truth can be painful . The Valcos household is crumbling apart from the Drew situation . Drew's rich girlfriend and her parents make a surprising visit . You can't buy what you wish for ! The acting and writing is mediocre but the first rate cast pulls it through to the final scene .
It had Agnes Nixon all over it !	When Loving first premiered , it was big on television . After all , this was the child of two great and creative geniuses , Agnes Nixon and Douglas Marland . It had great potential and lasted for as long as it could . It never recovered from Ryan's Hope as a lead in show . I remember the cast . The actors and actresses were pretty and the set always looked like you could put it on All My Children . But sadly , the show never maintained or garnered a large audience like All My Children . There is no question that there were great actors on the show like Wesley Addy , Celeste Holm , Christine Tudor , Larkin Malloy , Lisa Peluso , Nada Rowand , and more that I have forgotten . I haven't seen the show in years but it never got much recognition like it's sister shows , All My CHildren and One Life to Live . Maybe if Douglas Marland had stayed on as head writer , the show would have become more like AS the World TUrns . But the truth is that it was worth watching when soaps ruled daytime . Now , there is only 1 30 minute show on the air .
Not so much a Miracle as a Sequel !	I barely remember Blythe Danner playing the Annie Sullivan role . It's Mare Winningham's performance as the legendary blind-deaf Helen Keller that I remember most because of how she approached the role . Winningham's performance as Keller is unforgettable and only a slight indication of her talent as an actress . I'll never forget Helen typing away on a braille typewriter . After Keller discovers how to sign into the hands of her lifelong teacher , Annie Sullivan , she continues to write and communicate with the world through her writings . Keller is one of those legendary American figures that must be handled with care and Winningham approaches her with that gentle understanding .
It does have a happy ending !	Okay , Baby Mama won't be a front-runner for next year's Oscars . It is not why I wanted to see it . I love Tina Fey and Amy Poehler from Saturday Night Live . Fey plays 37 year old successful single childless woman who realizes her time clock is running out . She tries infertility treatments and adoption before she turns to a surrogate agency run by Oscar nominee Sigourney Weaver who is popping babies naturally without a surrogate for her . Fey's character Kate Holbrook hires poor white trash Angie O . to be her surrogate . Poehler plays her to the hilt with both laughs and even sympathy . You really feel for Angie at some moments in the film despite that she is not really a sympathetic character but a smart con artist . Angie's common-law husband Carl dumps her and Angie moves in with Kate where the real fun starts . The film has a first rate cast featuring the great James Rebhorn as a judge , the dynamic Holland Taylor as Kate's mother , Greg Kinnear as the possible love interest , Steve Martin as the bizarre boss , Maura Tierney as Kate's married sister and mother , Saturday Night Live Alums like Siobhan Fallon Hogan as the birthing coach ; Fred Armisen as the seller of baby strollers ; Will Forte as Scott , Kate's one-time boyfriend .
A Polish Story !	My Polish is not very good . I picked up this tape at a thrift store . There were no subtitles so it was difficult for me . The story is set in two parts . In 1874 , Krakow which wasn't Poland at the time , the series centered around upper class single women trying to get married and live happily ever after . The beginning is quite slow and reminds me a lot of British period piece dramas where there is a lot of talking than action . When there is action at a silly dance where eligible men arrive , the actions between the men and women are bit peculiar . In taking to an account that this series was filmed in Communist era Poland before martial law , you have to take that this film was done with the idea to entertain and provide a soap opera style . In the second part of the story takes place twelve years later in 1886 Krakow and the mountainous region where the more interesting and clearly established plot line is explained . One of the women at the party who gets married and bears a son . She suffers from an illness and is recommended to spend time in the mountains by her doctor . There she meets another doctor , who she is attracted too .
A Crack at Taking God's Job !	Bruce Nolan was an aspiring journalist who wanted nothing more than the local anchorman job in Buffalo , New York instead of doing funny bits of news like the introduction where he is at Polish bakery celebrating the city's largest chocolate chip cookie . It starts off smart but it wears thin overall . Bruce is played by the unforgettable Jim Carrey who is brilliant at physical comedy much like John Ritter , Don Knotts , and Jerry Lewis in this film . Morgan Freeman plays God who transfers his powers to him to see what it would be like to be God . So Bruce is now God and he must hear prayers and confessions of everybody . God's job is not easy if you are believer . He has a lot of work but I take this comedy as is rather than serious drama . Jennifer Aniston plays his girlfriend ( how did Brad Pitt trade her for Angelina is beyond me ? ) . She is equally superb in the straight woman role . There are supporting players like Steve Carrell , Nora Dunn , and Sally Kirkland to name only a few .
One of the best Christmas movies in recent years !	I just love this movie . It is funny and heartwarming . It has a happy ending . Laurie Metcalf is unforgettable along with a stellar cast . It may not be the best movie but it is fun to watch and enjoy . Tim Conway is unbelievable as a burned out postman . Laurie Metcalf as a burned out lawyer . Greg Kinnear who joins this zany group of people who are ordinary and do something to make themselves extraordinary people . It gives you a warm feeling by the end of the movie . Please rent or buy this movie . It's fun for the whole family . I love watching Rue McClanahan and Jack Klugman . The story might be flawed but it's always worth watching especially around the holidays when you need a little cheering up to do . Greg Kinnear is a good actor who is working at being a good film actor .
Al Leads Steve Astray !	Al invites Steve to a poker game with him and his male buddies . Garrett Morris plays one of them and the same guys usually appear later on in other episodes . In this episode , Steve thinks he's got the game down so he joins when one of the guys has to leave to take his wife to the ballet . Then the armpit noises come and some crude jokes , anyway Steve plays the game and loses his mortgage payment in the process to Al who wants to buy an expensive fishing pole . When Steve has to explain to Marcy , he has to do it all night along . When he finally tells her , it's up to Al to help his friend out in a tight situation . What would Al do if had kept or returned the money ? It's the principal of gambling . If you can't afford to lose it , you shouldn't gamble in the first place .
A Decent Thriller !	My favorite scene is Angie Dickinson's character in the film being murdered . It was strange maybe that is why I liked it not to sound morbid or bizarre but it was one of the most interesting and unforgettable scenes . They have stellar cast including Sir Michael Caine , Keith Gordon , Nancy Allen who was married to director Brian De Palma , Dennis Franz , and of course , Angie Dickinson . The writing could have been better but the acting was stellar . There are enough twists and turns to make you watch this film until it's conclusion . By the end , you want more too . I loved Keith Gordon and had a crush on him since I saw him in Christine . Anyway , the film is overall good not excellent but worth watching during the Halloween season . In fact , if you watch it with those election commercials , you wonder what is more frightening ? the commercials or the film . If you say the commercials , well you are probably right because nothing is more frightening than political commercials during a horror festival of films .
Nothing's been proved	Scandal is not the best film of the eighties . It is rather a risqu raunchy and daring way to tell a sex scandal story in the sixties British politics . John Hurt is terrific as always and surprisingly Bridget Fonda does a great job as a British scandalous singer / actress . The best part of the film is during the credits at the end of the film with Dusty Springfield singing " nothing has been proved . " It is also great to see Jean Alexander on the screen again . I never heard about the Profumo Affair until I got this tape . I was surprised to see Bridget Fonda in another London based film . Maybe she was trying to get away from being a Fonda back home , she does do her job . With Dusty Springield singing with the Pet Shop Boys , this movie is must for Dusty fans . I think Jean Alexander deserves an honor by now . After all , last year she was voted greatest British soap actress of all time . Almost 20 years after she departed Coronation Street , isn't time for her to get honor .
At war with Canada , sounds like a bad joke !	Can you just imagine the U . S . at war with the nicest country in the world ? Yes , I can . It would be outrageously fun and it is fun watching this comedy with a great cast . There are light moments and Rhea Perlman shines as Hostage Honey . There are plenty of hilarious scenes when Honey builds a version of CN tower like Richard Dreyfuss in Close Encounters of the Third Kind . When this small group of people do invade Canada to pollute it ? They are stopped by Dan Ackroyd as a Royal Mountie who encourage more graffiti in French on their truck . Of course , only somebody like Michael Moore could make this movie . He could have made it brilliant but he did it well . I especially love Rhea Perlman as Honey who must tolerate the over politeness of Canadians . And that anti-Canadian mood , it was hysterical to watch . After all , America and Canada are such great allies .
A True Tear-Jerker !	While I love Mare Winningham and Jennifer Jason Leigh , I felt terrible for the lead character of Sadie Flood who longs for the same success as her older married , conventional sister Georgia . The film earned nominations for Winningham who plays the role with understanding and grace like most of her performances . I just find it so sad for Sadie who is genuinely a tragic figure of a character who loves and is at loss about her relationship with Axel , a quiet pizza guy , who falls in love with her . I remember them hitch-hiking rather than ride in a car with Georgia and her husband . It is a sad , thoughtful movie about sibling rivalry and relationships .
You wonder why were in a recession !	I have to say that watching the Housewives of Atlanta can be both entertaining at times and quite sad too . For five very different housewives and I use that term loosely , the series opens up with newly divorced Sheree Whitfield . She is planning a lavish birthday party with bouncers , 100 invited guests , a cake shaped as a fancy purse , and a guest list that omits one of the wives , Nene , who is easily offended by this minor oversight . Instead of getting out of the wine cellar to correct the mistake , Sheree continues to party while Nene and Kim , another housewife , return home . I can see why Sheree is divorced to a former professional athlete from his point of view . Sheree is quite vain , conceited , and self-obsessed but so are the other wives . Kim is the blonde aspiring country singer who is only 29 years old divorced mother of two daughters . She is dating somebody known as Big Papa because he wants his privacy but I want to know if he has all this money then why does he waste it on her . Kim is equally spoiled by him . She only gets the top of the line bags . For her daughter Brielle's 11th birthday party , she hires a party planner for $5 , 000 who was an hour late . Brielle gets her own Luis Vitton handbag which costs about $1 , 610 from her mother . They go to a children's store for a fashion show . They go to a pastry place for a $2 , 000 cake which doesn't take so good and end up at a nearby hotel . There is Nene who is married to Greg and has two sons . At first , I didn't like her but she grew on me . I think because she's nothing like Sheree . Nene doesn't seem to need to spend so much money but I could be wrong . She embarrasses her older son , Brice , at a trip to Clark Atlanta University . Nene learns some difficult revelations about her own parentage . I think she becomes the most human of all the housewives . DeShawn is somewhat delusional . She has this huge estate and is married mother to another professional athlete . She formed a foundation to help self-esteem in young girls but DeShawn has illusions about her life . OUtside Atlanta , I don't know anything about sports . When she tries to hire an estate manager or personal assistant , the interviews are quite uncomfortable to watch . The real-estate broker is a young married mother of a 9 month infant . She won't do anything unless it makes money . She shows a spectacular home to music producer which it even includes a garage for your golf cart . The show is better than the New York series because of the Nene and Sheree friction . After seeing the series , you also get a feel for the high society of Atlanta .
It's Vera Prescott who steals the show !	Okay , Michael J . Fox stars as a Midwestern college graduate who moves to New York City to conquer the business world . He is completely unprepared as Brantley Foster . He is so desperate that he contacts a distant cousin , Richard Prescott , for help breaking in to the business world of New York City . Along the way , he meets his aunt Vera Prescott , played by the delicious Margaret Whitton who really steals the show in this role . He also falls in love with Christy Wills who works there and is played admirably by Helen Slater . John Pankow plays the guy in the mail room who helps Brantley . The cast is first rate but the writing is somewhat mediocre material . It's a good entertainment with a first rate cast and the scenes in the country are quite beautiful .
Back from the Hamptons !	While the gang of New York housewives split their time between New York City and the Hamptons , we get to know more of the gang . My favorite moment was when I saw Alex and Simon in one of those inflatable swimming pools that you can get anywhere in their backyard lounging around . They are not Hamptonites and don't want to be . Too much partying and little relaxing in the Hamptons with the New York City crowd . Well , Bethenny is finally becoming a strong independent woman who is looking for a man . I think the countess should get off her high horse and stop the nonsense of being aristocracy . We don't care in America and they don't care that much in Europe unless you're the Queen or King . Now , Luann is writing a book on etiquette which is supposedly something she knows about but I don't think so . I think she can be rude , mean , obnoxious , and cruel to those of us who aren't on her privileged level . I'll give her respect when the countess deserves it . But last season , I didn't care for Alex and Simon and I'm beginning to now . Maybe they are bit snobs but isn't Luann the biggest of all . Jill calls them weird when she's got gay husband Brad ala Will and Grace in her life . Bethenny has become more real as time goes on in this series . Maybe the break-up with Jason has really matured her , she doesn't need him or anybody else . I don't think he really wanted to marry and have kids all over again . I didn't care for the new housewife and I certainly don't care for Ramona who's becoming more impossible over time . She insulted Luann at a charity even when she was giving dating advice to Bethenny . Luann nearly flipped and almost lost her cool . I won't get any further but I thought it was nice to see that even the countess can get mad .
A Fine Show !	When I first watched this show , I was little disappointed but after watching it again . I could see this is a fine show about two real life actors like Dame Judi Dench and Michael Williams ( who did receive a papal knighthood ) playing two odd characters like a linguist and a landscaper . Judi plays Laura , the intellectual linguist , and Michael plays Mike , the quiet shy landscaper . At first , this is an unlikely pairing but you know if you know anything about the great Dame Judi Dench ( even though she prefer you call her just Judi , no Dame Judi or Ms . Dench ) . This is their romance . While Dame Judi receives a lot of attention , Michael is the wind beneath her wings . I paid a lot more attention to his role in this show . I can see why she fell in love with him . When Judi asked about her longtime marriage to Michael , she responded that " they just enjoyed being in the same room together . " Now that is a sign of a fine romance and an excellent relationship . Michael never did receive the fame or accolades as his wife but I know he was proud of her even now as she earns one of Britain's top honor , Companion of Honor , only 65 living people at a time can receive this honor . When Dame Judi earned her O . B . E . ( Officer of the British Empire ) in 1970 , Michael was not there in her life . When she became Dame Judi , Mike and her daughter , Finty was there at the palace . Now , she has her grandson , Sam , and Finty for this special occasion . I will say the writing of this show could be better . The humor is much dryer than normal , it is very cerebral and intellectual . Susan Penhaligon and Richard Warwick are just fine as Laura's sister Helen and brother-in-law Phil . It really is the story of Mike and Judi's great relationship . I bet you that Judi loved doing this show with Mike . It gave them a chance for both of them to shine .
Somewhat decent but not as good as the book !	Ann Rules ' books including the Stranger Beside Me offers a detailed complex and complicated version of the events around Ted Bundy . Who would have thought that even a seasoned policewoman turned writer would be sitting next to a serial killer on Tuesdays nights for a Suicide hotline . There is no wonder that Ted Bundy got away with so much . He was brilliant and conscious . He graduated college and was attending law school . But there was a dark side behind the image of a charming , intelligent political promising young man and that is what Ann Rule tries to bring forth to the public in her book and in her movie . Sadly , the movie does touch on some bit of his past including the possible connection with a young girl's disappearance and the horrifying crimes against the women in the film . Not all of the victims were shown but the film can scare anybody from hitchhiking away for sure . Ann Rule was a lot stronger than the portrayal . She has three other children which are not at all mentioned . Barbara Hershey did a favorable job in playing Ann Rule . The actor , Billy Baldwin , played Ted Bundy was absolutely chilling and tragic all at once . You just cringed with sadness when you heard the judge's remarks about him and if he had only chosen another way to live .
Sweet Sentimental and a Lesson to Be Learned for the Living !	In this film , you have four very different characters including a single African American mother , Penny Washington , played by the fabulous Alfre Woodard , a country girl , Julia , who comes to the city to find herself and has to choose a life between being with her beloved boyfriend and his 75 acres in the country played by Kyra Sedgwick , Harrison , a classically trained singer who fails to sing at auditions because of his fear of failure played nicely by Charles Grodin , and criminal Milo Peck who wants to correct one of his stolen properties to it's rightful owner . They all board a bus driven by David Paymer and the bus crashes killing all of them while at the same time there is a baby boy , Thomas Riley , born into the world . The boy spends his early years talking and playing with the walls but he really is playing with the spirits who talk and interact with him . They don't know why they are with them . After thirty years , they have to go to their next assignment but they have make amends . First , they have to convince Thomas Riley played by Robert Downey Jr . as an adult that he's not going crazy or seeing things but they are actually real .
Another Holocaust Movie !	Another Holocaust Movie starring Law & Order Sam Waterston ( yes , he can do more ) and Mia Farrow as a Danish couple who help and assist Danish Jews to flee the country to Sweden . Of course , everybody knows the history of the holocaust and those few who assisted . In this story , the Christian Kosters help aid the Danish Jews . It's another story about good Christians who helped the Jews in Europe during a dark time in it's history . I don't think the German Nazis and Gestapo in this film is accurately portrayed . Believe me , they were much more vicious . Denmark was one of the few countries that helped their Jews because they didn't have the same anti-Semitism that other countries including Germany , Austria , POland , Czech , and Russia had at the time according to this film . Denmark should be applauded for it's behavior but the majority of the population were not Jewish or Catholic but Christians . I'm not knocking the story but this film was shown to middle school American children . While it's just another Holocaust movie , it's not as good as Schindler's List or others . It was shown because it was not rated but the children could see it because it lacked the viciousness of usual Holocaust films .
A Good Thriller !	The film really should have earned Tilda Swinton , an Oscar nomination for Best Actress , as Margaret Hall , mother of three whose military husband is away at sea . Her gay musician adolescent son gets mixed up with this guy , Darby . He ends up dead and his body is dumped in the deep end of Lake Tahoe . I have to say the scenery is authentic and beautiful . Anyway , Darby's accidental death brings a series of unfortunate events plaguing Margaret's conscious . She is blackmailed by Gorjan's character who is working for a crooked , corrupt extortionist . Gorjan's role turns out to be quite decent after he saves Margaret's father-in-law's life while she is on her way to see him at the post office . He is blackmailing her for fifty thousand . So nice of a guy , he doesn't take his share for the sex tape between Darby and Margaret's son . The film is not so bad . I don't care for the gay son who I think doesn't take his responsibility for his crimes or actions that put his mother in such turmoil . It should be him and not her .
The Room with a View !	The Rhoades decide either to spend their tax refund on a trip to Paris where Al reminds them that the French hate Americans . The Rhoades had considered a new room extension to the house but they would need the Bundys permission for the extension . Peggy persuades Marcy to build an exercise room instead of bumming off her friend for a pass at the local gym . Al persuades Steve to build a billiard room instead . It's war of the couples as Steve and Marcy battle it out with Al and Peggy also battling it out as well . It's in this episode how the show is going to work with Al and Peggy trying to be more dominant in their persuasion . As for Kelly and Bud , I don't remember them much in the early episodes .
Mama's Inheritance !	Mama Harper may get another chance at being rich from a dead relative . This time , it's her Uncle who played pirate and ran a boating business on the Ray River . He was quite in his prime in his nineties who was active right until his death . When the family returns from the funeral , Mama Harper is scheduled to go to the will reading on the following day . Her uncle was cremated and his ashes were scattered in the Ray River but interuppted by a jet-ski-ing woman who at least wore black as she road down the Ray River . Mama gets Petey , her Uncle's beloved bird . He annoys her and the other Harpers as well with his constant babble . When he starts talking about lucky bars of gold , Mama and the gang begin wrecking the house to find their treasure which she felt her uncle could have at least owed her . You can only imagine how this ends up .
Vicki is both Mama and Grandma in this episode !	Mama finds her beloved mother's jewelry piece which could be worth a lot of money but she is suddenly haunted by her mother's presence in her life . Her mother criticizes her like the way Mama Harper criticizes Eunice . Mama Crowley was never very nice and death hasn't changed her one bit . Mama sees her dead mother's ghost in the kitchen and living room with sound advice . She warns her not to sell the jewelry or that she would never talk to Thelma again . When Thelma speaks up to her mother , she informs her that she has worn pants , earned her driver's license , and her high school diploma . When Vint and Naomi learn the jewelry is not as valuable as previously thought but worth enough to send Bubba on a trip to Oswald Caverns , Mama has to choose between her dead mother's ghost and her living family . Vicki Lawrence does a very good job playing both Thelma and her mother in this episode .
Not as Good as the First !	First , I thought the lesbian twist towards the end was a bit much and I didn't see it coming because it wasn't so important . Anyway , why is Bridget Jones who is every woman in my opinion torn between two men played by Hugh Grant and Colin Firth . Both men are well-known and respected talented British actors with stage , television , and film experience . Why are they drawn to Bridget as is the lesbian surprise in the end which goes off so badly in my opinion ? Bridget is chunky , unpredictable , and often annoying in this film . She is still the every woman in my opinion because not all women can look and act great . Bridget again is alone looking for love but the choice is always obvious . I loved the Thailand scenes since I was there in October . It's a great location but the storyline and plotting was sort of inferior to the original film . I love Jim Broadbent and Gemma Jones return as Bridget's parents . I'm waiting for Colin , Hugh and Gemma to make the British honors list . Jim has already declined the honor .
A Great Promise with great cast and crew !	Most Britons prefer to spend their summer vacations in Spain , Florida , or elsewhere . In this series , a mixed group of families spend time at an unusual resort in Alicante , Spain . I only caught one episode on a flight so I don't have the luxury of seeing the other episodes . It appears to be the second season opener with the same family arriving to the Spain resort , a couple who allows her husband to carry all the luggage and makes a gruesome discovery about her parents . I love Janine Duvitsky and remember her fondly from Waiting for God as plain Jane Edwards . Here , she is the complete opposite . Sheila Reid plays the grandmother with a new boyfriend who prefers to wear short and tight bathing suit . Anyway , the families arrive and remember what happened last year . While the premise needs work , the cast appear to be having a ball away in sunny Spain .
Bronco Beverlee ! ! !	The only reason that I got this film was to see Beverlee McKinsey as the rich New York society lady and stepmother to Sondra Locke's character . She is a wealthy heiress who runs away to join the circus . Clint Eastwood can do wrong and is probably America's best loved director . In this small comedic film , he has a stellar cast including himself as Bronco Billy , Sondra Locke as the heiress and his real-life girlfriend at the time , Beverlee McKinsey , Scatman Crothers , and others . They filmed all over the place including New York City . The story of a wealthy heiress who rejects her New York City lifestyle including her wealth to see what life is like outside only to find love is not something that you can buy or purchase at a store .
fascinatingly bizarre	I watched this movie about five years ago in Women and Film class at Rutgers . Disappointed with the class itself and the lecturer . I was not disappointed by the wide array of films including the Riddles by Laura Mulvey . THe film is bizarre to describe . But I still am drawn to it somehow . I wish it was on video . I even felt the smell from the screen like purple at me . I never smelled a film before . I still would like to see it again for a better perspective . Whether you are interested in the bizarre and unusual aspect of film-making , this film might be for you . It doesn't really have much of a storyline . A woman wants to seek independence from her marriage but is still a mother . I never understood it and still don't but I would love to see it again if I had the opportunity . Laura Mulvey is an acquired taste that we grow accustomed too .
Shelley Long is Underrated !	Some actresses are truly under-rated and under-appreciated and Shelley Long is one of them . She is truly a gifted comedic actress who can make you cry at one moment and make you laugh in the next . She didn't leave Cheers because she wanted a film career . She wanted to have a normal family life . Rather she was subjected to be treated like a leper on the set of Cheers . Anyway , I always hoped the best for Shelley . I still think she is one of the best talents out there today but in Hollywood , youth sells and women over 50 or 60 might as well be a hundred years old . Anyway the casting in this film is first rate with Shelley Long and Craig T . Nelson are the divorcing parents . Stephanie Beacham is always a pleasure to watch as one of her friends . Betty Thomas is delicious as the evil foe who tries to outsmart Beverly Hills Troop . Mary Gross is sweet as the unlikely ally in both parties . Audra Lindley is always a treat as well .
It's well worth my five dollars !	I bought the video for less than five bucks at a liquidators store . I wanted the video for one of my favorite actors , Rolf Saxon . HE has a minor part and only two scenes . But in between them , the film is filled with solid performances by Kathy Bates , Natasha Richardson , Ciaran Hinds , Colin Firth , and Harry Dean Stanton . It can also be recommended for educational purposes to discuss the years when Iran and the U . S . were enemies . Besides the red tape , we learn the horror and the reasons for it . It can be a very deep movie . You almost feel sympathy for their captors too . We know that they were not all evil entirely . THey had their reasons too . While the treatment was cruel and harsh , the hostage crisis was forced to pay the world's attention to the other Israeli-held hostages !
Could have been better !	Rowan Atkinson is better known for his role as clueless Mr . Bean or Raymond from " A Thin Blue Line , " British comedies that play popularly here in America too . Rowan Atkinson ( he should be knighted or honored but that will come eventually ) is one Britain's best known comedic actors . Unfortunately , he does not have the look of a leading man to get better roles . As Johnny English , this film is a spoof of the James Bond genre . The film has great authentic London locations and also stars the deliciously evil John Malkovich as the man who steals the Queen's jewels in order to reclaim his family's throne . The film does have some laughs along the way . It could be funnier but I still enjoyed it . I love watching Rowan Atkinson in anything . He truly is one of the great British comic actors of our time and his talent is surely underused in today's film industry .
Meryl's Still Got It !	After 30 years , Meryl Streep shows that she is still the Queen of the films . This film based on the novel about a young girl played by up and coming Anne Hathaway as a college graduate , Andrea , who has high aspirations in the journalism field . She accepts an assistant job to the dragon lady known as Miranda Priestley who resembles more Leona Helmsley in personality . She is the editor and power broker in the fashion industry of Runway magazine . Think of it as Cosmo or Vogue . As Miranda , Streep steals the scenes . She can make her vicious , complicated , and then vulnerable . She earned an Oscar nomination ( her 15th ) so far . Despite the film having more youthful roles for Emily Blunt and Anne Hathaway , Streep shows that she's tops and why . I loved the scene where Andy runs to Smith and Wollensky's restaurant and I have eaten there and have their steak sauce . It's an excellent restaurant . I love the New York City scenery as well . I was disappointed with the scripting of the film . I thought they could have done better and more . Still I love Stanley Tucci as Nigel and the film is entertaining but not much more . It reminds me my days as an assistant in a New York publishing house . It's not that exciting because it was for computers .
It's alright !	Don't listen or pay any attention to the negative reviews . I remember watching this mini-series . Blythe Danner is memorable as the mother who comes to terms with her son's horrible crime . Gwyneth Paltrow who is her daughter is memorable playing her daughter . Ed Asner plays one of the lawyers and Kathy Kinney has a small role before she hit it big on the Drew Carey Show as Mimi . I won't say it's my favorite mini-series but I do watch it when it comes on because of Blythe Danner's performance . If you are a fan of her daughter , then you will understand how Blythe Danner has become one of the finest Ameican actresses around whether stage , film or television . She does her job magnificently . I wasn't happy about the ending of the story but it's true so you can't change anything there but if you want to see Gwyneth Paltrow make an impression than you should watch this mini-series . Even as a minor role as Angela , she makes an impression .
Not a Bad Saturday Night Live !	The show opens up after the Eliot Spitzer sex scandal regarding his use of prostitutes and now is working as a lawyer representing clients who have been in humiliating situations with his wife , Silda , standing beside him . Anyway the show has Jonah Hill who sings in his opening monologue . There is the Suzy Orman Show sketch which is borderline silly since her spoof of the lesbian financial adviser advises Philip , a millionaire from Miami , instead of going to Europe for vacation rather go to Epcot in Orlando . He hangs up the phone . Jonah plays the second guy who sells his profitable home to buy an abandoned hospital before Suze advises him not too . I liked the short film where he and Adam Samberg go out for coffee and Jonah admits that he's dating Adam's father . I thought it was funny and well-done especially with Adam's reactions . Jonah was quite good and the man who played Adam's father did a great performance in it . Still it was one of the better shows of the last season .
I actually liked it !	It was one of the few shows on CBS that didn't have a chance as it should have had . It was well-written and I liked the cast including Brian Keith and his real-life daughter Daisy Keith ( Both father and daughter committed suicide years later ) . I remember this show because it was rural and set in the Heartland of Nebraska . First , there are few shows set in Nebraska anymore . I always liked to see how other people lived in other states . The show also featured Richard Gilliland ( husband of Jean Smart in real life ) . I thought the show had a lot going for it but obviously , I was wrong . The show got cancelled and I have nothing but my memories of it for now . It would be nice to see family oriented sitcoms like Heartland today on network television or on cable or in syndication . I have a feeling that Heartland would have done well in syndication like Mama's Family .
Not for today's audiences but for those of us from yesterday !	As a child , I couldn't get enough of the holiday Charlie Brown specials or movies which were occasionally shown on television . Until today , I caught the full film version of the first film and I liked it but it could have been better . The music scenes were a bit off the track of the film about Charlie Brown competing in the national spelling bee . Of course , the rest of Peanuts gang are there to support or criticize him . He wins the school spelling bee and goes on to the national championships with Linus ' blanket . When Linus can't live without his blanket , he and Snoopy go to the championships to retrieve it . By then , Charlie is exhausted and overwhelmed by the spelling bee . Despite the technology of the time , Charlie Brown and the Peanuts gang always entertain and never come up short . This film is really for those who love the Peanuts gang especially Charlie Brown , Snoopy , Linus , Peppermint Patty , and others .
La Vie De France !	I really enjoyed this comedy series better in France than in England . Maybe they can bring their show to America ! If only BBC made more episodes per season like the United States , I would gladly campaign for that idea . The British make better comedies than we Americans do . First , I didn't see their previous series , Fresh Fields , with cast members Ann Beach as neighbor Sonia , Hester's mom played by Fanny Rowe , and Hester's dad played by Ballard Berkeley . Anyway , this show is better in the French version as the Fields get used to life in France . The Fields are played by veterans Julia McKenzie and Anton Rodgers ( another two possible British honorees ) . Julia's Hester is quite lovable but I wish she would sing because she has a phenomenal singing voice that she is also known for her work in West End musicals . Anton is better known for his other series , May to December .
Glenda the Great !	Before she went into politics or public service , Glenda Jackson was one of Britain's finest film actresses . This film displays her talent despite having a supporting role in a stellar cast that includes Julie Christie as Kitty , the wife of a British Royal Captain who has lost his memory of the last 20 years , and Jenny played by American Ann-Margret in an almost unrecognizable role as the doting sister . Alan Bates plays the captain who suffers from memory loss triggered by the shell shock during World War I . Sir Ian Holm has a smaller role as the doctor treating him . You see familiar faces like Sheila Keith , Patsy Byrne , and Frank Finlay . You can't help but watch Glenda play a dowdy housewife and the first true love of the Captain but they came from different classes . It's not the greatest movie but it's good to see Glenda's amazing talent . She is still a fantastic actress , comedy or drama . She makes Margaret Grey into a likable character and you see why a regal captain fell in love with her .
Somewhat Endearing !	I got this video series since I was researching life in the Victorian era . I like Christina and the cast of actors and actresses like Peter Copley . I don't recognize most of them unless I see their names here . It's the story of an orphaned girl moving to the Flambards where they have horses . Christina McKenna is wonderful as Christine . The cast of characters includes the Lord of the Manor and servants who remind you of life on the manor and estate . The Lord of the Manor is a reviled , unhappy creature . It's Christina who tries hard to help bridge the gaps between rich and poor , upper and lower classes . The art direction is quite sufficient and the cast is quite good at acting and the writing is adequate at best .
Williams is Chillingly Different !	Robin Williams is better known for his comedy than his dramatic skills but he sure proves his acting range can stretch from doing silly comedies to doing thrillers . His character , Sy Parrish , is a disturbed man . He's lonely in the first place . He really has nobody but becomes fixated on this family while working at a one hour photo booth . Robin Williams can make you feel sorry and empathy for this man who is obviously desperate for a family of his own or something to connect with in life . Sy gets desperate and does things aren't so forgivable or forgettable . His sad life is brought brilliantly to the screen by Robin Williams who is almost unrecognizable in this role . He really can act beyond the silliness and develop his Juillard talents beyond comedies .
Billy Bob can win your heart !	I love Billy Bob Thornton in Bad Santa and the Bad News Bears remake to 2005 after a 29 years since the original film . The film has changed to modify today's world where computers rule the world which I said at 10 years old to an skeptical neighbor and where even a handicapped wheelchair-bound boy can play baseball . Thornton plays Buttermaker , the major league baseball player who turns coach rather than get a jail sentence . The mother of one his players is played by the divine Marcia Gay Harden . I think the kid from Bad Santa also has a role as does Greg Kinnear who plays a competitive coach . I love watching the kids learn the sport by killing insects since Buttermaker is an exterminator and they sponsored by a strip club . They start getting better in the beginning . They are lovable losers who face ridicule and humiliation every day at school . Suddenly , they get help with a girl pitcher and a guy who's a rebel .
Just a typical Columbo !	Of course , I love Columbo . I must have seen this episode a few times whether on network or cable television . It is still worth watching . You have to love watching Peter Falk . Of course in the real world , murderers are not that smart as they appear on Columbo . But this is fiction and a detective show , the criminals are more than cardboard characters . This film is quite a mystery and I do miss Columbo episodes even the newer episodes today . Tyne Daly is one of America's best recognized actresses . I have seen Tyne on Broadway in Gypsy and she is still one of the hardest working actresses today whether film , television or stage . Tyne plays against type in this film and I won't spoil the plot for anybody . I love Greg Evigan and I'm from his hometown so I'm a little biased toward him . Of course , the episode could have been better but I still love Columbo and I always will have a soft spot in my heart for him . He reminds me of my own father in some ways .
It was a decent film but it could have been better	At the end of the Marathon Man , I felt myself asking a lot more questions about Dustin's character . I thought Lord Laurence Olivier did wonderful chilling performance as the evil Nazi dentist was worthy to watch but I felt the story was not solid enough to explain the situation . But still , it is worth watching . I loved the scenes shot on location in Manhattan . I felt confused after watching this movie . I understand what happens but I don't why which left me wanting more of this film to answer my questions . I thought Olivier was just marvelous and so was Dustin Hoffman who were very hard for this role according to the story of making this film . Olivier told him to imagine not sleeping nights rather than actually working sleeplessly .
A Tear Jerker !	Barbara Stanwyck was one of America's finest actresses whether on film or television . I don't know much about her stage career but she was always brilliant and unforgettable . In this film , which is one of her most beloved roles is Stella Martin Dallas , a poor woman who marries a rich man and has a daughter , Laurel . Unfortunately , the marriage ends and she leaves the daughter with the father . It's one of those tear-jerking films that you need a box of Kleenex around to wipe the tears . There is no doubt that this role and many others of her long wonderful career allowed her to be one of the finest American actresses around . They remade this film with Bette Midler in the Stella Dallas role but it can't be matched by Stanwyck's beautiful interpretation of a woman that could have be done inadequately by any other actress .
Phelps should have rested before SNL but otherwise decent show !	Olympic swimming champion Michael Phelps had the great honor of hosting Saturday Night Like like some other athletes in the past like Chris Everett who I thought was the best and the Rock and others . Well , Michael Phelps had just earned 8 Olympic Gold Medals before coming to Saturday Night Live . He was okay but not spectacular and after watching the Anderson Cooper interview on Sixty Minutes the other night . Phelps was clearly exhausted by the coverage and his new life as spokesman as well as maintaining his physiques . I loved the McSwimmy segment of Grey's Anatomy with him wearing nothing but his swimsuit and medals . There was plenty of outside material like the upcoming election . He was also good in a sketch about inbred children of a polygamous cult who are home schooled by a deranged teacher participating in a television game show challenge against public school students . Still , Phelps was not spectacular but he did provide a decent showing . He is not an actor or comedian who usually graces the show but Phelps is a phenomenon today .
For the die-hard Popeye fans only !	I am not ashamed to admit it but I love Popeye , the cartoon and the movie starring the amazing Robin Williams as Popeye . He is almost unrecognizable in the role but completely believable . I love Shelley Duvall as Olive Oyl because she really does a superb job living up to and beyond my expectations as the ultra-skinny love interest to muscular Popeye . It's like watching old friends . " I'll pay Tuesday for a Hamburger today " was a common statement . Of course , Popeye and Olive Oyl have Brutus as an obstacle to their happiness and almost the loss of Sweet Pea . It's a kind a family film too . It has music and dancing . Okay , it's not the greatest musical film ever made but it's always worth watching again . It reminds me of being 7 years old and seeing this film at the movie theater .
A Disappointed Series !	Stephen Collins better known from Seventh Heaven and Blythe Danner better known as Gwyneth's mother , played a couple who divorced in New York City . Their family restaurant , Tattingers , is supposed to be one of the classier restaurants for the in-crowd of New Yorkers like Wall Street millionaires , publishers , Broadway stars , movie and television stars . The show was memorable because it was also filmed in New York CIty and was created by the same gang who created St . Elsewhere but you get disappointed because Tattingers has a tough act to follow with the creators of St . Elsewhere who created probably the best drama on television ever . Tattingers needed a lot of work with the writing to make it appeal to broader audience of Americans . Most Americans like myself don't eat at 5 star restaurants but might work in one some day .
The Wonderful Wonder Years !	I have to admit that I love Fred Savage as Kevin Arnold . The cast included Dan Lauria and Alley Mills playing his sixties ' parents , the Arnolds . Then there were his siblings , a sister played by Olivia D'Abo and a big bully brother played by Jason Hervey . Kevin was the youngest and we hear his thoughts from Daniel Stern's narration . The other cast members included Danica McKellar as his love interest Winnie and a geeky friend whose name escapes me at the moment . The show is going to be aired late on the I network in a couple of weeks . I have to admit that I liked it in the beginning but it wore off in time . It was different because there was no laugh track or audience . Most family oriented comedies of the 1980s had audiences and laughter . This show was different and it was also set in the 1960s with an unknown suburb as location . The creators , Neal Marlens and Carol Black , who created Growing Pains went on to create The Wonder Years . The writing was uneven at times but solid as the acting .
okay , the show has won me over finally !	Okay , the premise is about a tough-talking , smart female U . S . Marshall agent Mary Shannon played by the wonderful Mary McCormack . She works in a predominantly male world but she acts more like one of the guys than one of the girls . Lesley Ann Warren plays her mother , Jinx , with two dogs . McCormack is truly a professional and team player and the role is suited to her real-life personality . She did not get this far without being tough in this business . I didn't think I would like this show but I did to some extent . The show is set in Albuquerque , New Mexico which is change from Los Angeles where they do film on location . It's a decent show but it's not that great . It's not because of McCormack's character but it's because it's so similar to everything else on television today . Anyway , she plays a tough and rough attractive U . S . Marshall who handles witness protection witnesses who usually don't follow rules in the first place . She is not allowed to discuss her work with her family who thinks she runs errands . She has a drug-addicted sister and a mother who spends more time with her dogs than with her kids . In a way , Mary has raised herself and her family . She also has a lover , Raphael , on the side but she claims it's only sexual . Her partner and her have more chemistry to me . The show is filmed in New Mexico which it gives a more authentic nature . I think the chemistry between Mary Shannon and her partner , Marshall Mann , played equally well by Fred Weller is quite apparent . Despite coming across as rough and tough , Mary Shannon has a softer , vulnerable side that does come across . But in a man's world or business , you have to be more of a man than a woman . The job of U . S . Marshall is not easy and in fact it's difficult to find out information because they are sworn to secrecy until death so she couldn't get the information regarding the profession that she portraying on screen . While I think the show has some originality with the U . S . Marshalls premise , the show needs to work on character development . Why is Jinx single ? Was she widowed or divorced ? How come Mary Shannon seems to be more of the dominant character in the household ? Given time and possible another season , it can develop into a well-meaning thought provoking show . Mary McCormack can prove that a woman can still be feminine and be masculine simultaneously . I kind of enjoy how she is aggressive with some of the men in custody . It's kind of fun of watching a man get his but kicked by a tough-talking and acting woman .
A bizarre twist of American life	Most Americans live in the suburbs today . The Burbs is a satisfactory film about neighbors , suspicion , and the perils of suburban life . When the strange new neighbors move in next door , Tom Hanks and his neighbor friends like Bruce Dern and Corey Feldman start searching for answers . This was a Tom Hanks vehicle long before his Oscar winning roles in Philadelphia and Forrest Gump . Now that he is the king of Hollywood films , movies like this won't happen anymore . Tom Hanks ' role as a suburban father is actually quite typically having fun . Soon , you wonder if he misses these roles rather than Oscar depth roles of today . I liked watching Gale Gordon in probably his last known role and Carrie Fisher as his long-suffering wife .
Was fine as a blue collar show until it went awry !	I liked the Roseanne show when it was a blue collar comedy that made people laugh mostly about themselves . I didn't like it when it became preachy and liberal especially since half the cast of characters like Leon and his partner played by Martin Mull and Fred Willard were gay as was Sandra Bernhard's character and then the outing of Beverly played by Oscar winner Estelle Parsons . I felt the show was too much by then and it was making a political statement when there plenty of other statements . I felt the show went from being blue collar comedy to left wing liberalness . Don't get me wrong , I am a liberal and I support gay rights but I felt that the show's original premise and it's realism was lost aside to shocking audiences . While it was a shock factor then , it does not exist now . I loved Beverly played by Estelle Parsons who they were smart enough to use wisely and often . Laurie Metcalf's Jackie and Roseanne's herself were believable as sisters on the show . John Goodman's Dan deserved accolades for being the long-suffering husband . There were plenty of topics and smart enough to have casted George Clooney before ER . Yes , Roseanne's show became too much at times but it was funny and maybe you didn't agree with it or disliked the insanity but you saw yourself in the role .
Violence begets Violence !	Charles Bronson returns in his signature role as Kersey , the vigilante , from Death Wish I and II . In this sequel , returns to the neighborhood of East New York in Brooklyn where the gangs of hopeless teenagers take on violence , robbery , and terrorism in a way more frightening than before . The police seem powerless or useless to stop the gang of teenagers and young adults who are all clearly deranged or under the brainwashing control of one . Everybody in the neighborhood has guns because they have already been terrorized by the youth . They remind me of the Children of the Corn . Anyway , Kersey returns to avenge his friend Charlie's death . He befriends his neighbor and friend played by the wonderful Martin Balsam . If you look closely enough , you will Star Trek's Marina Sirtis and Bill & Ted's Alex Winter in small roles . The film is entertaining at times . It's not for the weak hearted . There is a lot of unnecessary violence on both sides .
Stupid Plot but a good show !	The show's premise about a young single mother dies leaving orphan Staci Keanan to be raised by two potential fathers who are very opposite of one another . They are played by a former hometown resident Greg Evigan and Paul Reiser . The Judge who put them together is played by the wonderful Florence Stanley . Okay , the plot may have been dumb but something clicked on this show about two very different men who are not gay raising a daughter in New York City . Of course , a simple blood test would determine who the father was but it was more important that it did not matter after awhile . That family can be redefined about people who love and care for each other . The show also had the two fathers date women . Of course , now the show would be about two gay men raising a daughter which would have left the fire out of them trying to get along and live together as a family . Isn't family about people who love each other after all ?
A Promising Movie	Why would Ron Clarke leave a comfortable job in the SOuth to go up to NEw York City in the first place is a good question . He wants to make a difference . Matthew Perry best known for playing Chandler Bing on Friends is very good in this role as the teacher who wants to make good . He goes to New York City in hopes of making a difference . For starters , he gets and prefers to work in one of the poor sections of the city , Inner Harlem . In the meantime , he has to work so he gets a job at a theme restaurant where the other workers are aspiring actors and he's an aspiring teacher . Once he takes a job of teaching , he is in for a challenge . Since I am planning to become a teacher myself , he does at least visit the students ' homes before getting in the classroom . THere are some awkward cheesy moments in this film but it's still worth watching . The Ron Clark Story is true and suitable family viewing . It also shows Ron's persistence in achieving the unthinkable with the forgotten students . When they get to go see a Broadway show , their faces light up . Imagine , they live north of Broadway and most have never seen a show . He helps boost their spirits and shows that faith , trust , and hard work can make a difference . If only all our schools had teachers like Ron Clark .
Watching King Ralph can be a guilty pleasure !	I have to say that John Goodman's performance among a sea of royal British costars like the great Peter O'Toole , Leslie Phillips OBE , Rudolph Walker OBE , John Hurt CBE , Judy Parfitt , Ann Beach , and Richard Griffiths . John Goodman plays Ralph Jones who turns out to be the British royal family's closest living relative after a photo picture that turns into a disaster killing everybody . While the country mourns , they need a new monarch . They found him , Ralph Jones , an American lounge lizard who plays the piano and watches television at the same time . Of course , he's nothing that they expected and he's an American too living in sin city or Las Vegas , Nevada . They bring him the news and bring him back to Buckingham Palace . He seeks to escape the bodyguards and security to see his lady love , Miranda , played well by Camille Corduri . Miranda is a commoner who wants to design dresses but works as a stripper and gets canned because she can't do it . Anyway , the love story appears genuine . She helps him with his British history . But the scene at McDonalds is quite memorable . The girl who takes the King's order was a regular on East Enders . Of course , the crowd gets mobbed . Without John Goodman in the role , I don't think King Ralph would be that enjoyable to watch but that's why I find it irresistible . He wins them over with his charm . I appreciate it now 15 years later . Everybody even the Royals could use a good laugh .
Dixie steals this episode hands down !	Dixie Carter playing Gloria Hodge has to be one of the best performances in recent years . I guess it helps that she gave Marc Cherry , the show's creator , his first Hollywood job as her assistant in 1988 . Of course , Dixie is having a ball playing the mother from hell . When she says " I should have smothered you as a baby " is a classic television moment , then Andrew says " Can you start calling her grandma ? " . Of course , Danielle is silent and barely present . I guess Cherry doesn't have much use for her . The dinner scene is classic because of the demented relationship between mother and son . The mother who knows all her son's secrets and threatens to out them to his second wife . Dixie's Gloria is quite entertaining if not overly acting . After all , she is a terrific actress and will probably be with us this whole season . Gaby starts a new career helping young girls become models . Of course , the subplot is Lynette discovering that her new neighbor , Art Washburn , might be a pedophile when she sees his pictures of half-naked boys . That story ends up as vague as it should have been . Cherry seems to only dabble in it while he does not seem to mind exploiting other plots in this show .
It's really a fascinating story !	SPOILERS SPOILERS The true story of the big heist in the 1970s at JFK airport is really a fascinating story . It's almost a Shakespearan tragedy about a newly released mobster Jim Burke played sympathetically by DOnald Sutherland who with his pals plan the big heist . Expecting only about half a million dollars , they steal about 8 million dollars in an elaborate well-plotted scheme . Jim Burke is no Castellano or John Gotti , he truly loves his men like family . They are on the bottom of the New York Mafia hierarchy . When they get the money , Jim hides it until everything is ready to release and cut for everybody . But when one of his own men mess up , he had to get killed . But the killing does not stop . The situation only gets worse for him . Soon , all of his own men are killed and he is all alone . Somehow the money does not matter anymore to him . He was placed in a difficult position by New York's mob leaders who threatened his own son's life . Unfortunately , he would die while Jim returns to prison for a minor crime in comparison to the big heist . You almost feel sorry for Jim Burke who did not have the heart to kill his own men to save his son's life . While the big heist was the big thrill in itself , it slowly became a living nightmare for Jimmy Burke .
It's not so bad !	I believe sitcoms are still worth the effort regardless of the cost . Let's face it , sitcoms are preferable in syndication than any crime dramas . In this sitcom , veteran comic Bob Saget plays a suburban dad and husband and Cynthia Stevenson plays his wife in unmentioned suburb somewhere . In the pilot episode , we meet them and get the basic humor of all about their neighbors and friends like Jere Burns who plays Dr . Jim . The pilot was weak and poorly written but the cast does pull it off and I'm hoping and praying that they get a better time slot as well as some improvement in their scripts . They placed this show right after the dancing with the stars show because it worked for Samantha Who ? I am glad that they have a studio audience because comedies don't work well without one in reality and it's an immediate effect . Sadly in today's world , sitcoms are far and few in between and I pray that there will be more to come .
Same Smith Formula but new location !	Kevin Smith wrote and directed this crowd pleaser about two dumped young guys who spend the day at the local mall . As usual , Smith has his regular cast mates like Ben Affleck , Joey Lauren Adams , Silent Bob and Jay . In this film , we see Earl's Jason Lee and his on screen brother Randy played by Ethan Suplee who has a role in the film as Willam trying to see the sailboat in a picture . The film takes place in early Spring because of the Easter holiday where there is an Easter bunny taking pictures with children . There is Shannen Doherty playing Renee , the ex-girlfriend of Jason Lee's character , Brodie . The film has some nice moments about a television show being taped at the mall . It's a shame that they cut Elizabeth Ashley , a brilliant actress . The film also pays homage to Smith's love of comic books with Stan Lee as himself . It's an okay , entertaining film but not brilliant and not one of my favorites .
Spun Off of Growing Pains and was perfect for Friday night !	God , I'm getting old because I can recall this show being shown on Friday nights on ABC when it was really family viewing . Of course , it spun off of Growing Pains which was superior but it still worked with Coach Lubbock and his over-sized family including the devoutly Catholic wife played wonderfully by Deborah Harmon . The kids were also wonderfully played by Heather Langenkamp who played the equally religious Marie . Jamie Luner played one of the twins and I forget Brooke's last name who played the other twin . They were the only girls in an all-boy Catholic school in Eureka , California . The show only lasted two seasons but I bet it could have thrived in syndication . It's a pity that we don't have family oriented shows anymore like this .
Don't take it seriously and you'll enjoy it ! !	Okay , this is not one of the best movies ever made nor was it the worst . But the premise of a sham gay marriage or domestic partnership to get health benefits and pension for his two children is done well with starring Kevin James as the widowed father and Adam Sandler as his best friend . He saved his life after all and he asked him for one favor which was to marry him in order to get benefits for his two children , Eric and Tori . Ironically , Eric would rather try out for a musical than little league . Of course , things go wrong because Sandler's character , Chuck Levine , falls head in heels over in love with their lawyer played by Jessica Biel . A great supporting cast includes Ving Rhames as a New York City fireman with a secret , Mary Pat Gleason as Teresa , Larry's housekeeper , Rachel Dratch as the benefits lady with her eyes on Larry , David Spade is there too , Richard Chamberlain as the commissioner , Steve Buscemi as the man who seeks the truth just for kicks . Anyway , they filmed in Brooklyn and New York City . Can't forget Rob Schneider as the Asian minister in Niagara Falls , Ontario , Canada ? There are cameos by Lance Bass too but I didn't recognize him until I saw his name in the credits . Of course , the wonderful Dan Ackroyd plays the fire captain and Nick Turturro of NYPD Blue plays fellow fireman . I won't give away the ending . But I was touched that they mentioned the firefighters from the fire station who perished on September 11 , 2001 in the credits . being a firefighter is not an easy job , the film doesn't take a serious turn but does show them doing jobs of rescuing and saving people in situations .
Not Entirely Empty !	The show was a spin-off of Golden Girls about their neighbor , Dr . Harry Weston , a widower and doctor , who lived down the street with his beautiful dog , Dreyfuss . He gets frequent visitors like David Leisure who played the womanizing pilot , neighbor and friend . His daughters were played by Kristy McNichol and Dinah Manoff , both professional actresses with long histories . Of course , who could forget his nurse , Park Overall as Laverne . The show last seven seasons probably because it fell on after Golden Girls huge success . Richard Mulligan won awards for his performance and he was the heart and soul of the show's existence in my opinion . Marsha Warfield joined the cast late and there was some trouble especially with Kristy professionally and personally . Anyway the show was a lot better written than most of today's sitcoms . It dealt with lot of issues like death , relationships , etc . always with a good dose of laughter along the way . It was never the Golden Girls nor did it pretend to be and sometimes they would visit the show .
Not so Bad !	Remember that this show was one of the first sitcoms in syndication in the 1980s . It was a new thing . When a sitcom or drama could not get a network , they went with syndication . I thought this show was alright in syndication because it reached a wide audience . I often saw it on Saturday evenings usually before Mama's Family . I was a kid so I didn't know better . I think we pretended that we were Viki or played her in our backgrounds . The show was never meant to be serious in the first place . The cast was somewhat decent with Marla Pennington , Edie McClurg who left to do Hogan Family , Tiffany Bressette , the guy who played her father , the brother , and the red-head girl next door with her father . The writing wasn't great but it wasn't bad . I don't recall ever not watching it . It just seemed like it came for a simpler time . I only wish Syndication was still around . It is but not as it was in the 1980s . It was the equivalent for independent films , rather just sitcoms .
Not for everybody !	Bill O'Reilly is an acquired taste . His audiences probably have a lot of gray hair if you ask me . But then again , he can be fun to watch and he is definitely fun to spoof on Mad TV and Saturday Night Live . O'Reilly's audiences are probably Republican , blue and white collar , conservative etc . His appeal is that he does tell it like it is even if it offends us liberals and everybody else who doesn't agree with his views and stance on major issues . Then again , he is practicing Catholic . Although , he doesn't practice the Catholic teachings about forgiveness and compassion as much as he should . He should work on it with his show . I don't think the beloved Pope John Paul II would have watched and given his approval to this show because O'Reilly's just angry at the way that the world has changed from his childhood . Of course , it can't be helped . O'Reilly's demeanor is the reason that most people would watch the show in the first place . He does get angry and does argue with his guests . He pulls no punches and doesn't admit when he's wrong so if you agree with him most of the time , you should watch the show and if not watch something else .
If I'm not mistaken , this episode is about the horse-racing !	If I'm not mistaken , I believe this episode was about Mama Harper having the gift for seeing the horses race at the local racetrack . The episode doesn't have Iola in it which I remember wasn't in this episode . While she dreams , Mama gets clues to help the family determine who would place appropriately . The gang is excited over Mama's gift and the possibility of being rich . They listened to the races on the radio and the episode is quite memorable if not for the fact that Iola's absence was missed on the show . I don't know why or maybe the writers didn't have enough for her . Regardless , Iola's entrance is always memorable and her time on air as the lovesick girl with a crush over clueless Vint is what makes her identify with so many others .
MOP Fights Back !	Mama Harper is mad because she has found a dirty magazine in Bubba's room . It turns out that the magazine came from the Food Circus where her daughter-in-law works . Mama Harper decides to form a group known as Mothers Against Porn better known as MOP to protest the store selling the dirty magazines . She gets Iola , Aunt Effie , Maggie , and Joan to help her with her fight . Of course , the protest gets some coverage and interest until there is a settlement . Of course with Mama's exception , the other protesters can't help themselves to using the Food Circus despite their protest to stop selling pornography in their local supermarket .
Must Watch Television ! Think the Jerry Springer Show & Entertainment Tonight !	If want proof or evidence that the stars today are unlike the golden age of yesterday , this show entitled TMZ which stands for the Thirty Miles Zone around the Los Angeles or Hollywood area . Unfortunately , the cameras says it all . Most of the program has cameras surrounding celebrities . Their actions speak for themselves anyway . While we don't need another entertainment show on the air , TMZ is refreshingly candid and truthful . TMZ is like the guests of the Jerry Springer Show and an Entertainment tonight format . Unfortunately , I think the actual guests of the Jerry Springer Show are far more sympathetic than the actual celebrities in this show like Lindsay Lohan , Britney Spears , Tommy Lee , Kid Rock , Criss Angel , etc . I have to say that the show can be addictive because you want to watch a train wreck which is much like where Lindsay Lohan's career is heading as well as Britney Spears . It's sad that the young stars who have millions of dollars have no support structure or mentor system to warn them about the dangers of Hollywood . I have a feeling that this show will be around a lot longer than anybody else envisions because it all started from a website . The cameras speak for itself as well . While it's always nice to have celebrity sightings , I wished that the show had just a better brand of celebrities . I feel sorry for the drunken young girls in Hollywood who make complete fools of themselves . I have watched Harry Levin since the O . J . fiasco and I admire him . I'm surprised that he made no mention of the Phil Spector trial and pending verdict . Sadly unlike the O . J . Trial , Phil Spector has not gotten the publicity or attention of that trial but then neither did Robert Blake . I guess celebrities accused of murder is not that important anymore anyway . I would love if he found out about the agency who called Lana Clarkson's video as lacking quality . Her video reel was far more entertaining than most of today's television . She played Roy from Siegfried & Roy , a morning talk show hostess , a Barbie style model , an American version of Sister Wendy . I still want to know which talent agency criticized the tape because they don't know talent if it bit them in their behinds .
Enjoyable British Comedy Going the Edge !	I only saw one episode because I was on a plane . At first , I didn't like it but it grew on me about cartoonist who submitted the wrong picture to the man who can change his life forever . He has to get it before he sees it . Well remember the Mission Impossible scene where Tom Cruise has to break into the CIA but it's far more enjoyable and there are laughs along the way . The cast is unfamiliar to me personally . I don't get much newer British comedies in America but I think Simon Pegg does a wonderful job as does the other cast members . It's kind of quirky and silly but really enjoyable . I think Simon Pegg goes over the edge regarding the show's comedic appeal . It's not so much about Spaced as it is about average ordinary life in London and the characters who wish they were anything but ordinary and average .
It was never the same without Harper !	This show really belonged to Valerie Harper , no offense to her replacement Sandy Duncan . Harper left the show under uncertain circumstances . Regardless , the show and network wrote her off sadly . While on , she was the mother to three boys and a pilot husband who was often absent . The cast was first rate including Edie McClurg as a neighbor , Christine Ebersole as her snobby unmarried sister-in-law , and the boys played by Jason Bateman , Jeremy Licht , and Danny Ponce . Ponce and Licht played fraternal twins who were as opposite as night and day . They touched on some issues like AIDS and homosexuality and other issues in this series but the show never fully recovered from the blow of Harper's absence .
Melissa Leo is truly a mesmerizing actress !	Melissa Leo truly is understated and under-appreciated in the Hollywood industry . She was the best female cop since Cagney and Lacey in Homicide . She truly is very attractive in Time of Destiny . I don't understand how Hollywood can forget such a beautiful presence of hers on screen . With such lovely hair and Irish features , she should easily be one of the hardest working women in show business . I'm shocked she hasn't received a nomination from Homicide . She is truly a scenestealer . I was so upset from Homicide's inconsideration and under appreciation of her talent so I gave up watching the show . What a dumb mistake to give her up ! In this film , she chews the scenery away from William Hurt and Timothy Hutton . I believe this is her film and her turn . I just wish Hollywood would use this lady more . I wish Kay Howard would turn up on Law and Order since they always need a new cop .
A Decent Syndicated Show !	I remember this show being on Saturday evenings back in the 1980s . That was when syndicated television shows like Throb and Mama's Family aired when it didn't succeed on prime time . Anyhow , Throb was alright . It wasn't bad . The writing was decent and so was the acting of Diana Canova . I swear that Jane Leeves from Frasier was on this show but I could be wrong because I don't see her name anywhere here . Like so many sitcoms of the 1980s , this show was somewhat mediocre for network but had a syndicated audience . I remember those days of syndication when you watched independent sitcoms like Throb and not infomercials . Sadly , they don't make many syndicated programs like they used too . Everybody has a network for them . But I do remember a time when syndicated television thrived and shows like Throb thrived or lasted longer than a few episodes . Sitcoms need time to develop and the networks don't give that time anymore and they don't want that audience neither .
A Needless Remake !	Let's face it , the Out of Towners may have been an updated remake about an Ohio couple dealing with the troubles in New York City but I think the original was more believable and realistic . I didn't like the ending because that's not what I expected . The purpose of the original movie was about an Ohio couple who may not have been as off the wall as the Clarks . True , Mr . Clark played by Steve Martin and Mrs . Clark played by Goldie Hawn are truly comedic talents and who can bring this movie to life . Don't forget John Cleese ( Silly for turning down a CBE ) as the hotel manager ! The film has a great cast , the writing was not upheld to the original quality of the first film which I think was just better and less silly than this film . New York City is a tough place to live , work , and even visit . The ending just disappointed me .
A Great Sequel to a Horrifying Story !	Meredith Baxter miraculously makes us feel some sympathy for the spoiled former wife of attorney Daniel Broderick even in this sequel to the original television film . Betty is now in prison for murdering her husband and his new wife in their bedroom . It's hard to feel sympathy for a woman who was getting $16 , 000 a month in alimony and living in a million-dollar home overlooking the Pacific Ocean . Regardless , Betty was determined to win the divorce even if it meant killing Dan and his wife and going to prison for the crimes . She wasn't going to be embarrassed but she did the same to her husband and her own family . Judith Ivey plays the prosecutor in the case . Kelli Williams returns as does Stephen Collins . I get the feeling that they had so much fun making the original that they returned to the sequel . Most of the original cast is back in the sequel .
Chucky's Back and this time he's not alone !	Jennifer Tilly plays Tiffany , the long lost love of the serial killer , who inspired Chucky , the doll only a mother can love who kills people . Tiffany is his soul-mate from hell . She finally becomes the doll and the two of them get together for mayhem and murder . The movie is quite hysterical and often bloody at times . Grey's Anatomy Katherine Heigl has a role here fighting with a bloody doll . Chucky and Tiffany have to get to New Jersey to the cemetery in order to retrieve something from his coffin . I only saw the half the film but it was more than enough . Evil dolls like Chucky and Tiffany go around killing people just to get to Hackensack . The people like the honeymoon couple at Niagara Falls and the senior elderly couple in the RV always looked shocked by being killed by two dolls . In the end , there is another surprise . I wonder if Heigl remembers this film or maybe she would rather forget . I would love to see a reporter ask her about it now that she's huge .
It could have made it !	Too bad , UPN didn't give this show a chance . I liked it . Richard Grieco is better know for his role on 21 Jump Street but he plays a Jersey born guy who moves to Hawaii and becomes a private investigator . They haven't shown this show in a while so my memory is pretty vague . I would have liked to seen more of it for the scenery in Hawaii and the cast . THey had some good stories but I would have liked to see this show again if given the opportunity but it's been so long anad I would have liked if it showed up in repeats or even on DVD . Marker had a chance but nobody knew about it so I would recommend this show if you liked to see Hawaii . I thought 11 years ago that I would be there by now and come home for visits but I have not been there once but I have visited London 4 times so it's one of my favorite places on earth .
It's less than perfect but a great show !	I am a very difficult viewer with television comedies today . I do enjoy this show because the writing and acting are worth watching . MadTV's alum , Will Sasso , brought refreshing energy to this show . Where is Eric Roberts and when will his famous sister , Julia , make a cameo ? Of course , the casting is brilliant with veteran Sherri Shepard and Andy Dick . I wasn't pleased about Joanna Kerns and Valerie Harper playing his lesbian mothers . I would have preferred Estelle Parsons instead . Anyway , Less Than Perfect is a great show and works well . Bring back Caroline Aaron , she's a scene stealer . Sadly , they changed the schedule so many times and this show ended up lost somewhere in the prime time mess and ended up being canceled when the ratings weren't that high .
Keep the audience guessing !	I liked Jack & Bobby . I am not a big fan of the dramatic genre or the melodramatic series like this one but I liked this show . I like Christine Lahti who is always dynamic in whatever role . She should have mantle filled with statues for her acting appearances . I was very impressed with the chances of letting us know what was going to happen into the future about these two young men . Of course , it always best to leave the audience guessing about the outcome of which one anyway . But I liked this show because of the strong characters in Jack , Bobby , & Grace . I don't think it's necessary to have the people in the future reflect until the very end of the series . If this was a mini-series or movie , I could see it but not now . Keep the audience guessing until the very end .
Mostly Faithful !	The book by Zora Neale Hurston of the same name was about Janie Crawford's life in Eatonville , Florida at the turn of the early part of the twentieth century . The movie doesn't reveal about Janie's birth or past and Ruby Dee is used to play Nanny which she was also the voice of the unabridged version of the book on tape . Halle Berry is great as Janie Crawford and earned an Emmy nomination for her performance . This book adapted to the television film is first rate for television movies . It is produced by Oprah Winfrey's production company and it is one of Oprah's favorite books which was featured as a book club member . I'm sure Zora is smiling down at Oprah . Zora , the author , was quite a character in herself . She wrote about the life of a typical African American woman in post-slavery America in Florida where there were not many choices for women at the time .
I wanted to like it !	I do find the film entertaining at some moments but completely unbelievable at another . Harold and Kumar are two guys from New Jersey ( my home state ) who are not mobsters for a change or the stereotype of New Jersey that we get from other medias . Anyway , Harold is a Korean American investment banker and his friend Kumar who should be going to medical school like his father and brother . One of my problems was the whole pot situation in this movie . It seems like that and sex is the center of men's existence . They go out to White Castle after they get stoned because the white castle burgers taste better that way . One of my problems with the movie is the drug issue because it becomes a core aspect of the movie's humor . Anyway , they pick up hitch-hiker Neil Patrick Harris along the way playing himself . As somebody who lived in New Jersey my whole life , believe me , the highways are much closer than they appear on the maps . Anyway , the movie has it's moments and I love Bobby Lee from Mad TV even for only a few minutes of him in the movie .
The Queen of Mean Reigns Supreme !	Suzanne Pleshette deserved an award for playing the most unlikable woman or most hated woman in recent history , Leona Rosenthal Helmsley . She climbed her way to the top of the New York Real Estate market which is quite brutal if you read anything about it . She found ultimate love and happiness with Harry Helmsley , a married billionaire . The two were destined for each other . He divorced his wife of many years and married Leona Helmsley . Pleshette plays Leona quite well almost perfect . Only because the book by the same name was used as a resource . The movie does not mention that Leona and Harry were active philanthropists who donated their vast fortune to charities . Now that Leona , Harry , and even Suzanne Pleshette who was grandiose , charming , and mad at times in this role are gone to a better place .
Amen ! Amen ! Amen !	Amen was a good sitcom . It was set in a Protestant Church led by Sherman Hemsley's character . The show had a stellar cast including Jester Hairston , Roz Ryan and Barbara Montgomery as sisters which was truly believable , Clifton Davis as the new pastor and the love of the head minister's daughter played by Anna Maria Horsford . After a while , you began to believe that this environment existed . It was set in Philadelphia which was a change of pace from New York City . Amen and 227 were usually aired on Saturday nights before Golden Girls . Amen was a well-written , acted show . It was the kind of church that I wished I belong too at times . It also showed that Sherman Hemsley was talented to hold his own show as well besides being best known as George Jefferson . He will always be George to us but we have to acknowledge that the Jeffersons did move on and prospered as well and rightfully so .
Who says you can't have it all ?	A woman like J . C . Wiatt played by the Oscar Winner and film legend , Diane Keaton , plays a hard-working college graduate professional working up the ranks of partnership at a New York City firm . She has love by Harold Ramis who is equally consumed by his job in the business world . The two lovers are partners but not married . Then one day , J . C . gets her inheritance from a cousin which she thinks is a pin but is actually a baby named Elizabeth and she is the only living relative to care for the adorable baby . Keaton's Wiatt is already uptight with the thought of motherhood dropped on her doorstep . She takes Elizabeth in and says goodbye to her boyfriend . She becomes the unlikeliest of mothers . The supporting cast features the wonderful American actor and the man who helped rebuild the Globe Theater in London , Sam Wanamaker CBE as her boss who is the work addict himself and doesn't know how many grandchildren that he has but his wife does ; James Spader plays the man who would take over Wiatt's job after three years of training under her belt ; it must suck to be a woman so Wiatt quits New York City and buys 63 acre farm in Vermont . There with Elizabeth , they embark on a new life where she makes apple sauce and starts her own business like Martha Stewart . Does she find love and happiness in Vermont with all the troubles of running her estate ? You'll just have to watch and find out . I believe Margaret Whitton is totally under-used in her role here as one of the corporate women .
A Surprise Hit ! 2 Year Later , a Change of Heart !	Most Americans live somewhere like Wisteria Lane although not with so much action like these ladies . While it is an exaggeration of suburban life , it is fun to watch , enjoyable , and maybe somewhat educative about our American culture . I like Marcia Cross ' performance of Bree Van De Kamp as the best performance of the year . I watched her on One Life to Live several years ago . To see her now , she is totally hitting it like a Stepford wife . If her husband Rex comes out gay , I think it would ruin it . I think if the creator wants to be daring , he will do something else to explain his sexual problems . I like Bree best of all while I am not married or with children . I just like Bree , I think there is so much there in her role . If her husband comes out of the closet , she will probably have a nervous breakdown . But I could see why he comes out too . If a man was married to someone like Bree , sure they would end up dating each other . I was also surprised by the setup of the show with Mary Alice narrating the lives and events of Wisteria Lane . It is a pretty innovative idea but I still want to know why she killed herself , if she did anyway . I missed the first couple episodes . It is the show everybody is talking about . Besides Marcia Cross ' Bree , I like Teri Hatcher as Susan Mayer . I never liked her playing Lois Lane . I love Felicity Huffman and would have been happy if her real-life husband William H . Macy played her on screen husband . Eva Longrio's character , Gabrielle , is my least favorite of all the housewives . She has a beautiful home , wealthy husband , and no children . Come on , she has a maid when she does not even work outside the home except for her affair with a teenager which I strongly disapprove of . Zach and his father have also an unusual dysfunctional relationship . They could have Mary Alice in flashback scenes to help explain her death . But then what about next season , I guess they could always find another desperate housewife and bring her to Wisteria Lane . I appreciate the fact that suburban life is depicted as interesting rather than the escape from city life like so many other shows try to do . Suburban life is here to stay . It is just as dysfunctional and fascinating as anything in the city . 2 years later , my feelings about this show has changed and not for the better . I was surprised that Matt Roth's character , Art Shepard , to practically admit that he was a pedophile . Of course , his character is gone from the show now and unlikely to return . The storyline about him being a pedophile didn't go far enough or deep at all . Art actually admits to being the monster that Lynette creates only to realize that her over-reaction and gossip caused such a fury . I think Marc Cherry jumped the shark a while ago on this show . I think he just brought Art in to prove a point . But let's think about it , Art helped save Lynette's life in the hostage crisis . Of course , if Cherry and his gang did research . They would find that pedophiles are also victims of sexual abuse by other pedophiles . The only difference is that they become the predator rather than the victim . I'm sorry but I thought the ending was a disappointment . Art is now free and on the loose somewhere thanks to Lynette's unknowing assistance . He would have no reason to return to the show now since he was so vilified . The scene with Rebecca was poignant and sad because it reminds you that they have families and friends as well . Just look at the Dateline shows on tracking internet predators . Since I read a lot of true crime books , monsters such as pedophiles and serial killers come in all shapes and sizes with no menacing characteristics . But on Wisteria Lane , aren't the others guilty just as well for other crimes ? I mean Wisteria Lane is like a nightmare street with all the murders , crimes , affairs , and cover-ups that occurred . I would be surprised if Cherry would have one of Lynette's boys be a victim of somebody that she would least suspect like a favorite teacher . I am not in anyway supportive of Art's secret . In fact , the problem is that we don't understand what causes pedophilia except the fact that nearly all pedophiles have been victims themselves . Now we hear even in my area about a beloved coach involved in child pornography and a female gym teacher having an affair with a 13 year old boy . So there goes the stereotype about female gym teachers in this case . In fact , almost every blue collar prisoner have been victims as children . So I believe Art was a victim too and I would like to know why Rebecca was wheelchair bound . Wisteria Lane is no more safer than the worst neighrborhood in the world . You have a convicted murderer ( Mike Delfino ) , your neighborhood whore ( Edie Britt ) , psychotic dentist ( Orson Hodge ) and his demented mother ( Gloria Hodge ) , male hustler-drunk driver ( Andrew Van De Camp ) , former resident and murderer ( Paul Young ) , former resident-extortionist-murder victim ( Martha Huber ) etc . So who are we too judge Art ? Anyway , the ending was quick and painless but it left questions unanswered . It was vague too . Of course , I thought Marc Cherry would be a master instead he used this pedophilia to prove a point without harming the show itself . It was quick and painless but for those of us who have been victims , it's not quick or painless . We carry it with us forever . Sorry but I think Cherry and his gang should do some research on the subject before they tackle it again and this time with more depth .
It's really Jack's turn !	Jack Cassidy is a perennial veteran of Columbo episodes especially as the chief suspect in murdering his prize writer , a mystery writer , who would be stolen by Mariette Hartley's character . I never really liked Mariette Hartley's acting or personally and I don't know why but she has been in a few episodes of Columbo . Mickey Spillane plays the victim writer . Anyway unlike Murder by the Book which features Jack Cassidy as a writer who offs his partner , he gets somebody else to do the crime because the writer wants to go legitimate and break his contract but to Jack's character , he's the star writer and makes him a lot of money and he would go broke . Rather than do the murder himself , his character gets drunk and involved in a car accident and arrested by the police and spends the night in a drunk tank . Anyway , Columbo always gets his guy or gal so he gets him in the end . It's how that's the question .
Columbo in a Think-Tank of All Places !	It's one of the better ones but it has a strange setting . Dr . Nicholson played by Hollywood actor , Lew Ayres , is an aging doctor with a young , attractive but equally successful psychologist played by Jessica Walter ( mom from Arrested Development ) and Jose Ferrer as the chief suspect in the crime . Even COlumbo has his work cut out for him because all of these intellectuals are geniuses as well . Anyway , COlumbo surrounded by geniuses has been done in another film . But in this episode , it's a small community . Jose Ferrer plays a devoted father but his son is keeping secrets from him that will not only destroy his career but his father's as well . The pressure must be unbearable in their community . Anyway , the story works fine with great actors like Lew Ayres , Peter Falk , Jessica Walter , and Jose Ferrer .
A Twist in Old Formula	Richard Kiley plays a Los Angeles commander who lives well with his wealthy wife in an unidentified part of Los Angeles . His friend and neighbor admit to killing his wife . Kiley's character helps his friend out of his crime in exchange for him killing his wife . It's kind of like Patricia Highsmith's book , " Strangers on the Train . " Of course , Kiley's character has been planning it better and with more thought than his friend . Anyway , jewelry is stolen and it the crime is set to look like a robbery gone awry . Anyway , I love the scene with Columbo and a paroled experienced Jewel thief exchanging barbs . He looks at him after Columbo hands him a cheap piece of jewelry and laughs and says that he would get laughed at in prison for being caught with something so obvious . Anyway , I love how Columbo catches Kiley in the end .
It Worked Well because of Fiorentino !	I have been a fan of hers since I saw her in Dogma . Now I wonder why I never noticed her before . Here she teams up with Oscar Winner Tommy Lee Jones and Oscar Nominee Will Smith as government agents to stop aliens from ruining our planet . First , the film is quite smart , witty , and works well . My favorite scenes are with Linda though not because I'm a fan of hers but she really steals the thunder and knows how to make a comeback whether verbal or physical . I don't know what happened on the set to make her the pariah of the film but she did deserve to return for the sequel . But for whatever reasons whether it was fate or her destiny , she was not and her performance in this film really shows that she can play Dr . Laurel Weaver as a smart , sensual , sexual , intelligent woman . We need more women like that and more actresses like that . She's approaching fifty now and it's not hard to believe that she wasn't even forty but she knows how to be equal with Smith and Jones . The problem might have been that it said men in black and not woman in black . I wish the best for Linda though where ever she is .
Satisfactory Version of the Classic Tale !	Uncle Tom's Cabin was brought back to life with a stellar cast including Danny Glover , Kate Burton , Phylicia Rashad , Bruce Dern , Paula Kelly , Edward Woodward , and Samuel L . Jackson just to name a few . I don't remember much of the story itself apart from reading it a long time ago . In the 1980s , television movies were a class apart . They were inspired by actual true crime or literature like Uncle Tom's Cabin into a movie with television stars . Anyway , the television movies of the past have long disappeared onto cable stations and PBS programming if possible . The quality of this television movie is worth watching for students . I now remember why television movies stopped being so good . It was because major television networks had the audiences to watch them . It's a lot cheaper to do reality series or program unfortunately . The audiences of the eighties have a lot more choices now . The major networks ruled prime time with the finest quality . Sometimes , quality should not be outnumbered by quantity .
First Rate Cast but weak script hurts film !	We will never know who killed Lizzie BOrden's father and stepmother for sure . She claims to be innocent and the house where the murders occurred is now a bed and breakfast but quite haunted . Elizabeth Montgomery plays Lizzie Borden , Katherine Helmond plays her sister who has her doubts about her sister's guilt . While the Borden murders were brutal and horrible , Victorian women did not do such things . There were no witnesses to the actual murders and there is a lot of argument and discussion regarding Lizzie's involvement since she stood to inherit her father's estate along with her sister . The movie doesn't show doubt as it shows Lizzie doing the crimes . I still have more questions than answers about the BOrden murders but I don't think it was Lizzie .
Don't Read the Book First !	For the movie , John Cusack who plays the author in the movie visits Savannah , Georgia for a story in Town and Country about Jim Williams ' magical Christmas party with eccentric characters like Serena Dawes played by Tony Winner Dorothy Loudon who shows off her gun that may have been used in her late husband's suicide , and another woman who jokes about her own husband who shot himself to death while watching Gunsmoke . Clint Eastwood is probably the best living American director today ( sorry Spielberg ) who directed this film with his daughter , Alison , playing Mandy Nichols . Lady Chablis plays herself and Emma Kelly plays herself as well . Ann Haney plays mother Williams . Kevin Spacey shows how great of an actor he is . Jude Law shows that he can do Southern accents as well . Sad to say that the book was a long-term affair . The movie does show sites of Savannah especially the famous garden of good and evil .
Still has great acting but weak plot !	I love Daniel Auteil who I think is one of France's leading male figures in the cinema business . He is brilliant in any role . He is France's answer to Cary Grant in my opinion . In this film , he co-stars with Oscar winner and fellow French actress , Juliette Binoche , as a married couple who are haunted and stalked by an unknown figure . Auteil plays a television reporter in Paris and somebody is after him but the movement in slow and the plot never really picks up speed to explain why . Of course , his character has flashbacks to his rural childhood in France . His relationship with his son is also interesting but despite his arguments with his wife , the character never becomes alive to me . I feel like the plot just stays stagnant . The cinematography and the beauty of Paris and France is worth watching the movie . I will watch it over again just to understand what is going on .
Pam Ferris is brilliant !	The cast is first rate with Danny DeVito and Rhea Perlman playing unsuitable parents of an advanced child , Matilda Wormwood . The Wormwoods don't understand their daughter who prefers to read big books rather than watch television with them and their son . Mara Wilson is unforgettable as Matilda Wormwood . She steals the scenes sometimes away from DeVito and Perlman . Embeth Davidtz plays Miss Jennifer Honey , the teacher who loves Matilda . Miss Honey has her secrets like her relationship with Agatha Trunchbull , the demon principal , who enjoys torturing and taunting her students . Pam Ferris ( she should be on the Queens Honors List ) is brilliant and unrecognizable as Agatha Trunchbull who is masculine and quite monstrous at times . I didn't recognize the actress until I read the credits . Roald Dahl's children's books like Matilda and others are quite similar with themes regarding children's relationships with adults . In this film , I didn't understand Trunchbull who enjoyed the hell that she inflicted on her students . Miss Honey is her niece and it's possible that Honey's father Magnus ' death was no suicide but held responsible by Trunchbull herself . There is not one redeeming quality about the Trunchbull and that's what bothers me the most . Not all monsters look like Trunchbull or act like one . No principal would ever get away with such inhuman behavior .
It was alright better than today's sitcoms !	Emmy winners Patricia Heaton before she was Debra Barone plays the daughter in this sitcom where she is an executive producer of a New York City television show . Her mother played by Alice's Linda Lavin arrives from Ohio with opinions and criticisms which invited her to become part of the television show leaving her family and friends behind in Ohio . With Heaton and Lavin , you really believe they are mother and daughter because they both appear to be doing their best with what they have in the scripts which are about average but superior to today's sitcoms . In an era where sitcoms were they were plentiful , Room for Two was about average and who knows about Heaton's upcoming sitcom with Kelsey Grammar . Heaton's potential appears in this show . Across veteran actress Linda Lavin , Heaton comes across as a match made in sitcom heaven .
A Decent Columbo episode !	Columbo's episodes are really quite a combination of serious , lightheartedness , good acting , an excellent cast , and drama mixed with comedy . Sex and the Married Detective casts Lindsay Crouse who is an excellent actress and does a superb job in this episode . She plays a sex therapist who discovers and learns of her lover's infidelity . She decides revenge . I found this episode to be much more entertaining than some others and still worth watching again and again . I found the interaction between Columbo and the Crouse to be the most interesting as well . Like most of Columbo episodes , one of the trademarks is to treat the audience and the suspect with intelligence rather than dumbing them down .
Wild Things is truly wild !	Matt Dillon is brilliant in his role as a guidance counselor who is accused of raping his students or is he . Anyway Kevin Bacon is also brilliant as the police detective in charge of an investigation of murder . Neve Campbell has a strong unusual role as a brilliant but trapped in a blue collar life . Denise Richards who I never saw before is above average in her part . The plot is not easy and you have to watch it to the end to get it but you're left with more questions than answers anyway which is why I am giving it a seven . I love Carrie Snodgress who plays Ruby in this film . I think she is brilliant actress who does a fantastic job with her small part . Of course , I won't reveal anymore regarding the plot because you have to watch it for yourself . It's not an easy plot with lots of twists and turns . In the end , they show the scenes that we don't see and it helps explain what really happens and that does help answer some questions . I can't forget Bill Murray who has a small role in this film as well . Of course , I would like to ask the director lots of questions about this film but that's not going to happen .
Good acting in otherwise flawed film !	Don't get me wrong , I have read a lot about the true crime of the black dahlia murder of Elizabeth " Betty " Short . I haven't read James Ellroy's novel centered around the Black Dahlia . Of course , the crime is never solved and remains as infamous as Jack the Ripper in American folklore . There are plenty of suspects and of course , Los Angeles police department was corrupted by the wealth and power of Hollywood moguls . This was not a place for those young aspiring girls like Betty Short to become a movie star but to end in tragedy . Her murder was brutal even compared to this day . The details can make anybody queazy if you don't know or are unaware of them . Anyway , the cast is excellent especially Aaron Eckhart who was in Thank You for Smoking , he turns in a great performance but is overshadowed by his younger on screen professional male partner Josh Harnett . Aaron plays Lee Blanchard , an LAPD cop and boxer , who is married to Scarlet JOhanson's character Kay . She does a pretty good job of making you forget . I didn't care for the lesbian bar scenes because I think there unrealistic and man's fantasy . Let's not forget it's Brian DePalma directing this film . KD Lang has a brief moment as a lesbian bar singer in a pretty risqu sketch . Hilary Swank plays Madeline Limpscott , a woman who looks like the Black DAhlia . She comes from a wealthy prominent family . Her father practically build Hollywood but her family is quite unsavory . Fiona Shaw makes a surprising performance out of such a small role . I know she has an honorary CBE but she's got Irish dame all over her . Madeline's sister , Martha , is played by Macauley Culkin's former wife , Rachel Miner . Funny , I watched her grow up on Guiding Light . Like L . A . Confidential , there are lot of simlarities with the characters and the plots . I wanted Harnett's character Dwight , to ask Madeline why she goes to lesbian haunts when she appears to be straight . Was it just to show a scene in a lesbian nightclub ? There are few more scenes that really risqu involving Elizabeth Short and a blonde teen unknown actress as well . The director seemed to have enjoyed in bringing a lot of lesbian scenes in this movie even if it was unnecessary or had nothing to do with the plot . if you're going to show a lesbian bar of the 1940s , be a little more realistic rather than idealistic to satisfy men's fantasies . I mean weren't the lesbian patrons shocked to see a man in the bar even a policeman without uniform . Now , I know I go on about this issue but since I have read a lot about the black dahlia case , I don't understand why it was overly done in the first place .
It was alright !	Before I saw the first Grease , me and my neighbor only saw Grease 2 because that's all HBO or Showtime aired at the time . Anyway , it introduced us to Michelle Pfeiffer and Maxwell Caulfield . The casting was excellent but they were trying to recreate the magic from the first Grease . I was glad to see some old favorites back like Eve Arden , Didi Conn as Frenchy , Dodie Goodman , Sid Caesar , Alice Ghostley , and new faces like Adrian Zmed , Lorna Luft ( Liza's sister and Judy's daughter ) . There were some dumb scenes like when one of the Pink ladies and one of the guys got together thinking it would be the last . That was a silly medley but you can still watch and laugh . Of course , the plot was silly but it managed to make a somewhat decent sequel to a classic movie . The scene in the bowling alley was funny to watch . Alright , it wasn't the original but we got to see some old friends again .
An Okay Spin-Off !	I remember when the network gave Marla Gibbs her own show as Florence Johnston who worked in a posh hotel with Ruth Brown and Liz Torres in the housekeeping department . Of course , Marla was much better on The JEffersons and when the show got canceled that Marla was welcome back on the Jeffersons . it proved how much she meant to the cast as wisecracking sidekick to Isabel Sanford and Sherman Hemsley as the Jeffersons in their upscale New York City apartment . Of course , the show never lasted long even with Marla Gibbs as Florence Johnston in her own series . Fortunately , she had gained sitcom stardom on 227 playing straight to Jackee's character . As Florence Johnston , Marla Gibbs was outstanding as the maid that you just love to hate and learn to love at the same time . Florence was never more truthful , honest , or kinder than when she was the with the Jeffersons . Thank God , the show did get canceled and we got Flo back .
One of the Oddest British comedies ever !	I have to say that this show introduced me to the great actress , Geraldine McEwan , who now plays Miss Marple in the new series but the actor Karl Howman who plays Mulberry is quite an odd chap as they would say . He's not who he appears to be and his reasons for being employed by Mrs . Farnaby , a lonely spinster of a woman who lives on a manor , is rather strange . I don't want to scare anybody off but the plot behind the dark man is enough to get you asking way too many questions . The longtime dedicated servants , Bert and Alice , are extras . The Alices were changed between seasons for reasons unknown because British comedies don't work like American comedies in the first place . They make fewer episodes and sometimes actors or actresses are committed to the theater , television , or other film project . Anyway , the writing is satisfactory but I never understood the whole point of Mulberry , the man who helps this lonely lady of the estate reclaim some life in her . Geraldine McEwan who would have been Dame by now does a superb job in making you feel sympathy for her . Sylvia Sims has a guest appearance as Mulberry's mother .
Not Mad About It !	Okay , I watched this show because it was funny but it was never a show that I enjoyed watching repeatedly . I love sitcoms but this one was annoying at times . I felt Helen Hunt was worthy of her multi-Emmys because she really made me like her character . Paul Reiser's character was just neurotic and annoying . Their chemistry worked but the show had a great cast like Cynthia Harris , Carroll O'Connor , Carol Burnett , etc . The show was set in New York City in a large apartment which costs a small fortune if you have the money . Paul and Helen showed us how married couples have their fights but truly love each other . Maybe the show works best if the audiences are married and need to laugh at somebody's else's misery . Anyway the show stayed on for seven seasons despite Helen's Oscar Win in 1998 . The casting was great but the writing lacked . It was like Seinfeld got married to Elaine and they were living together . They were just annoying at times .
Still a Lovable Film !	Let's face it , Cicely Tyson and Richard Pryor play an unlikely pair . Cicely plays a good-hearted social worker who is determined to transport a school bus-load of abandoned orphans across the country to a farm with animals . She gets Richard Pryor's character who plays an ex-con who redeems himself in this film . Of course , Tyson and Pryor are quite simply marvelous in roles that would have otherwise failed . I know if I wanted somebody that would be Cicely who plays Vivian Perry whose heart and mind are always in the right place . While Pryor's character feels like a failure , she and the kids inspire him as well he inspires them . It's not a wholesome after-school special but it's touching at moments to see the outcasts look and treat upon each other as friends and family because they could have treated this film like silly film but it's a serious film about serious problems and they do it admirably .
Gimme A Stroke ! Only Kidding ! This show made Nell famous !	Nell Carter will always be known as Nell from Gimme a Break than her Broadway background which included singing and dancing . Sadly , she died in her fifties . She plays a beloved housekeeper in a Caucasian American home led by the wonderful Dolph Sweet who passed away during the show's run . The cast also included three teenage daughters . The show had an extended family of regular cast members like Telma Hopkins who played Nell's best friend . Sweet's character was a police chief of Glenlawn , California . Over the years during it's run , Nell welcomed Joey and Matthew Laurence and other cast members . The show dealt with sensitive topics like depression , suicide , teenage angst , death , loss , racism , etc . , without being preachy or dumb . It was never a critical favorite but you felt at home with Nell and the gang .
A good episode and entertaining !	What makes Columbo work in my opinion is that despite the seriousness of the crime which is always murder that there is light-heartedness . Fisher Stevens is the star of his own movie . The cast is excellent besides Stevens and Peter Falk as the dashing Columbo . You have Molly Hagen who is underused in the industry and has appeared in another Columbo as Fisher's girlfriend . They also have Nan Martin who is wonderful as the woman who helps and hurts the lead character . Anyway , the filmmaker played by Fisher Stevens does learns the hard way by trying to fool Columbo . You can't fool or mess with him around or you'll get caught . He always catches his man or woman . This episode could have been better but it's not bad .
England's answer to Grey's Anatomy	This show came before Grey's Anatomy and will likely be on after that show ends . I only saw one episode last night but it's typical British soap fare . There is a Jamaican doctor who is taking care of orphaned baby Leeann until they locate her father . She suspects that he is a drug addict because of the physical symptoms and questions the authority . There are other members in the cast but the show doesn't exhibit anything but average writing , above average acting , and above average sets . I never saw Casualty so I can't tell the difference or the similarities . It was on after EastEnders so I watched it and it was watchable in my opinion but I wouldn't say excellent because I think the show needs to do more work in getting strong characters who will be memorable and writing that creates a sensation . Until then , Holby City will be the sister show of Casualty and while it follows EastEnders , it might get an audience leftover to keep it going . I think the show is good and worth watching .
Mama goes on the radio !	Mama Harper has never been without an opinion or too . In this episode is I remember , she gets her own radio show which is about consumer reports and the whole family and Iola get involved in sampling and testing products and local restaurants . Everybody wants to know Mama Harper's advice and opinion regarding cleaning products and donuts . The problems arise when it gets out of control and Mama Harper doesn't know how she's abusing her power of influence . This episode is okay but I believe that a guest or two appeared and is not listed here . I could be wrong because the show hasn't really play regularly anymore and there is no DVD collection . Still , it's typical Mama's Family fare with the family and Mama trying to make it big on radio and it works for a while .
One episode with a twist !	This Columbo episode is about dogs who kill on command . British actor Nicol Williamson plays a doctor is better known for his role as Hamlet in 1968 production . Another British born actress and better known for her role as Samantha on Sex and the City , the actress Kim Cattrall in an early performance at a very young age is also in a supporting role . Anyway , St . Elsewhere's Ed Begley Jr . has a small role as a police officer . Anyway , the episode is a Columbo favorite because it has film references around . Of course , Peter Falk's Columbo has become like an old family friend with great stories and interest in anything whether psychiatry , dogs , or movies . The ending is also brilliant with a twist and of course , Columbo catches his man in this case .
Give it a chance ! It's worth a try !	I just watched a repeat episode of Yes , Dear and I was impressed with the improvement since it's debut . I would have preferred that Anthony Clark have remained on Boston Common which was a better and funnier show on NBC but they canceled it after a few seasons . Yes , Dear has improved over the time and striving to be better . It is one of the few comedies that gets better than worse with time . CBS was unwise to cancel this show for John Goodman , Jean Smart , Ed Asner , and Olympia Dukakis in Center of the Universe . Yes , Dear may not be the greatest sitcom but it is certainly better than Center of the Universe . I could not understand CBS ' decision to cancel it in the first place . I love the guest appearances of Vicki Lawrence and Tim Conway as Clark's parents in the series . They are terrific company . Of course , Yes , Dear could better . But for a sitcom to work in television , it needs time to evolve . Yes , Dear may never become Everybody loves Raymond but it is worth a half-hour to watch . These are likable characters and the cast does their best in bringing light-hearted humor to television .
Mama's homemade remedy for laughs !	Mama Harper develops her mother's concoction to help her family get over an illness like the flu . After her son and bimbo-in-law Naomi who is now expecting their child realized that they can't afford it . They try a get rich scheme which falls on the unmentioned ingredient , alcohol . Mama Harper brings the remedy and potions to her stuffy Church Ladies League and they all end up wasted . It's funny episode especially when Mama Harper doesn't realize that it was the alcohol all along that was the cure . Still , I miss this show and any episode with Anne Haney as Alberta Meacham , the minister's no-nonsense wife , is a joy to watch as always . They'll just have to find another way to make the $180 , 000 to raise the Harper baby .
Not Dynasty But Still Good !	I liked the Colbys maybe because it had a stellar cast including Charlton Heston , Stephanie Beacham , Barbara Stanwyk , Maxwell Caulfield , Tracy Scoggins , Emma Samms in their cast . The writing if I remember was not as good as it's sister show , Dynasty , but it still had spunk . It was set in Los Angeles , California as opposed to Denver , Colorado . It had a similar theme like Dynasty and the Colbys were supposedly richer than the Carringtons . I can't forget Katharine Ross better known as the original Stepford Wife . This show introduced great actors and actresses like her to a new generation . It may not have been as good as Dynasty but it still had style , class , and cat fights if I remember maybe they were more subtle than Krystle and Alexis but they were worth watching on a weekly basis .
A Chilling Production !	A brilliant cast featuring Oscar Winner Karl Malden as a school bus driver who gets hijacked with the young students in rural California by three young criminals who plan a careful school bus hijacking but everything goes wrong no matter how well planned you orchestrate such a horrendous crime . The children and the bus driver played by Karl Malden are taken and held against their will despite the children's pleas , cries , and fear when they are placed in a dark , hot below ground in a secret location by the criminals . Suddenly , things start to go bad . I couldn't want too much more . I just kept thinking about the children being kidnapped and held for so long . It's based on a true story of an event in rural California in the 1970s .
A Sweet End to a Memorable Show !	Mama's Family never got the proper recognition that it long deserved as a cult hit . What started out as a family sketch on the Carol Burnett show evolved into something of it's own life . Unfortunately , the sad end of the show was probably because it's executive producer and creator , Joe Hamilton , and former husband of Carol Burnett , would pass away a year or so later . This season was tough because they ran out of ideas . Sadly , I wished that they brought the family together one more time for a reunion before calling it quits but it didn't happen . In this episode and the series finale , the blessed event of Naomi's baby is due to give birth and she is frantic that Vinton won't be there for the event . While Mama gets her house back since Vint and Naomi are moving into their trailer at the mobile home park in town and grandson Bubba will move into the fraternity house at the community college . Still , the baby is always welcome even if it means the end of the show and an era . Mama's Family was the first family that I felt was real . The characters were imperfect and sometimes didn't get along when they were together . They weren't like the other family sitcoms of the era . This show should have stayed in prime time but the network canceled it after two seasons for whatever reasons . In syndication , Mama's Family was queen because it allowed the show to move along without the politics of network television but without the money but it still delighted the fans who miss this show terribly and miss the characters as well .
Could have had a longer run ?	With a cast that included Penelope Wilton OBE , Gwen Taylor , and Jill Baker as three women with something in common ! They are all involved with the same man . I don't recall seeing him very much . Somehow the three women bond and form an unlikely friendship despite their man . They are all three very different women who range in personalities . The show begins by playing a song by Lakme's Delibes opera . It's quite a poetic song and it sets the mood for this show . It's still an unusual sitcom that aired briefly in the New York City area years ago but I remember it well because of the three actresses who play the women in one man's life . Maybe that's why the show is called screaming because they wanted to scream away from the situation ?
Saturday Nights on NBC was the place to be in the 1980s !	This show and Amen both aired on NBC . Both show featured the comic genius of two Jeffersons ' alums , Sherman Hemsley , and Marla Gibbs . We all watched her play the wisecracking maid , Florence Johnston , on the Jeffersons . Now she shines in her own show but not without a great supporting cast . There is Emmy winning Jackee Harry as Sandra , her upstairs neighbor , or veteran actress Helen Martin as the nosy neighbor on the stoop . The show was named 227 after it's address . No it was set in Washington D . C . of all place , a nice change in location . Hal Williams played the ideal spouse to Marla Gibbs ' husband . If you look , you will see Regina King who is on her way to becoming a star with credits like Jerry Maguire and Ray . It was a good show with wholesome family entertainment .
Angus represents the high school outcast !	Angus is an overweight teenager who only wants to be accepted by his peers . Much like reality , Angus is a nerd but a likable one with a great personality . Rather than lose weight , Angus does become an unlikely hero without changing himself to please others . That is the part of the film , Angus , that makes the difference . It is a wonderful film overall and children and even adults of all ages can identify with Angus ' plight to overcome acceptance . High School was hard for some of us while easier for others . Angus points out that it's difficult feeling unaccepted because of his weight . Ironically , we live in a society where childhood obesity is an epidemic and they think by removing salt from the lunch packets that they would help solve the problem . I ate lots of unhealthy food and drank plenty of soda during my days but I also exercised regularly . I rarely spent an entire day inside until I became an adult . I walked , rode my bike , swam , ran , and played games with the neighborhood children . I think it's awful that children are going to gyms as if they were adults . That was what was fun about being a kid is that we imagined ourselves as adults .
Silly , Sad , and Poignant Film at times !	Eddie Murphy transforms himself with the help of the Oscar winning make-up team into an array of characters known as the Klump family , Buddy Love , and Dr . Sherman Klump , an overweight lonely professor . He becomes Buddy Love when Sherman develops a formula to thin him down but the formula does not last as long as he would like it too . It's not permanent . He becomes a full-fledged Buddy Love , the man who is thin and goes after the ladies unlike never before . The scenes with Dave Chappelle as the comedian who pokes fun and cruelty at the overweight Sherman is quite sad . Murphy delivers in his role and many roles on screen . As Dr . Sherman Klump , you like him the best because he is the kindest and sweeter than Buddy Love who only thinks about himself . As the Klump family , Murphy proves that there is nothing he can't or won't do to get a laugh at the audience . But enough with the fart jokes around the dining room table , the movie also includes James Coburn and Jada Pinket Smith as the woman of Sherman's desire who goes after Buddy but she does not realize he's the same person . It isn't the acting but the make-up that shows how Sherman to Buddy transformation can be .
It's not the best but it sure beats most other shows	After the family ties success on NBC , ABC developed Growing Pains to rival it about the Seavers with their 3 children in Long Island , New York . Nobody in this show has the New York accent but it still beats other shows . Kirk Cameron became a huge teen star in the eighties . Tracey Gold shined as the middle sister , Carol Seaver . Alan Thicke finally had a successful show in his lifetime and Joanna Kerns came out of her big sister Donna Devarona's shadows as the Growing Pains mom . The writing could have been better and the show could have equaled Family Ties but nowadays , a show like this would have got Emmys . Sure , it was sweet and full of saccharine but I miss it now .
Don't judge a film by it's title !	Sexy Beast is never fully explained . Perhaps it is a nickname for Ben Kingsley's character . Sir Ben is wonderful in this film as complicated bald British burglar . Ian McShane is deliciously evil in his role as the man behind the master plan . Ian is well deserving of an O . B . E . or a C . B . E . Ray Winstone should also get an O . B . E . for his services to acting . The cast is wonderful including Amanda Redman who is best known for playing the older Diana Dors . I hope they don't forget her for a British honour in the same fashion as the late Diana Dors ( she should have been given a C . B . E . ) but nevertheless the plot is fun and filled with four letter words , violence , a little sex , and brief nudity scene . Sexy Beast may not have raked it in at the box office . I don't know why but maybe it should have with all the sex , violence , and nudity for American audiences . Isn't that what they want and they don't go for it ? Maybe it's the British accents that throws them away but whatever it is worth watching at least once without the children .
Sizzling True Story !	Few stories are worth adapting to the screen . Elizabeth Montgomery gives a mind-bending brilliant performance as Ruth Coe , the beloved and twisted mother , of serial rapist Kevin Coe . It's not enough that her own son has been found , arrested , convicted , and imprisoned as the South Hill Rapist in Spokane , Washington . The South Hill Rapist struck usually in the mornings during his mornings when he jogged . He also struck about forty known victims and there were probably more than fifty knowing some who didn't report the crimes to the authorities . All the while , Mommy Dearest Ruth Coe refuses to believe any evidence and defends her son to the hilt . Elizabeth Montgomery's performance is chilling as is Dale Midkiff who plays her son . Now the real Kevin Coe might be released unless the state of Washington can place him on a island where he can be imprisoned for life as a dangerous sex offender . Even to this day , Spokane has not recovered from the years of terror as the South Hill Rapist struck and attacked his female victims .
It's not that bad ! ! !	This animated film version of the classic George Orwell novel , Animal Farm , is faithful to the book's story . After reading Animal Farm , I watched this movie which was a colorized version of the story . This film is ahead of it's time in 1954 so you have to understand that the quality may not be that great and their are only two male voices offering to play all the roles which includes the wonderful Maurice Denham OBE . The story of animals who run a farm after chasing the evil , Mr . Jones away . The animals believe they can run the farm better than Mr . Jones . The problem is that Napoleon , the pig leader or big boar , takes charge and moves into Jones ' house and begins breaking the rules that they were founded upon in Animal Farm . Slowly , we see the problems arose among the animals and the unhappiness , greed , and power-hungry of some versus the others .
These Boots were made for walking !	Austin Powers is really the creation of Mike Myers , Saturday Night Live alumni . He plays multiple roles as the sex-crazed hairy gap-toothed Austin Powers who was frozen in time in the 1960s while Dr . Evil , his complete opposite and enemy also was frozen in time . Now they're both back and at each other's throats again . Austin is trying to save the world while Dr . Evil is bald and truly evil . My favorite scenes include Dr . Evil and his minions including the wonderful Mindy Sterling and Robert Wagner . I love Dr . Evil's relationship with his newfound son , Scott Evil , played by Seth Green . Those are my favorite scenes in the film as Dr . Evil tries to get a hug from his son . One of the funniest scenes in the movie is when Dr . Evil and Scott go into family therapy lead by Carrie Fisher .
Kudos to McDonnell , Woodward , and cast	This film surprised me a lot . I liked it very much . It was well-written , acted , and worth watching Mary McDonnell who received her second Oscar nomination for this performance . Alfre Woodard should be nominated for best supporting actress . I was surprised to find two equally challenging roles for women in an almost extinct era . The relationship between the two women grows slowly . It is nice to see friendship between these two very different characters . May Alice becomes a likable person after awhile . Angela Bassett has a small role as her friend from New York City . David Straitharn plays an old flame who has since married and remain local in the Louisiana swamps of their hometown . It's a great story overall with characters that you grow to like over the time we spend with them .
Almost Perfect !	The Three Days of the Condor is pretty entertaining with a stellar cast featuring Oscar winners like Robert Redford , Faye Dunaway , John Houseman and Cliff Robertson . Redford pays Joe Turner a . k . a . Condor who is the lone survivor of a major killing spree where his colleagues including his Asian girlfriend Janice are shot to death in New York City offices . The movie is based on the book but I haven't read it . Redford does his best as a man on the run like Tom Cruise in Mission Impossible . He doesn't know why they were murdered and all he does is read for the CIA . He kidnaps an unwilling woman played by Faye Dunaway . Their relationship gets complicated by their mutual attraction to each other . Carlin Glynn plays the small supporting role as Sam's wife . I love the New York City locations especially seeing the twin towers where they once proudly stood .
It's pretty good !	Two's Company has been shown recently on the WLIW in Long Island Thursday Nights after Waiting for God . It's actually a delightful surprise to see Elaine Stritch and Sir Donald Sinden in this show . Elaine was married to British writer during this time . She is so talented in many ways including singing the theme song . She appears to have fun with her character . While the character is an American expatriate , the show sometimes uses it unwisely . I am an American who love British television more than American television . In fact , I watch Waiting for God reruns rather than Friends . After all , Two's Company was produced by London Weekend Television . Sir Donald's Robert plays wonderfully to Elaine Stritch . We should be very proud of Miss Stritch's talent and success . She is still an American treasure from this show .
The Family Guy is a Good Sitcom !	It took me a long while to get into the Family Guy but I like it now . I love Alex Borstein ( better known for her roles on Mad-TV ) as the voice of the mother and Mila Kunis as the voice of the daughter . I don't understand why Stewie has a British accent and acts older than he actually is on the show but it makes for an interesting change . Like when Stewie was believed to be possessed by the devil when his parents joined a right wing church , they move to Texas where Stewie is now a girl and appears in a girls ' beauty pageant . I like the fact that the best sitcoms today are animated because there is not so much political factors involved . You can easily replace the voices than the actors maybe that's why sitcoms are becoming more animated .
Love him or hate him or both , he's great !	Anthony Bourdain's No Reservations is a rare show that combines both traveling and restaurants which happen to be two of my favorite things . This travel channel show goes all over the map literally judging by the locations listed here . He was recently in Chicago . Since Bourdain is bred New Yorker but raised in urban Jersey , he doesn't put Chicago down at all . He always praises locations like Chicago . For example , he goes to China and claims that he could spend an eternity trying to show the various , unique cooking styles of the Chinese . He was quite complimentary and enjoyed his visit in China just as he does everywhere . He meets with friends and goes to the off the tourist track to find the restaurants where there are usually local charms . You won't find them to have valet parking or formal attire . Anthony shows the culture and the cuisine in his travels whether it's Jersey , New York , Chicago , China , or elsewhere . I have enjoyed watching him and his friends chow down on a variety of foods .
One of Vanessa Redgrave's best performances !	Vanessa Redgrave who should be awarded Dame Commander of the British Empire if it was up to me but she declined damehood in 1999 and even regrets accepting the C . B . E . in 1967 . She gives one of her best and memorable performances as the legendary dancer , Isadora Duncan . It is a long and memorable movie . THe best lover in my opinion is the foreign piano lover who is described first by Isadora as " hideous and revolting . " When they finally share a carriage ride , she begins to recognize his inner beauty of another artist . Isadora's life is also tragic with the loss of her two children in a dreadful car accident . This film is really Vanessa Redgrave's vehicle . She drives smoothly from beginning to end . American actress , Cynthia Harris , does a good job in a featured role in this film . So does Jason Robards and others who bring the life to this wonderful creature .
Loved this movie !	This was one collaboration that drew attention . Lesbian film director Dorothy Arzner and film actress Katharine Hepburn . For God sakes , both women wore pants in town when it was seen as scandalous . Anyway , the legendary Kate plays a female aviator much like Amelia Earhart who falls in love with a married man known as Christopher Strong or Sir since he is titled . I loved the old black and white films especially since I think they provide so much more than today's films . Anyway , Kate's character and Strong have an affair . I love the scene where she wears that silly costume . Kate's role as the other woman could have been scandalous back then if it wasn't so obvious to the Strong family . Billie Burke better known as Glinda , the good witch in the Wizard of Oz , plays Lady Strong . I loved Katharine Hepburn and I think a lot of people did whether they were colleagues , friends , relatives , or whatever . I think she would become the other woman in the Spencer Tracy relationship in reality . Oh well , the film is worth watching if just for that costume .
Hollywood's Jane Eyre !	The elder Jane Eyre is played by Oscar Winner , Joan Fontaine . She is quite brilliant as the governess who grew abused by relatives and later abused at Lowood Institution for Orphaned girls like herself . She was rebellion who would spend ten painful years under the dictatorship of Brocklehurst . She had wonderful thoughts of school only to be dismayed by the obvious abusive nature of the headmaster . Jane was the rebellious girl . The young actress who plays does a great job . The cast includes Orson Welles as Edward Rochester , the lord of the Thornfield estate , Sara Allgood as housekeeper Bessie with her abusive aunt Mrs . Reed played by the wonderful Agnes Moorhead . I believe there was a young Elizabeth Taylor playing Helen , Jane's only best friend at Lowood who helped make the horrid conditions less horrid . Jane Eyre's early years were painful enough and she would grow up to become eligible to teach at the very institution that she spent ten horrible long years in pain and misery . Welles and Fontaine are memorable as Rochester and Jane .
A Christmas to Remember !	When a relative sends something to remind Mama Harper about Christmases of the past , the Harpers weren't expecting an actual living goose as the Christmas meal named something . I know it was a male name . The problem is that the family grows attached to the pet goose except for Mama who must do the unthinkable and just when you think you know Mama Harper . You're wrong and the Christmas Meal isn't what the family was expecting neither nor they were expecting a goose . I would have liked to have seen Aunt Effie played by the wonderful Dorothy Van make a guest appearance . She should have been a regular in this series . The episode was surprisingly aired after the Christmas holidays and the show was winding down and needed some ideas . The goose was quite a surprise and I just trying to remember his name . It was Langley ? Wasn't it ? I don't remember . I just know that I couldn't do it .
Dame Maggie Smith Rules this Film !	Dame Maggie Smith plays a successful British author who travels on train with a group of unsuspecting passengers . She befriends a young girl named Aimee . I love Maggie Smith and her performance was one of her best roles in years . She plays a classy , elegant author who lives very well in Umbria . Tragedy occurs when the train explodes leaving her , Timothy Spall , Chris Cooper , Aimee , and an older gentleman besides herself as survivors . She decides to bring them to her home in Umbria , Italy where she gets to know them . Sadly , Aimee's life is not all what it seems . One of the younger men loses his love and another man has a secret . They all have secrets but the movie is based on William Trevor's novella who is one of Britain's best known authors . Anyway , the filming , the art direction , and the acting is pretty decent considering the script is a bit weak .
Welcome back !	In Plain Sight is now common among the new cable and even network . They have shortened their season from the usual 22 to 13 episodes . The down side is the longer the wait makes you want to look elsewhere . Mary Shannon and her partner , Marshall , are back in tow . They work well as a team . If Mary Shannon didn't look attractive , would the men tolerate her as much ? Probably not , she's tough and you have to be working in a man's world with men mostly . At home , she is really the masculine authority in her household with her mother , Jinx , played well by Lesley Ann Warren and her troublesome sister , Brandi . No wonder , she prefers her job that allows her to get away with such impossible behavior . Now if I had acted that way , I would be fired immediately but I don't . As a woman , I have to conform and worry that inappropriate behavior won't get me fired especially now . I see Mary McCormack's face everywhere from the train to New York City , the posters on the wall , and the New York Times . I like Mary McCormack and always have . I wish her well in her success and know that it won't go to her head . Despite that she plays a tough talking government agent , she remains feminine in nature with her emotions . She had a tough season last year at home and at work . I'm not one for cop shows anymore . There too many of them and they are all beginning to look alike after awhile . In Plain Sight is a little different because of Mary's tough character who shows she's boss . That's every woman's fantasy in a way in a men's world . She doesn't take being mistreated . For women , it's an hour to escape and allow ourselves to live vicariously through her .
And a must see	To those who have not followed the Anne Marie Fahey Murder case . You are missing out one of the saddest yet complicated murder of all . The murderer is popular Delaware attorney , Tom Capano and the victim is the Delaware Governor's Scheduling Secretary , Anne Marie Fahey . Their relationship was a well-kept secret until her disappearance and murder . She wanted to leave him but he just wouldn't let her go so easily . On the other hand , he had a mistress and a wife and four daughters . Where did he find the time to have two mistresses and a domestic family life ? Besides , the case is extremely complicated and fascinating for a four hour mini series . While the actress who plays Ms . Fahey does a fine job , she does not have her dark long hair . His other mistress is definitely more attractive than the actual woman . Mark Harmon is better looking and does an Emmy award winning performance as Tom Capano . It would be better with actual Delaware and Philadelphia locations . With Ann Rule's executive producing , she adds accuracy to Anne Marie's characteristic of organization and her personal battle with an eating disorder . These bits of information might be overlooked by any other executive producer or director . If you have not read the book , it is well worth it . Ann Rule is a fascinating storyteller of true crime . It is ironic that Mark Harmon plays Tom Capano . He also played Ann Rule's former friend and subject , Ted Bundy in an another book adaptation many years ago . He was brilliant then and now . He does an above average job with an amazing story . Even President CLinton offered his assistance in the Anne Marie Fahey case . And now , the former Governor Tom Carper is now the United States Senator for Delaware who defeated longtime , popular incumbent Senator Richard Roth in the November 2000 election . IF you don't think the movie is interesting , then the read Rule's book .
Not so Perfect !	Okay , the premise is that Deputy Mayor Laura Fitzgerald played by the wonderful Gwen Taylor ( who should be honored by the Queen ) and the town mayor played by the wonderful Rudolph Walker OBE decide that Flatby should secede from the United Kingdom and form their own country . The plot sounds a ludicrous and silly but the show's writers and cast make the show worthwhile to watch . It's filmed on location in Essex , England and casting Taylor and Walker in key roles like Laura and Winston help enhance the show's appeal . There is no such thing as a perfect state and all governments ( big or small ) learn that in the deadly game of politics . There are absurdities like the Flatby tours and souvenirs of the city who wants to be different from other cities . It's still fun to watch pros like Taylor and Walker .
Makes you want to pack up and move to Hawaii ?	Magnum P . I . is about the closest thing I have in connection with Hawaii . I recall a couple who left New Jersey in 1995 with a dream to live in Honolulu , Hawaii . I'm sure Hawaii is a paradise to visit but they have problems just like everywhere else . It is an expensive place to live so is where I live , New Jersey . This show is escapism and a combination of intelligence and brotherhood . Tom Magnum played wonderfully by Tom Selleck who has since moved back to Southern California and created his own paradise by having a ranch with wife and daughter beside him . Besides the rumors of his sexual orientation are just that unproven rumors . ANyway , he's a gun-toting Republican so everybody's off base . Had Magnum P . I . settled down with any woman in particular , I think it would have spoiled the dynamic of the show . There was a great sense of brotherhood among the cast members who are all male , John Hillerman who played the butler or owner whatever you want to believe about this true identity was always a great joy to watch . Funny , he's not British but from Texas . Larry Manetti and Roger E . Mosley played the bar owner and helicopter pilot and friend to Magnum . They knew each other from Vietnam which deepens their relationship with each other in a platonic way . Yes , there were girls and only British resident Agatha was a regular but that was the point . If Tom had settled down during the show , the show would have been over . Anyway , this series was a great and I despise when Hollywood takes a good series and recasts with them anybody less than the original . Tom can still play Magnum and the rest of the cast can still come back . DUring the final season of the show , Tom threw the best wrap parties , gave raises to the cast and crew , and expensive gifts from his bonus for staying one year .
Odd Title but entertaining !	I agree it's entertaining . Peter Falk as Columbo is always entertaining and even in this one . It's an odd title though from his others . Don't miss Jamie Lee Curtis as the uptight waitress and the great British actress , Samantha ( I forget her last name ) as the unhappy spending wife of the prime suspect . It takes place at a club house for the geniuses of SOuthern California and the prime suspect is a genius who kills his partner genius rather than lose his fortune . Of course , the smarter the prime suspect in Columbos , the harder it is catch them or at least we think so . Anyway , Columbo does his best job to make sure he catches his man or woman . Of course , this episode is not one of my personal favorites but it's always worth watching again .
A genius of an episode !	I guess Columbo episodes were getting harder to contrive . Again , this episode deals with food . Louis Jourdan has the prime suspect role as a popular chef of a cooking show . Peter Falk's real life wife Shera Danese plays Jourdan's girlfriend . Jonathan Demme is the director which I didn't know . Some of America's great directors like Jonathan Demme has directed Columbo episodes even Steven Spielberg . This episode is entertaining . I love watching Columbo playing with his chief suspects and the restaurant community . One of the best assets about Columbo is that even though it's mostly set in Los Angeles , California . There is always a mix of people involved whether celebrities , restaurant , authors , and other kinds of people . We see another side of Los Angeles that we don't often get to see . We just assume of Hollywood . There is more to Los Angeles than Hollywood and COlumbo shows us that .
Good but not as good as the first !	I loved the Airplane movie and am glad that there was sequel . While this film is not as good as the original , it still holds up to the similar cast of characters . Rather than flying to an airport , the flight is headed to the moon . In this instance , Hays and Hagerty are back again . Then there is a trial from the previous flight . In this sequel , we reunite with Lloyd Bridges , Stephen Stucker who played Johnny , William Shatner as the man on the moon running the place like Captain Kirk . The film is worthy enough but not as nearly funny or brilliant as it's original but it's always worth to watch the cast again . We miss them after all these years .
The House of Eliot is simply irresistible !	I remember when A & E aired this series on Sunday evenings . Oh how I envied being in London , anyway Stella Gonet and Louise Lombard are both stars of this series as two sisters who operate a fashion business in London , England . A terrific supporting cast like Victoria Alcock , Cathy Murphy , and others help support the leading actresses . Of course , the creators of the show was Dame Eileen Atkins and Jean Marsh better known for Upstairs , Downstairs . Anyway , the story is quite soap opera at times but it is irresistible too . They are true to the time period as possible they can . They opened the doors much like other British series . Sadly , the show only lasted three seasons which is not that unusual in British programming . Unfortunately , a series season ranges from 6-10 episodes a season . Oh my , the British soaps air about four or five times a week .
Still Worth Watching !	Lorraine Hansberry's play is forever being produced whether on stage in it's original drama or in a musical . A Raisin in the Sun is a theatrical classic . It stars Sean Combs in the leading male role that Sidney Poitier immortalized in the film with Ruby Dee . In this version , Phylicia Rashad plays the family matriarch and Audra McDonald plays Ruby Dee's character . Those two performances are stellar and they both won Tony Awards for their performances on Broadway . The television film version is equally worth watching but it's too long at times . John Stamos plays the man who wants them not to move into their neighborhood . The film version is for today's audiences but it's too long despite it being faithful to the original .
An okay movie of the week !	Linda Lavin gives an exceptional heartwarming performance in a typical television Holocaust film of the week . Her Lena is portrayed admirably by Ms . Lavin . The children were well-acted and performed also admirably . Since reading the book , I have gained a little knowledge more as to the conditions to postwar Poland . The film itself should be seen and book should be read to gain further understanding about the Holocaust . There is nothing really special about this film except Lavin can do more than play television's Alice . I hope this book and movie can inspire teachers to help students understand the subject a lot better than some other movies or books .
All About Erica !	According to TV Guide , the tribute to the great Ruth Warrick was set for May 13 , 2005 but I only got a lame will reading from this episode . I stopped watching All My Children years ago because it was really the Susan Lucci show . Nowadays , the show is going to the dogs literally . It focuses too much on the young people of Pine Valley . I remember the early eighties when Ruth Warrick and other cast members like Kay Campbell , Louis Edmonds , Julia Barr , David Canary , and Eileen Herlie all had some storyline going now . Those who survive are destined to be placed in the background like Michael Knight . The show is only a shell of what it used to be . I sent several letters and applications for Eileen Herlie to get a British National Honor like Dame but I would have settled for the typical M . B . E . ( Member of the Order of the British Empire ) . I sent several envelopes to cast members with an application inside . I never heard from one cast member or anybody interested in honoring Eileen Herlie from her native country . It angers me because I know from the past that somebody in their eighties like her and Ruth Warrick don't have much time left . I even sent the same applications to soap publications . Still no response from anybody . Does anybody care about somebody like Eileen Herlie ? Before Anna Lee , I made several attempts to get another honor from Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth but it failed because I didn't do it sooner than later . Eileen should have an M . B . E . like Anna Lee who was awarded in 1982 . Eileen has been on just as long as some of the recipients from Coronation Street . Still , I wanted to see Ruth's tribute but for some reason , I didn't . Maybe I wasn't supposed too , maybe this is why I am writing this piece . I will never say the writing was ever excellent . It never held the same appeal as Douglas Marland or William J . Bell's story lines . The acting has always been either wonderful comedic and truly over the top . Still I hope All My Children fans will remember what it was like for those characters like Phoebe Wallingford , Myrtle Fargate , and others that you don't have to be young to have appeal . You have to depth and that comes from years of experience .
Steele steals the scenes !	The casting of Pierce Brosnan as Remington Steele , private investigator , and Stephanie Zimbalist as Laura Holt , the private investigator who conjured up the name in order to get her business moving . After all , a woman private investigator did not fare well in the world . Remington Steele pops up and there is obvious chemistry between the two characters . Steele is charismatic , charming , and seductive while Holt is more straight and lacks a sense of humor at times . There is no question that Steele steals the scenery right out from under her . Anyway , the two cast mates do have chemistry . The addition of Doris Roberts before she was known as Marie Boyle on Everybody Loves Raymond gave her a supporting role . This show was light but not as a feather nor dark or too serious . It had a comedy and drama mixed in together which was why it worked for 5 seasons in the golden age of television .
One Day a Time !	This show was a revolutionary in the women's movement . Bonnie Franklin played red head divorce and mother of two teenage daughters who moves from Loganport , Indiana to the big city of Indianapolis . Her daughters are played by the wonderful , Valerie Bertinelli , and Mackenzie Phillips . They played Barbara and Julie . Remember Schneider who frequented the apartment as the building handyman . Nan Fabray who played Ann's mother . I loved Richard Masur as Ann's first boyfriend after her divorce . I thought he should have stayed on but it wouldn't work if Ann remarried so soon after the divorce papers were inked . I remember Shelley Fabares on the show as one of her co-workers as well as Mary Louise Wilson as a cocktail waitress neighbor . It was one of the few shows that I could recall was set in Indianapolis . I thought the show was well-written most of the time and the acting was worthy of the Emmys it received . They don't make shows like this . I remember the apartment layout most of all . Despite Phillips ' substance problems , Valerie was truly a star in the making . The show grew and evolved and was well-loved by its audience .
Great Performances by Watros & Roberts !	Eric Roberts ( yes , Julia's brother ) stars in this episode of Fear Itself with Emmy winner Cynthia Watros . They both give excellent performances as people haunted by their past and their connections to each other . Without spoiling the plot , Roberts plays Harry , a private investigator who is hired by Watros character Mary to investigate the house which appears empty at first . This hour is about the supernatural and how a house can possess a life of it's own . I won't spoil the plot but I did enjoy it in part because of Roberts and Watros characters . Roberts ' Harry is quite a well-developed character with a haunted past and skeletons in the closet . Watros ' Mary is equally the same .
A Classic Children's Story Brought to Life !	Fiona Fullerton is better known for her role as Alice in this production of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland . She rises to the occasion but my only complaint is that we always see Alice as a blonde . The cast is first rate which Dame Flora Robson OBE , Peter Sellers CBE , Sir Ralph Richardson CBE , Dudley Moore CBE , and a cast in costumes as caterpillars , mice , rabbits , and Queen of Spades . The film is really for children and adults who love Lewis Carroll's classic tale of Alice in Wonderland . John Barry OBE has provided the musical score for this film production . The film also has superior art direction , costumes , and a whimsical happy mood for it's audience . It is really Fiona who does justice to the role of Alice even in a first rate cast of actors and actresses .
Better without Rob Morrow !	Rob Morrow as the typical uptight Jewish New York City doctor gets relocated to Cicely , Alaska . The show was filmed around Seattle , Washington . While I love the beauty of Alaska , Morrow's role was nauseating , neurotic , and stereotypical . He hates his assignment . It's too far from everywhere , Seattle is the nearest city . What about Vancouver ? That's where they shoot Men in Trees now . Fortunately , the show's stellar supporting cast like Peg Phillips as the general store owner , Ruth Anne Miller was unforgettable , Cynthia Geary , John Corbett became a longtime Seattle resident , John Corbin , Janine Turner , and other cast members loved the locale of their show so much that they based themselves there . Who wouldn't love Seattle and the Snohomish Mountains or Alaska ? Now they can be seen on DVD , season by season . But for several seasons , Monday night was the place to be to curl and watch Northern Exposure .
Penelope Keith CBE OBE is the Queen of British Comedy !	I don't know why the High Sheriff of Surrey Penelope Keith CBE OBE is not considered the reigning queen of British comedy . She has more British comedies to her credit than anybody else that I know . In this show , she plays a minister of parliament better known as MP Jean Price . She gets elected and must battle the other politicians and the men's world that was normally parliament . The show had a brief run on my local PBS station and I haven't seen it since then . It was a good classic comedy with smart writing and brilliant acting with serious topics that concerned the ordinary Britons that she represents . I would want Jean Price as my representative for Parliament or my congressional representative in the United States Congress . She is smart and clever and knows it . She is married and her children are grown . The show should be available on DVD to enjoy for us all over again .
A Classic Dysfunctional Christmas Movie for any family	The Ref is truly a wonderful Christmas movie anyway . Sure , it could have better writing but not a better cast of actors like Glynis Johns , Judy Davis , Kevin Spacey , Christine Baranski , & Denis Leary . IF you want a dysfunctional Christmas movie , the Ref is pretty good entertainment . Denis'character gets stuck taking a constantly arguing couple hostage . When they get to their home , he pretends to be their marriage counselor . The laughs get only better with Glynis Johns ' Grandmother Rose as a female version of scrooge . I nominated Glynis Johns for a United Kingdom National Honour as Office of the British Empire . Glynis should have been given damehood by now and she is in her eighties so time is running out for the wonderful lady . She really does a superb job in her role as family matriarch . She is quite a match against Denis Leary .
Classic Hitchcock !	Dame Mae Witty gives a memorable performance as the old woman who goes missing . The rest of the cast is great with Margaret Lockwood as the woman she befriends on the train . Sir Michael Redgrave also is wonderful as the obvious love interest of Lockwood . The film is truly filled with Hitchcock's stamp all over it . He takes a simple story and makes us not only intriguing but entertaining as well . They remade the film again in 1978 more than 40 years after this film debuted in British cinema . This classic film should not be mixed up with that one . I enjoyed this film . It had its humorous moments . I think this film is really wonderful to watch without being too much . Nowadays filmmakers can take note by Hitchcock's genius and talent . You do not need grand special effects today to create a memorable film but great actors and decent writing . This film is a great film about a good old fashioned mystery without deterring the audience . This film is good old fashioned movie making at its best .
Who spoiled the roses ?	Mama Harper would love to win the Crystal Thorn Rose Award given by the local horticultural society in town . The roses in this episode have names by dainty Bess and something else . Mama Harper gets help and advice from the dozen time winner of the Crystal Thorn Award , May June Beasley , who is banned from ever competing . May June was quite a surprise guest appearance and I can still remember how she says that she waters her roses at sunrise and sunset and Mama's reaction to her rules of roses . When Iola's rose turned out to be a dainty Bess who she thinks is ruined by Thelma's roses , she doesn't want the flower anymore . When May June praises it as a winner , Thelma claims it as the Princess Thelma . While they are arguing over roses , Vinton and Naomi are having a marital spat and Bubba has a solution which solves all their problems .
Hey Hey , What's Happening ?	I have to say that I grew up on these reruns . I was surprised to see and remember how much I enjoyed the show during the recent TV Land marathon . The show was still groundbreaking too . I never understood why Mabel King who played Mama so beautifully left . I still remember Rerun , Dwayne , Raj , Dee , and Shirley as a happy group of people in working class Los Angeles , California . I'm not black but I can relate to the financial struggles that they held despite maintaining a happy suburban life . They provided many memorable moments for me over the weekend . It was nice to see Irene Cara in a guest appearance and Alice Ghostley and others too many to mention . The sitcom was probably criticized in its day but today , I can see it as a brilliant piece of realistic comedy touching on subjects tactfully and carefully like teenage pregnancy , marriage , divorce , single-parent home and of course , financial problems like all families share . I believe it was the first sitcom in my memory to feature divorce in a positive light rather than negative . Enjoy it !
Don't wreck the Harper house !	Thelma Harper is trying to salvage her family home that has brought many memories , pleasant and unpleasant , as well . While Bubba is researching the town founder James L . Ray , the neighborhood is getting exciting about their selling their homes and purchasing a lovely new home in a new development for a nice amount of money . We get to see Mayor Tutwiler again played by Alan Oppenheimer . While Thelma learns that her home might have a reason to exist after all , she has to stall the demolition crew from destroying her home including riding the wrecking ball . I am surprised that Beverly Archer who plays Iola Boylen wrote the episode and she does a terrific job of it . It is a memorable episode .
Mama conquers homelessness !	Mama Harper acts like the homeless choose their lifestyle in this episode where her grandson , Bubba , and his college friends are all going to protest for helping the homeless in Raytown . Mama Harper doesn't think it's her problem or anything she can do to help those who choose to live on the streets and in the shelters . But that all changes when Mama Harper doesn't have an identification on hand to persuade police officers that she does have a home and isn't one of the homeless . In this educational and effective episode , Mama confronts homelessness by being in a jail cell with a little girl and a woman who is wearing the same exact outfit as Mama herself on that day . She bumps into a surprise of a lifetime when she discovers a relative of hers in the cell with her . There are some funny moments in this episode especially how the police view Mama Harper as the trouble maker .
Don't Tell Fran !	Mama is always complaining about Naomi's two previous divorces before she married into her family . Anyway , Naomi discusses that her first marriage didn't count because they were young and her second husband , Leonard Oates , runs off out of town . In this episode , Leonard Oates returns with two and half million dollars and is now the worm king of Tallahassee , Florida . He is intent on bringing Naomi back with him . She convinces him that she has remarried to a wealthy man . But of course , Leonard has a way of sneaking back into her life one to many times . He tries to buy the family out from under her by giving them asteroids revenge video games from the 1980s . Naomi has to make a decision of whether to leave Raytown with rich Leonard who she could never say no too or stay living with Vint in her mother-in-law's house .
the funniest British comedy of the 1990s	Brittas Empire is one of the funniest British comedies . My biggest regret is the relationship between Gordon and Laura , their unresolved feelings and mutual attraction . I would love for them to bring the show to America after Whitbury Leisure Center burns down . Gordon , Helen , Carol , and the children arrive in Los Angeles to run a run down hotel in Los Angeles , Brittas Hotel . In L . A . , they run into newly divorced Laura and her son . Imagine Brittas running an American Los Angeles hotel which is one step away from condemnation . Now , imagine Brittas Hotel as a potential sitcom , the laughs would be endless and it would be a hit . Most people don't get the brilliance of such humor . I loved the cast members like Gavin , Tim , Colin , his disrespectful secretary that I understand more and more . The show always made you laugh enough till you cried . I can't wait for the DVD to be shown in America .
Thanks a Heap !	In this episode , there is the friendly burglar who cleans up after himself when he's done at the house . He always leaves a message written on the wall like " thanks a heap . " In this episode , Mama visits Vint at the store to get new keys made because of all the burglaries in town . When they get burgled themselves , Mama begins to put the pieces of the puzzle together with help from Iola . They call each other Cagney and Lacey . It's cute , funny , and better than other episodes . I won't spoil who did it or why but it's funny since Vint gets blamed for all the crimes as the friendly burglar . Mama thinks it's the guy who was mean and tough on her in line for her keys while Iola has a different perspective of who it is when she offers her opinion .
It's time to pull the plug !	At first , I was thrilled to have watched Law & Order with it's sharp , sophisticated writing and it's New York City backdrop . But it's been 18 years since it's preview , I think now is the time to end the show . I can see stories repeating themselves with a different cast and a different circumstance . Law & Order like other shows have the run it's course at least 8 years ago . I am grateful that they hire some of New York City's actors and actresses along with it's cast and crew . But sadly , the show's legacy is that it's been on too long . The first years were great because it was new and fresh and now we are saying goodbye to beloved cast mates . I remember fondly seeing Jerry Orbach and Benjamin Bratt on the East 35th Street in New York City in October 1997 . They were warm , friendly and gracious to us onlookers . They posed for the camera and smiled at us while they were doing their job . It's one of my favorite memories of working in New York City was seeing them even though I was fired from my job that week . Law & Order is focused on the investigation and the trial but the show does it only in 40 minutes . It's not enough time for an actual investigation .
A Talented Cast of Strong Women !	I don't know why some shows get canceled . This show related to one of my co-workers when I worked at the supermarket about an overbearing mother-in-law played by the Oscar winner Eileen Heckart . Her daughters-in-law were played by Broadway professional veterans like Judith Ivey and Harriet Sansom Harris as well as soap veteran actress Charlotte Ross and Beth Broderick . The husbands were rarely shown because it was really a show centered around the relationships between the sisters-in-laws and their mother-in-law . The newest in-law was played by Charlotte Ross . Beth Broderick played the more sensual wife while Judith Ivey's character was Jewish and the oldest of all the Buchanan wives . Harriet Sansom Harris was divine as the snobby wife who is always a show stopper in any performance . Of course there was Eileen Heckart who can make a great entrance and say more with a facial expression than a thousand words .
Get in the Spirit	Mama Harper is upset because her husband's ornament went missing right before Christmas . Vint is scheduled to play Santa Claus at the Ray Mall on Christmas Eve . When he loses his voice , Mama has no other choice but take his role because she fits the costume . With her grandson , Bubba , taking pictures , Mama gets the Christmas spirit especially from all those children sitting on her lap and poor Dorrie who has a sob story . Of course , it's a Christmas episode and watching Mama Harper get in the spirit of Christmas is always memorable especially her playing Santa at the mall . Guest star , Myra Turley , is great and unforgettable as Maynard's impatient mother waiting for Santa Claus .
Mama Tackles Lolly Purdue !	Mama and Iola are tired of doing Lolly Purdue's administrated duties for the Church Ladies League . Lolly who was elected President is wonderfully and memorably played by Marge Redmond . Patrika Dabo is equally wonderful and memorable in her role as a fellow member of the church ladies league . When Mama and Iola decide to impeach Lolly , Mama and IOla invite two of the other members over to Mama's house . They discuss all of Lolly's missed appointments and opportunities but Lolly has a secret about why she does the things she does . I think this episode is quite effective and I won't spoil Lolly's reasons for her behavior but I have to say that she gave an effective performance in her role .
See how Mama handles obscene !	Naomi Harper is doing her best to win as most friendly checker at Food Circus where she works . She might be too friendly to receive such an award . Anyway with the good news , she receives obscene telephone calls asking for her . The family's happiness is short-lived with these interrupting phone calls . She doesn't know would be calling her with such filth . Of course , the family including Mama and Aunt Fran and even Vint criticize her manner of dressing and friendliness like she warranted such vile phone calls . Buzz and Sonja suggest that they record but they get the wrong button and out comes Willie Nelson's On the Road Again . While everybody is blaming Naomi for the phone calls , the caller appears to be turning the same filth on Mama , Aunt Fran , and Vint .
First Rate Cast but silly plot !	I don't get this film and why it's so great according to Siskel and Ebert or other critics . Maybe it's the style of filming that is both experimental and groundbreaking , all I found was that there was so much cursing and swearing and a weak plot . I love the scene where John Travolta dances with Uma Thurman . It's silly but memorable , probably the most memorable scene from the film . I think the film is disappointing because I preferred the spoofs from Saturday Night Live and Mad TV versions . This film is completely about life in Los Angeles . I liked the interaction between the two hit men played by Travolta and Samuel L . Jackson's characters . It seemed to be real . I don't understand the diner experience . I thought it was out of place . I think I have to watch it again and again to finally get it .
The only film version available !	George Orwell may have been a literary genius or a raving lunatic or both . This film version is dreary but so is life in the world of 1984 where everybody is watched , reported , and kept to a standard based on what higher powers think we should be . Winston Smith is an unlikely hero . He hates rats . He is working at making speech and language limited slowly by slowly . He hates his job . He falls in love but it's dangerous in a world where love is frowned upon . War is favored instead of love and hatred is preferred over romance . The world is a miserable existence for those like Winston who seeks to escape his mind from the controls of others . Orwell may have approved of this film version . I don't know because he died before it was even filmed . It's rather the last film and it was dedicated to Richard Burton CBE ( he wasn't knighted ) but should have been . He died after filming this movie . John Hurt CBE is a brilliant under-rated actor . This film version was used by me and many who were to read the novel for school .
Mama has a boyfriend !	When an old friend comes to the Harper house , it turns out that Mama Harper had a possible other suitor in her younger days . William Windom was cast perfectly as the other man . Mama is singing a new tune and gets dressed up for dinner leaving Aunt Fran , Vint and the kids at home . Naomi is not in this episode since she is at a seminar for supermarket cashiers . When Mama and her new boyfriend get to spend a weekend at a cabin like they did when they were younger , she and Woody recalled what separated them apart . Mama and Woody realized the truth about each other . Woody is quite a successful businessman and widower who owned frozen foods and would sell his business to place an investment on something called computers which was still new and fresh at the time .
Mama gets a Communist !	Our American government is trying to make friends with the old tough Soviet Union . In this episode , the government officials request Thelma and her family to spend a day with a communist named Olga who herself is a housekeeper . Karen Hensel who plays Olga , the proud Soviet , does a memorable and fantastic job in her role . At first , Olga is old school in the Soviet traditions . Olga is a professional cleaner and makes Thelma's cleanliness look like pigsty . They lay out the rug for her which she shakes out in front of them . Then she goes into the house and starts cleaning with the vacuum cleaner . She makes sure that the toast doesn't pop up out of the toaster . When Vint suggest that Olga's placed bugs to spy on them , Olga says that " when I clean , no bugs . " Olga lives alone and works as a cleaner . She's happy until the family gives her a make-over and she decides to defect after eating pre wrapped bologna and squeezing ketchup over it to make a sandwich . The Harpers are in trouble when she decides to defect .
Dr . Joyce Brothers pays a visit to Raytown !	Naomi is stressed over the fact that she and Vint's sexual life hasn't been as active as normal . When Dr . Joyce Brothers ' plane broke down and lands in Raytown , she gets to make an unexpected appearance on the Eddie Edwards ' local television show . She answers a phone call from Naomi who uses another name and she gives a fake name to Vint but she is so revealing that everybody in town knows who it is including Mama and even Vint and IOla . After ruining Mama's home life , she and the family go to the Raytown Airport to corner Dr . Joyce Brothers regarding whose to blame for Vint and Naomi's problems . Dr . Joyce Brothers offers suggestions to help their relationship and a book for Thelma . She offers sound unforgettable advice to Thelma about her own sex life .
Mama Wants to Be President !	When Thelma has to give up being President of the Church Ladies League , she decides to run again with Iola's help . In fact , Anne Haney who returns as Alberta Meechum , one of Thelma's nemesis , convinces Iola to run for President against Thelma pinning two best friends against each other . They decide to have a debate in which things get ugly between them not only costing each other an election and a friendship . Thelma and her family support her while Alberta is backing IOla for president . In the end , it turns out politics can get ugly and a friendship should be salvaged instead of permanently ruined by competition and politics . Another guest star is Doris Hess who plays Lally Purdue , one of the Church Ladies League .
Mama gets swindled !	When Mama wants a car , she goes after it with her mad money of about $1 , 000 saved up . She decides to go to a used car dealer played brilliantly by Fred Williard as Willy , the dealer was also a childhood friend of Vint's . He shows Mama , Vint , and Naomi around his used car lot referring his cars as his wayward children . Mama is definite that she wants a natural blue car since a relative had a blue car for years . When she gets the car , she decides to take Aunt Fran , Naomi , Vint , Buzz and Sonja for a ride but it never gets there . She bought a lemon and now wants her money back from Willy the Weasel . After she baked homemade oatmeal raisin cookies which Willy gobbled up so fast , Mama goes back for her money and she's not taking no for an answer .
Here's Your Dime , Spill It ?	Mama Thelma Harper has been accused of being forgetful while Naomi rescues a dog known as Old Lady from the parking lot at Food Circus . Since Mama doesn't care for dogs , Naomi , Vint , Iola , and Bubba pretend that the dog barking doesn't exist . So Mama thinks she's hearing things or going crazy by the sound the dog barking . Unaware of Old Lady's existence , the family now has an answering machine which Iola gave to them . It's funny how they each take turns leaving the message for the recording . The messages about how the Old Lady should be put to sleep or go to a home where she can run around and be sedated have Mama Harper on edge . They think the messages are for her and when food is disappearing from the kitchen table . Mama thinks she's going insane .
Mama Gets into the 1980s !	Mama Harper has a bank card which she has never really used . When Iola mistakenly takes her mail and delivers it after banking hours at the Harper house , Thelma has to go to the bank and deposit her pension check . The machine has a mind of it's own and Mama is losing patience with the machine itself . When the machine breaks down and issues money like crazy , Mama does what anybody would do and take the money home with her . She wonders what she should do with the money . Should she keep it or send it back to the bank who made the mistake in the first place . The episode is really about Mama's conscience and how would you handle the situation if it was you . Of course , bank machines or Automatic Teller Machines are as common now and everywhere that it has become a part of everyday life .
Good Night Beantown !	Boston is a great city but an hour is too short to even show it's highlights . I love Boston but an hour is too short . The story follows the horrific murder of a pregnant wife , Mrs . Stuart . Her husband shot his very pregnant wife and made it look to appear as if it was an incident on the poor side of town . The criminal didn't shoot the husband who was driving the car would have been the likely target in a carjacking and even take the car itself . An hour in Boston is like spending an hour on New York City . It's not enough time to grasp and understand it's rich history . The Stuart murder alone was enough to spend an hour on describing the husband's motives . There was no trial because Charles Stuart committed suicide .
Don't Mess with Sandler !	I am a big Saturday Night Live . It should come as no surprise that I love Adam Sandler and the cast . The rest of the cast includes the zany Lainie Kazan , Rob Schneider , and John Turturro . The cast is first rate about a Mossad Israeli Agent Zohan who longs to bring silky and smooth hair to the world . He secretly keeps a Paul Mitchell book beneath his armed weapons . He fakes his death against the Phantom played by the wonderful Turturro who becomes a national hero . Aside the middle eastern politics , he escapes to America in a dog carriage with Scrappy and Coco . His new name is Scrappy Coco and is from Australia and Nepal . He gets a job at a Palestinian owned hair salon and falls in love with a Palestinian owner , Dahlia , of course . I won't spoil the plot because it's more about Middle Eastern politics . On one side of the street , it's Israeli and the other is Palestinian while the greater enemy of a businessman seeks to develop the area and tries to tear the two groups apart . It's interesting , funny , and if it can only bring peace to the Middle East or a smile , it's worth while .
Thank God for Syndication !	I was devastated when they canceled Mama's Family on network television . About two and half-years later , it resurfaces in Syndication . Of course , there are major changes since Betty White who played snobby Ellen Harper Jackson and Rue McClanahan played Aunt Fran Crowley are no longer with the show . That's because they are on network in Golden Girls . Of course , Frances Crowley is killed off and Ellen is at a bridge game to miss the wedding . Mama Harper and her son , Vinton , and daughter-in-law Naomi remain with them in the house . We don't know about Buzz and Sonia , they are no longer on the show . I would assume the casting downsize might have had to do with the show's new premise . Since the producer Joe Hamilton has divorced Carol Burnett , Eunice is no longer in Raytown . She and Ed have moved to Florida leaving behind their son , Bubba , who is at reformatory school . On the same day as Aunt Fran's funeral , Bubba arrives thinking the food is all for him . Alan Kayser joined the show as Bubba and neighbor and old maid , Iola Boyland , is played by Beverly Archer who is also Mama's best friend . This show is not the show on network but it doesn't matter because I was so glad that Mama and her family came back on the air even in syndication .
Things You Wind Up ? How about Mama Harper ?	The Harper family gets an invitation thanks to Vinton to play on Family Feud with the original host Richard Dawson . Vinton carefully picks each family member for the show . Mama is resistant until it means that if her son wins , that they move out of her house . Vinton picks Mama , Naomi , Ellen , and his son Buzz to play on the game show . They play against a snobby Van Courtlandt family who appear so perfect that Ellen wishes that she was on their team . At first , the Harpers seem to be catching on but Mama Harper has apparently never saw the show to know the rules . You can imagine the ending if you watched the show . I liked the Van Courtlandts like Webster , the father and patriarch , played by Bernard Behrens , the wife Bunny played by television regular Georgeann JOhnson , and the children including Bonnie Urseth who was a regular also on television .
Thelma Fights Back Steaming Mad !	Naomi is taking a self-defense class and gets Aunt Fran and Sonja to join her there on the following night . When Thelma goes to bingo , she gets mugged at the bus stop . Traumatized , she returns home to Vint and Buzz who are making dinner . She calls the police but they are useless . Rather she goes to the self-defense class late and partners up with the best student who happens to be her daughter-in-law . I liked this episode with the women fighting back . It was like one of those special episodes that was popular in the time about women defending themselves . Crime happens even in fictitious Raytown . I love seeing Mama and the old lady at the bus stop after they have shopped at Niedermeyer and Mama says that her mother and her mother's mother all shopped at Niedermeyer's department store .
A Lovable Show !	Laverne and Shirley was one of my personal favorites growing up . Of course , we had reruns and repeats in those days . I loved Laverne and Shirley . They were the underdogs and perfectly suited as roommates and best friends . They were played brilliantly by Penny Marshall and Cindy Williams . Unfortunately , the show never recovered after Cindy Williams left to have her daughter and who could blame her . She was happily married to Bill Hudson , Kate's father , for twenty years with two children . Penny Marshall and the gang did their best to recover but never fully did . The reason and there are many that this show was so popular was the physical antics that Laverne and Shirley got into . I don't know if I preferred Milwaukee or Burbank but the supporting cast was top notch featuring Lenny and Sqiggy who could have had their own show . The delightful Carmine as the aspiring dancer . Elaine Joyce as the beautiful neighbor in Burbank . Betty Garrett and Al Molinaro as the landlady and Mr . Defazio . The show had plenty of it's moments too and great guest stars . It's certainly still a beloved show even in repeats .
Friends indeed !	Finally Iola has a new friend , Arlene Madison , played wonderfully by Mary Pat Gleason in this episode . While Iola has overspent her welcome at the Harper home , Thelma and the gang are relieved that Iola has somebody else to bother for a change . Sadly , Arlene is overwhelmed by Iola's total dedication and devotion to their friendship to the point of obsession . Iola just can't leave Arlene alone for a meal . In this episode , Thelma begins to learn the value of her friendship with Iola when she doesn't have her around anymore . Thelma invites Iola and Arlene over for tea and pastries at her home . When Thelma and Arlene are alone together with Iola out of the room , Arlene begs for Thelma's help in distancing herself from Iola .
For Teens of the 1990s !	I still can't believe that I haven't seen this show since it's cancellation . Corin Nemec was known for his role as Steven Stayner in a made for television film about the Stayner abduction and life . Corin displays his acting ability here to show his range can be comedy . The show only lasted a couple of seasons on Fox when it was innovative , new , and fresh . Now , I crave for shows like Parker Lewis Can't Lose to return again to television . His supporting cast wasn't forgettable neither but it was lightened side of adolescent life . Too bad , it hasn't come out on DVD . I bet it would be a hit all over again . I remember that it didn't have a studio audience which I thought was different from a sitcom standard .
Before there were the real Chefs !	You have to say that Lenny Henry CBE was always worth watching in this series about egotistical British chef of Jamaican descent who is the head chef at Chteau Anglais which is translated into Chteau England . The cast of supporting characters don't really hold up to Gareth Blackstock . Henry just steals the show from under them . Anyway his wife is played by a great actress . I loved Lola played by Elizabeth Bennett as the hungry hostess who devours food as well as comments on Blackstock's genius . This show is well written , acted , and directed with an inviting group of supporting players . Blackstock gets his jollies by being cruel , critical , and sometimes mean to his staff long before there was Simon Cowell , Gordon Ramsay , or anybody else . Blackstock seeks utter perfection in creating the finest cuisine to be matched by those listed in Michelin and Cuisine magazines . Sometimes being a genius can make others weary of your presence as if God entered the room . But in Blackstock's kitchen , he's the Godlike presence , demanding , and critical .
Better than ER at the time !	ER was satisfactory but Chicago Hope was superior with mature cast of characters played by a stellar cast of actors and actresses . I loved the relationship between Mandy Patinkin and Adam Arkin . It appeared to be doing fine until Peter MacNichol who played the lawyer Alan Birch left the show and joined Ally MacBeal . Roxanne Hart played a nurse who was married to Arkin's character . Hector Elizondo appeared to be the heart and soul of the show . Christine Lahti later joined the show but the show lost it when cast members like McNichol and Patinkin who chose to leave for other opportunities and spend more time with his family . When ER and Chicago Hope first came on , I have to say that Chicago Hope had a greater edge than it's sister show also set in Chicago but ER seemed more elementary and spent more time dealing with personal relationships . I think Chicago Hope tried to do both very well and it would have had the original cast stayed on board .
Just in time !	This movie was filmed around the time of the Rodney King riots that ripped South Central Los Angeles . Let's face it , the heart and soul of Los Angeles isn't Hollywood . It's the people like in this movie who try to make living , earnestly , honestly , and respectively . Sadly , this film is still realistic to the plight of urban problems . I spent a lot of time in one of the great urban cities of the East Coast and the problems of poverty , the lure of leading drug dealing lives is real and tempting , domestic violence , child abuse , gangs , etc . still exist and will exist much to the attempts of prevention or society ignoring their presence . Anyway , this film is truly about the heart and soul of a city of ten million Angelenos and the father's attempt to save his son from a life of crime , violence , death , and drugs in the city . It's not an easy battle .
Revolutionary if you think about !	Well , Columbo's case this time involves the wife , Cathy Goodland , who prefers other relationships to her lovesick husband . He takes up with a beautiful and attractive woman but only to talk about it . He and his rich uncle played by Ray Milland set up a kidnapping in order to get her attention . Even though there is money involved , Columbo knows something's wrong with his chief suspect who is an avid gardener . Ray Milland gives an excellent performance as the uncle . The rest of the cast appear satisfactory in my opinion . The story could have used more work but it is typical Columbo if you watch it enough times like I have over the years . An open marriage was hardly mentioned in the 1980s much less in the 1970s but it was there . The widow Goodland makes no excuses for her lifestyle . She doesn't have to explain to anybody else about her spending free time with attractive sailors who could be easily bought for the right price but it's all wrapped up in trust funds .
Great cast despite plot shortfalls !	Come on , you have to admit that this film has a good cast with Debra Winger , Robert Redford , Daryl Hannah , and others in supporting roles like Christine Baranski . I like the fact that it was shot in New York City and not on location somewhere . No offense , Toronto or Vancouver but the backdrop does a good job . Remembering a time when the twin towers was still alive and kicking downtown . I liked the combination of Winger and Redford even though they disliked each other on the set according to rumors . Daryl Hannah plays Chelsea who seeks her father's art from crooked businessmen . She does an adequate job and proves that she's not just a pretty face . Daryl always plays shy very well but in this case , Chelsea is not shy at all . She is a bit rebellious and a performance artist with a fascination for fire . She teams up with Winger's character and later with Redford in more ways than can be said to prove her innocence and get justice served .
It Should Have Been Valerie's Oscar !	If the film was done right , Valerie Harper would be an Academy Award Nominee and probably the favorite for her role as Golda Meir , Israel's Prime Minister . She had performed the play with the same title in the National Tour while Tovah Feldshuh played her on Broadway and in New York City . Sadly , this film adaptation is just a taped version of the play itself since there were no changes made to the script . As a writer myself , I understand the writer's reasoning but I think the film would have gone much farther if Valerie Harper had a cast of supporting players and they had allowed her to breathe life in a legendary although controversial female leader . The filming with clips shown and Harper performing Meir alone on screen is not enough to gather an audience . For the theatre , the one woman ninety minute show was appropriate but for the film , the techniques do not do justice in emphasizing Meir's role in the world . While I understand the author's motives , I will respect his right to maintain the play as written but I do believe Harper was robbed of a chance at an Oscar herself for the role .
It was Working until the second season !	I remember watching the first season of Working on network television . The show was funny , satirical , well-written , and structured to become a success . What happened to it after the first season was a shame and an obvious disaster with cast members like Sarah Knowlton who was great as the Yale graduate working as a secretary . It brought much more truth to the working circumstances and environments that we live and work in . I still think the episode in which Fred Savage's character is believed to be gay after bringing an old college friend to his boss ' picnic . When they sing at the piano , you just couldn't help but laugh . I liked the annoying perky secretary and dark , pesimistic colleague too . I missed the funny guy with no work in the second season . I thought the changes were too much . I loved Yvonne Freeman's character as loyal company servant . Too true , it should have stayed as it was . I guess the network wanted to cancel the show so they botched it with terrible decisions and changes . Much like the Working premise itself , they got scared when they saw themselves on television !
One of my personal favorites !	This Columbo episode is one of the better and perhaps one of my personal favorites . The cast includes Rosemary's Baby John Cassavetes as the maestro , his wife played by Blythe Danner ( Gwyneth Paltrow's mom ) and his mother-in-law played by Myrna Loy ( one of America's greatest leading actresses in film of our time ) . Anyway I disagree with anybody who criticizes against this film . This episode is one of my favorites because you have an excellent cast who do a superb job in performing . I love watching Columbo with his beloved dog who he never names in the series . This time , the episode focuses in on classical music at the Hollywood Bowl , one of L . A . ' s attractions . Of course , Columbo becomes as interested in classical music as he does anything else involving a crime .
A satisfactory Columbo !	I can watch Columbo reruns all day . I find Peter Falk's portrayal as Columbo to be one of the best acts on television . There is a tremendous appeal to his character . He is fascinated by the littlest things and he knows who has done it . I wish all homicide detectives are like Columbo . In this one , a wealthy older man is killed to stop the Williamson City project of a small town . His two wives interact with each other more like friends than rivals . It is refreshing to see it happen on television during that time . Goldie , the first wife , still has a complicated relationship with a former husband of 20 + years . " We've been married for 22 years . We had no children . We got to know each other quite well " she tells Columbo . As a Columbo fan , I enjoy all the old episodes but I still watch the new ones . Anyhow , this should satisfy any Columbo fan .
Give Hank a Title Credit Like all The Other Cast Members !	I have to say I admire and love Ron Eldard's performance as Jim Dunbar , the homicide detective who goes blind in a deadly shooting match . He plays him beautifully with such depth and care . Ron Eldard is really an outstanding actor . He brings such charisma , heart , and love to this role . I was impressed with Marisol Nichols as his assigned partner . Women always get the shaft in the working world and are held back particularly in the police field . I was not impressed with Rena Sofer . I think they could have casted somebody better for that role . She does her best with the little lines she had last night . I was impressed and thrilled to see Guiding Light Alumni Frank Grillo played a fellow police detective Marty Russo . He really captures the character . Jim's guide dog Hank deserves to be recognized as an official cast member in the show's credits . Hank is loyal and faithful to Jim no matter what in their relationship . Jim's relationship with Hank is closer than Jim is with his wife who feels out of place in their relationship . I hope this show lasts longer than 13 episodes . I am personally upset that the show is taken place in New York City . Too many crime shows film and take place in New York . It would be nice for a cop show to be filmed elsewhere like Chicago , San Francisco , or Los Angeles . I am grateful for the show's usage of New York City for financial reasons and the opportunities for it's cast and crew . There are just too many shows about cops set in New York City . I can't watch Law & Order anymore and I never watched CSI . I prefer forensic shows like American Justice , City Confidential , and Cold Case Files all on A & E . Blind Justice should be about the relationship of a blind police detective and the people in his life .
Quite a Surprising Show ! It's good ! ! ! !	Okay , Aliens in America is not the greatest show but it is the first show that features the average white American family who invites a foreign exchange student to come and stay with them in America . What they don't know is that he is a Pakistani Muslim . At first , there are some moments where the mother ( played by the under-rated Amy Pietz from Caroline in the City ) who is really good in this role blows the lid when she sees her nerdy son and the student praying to Mecca . She's terrified of him becoming Muslim so she arranges him to go back to Islamabad . When she finds out that he's an orphan , she changes her mind because instead of referring him as that boy . He became a human being to her . The boy's sister has a relationship with an African American student and football player . Despite the low key beginning , I hope people do turn in with an open mind to the show because we need to educate ourselves about others who are different .
A Dark Comedy of Extremes !	This film is one of John Huston's best works before his death . His daughter Angelica Huston was awarded Best Supporting Actress Academy Award defeating Oprah Winfrey and Margaret Avery for the Color Purple . Despite her father , Angelica gives a magnificent memorable performance as Maerose Prizzi , a lover of Charley , played by then real-life lover Jack Nicholson in one of his best film roles . He plays mob assassin and falls in love with Kathleen Turner , not one of my favorite actresses then and now . She turns out to be a killer herself and their next job is to kill each other . Wiliam Hickey earned a Best Supporting Actor nomination for his performance as the Godfather . The film is dark comedy complimenting the Godfather saga . The film earned his eight Academy Award nominations . It has an all-star cast , great writing , and visually stunning scenery set in New York City .
Honeymoon for Three !	Vint and Naomi have never spent a honeymoon together or a night away . When Vint arranges for a night at a motel for both of them to celebrate their first anniversary , Thelma agrees to chaperone a sleepover for Sonja and her friends on the same night . Unfortunately plans changed when Aunt Effie calls in a panic asking for Thelma's help . Thelma takes a ride with Vint and Naomi to Effie's place in Ceciltown while Aunt Fran chaperones the sleepover . When Thelma and Effie have a fight , Thelma heads to the same motel that Vint and Naomi stay at which is also where she and Carl spent their honeymoon night together The place is turned into a pleasure palace with Vint dressed up as a bull and Naomi too . When the inn has no other rooms , they provide a rollaway bed for Mama to spend their romantic night in their room .
Partially Shot in my Hometown !	I remember when this film was being filmed in my hometown which seemed so long ago . Woody Allen and his crew came to my town for a couple of days and shot the diner scenes in South Amboy at this old fashioned diner . Unfortunately , the business was moved to New York but anyway I remember the newspaper that covered it . I never saw the film until years later . I recognized the diner and I remember eating there once . but besides that , the film is quite entertaining about life and wanting to live inside the movies . Jeff Daniels does a superb job in making us believe that a movie character can leave the screen . Of course , we know it's not possible . Mia Farrow does a superb job in the role as Cecilia , the unhappy waitress and wife . The story was well-written but not Woody's genius .
A Great Film for Kids !	Okay , See Spot Run is not an Oscar winning film nor Golden Globe awards . Okay , it's a fine film for kids really and that's the audience out there with parents and grandparents who take their kids and grandkids to the movie theater . See Spot Run is about a guy who gets a dog and kid played fantastically by Angus T . Jones ( he's also on Two and Half Men ) . JOnes is turning into one of the funniest kids that I have seen in a long time . He knows how to work well adults and animals . The film is about a single guy who inherits a stray dog and a kid whose mother is just gorgeous but she goes away leaving her kid with a stranger ( somebody call children services on this mother ) . Anyway , the kid and the dog bond as they do with the single guy . It's silly at times . There are no serious moments , you don't want any in this film . It would ruin the absolute silliness and fun of this movie .
A Family Film ! A Film of Inspiration !	I am giving this film an 8 because there were some parts that I didn't like especially how Akeelah made it to the top ten in the regional spelling bee and I won't ruin that for people who haven't seen it . First , there is a terrific cast . Keke Palmer plays Akeelah excellently with a power of older mature actors . Her character Akeelah lives in South Los Angeles with her widowed mother played by the wonderful and beautiful Angela Bassett . Akeelah's siblings are a sister who is a teenage mother , a brother who gets in trouble , and another brother who is in the air force . Akeelah is smart and studies words and how to spell them while other kids are getting in trouble . She has a best friend , Georgia , who is turned off by Akeelah's sudden fame . Her school principal is played by the wonderful Curtis Armstrong and her coach is a black college professor played by the wonderful Lawrence Fishburne . It's like the Karate Kid meets the spelling bee . Anyway , the kids who perform in this film as kids are terrific . What bothered me was the storyline and some unbelievable and unrealistic outcomes that is why I gave it an 8 . I watched this film on an airplane . For all it's worth , Akeelah is the kind of film that should have been shown on television than in the movies as a TV movie of the week . It's a great movie for family , students , and anybody who thinks that they need some inspiration .
A Faithful Television Adaptation !	Guests of the Nation is about the British soldiers in Ireland . Frank Converse , a gifted actor , does a superb job in the leading role as Barney Callahan , an Irishman torn between love of country and duty towards it . Oscar Winner Estelle Parsons is almost unrecognizable with a near perfect Irish accent as Kate O'Donnell who treats the British soldiers with respect despite their presence as unwelcome intruders in her country . This Broadway Archives is not necessarily shot inside a studio entirely . They appeared to have filmed elsewhere like in a cemetery probably not Ireland on their budget in the opening segments . The story about the Irish and the British is never told often enough . I found this Broadway Archives theater showcase to be another great example of why we need it again .
An Inside in Baltimore's World !	I have never been to Baltimore but I have done extensive research on the city itself . Anyway , this independent film is named after Baltimore's nickname , Charm City . The reason I picked up this film at Blockbuster because I was curious to see Baltimore as the backdrop . Anyway , the film is about three male characters who are inhabitants of this great American city going through tough times . I have to say what impressed me most about this film was the high quality and that it doesn't look like a studio film more like a reality series but it isn't . There is a story there when you can get through understanding what is being said and the local slang terms . Okay , I don't speak like they do and I never had or will but I did take the time to understand the actors who were playing these roles who took their jobs quite seriously . Okay , these are all unknown actors and actresses . Maybe that's why it seems like a reality series because they seem so real to us . I can't think of seeing them elsewhere . Anyway , I believe Derrick Thomas , the director , editor , and producer , behind this film could be the next John Singleton and Spike Lee . He captures the painful realism and reality of urban living . He depicts hot button topics like AIDS , drugs , and sexuality in urban America . I am surprised that nobody else has reviewed this film here .
Mr . Wizard's World was a Nick gem !	It's too bad that Nickelodeon doesn't show as much Canadian programming as it did in its origins . While Don Herbert was not a native Canadian , he was a science teacher turned television star . This show allowed science to be fun without being intimidating or turned off by boredom of science . Let's face it , I'm not into science or math but I do remember watching this show once in a while particularly early in the morning before I went to school . I don't remember if I ever learned anything but I do remember that it was filmed in Calgary and the experiments . It was probably better than the 1970s show . Don Herbert also known as Mr . Wizard has left us only last year but his legacy is that science doesn't always have to be boring and you can learn something or at least tried too .
The Kid from the Wrong Side of the Tracks Makes It !	Ralph Macchio became a teen idol from this film . He portrays a New Jersey teen who moves with his mom played by Randee Heller to Los Angeles , California for the sun , the beaches , and a new life . Anyway , he is the outsider who falls in love with Elisabeth Shue's character who comes from the right side of the tracks . Ironically Shue is also from New Jersey too while Ralph is from Long Island . Anyway , Ralph's character learns karate by a janitor / karate expert Pat Morita in an Oscar nominated role . Believe me , Pat's nomination was well-deserved even if he didn't win the award . Ralph's character learns to fight and defend himself and become a champion . Of course , the best scenes are with Morita and Macchio's characters bonding over learning techniques that are not traditional by any martial arts standards . It's one of those films that you can't help rooting for in the end .
Typical John Hughes ' Fare !	The comic pairing of JOhn Candy and Steve Martin could have been better . They get stuck together during their return trip to CHicago from New York . Their moments together shows their comic genius . The scene in the bed where they end up is quite classically funny without overdoing it like today's comedies . The bonding of these two men's characters show John Hughes who has a gift for telling stories better than most writers and directors today . The two men want to get home for Thanksgiving Dinner and everything that can go wrong does happen which is why they are together in the first place . It's not my favorite film of John Hughes because I think it's kind of sad and you will find out in the end but it's worth watching again and again to get the comic pairing of Martin and Candy . JOhn Candy was one of John Hughes ' favorite actors and he used him regularly in his films . John and Steve will leave you wanting more comedy than drama in this film and that's why I gave it an eight instead of a ten but it's still a tender story of friendship between two men .
Naomi dreams of flying !	Naomi Harper is an unhappy woman with her life especially her career . She has married the love of her life in clueless locksmith , Vinton Harper , and still lives with her mother-in-law and her wayward nephew , Bubba . She decides to take classes to become a flight attendant or flying waitress as Mama Harper calls it . In the meantime , Vint feels neglected by his wife's attention to her new career so Iola pays him more attention in getting him to fix up broken items in her home . Mama is all against Naomi becoming a flight attendant until she might be able to get a free trip to Hawaii as a relative of a flight attendant . Of course , Naomi has to pass the test which will determine if she can do more than be a supermarket checker .
Not Charlie's Angel Anymore !	I remember watching this show on CBS Monday nights before Kate and Allie and Newhart . I thought the show was great with Charlie's Angel , Kate Jackson , playing single mother , Amanda King , in the Washington D . C . area . Somehow , she manages to mingle with Bruce Boxleitner's character . He plays a Washington spy / agent for the FBI or was it CIA . I don't remember . I remember Beverly Garland playing Amanda's mom on the series . I thought this series had humor , great acting , and intelligence . The Scarecrow and Mrs . King should be out on DVD eventually . I think Kate proved that she was no more Charlie's Angel and this series displayed her acting abilities as well . I miss shows like this and it was set somewhere other than Los Angeles or New York . Maybe they never actually filmed in D . C . except for the regular shots , this show was always entertaining to watch for family hour .
It will leave you tickled pink !	Poor Alexa Kenin who played Annie's best friend in the film . She was killed in real life and it's dedicated to her memory . Anyway , I love this film . Of course , it's by John Hughes ( master of teen angst comedies and dramas . ) Again , he picks a great cast like Jon Cryer to play Duckie , James Spader to play the creep , Molly Ringwald to play Annie , Annie Potts to play her strange older friend , Harry Dean Stanton who plays Annie's father , etc . John Hughes always knows how to explain the adolescent psyche . This film is about rich and poor kids living together . There is this shame in the poor students and the rich kids are just spoiled brats . As always , John provides a believable love triangle among Jon Cryer's Duckie , Molly Ringwald's character , and that guy who I forget his name . Anyway , they are all great . I just have one problem and that is the fact we never understand why the mother / wife left the family . Anyway , Gina Gershon has a small part in the film as well . Of course , it's about prom night which is an American ritual to all of us .
Disappointing Follow-Up	What is the relationship between sadistic cannibal serial killer Dr . Hannibal Lector and dedicated FBI agent , Clarice Starling . The change in actresses from Oscar Winner Jodi Foster to Oscar Nominee Julianne Moore was not that difficult to accept . Julianne is fantastic and more attractive than Foster in this role . She controls her accent . I loved the scenes at Union Station in Washington D . C . It is really one of my favorite train stations in the world surpassing Grand Central and Penn in New York . The casting is first rate with Gary Oldman as the vengeful Mason Verger who attempts to revenge Dr . Hannibal Lector in his own sadistic way . Well , I won't spoil anything by revealing any more but I love Ray Liotta in this film . The scenes in Florence , Italy were quite breathtaking but I wish Hannibal would face his fate rather than get away with his vicious crimes . Hannibal is a fictional character and Sir Anthony Hopkins as him does justice to the role . Nobody else could play Hannibal the Cannibal in quite the same fashion as Hopkins .
They're not so bad parents !	As somebody who always wanted to become an actress , I am now glad that my parents were never show business . I feel sorry for most of these families . I can see Jordan Moseley can become a child star herself . She is talented and cute enough . She seems to enjoy the business whether it's a guest appearance and makes the most of it . She is the only one of the six families that I have any hope for to succeed in this tough business . Now for the others , I feel sorry for Emily Tye at four years old to spend her free time in rehearsals , shopping , and practicing for the next competition . The tanning bothered me too . Doesn't her mother know about the possibility of skin cancer ? Emily appears unhappy doing all of this . She is the Jon Benet Ramsey . There is even physical similarities to Emily too . She has spent her short life in beauty pageants . That money could have been used for her college fund . The Tyes also have another son but he appears forgotten most of the time . For Jordan Barron and her family , I would recommend returning to Colorado and taking acting lessons out there . While I don't see any talent from Jordan , she should focus everything in her athleticism and pursuing college scholarships to study acting if she so desires . She was talking about making it big but her chances are impossible . She does not have the talent nor the natural drive to become an actress . I feel sorry for her and her mother . I think they should return home and pursue it locally rather than in Los Angeles . I feel sorry for Shane and his mother but not so much . His mother is older and has her own history of coaching dancers . I think his mother has genuine feelings about her son's abilities . His mother , Debbie , is also more mature and should be hired as somebody's manager too . I think no matter what happens to Shane , he will do fine . As for the Nutters , I have a lot to say and it's not pleasant . I feel sorry for Duncan Nutter . I don't think he realizes his mistakes but he has a wonderful wife , Cindy , who is a Saint to do all of this . If Duncan wants to become a stage actor with his kids , they can go back to Vermont and build a theatre on their property . After watching Bravo , I am sure people would like to meet them . The best stage actors in the world call their stage as their home . With his seven children , I think they would be better served if they returned home and built a stage to express their talents . Now , these are my suggestions for a better life . I don't think the Nutters are very happy in New York City . Cindy Nutter is a saint who tolerates Duncan Nutter so much that she must love him . After all , they have seven children . She enjoys teaching . Anyway , I watched the follow-up special and I was amused by it all . I don't think the families knew what they were getting into . The Nutters aren't so bad neither Jordan whose mother could be an actress herself and has made the way to management in her company . They didn't take themselves so seriously but I think we did . Oh well , they tried to make in the business . When I look at those who have made it , I can't believe they would let their daughters dress that way or let their sons to be pawns as well . At least these parents never forced so much on their kids . I mean at least they are encouraging them to pursue their dreams . Why shouldn't they aim to be the next Jessica Simpson ? Justin Timberlake ? etc . They make lots of money and look like they have a lot of fun being rich and famous . But I wish these families aimed at getting their kids studying the classics and singing the classics rather than the contemporary music today and drama today .
God , I miss the 1980s !	I love the 1980s . It was a great decade . This movie is clearly a great comedy with an all star cast featuring Divine Bette Midler as the kidnapped heiress Barbara Stone who we hate at first because she is one of the nastiest people alive at first down in the basement . She thinks her husband played by the multi-talented Danny DeVito , Sam Stone , has no interest in getting his wife back . In fact , the kidnapping was a big relief at first since he wanted to kill her . His mistress is played beautifully by Anita Morris . The kidnappers are a nice couple played by Judge Reinhold and Helen Slater . When you feel sorry for the kidnapper over the victim , then you have a hit comedy ? IT's filmed in Los Angeles . Ken Kessler is a guy who can't sell retail stereo equipment like most successful sellers . He doesn't have the conscience to sell overpriced equipment to a young struggling couple . He is one of the salesman that you would like-honest and reasonable . His partner SAndy Kessler is an aspiring fashion designer whose idea was stolen by Sam Stone who makes a fortune by robbing the designer . Anyway , it's a great comedy .
AL quits his job or meets his boss !	Al's boss , Gary , dies in a plane crash or somewhere where he turns up alive after all . Anyway , Al sent $300 worth of flowers to his boss ' family . Thinking that he would get so much as a thank you card , Gary's family sends all the flowers and baskets to a hospital . So Al is out of $300 and decides that if the boss doesn't come that he will quit much to his wife's disappointment . So for one day , he stays home . He decides to go back to work and has a plan in order for everybody to know that Al was met by his boss . Diana Bellamy who plays the first overweight woman who insulted Al revisits the store . The show was good to their guest stars because Bellamy would later have a role on the show's spin-off , Top of the Heap with Joe Bologna , Matt LeBlanc , and Joey Lauren Adams .
We Could Always Use the Facts of Life !	The Facts of Life was an unusual comedy series on NBC because it lasted so long and in different environments . First , Charlotte Rae became so famous for playing Mrs . Edna Garrett on Different Strokes that she earned her own show . The first season was set with a large cast of characters including one girl who had a boyfriend named Roger . Molly Ringwald was a cast member before she became a movie star . There was the blonde pretty girl but not Blair played by Lisa Welchel . Then there was chubby Natalie Greene played by Mindy Cohn and roller skating Tootie played by Kim Fields . Jo played by Nancy McKeon joined the cast later on . The show kept changing it's cast and it got better . They narrowed it down to four girls , Blair , Natalie , Tootie , and Josephine ( from the wrong side of the tracks ) . The cast got along better . I felt like I grew up with this show like many girls my age . Even when Mrs . Garrett left , she was replaced by Cloris Leachman . What a cast that included George Clooney at one time , Marj Dusay , Randee Heller , Alex Rocco , Mackenzie Astin , and others along the way .
A decent portrayal but lacks some emotion !	As somebody who takes interest in PAn Am 103's tragedy , I find this film plays around the publicly known events . If I had any say , I would have tried to focus on the human emotions of those who lost their relatives and friends in this crash . The film chronicles the events preceding the tragedy . I wished they would have made a conscious effort on examining the humans lost on 103 like on 9-11 . Pan Am 103 was really the beginning of a war on terrorism for us . Pan Am 103 was our first warning which we ignored foolishly . If we had paid more attention to the events preceding the tragedy , we could have prevented 9-11 . Pan Am 103 did not crash against a building but a small street in Lockerbie , Scotland . The residents there have never recovered emotionally neither have the families of Pan Am 103 . 15 years later , we're still asking what happened . I have to say it's first rate casting with Timothy West , Peter Boyle , and others . It seems terrible that nobody paid close attention and we all have to ask why we didn't pay any close attention now . It's still a good film about the tragedy . I think they should have showed the names of those lost on the darkest day of the year .
A great match for Shatner and Falk again	For Columbo fans , William Shatner plays the controlling Fielding Chase who kills a man who can separate him from his adoptive daughter played wonderfully by Molly Hagen . The key to solving the case is as fascinating as the actual murder . Columbo figures out who done it but how does he catch him . As in any Columbo feature , all the crimes are solved by one loose thread or link . It is nice to see Three's Company Richard Kline as his daughter's friend and literary agent . William Shatner plays Fielding Chase as the overly protective suffocating surrogate father to Molly Hagen's character in this film . It is a believable one and fun to watch anyway . Like I said , I will watch Columbo all the time . I am waiting for the Columbo Cable Channel .
You can't disturb God , he watching Knots Landing !	That's what somebody said when they wanted to talk to God . Anyway , Knots Landing had a lot more than Dallas did in the way of great characters . The cast was first rate starring Michele Lee , Joan Van Arks , Donna Mills , Julie Harris , Constance McCashin , William Devane , Nicolette Sheridan , etc . Who could forget Nicolette Sheridan and William Devane's characters playing cricket ? The female roles were equally strong as the male roles . I forget who played Michele Lee's husband . I loved Constance McCashin in her role . She was superb but her character died . The show was popular because it was character based and the writing was far better than the other sister soaps . The families on this show never appeared super-rich like their mother show , Dallas . Ted Shackelford plays a Ewing living in California . The fact that this show had a consistent following and guest stars including Alec Baldwin , Michelle Phillips , and many others proved that this show was a force to be reckon with .
Similar to the Australian Version !	I remember the episode of the Australian show , Kath and Kim , which this is based upon . Sandy Freckle is the same guy . He visits his best friend , Phil Knight , as he approaches his upcoming wedding but Sandy has eyes for Kath and loves to ridicule Phil's past as an overweight man . Kim is too busy driving her husband , Craig , nuts by going to the electronics store where he works and sitting on the chair watching talk shows . Craig's friend , Derrick , thinks Kim has him whipped so Derrick somehow winds up whipped by Kim himself . It's cute show and it's getting better in creating it's own identity . I hope it last because Molly Shannon ( who could use a better hairstyle ) and Selma Blair who is perfect as Kim are both quite faithful to the Australian version . The American version is set probably in Melbourne , Florida as the Australian show was set in Melbourne , Australia .
Not that Flaming Forties !	Buzz and Sonja need a gimmick or theme for their upcoming dance . Mama suggest the 1940s since the gymnasium was used as a USO Canteen and she was charge of the donut patrol . Anyway , the materials that have been collecting dust in the attic is slated to be sold at a rummage sale at the school . When the school dance hires a band called Medication , a punk band , Mama's dream of once again living in the 1940s and pantomiming to one of the Andrews Sisters with help from Naomi and Fran go up in smoke . When she realizes what she is about to lose with Aunt Fran , she goes to the dance and the band doesn't show up with good reason . They got arrested . Anyway Naomi and Vint are chaperoning the dance while whose chaperoning the chaperons is Mama's response .
What you don't expect is how good and true this can be ?	Clerks is by far one of the most innovative films for the nineties . Before Sopranos claimed New Jersey , Clerks shows another side to the Garden State . The convenience store is one of thousands in our state . You can't go for a mile without seeing one of them or another . This convenience store has quirky cast of regular characters and two clerks bored out of their mind to work a Saturday with breaks for a hockey game on the roof and a break for a wake of an ex-girlfriend . The cast is charming and interesting to watch anyway . I admire Marilyn Ghigliotti's performance as memorable . She is a Jersey Girl through and through . Clerks shows a Jersey kind of life to the world .
A Great Children's Version !	I love Rowan Atkinson as Mr . Bean who I always felt was more of a cartoon character than an actual human being . Mr . Bean is quite childlike in his nature . We don't know where he come from or who is his parents or anything else . We see him constantly try to handle life on earth without guidance unless you count his teddy bear as his true companion . He seems clueless yet he continues to drive around his little yellow car and act quite naive . We barely here him talk . The character could remind me of a Samuel Beckett character or play where he is quite minimal . The character of Mr . Bean is one to study . He appeals to a wide audience who may not get British humor . The show is more done without scripting but direction just like the show itself .
An African Masterpiece !	The Gods Must Be Crazy is about a bushman played by a real life bushman from Africa . He comes across a Coke bottle which is something that he has never seen before . Paddy Byrne , a Briton or Irishman , narrates the background of the bush tribes in Africa . The story is set in Botswana where a young female teacher comes to teach in an African village . The story of her getting there is an adventure . She is greeted by a driver who is an African biologist and his translator has seven wives which is customary in some African societies . She doesn't believe about the rhino stomping out the fire . The casting is excellent especially that of the bushman who I can't remember his name but he steals the film .
It's not great but it's getting better !	Okay , I was a fan of the Australian show but there a lot of obvious differences between the American version . First , I have to say that the pilot opened with Kim leaving her husband Craig of six weeks of marriage because over her selfishness-vanity behavior . You see it in this episode more clearly . Kim is a self-obsessed narcissist I think who is too concern about herself than about others . In this episode , the show belongs to Molly Shannon who can break your heart as a home-based hairdresser . I don't remember if Australian Kath was one but it doesn't matter . In this episode , Molly Shannon's performance can make just feel for her after her client tells her that her daughter is going to a real salon for her prom night . You could just tell that Kath was really hurt and tries to pretend it doesn't hurt . In this episode , she tries to get herself known at the mall promenade show featuring mall-based businesses . Her fianc Phil gets her in but they get the worst spot in the mall . It's her daughter that can save the day if she's not distracting her estranged husband from his job in electronics at the mall . The self-described trophy wife gets banned from the mall just as her mother needs her the most for the show . The final scenes are little out there .
A Delight Surprise !	Terence Stamp who should be knighted for his services to drama , plays Wilson , a British convict newly released from prison . He gets a newspaper article in the mail about his daughter Jennifer's demise . Unsure of the actual cause of her death , he travels from Britain to Los Angeles to investigate . He meets a male friend of Jenny who sent the letter played beautifully by Luis Guzman . He also comes in contact with Lesley Ann Warren who was his daughter's voice coach and personal friend . He believes that Terry Valentine played by Peter Fonda is responsible for his daughter's death and he wants answers . This movie is slick in every way possible with a top notch acting cast . Don't miss Nancy Lenahan as the passenger on the airplane at the end . The film quite surprised me . I was expected something completely different and I was really surprised by how much I enjoyed it .
Today is Friday the Thirteenth !	This film was low budget with cast members such as Betsy Palmer as Mrs . Voorhees and an unknown young actor named Kevin Bacon . The plot is simple . A bunch of young adults go to the campsite to set up a summer camp . They filmed this in Blairstown , New Jersey which is on the border of Pennsylvania and still pretty much country and rural rather than urban or suburban . Anyway , this film was a low budget much like Halloween . It all takes place there . It's funny and will scare you silly . The cast is decent . The scenery is picturesque and the story is interesting enough to keep you watching . You hope that they always air this film on Friday the Thirteenth which is today and in October . Only 18 days before Halloween , another frightening holiday , anyway , I think the film is worth watching if you are into the horror stuff . Even now , I have seen this film several times and the sequels never could compare to the original . It's really Betsy Palmer's film . She's best known for her role as Mrs . Voorhees still to this day .
A Diet to Die For !	Thanks her new neighbors and friends , Peggy gets inspired to take a diet program called Thinnergy . The problem is that all she wants is attention from her husband and being on the diet alone isn't going to work out . Once Al is on the diet , he can persuade to get her off . This is the first episode after the pilot . It's not as funny as others but Al is a meat and potatoes man and the idea of fruits and vegetables isn't up for his taste buds . If it wasn't for his new neighbor and sudden friend , Steve Rhoades , he encourages him to go on the diet with his wife so they can get off together . All Peggy wants is a little attention and love from her husband . Still , it's not a bad episode overall .
Marcus & Will-An odd couple !	Will played by the dashing Hugh Grant is a single bachelor looking for love in all the wrong places including a single parents ' support group where all the other members are women who are not as attractive as he would have liked them to be . One member , Susie , draws his attention even though he falsifies being a divorced parent . Susie brings Marcus , a 12 year old boy played wonderfully by the young actor , Nicholas something , for a day at Regents ' Park in London , England . The day ends with his mother's near suicide attempt . His mother is played by the unrecognizable Toni Colette in this role as Fiona , a music therapist who dresses quite like she shopped at the charity shop for her wardrobe . She is always sad , crying , and depressed over the divorce and state of her life . Her only bright spot is the love that she has for her son , Marcus who is afraid to walk in again . Marcus decides to bring Will and Fiona together . It doesn't work out that way and Will has met his match in Marcus , who is an outsider . He comes by daily to watch the show , Countdown , and leaves to go home . He has few friends at school and is taunted and harassed by his classmates . Will sees more than his mother does because she has her own problems . Marcus also becomes the shining light in Will's life as well .
A Childhood Classic Brought To Life !	As a child , I fondly remembered Charlotte's Web , the animated version . I have no desire to see the live version . Debbie Reynolds will always be Charlotte , the creative brilliant spider , who befriends Wilbur . I remember Fern saving Wilbur from his own death and raising him as a baby . Once the runt grows a little , Fern is devastated to send him to a farm where he can with other animals . Although Fern does visit him , it's not the same as she cared for him like her baby . The animation is not brilliant because this film was done long before computers but it still holds up to the story and it always worth watching with young ones and even old ones . The animation is not first rate but it's not bad neither . It's not on par with animation today and don't expect it too . But it's not about how computers can brilliantly animate where we don't need live actors or actresses , the story here is faithful to the E . B . White's novel classic and it is respected here . You can't help but tear up at the end .
Well , they asked for it , didn't they ?	Ramona and Mario have been trying to get Jill in a tennis re-match for whatever reasons . Finally , Jill has a pro-tennis player who gets injured so she gets a replacement , Simon , after Bethenny suggests him . Jill and Simon practice once but Simon's still flu-ridden but still plays okay . The look on Ramona's face is truly priceless as Simon takes the court . It was a well-kept secret until that moment . Ramona and Mario had been had by Jill and they felt cheated . For several episodes now , Mario and Ramona have been goading Jill into a silly rematch . Why not pick the one person that Ramona has a beef with in the first place ? Okay , I won't say who played badly but it was a hollow victory as Jill points out .
A Quiet Classic of a Film !	Woody Allen directed this film which is more character driven with six leading roles starring his then-partner in life , Mia Farrow , Oscar winner Dianne Wiest , Jack Warden , Emmy Winner Elaine Stritch , before Law & Order Sam Waterson and the late Denholm Elliott CBE . Amazingly , Allen doesn't have to go far to film this movie about a summer home in Vermont . It was all filmed at the Kaufman-Astoria Studios in Queens , New York . Regardless , the film is entirely believable and the setting is quite quaint in nature . It really looks like an authentic country home . It begins with Weist and Elliott conversing in French in Lane's living room played by Farrow . Weist's character is a married mother and an unhappy housewife from Philadelphia but Lane's best friend . Lane falls in love with Peter ( Waterson ) but he's in love with Weist's character , Stephanie . Lane is also upset by her mother , Diane Frazer's visit with her current husband played by Warden . Stritch is dynamic as Lane's mom in an unforgettable role . Elliott's character , a friend and neighbor of Lane , is in love with her but she is not in love with him . Except for the real estate agent played by Rosemary Murphy and a city couple who want to purchase the home , the cast is relatively balanced like that in a good theatrical production . There are some surprises but we always knew that Stritch is brilliant in anything that she does .
Excellent Television Movie !	Mare Winningham is really one of the great unsung American actresses of our generation . She is exceptionally talented whether she is playing the daughter of a deaf couple who must sign language to communicate with her parents . She is the their ears to the world and often must translate between her parents and the hearing world . One memorable scene is her at the funeral home translating for her parents and the undertaker as a child for her brother's unfortunate death . Winningham's performance is award-winning as is the mother played by deaf actress , Phyllis Frelich . Her character seeks to be independent and hopes that her parents can adjust to the hearing world .
Peggy Works at a Department Store	All Peggy wants is a VCR which everybody was getting back in the day but Al refuses to buy one . Marcy has a good idea that Peggy gets a job . To Peggy , that's a bad idea . She gets a job working in the clock department at a large department store with guest star and boss played by Ernie Sabella . It's not a bad episode . The reasoning for Peggy to get a VCR is because she wants to watch Oprah and tape Phil . Peggy was not made to work and that's why she got married to lounge around all day and watch television . It's up to Al and the family to convince Peggy to quit her job or lose it . For Al , he's happy that somebody else is bringing in the income to help cut costs around the house .
In Memory of Heather O'Rourke !	This film would have been tossed away if it wasn't for the fact that this film was Heather O'Rourke's last appearance before her tragic death . Heather will always be remembered as Carol Anne Freeling despite her many roles on television and film . The movie is dedicated in her memory because she was the heart and soul of the Poltergeist trilogy . This movie was a weak sequel but the last in a series . Carol Anne is sent to live in Chicago with her uncle played by Tom Skerritt and aunt played by Nancy Allen . She also has a cousin played by Lara Flynn Boyle who was unknown at the time of this film . I remember watching the director discuss for a documentary about the making of Poltergeist III . I think Heather's death overshadowed the movie's goal . He said he will never forget being a pallbearer at her funeral . We can only imagine what might have been for Heather's career . I can't forget Zelda Rubenstein as the psychic who travels to Chicago to save Carol Anne .
What a Mess of a Dress !	Aunt Fran played memorably and unforgettably by Rue McClanahan is tightly wound up since she was nominated for a local award for her article on a crossing guard . She writes for a local paper which her sister regards as a throw away paper since it's free . She begs her to iron her new dress from the evening that she got from Niedermeyer's department store in Raytown . At the same time , Mama is bugged to wash Vint's lucky t-shirt and Ellen has arranged an appointment for her mother at the beauty salon . I loved Betty White as Ellen from the series . In a rush , Mama has destroyed Fran's new dress . Since they know Fran's reaction , they go and replace the dress which is almost exact but not quite . Fran and Thelma have a bonding moment in this episode at the end regarding their relationship and Mama wonders if she's losing it .
It should have been a huge success !	For some strange reason , I always remembered this show . Maybe it was the outrageousness of it all or the fact that parodied Dallas . Anyway , I loved Dixie Carter , Ann Wedgeworth , Nedra Volz , and Delta Burke here more than I liked Dixie and Delta on Designing Women . I love parodies and this show should have been huge but again the demographics probably did not meet with network requirements like they did with Mama's Family and other shows that never made the cut . After all , they wanted a younger , hipper audiences . Now who is getting the last laugh since Blue Collar Comedy is back and in demand more than ever . That was the appeal of Filthy Rich was all the outrageousness about money and social classes . Too bad there were only fifteen episodes , we could have had more .
Choco-Boring Not !	Okay , the film has a first rate cast including the wonderful Oscar Winner Juliette Binoche who plays a single mother who comes to a small village in La Belle France where the rules are governed by a small-minded mayor . Anyway , Lena Olin plays a battered wife who is taken in by Binoche's character . Dame Judi Dench plays a 70 year old widow full of life and she earns an academy award nomination no matter what she does in the film industry . Anyway , British Alfred Molina plays the French mayor . Scandinavian Lena Olin plays a key role as well . American Johnny Dep plays a rogue pirate who he and his gang of vagabonds wash up on the riverbanks and entice Binoche's character . The film is alright and somewhat above average . OF course , some of it at times can be absurd . My favorite moment is the housewife who remarks about her husband's lack of interest in intimacy and she was played by a French actress as well . The film is done well by Lasse Hallstrom but I don't think it's Oscar worthy . American Carrie Anne Moss also has a role playing Dench's daughter who forbids her son from knowing his grandmother . You can figure what happens .
Something to replace the Monday Blues !	Actually my mother was a fan before I became one of this show . I can't wait to see it regularly in syndication . The chemistry between CHarlie Sheen and Jon Cryer is absolutely perfect . The Harper brothers are both opposites . The casting of Angus Jones as Charlie's son Jake is quite brilliant . He is so naturally funny to watch on the show . I love seeing Holland Taylor but we don't see enough of her as their domineering , critical mother who could put Marie Barone to shame . She's not that kind of mother who will bake cookies and take her grandson to the zoo . She's a more contemporary grandmother . Anyway it's great to see Conchetta Farrell as the maid , Bert . She's more than just the maid , her timing is just about perfect . I love seeing Melanie Lynskey who I didn't recognize from Heavenly Creatures as lovesick stalker of Alan Harper and neighbor . Her role of Rose is not to be ignored at all . She is quite the up and coming actress . I would have never guessed that she was a New Zealander herself . There is no trace of a Kiwi accent . The show itself has come along way from the beginning and I hope to see more in the future .
The Girls Are Back in Town or the Hamptons !	They should rename the show , Housewives of the Hamptons , because the first few episodes are mostly filmed in the Hamptons area where celebrities and the super-rich live and spend during the summer months . Personally , I would prefer to live in the Hamptons year round than to live in New York City because I love the beach . This summer , Alex and Simon have a rented a modest house in the Hamptons with their sons . The other ladies already have Hamptons estates like Jill , Ramona , LuAnn ( I forgot the Countess ) , and Bethenny is staying with Jill which is a good idea since they have so much room and fun together . In the beginning , Jill has been naughty in talking to gossip gal , Cindy Adams , from the New York Post who published some unflattering comments about Simon but they make up . Ramona is another issue altogether . She leaves the party just because Alex and Simon are there to avoid a confrontation . Personally , I think she's more likely to be the most volatile person at Jill's party . Even last season , I thought Ramona was a bid odd , too self-centered , etc . There's more but don't get me started about Ramona .
A good refreshing talk show	After only two years , they were canceled . I only got glimpses of the show on the E Daily Soup which I loved . I like Charlie Chase and Lorraine Crook and I think they did a fairly good job at not being Regis and Kathie Lee or Regis and Kelly with a good country sense . They reached out to an audience that was down home and country and southern or Midwestern . It was sad to say goodbye after a short time on the air but the Nashville Network no longer exists anyway . It's become the Spike channel , the lifetime channel for men , and shows like Crook and Chase were canceled . Still it was refreshing to see a show like Crook and Chase that was not in New York or Los Angeles . The Nashville Network is sorely missed even by me because it was different from the other cable channels . I don't have Country Music Television on my cable system which is a shame but then I think I would just watch more television and I don't need to see anymore . Anyway , Crook and Chase had their moments . They were better than Mike and Matty and seemed more real .
Canadian CSI : Vancouver Edition !	Okay , I watched the Cold Squad a few times . Expect for the fact that we have so many CSI and Law and Order shows on the air , Cold Squad would have been a great stand out . I applaud Canadian actress , Julie Stewart , who plays the lead cop , Ali McCormick , in all 7 seasons . She is on par with Dame Helen Mirren in the Prime Suspect series in England . Of course , her hairstyle reminds me of American mystery writer , Patricia Cornwell at times . The show's strength is on the location in beautiful Vancouver as Vancouver . Of course , the show has weaknesses with trying to maintain originality and uniqueness from the American shows like CSI and Law & Order . I appreciate that it is a Canadian show and I love Canadian television but I'm tired of these crime shows trying to outdo each other . There are just too many of them and they begin to resemble each other .
Hoffman and Cruise ! A Sweet Dream Come True !	This film was the first time that I heard of autism . Dustin Hoffman is brilliant as autistic Raymond Babbitt who was kept away from his younger brother , Charlie , played brilliantly by Tom Cruise . The film is about the brothers who travel to Los Angeles from Ohio and how they bond over the journey despite Raymond's complete need for structure including a schedule including People's Court , The Price is Right , and his genius for numbers which gives his younger brother a better idea . I don't know much about autism so I'm not going to criticize Hoffman's portrayal which has been joked around a bit much like the repetition of his speech . The film won Best Picture at the Academy Awards along with director Barry Levinson and Dustin Hoffman for his second Best Actor Oscar . I still think the film's superior but I'm not crazy about it .
You'll Never Look at a Paper Bag again !	First , I got started watching this show because of Vanessa Redgrave . I was not too crazy about it and later I returned when they had the slicer terrorizing poor Miami . Anyway , Abby Mays is not unattractive but according to society and Christian , she is because beauty is in the eye of the beholder or fashion magazines . Anyway , the actress Rebecca Metz gives a brilliant performance as poor Abby May who displays a cruel side to Christian's behavior during a dark time when Kimber has disappeared or is out of the picture . Anyway , the paper bag is used in this episode but I won't tell you how . All I can say is that it is degrading to Abby's character .
Groundbreaking ! Tyson and Wyatt steal the show !	Cicely Tyson is one of the best actresses ever . In this staged drama , she plays Vickie Ives Gunther , former singer turned housewife and mother . Vickie doesn't cook or clean because she has a full-time housekeeper . She does nothing because she's tough and stubborn . She and her husband come from Harlem to the Riverdale section of the Bronx which is a very posh section of the city to this day much less in 1971 . Jane Wyatt plays the role of veteran suburban housewife , Mary Robinson , perfectly on par with Cicely Tyson who you can't take your eyes off of because she's brilliant . Th two couples are as different as you can imagine . Wyatt and her husband are white while Tyson and her husband are black . They're selling their suburban home for $98 , 200 and the younger couple are interested in buying it . They come for the visit despite the misgivings on both sides . The acting is first rate and the writing is somewhat needs to come alive more . It's only an hour but it does pack punches .
The Dream Queen !	While Steve's away , Marcy almost gets into a scam about the driveway being repaved but the guys only use something that washes away in the rain . It was Al that warned her that if it's too good to be true then it's a scam . After Marcy realizes that she was almost had and Al was right , how was she going to tell Al ? Peggy tells her that you don't want to tell Al that he was right for whatever reasons . So Marcy hides the truth , she starts having dreams that Al is Steve and is going to make it better . The first dream is one thing but two dreams in a row is another according to Peggy . Marcy replies " I was up throwing last night . " Peggy replies " You do at first and then you get over it . " Then when the real Steve comes home , Marcy has to confront Al with the truth about him being right for a change .
It's worth a watch !	It took me awhile to warm up to John Larroquette and Christine Baranski , they're both professional and veteran of the sitcom world . Between them , they have about six or seven Emmys maybe more between them . Both John and Christine are wonderful and believable as a veteran married couple to watch even with mediocre material . They are trying and the relationship between Maggie and young Tim is kind of cute and appropriate nowadays . With 8 time Emmy Winner Cloris Leachman casted as Peter's mother , the show is on its way for improvement . Give it a chance or two . If you want to watch two professionals , tune in on Tuesday nights !
Johnny Be Lately !	Al and Peggy get tickets thanks to Bud spending a night at Johnny Be Good's for it's final night . Johnny Be Good's was Al and Peggy's place growing up and it probably was a symbol of a dying breed of restaurants at the time . Anyway , Al and Peggy think they have it easy but Kelly doesn't get invited to a cool party and Bud has something that Al has to fit together . Also , Steve and Marcy come over and try to help console Kelly that she might not be cool anymore . While Al and Peggy are solving their kids ' problems , the clock at Johnny Be Good's is clicking away . Will Al and Peggy get there before it's too late where Al set records on how many French fries he could eat or something like that .
Slightly Out of Order of Sequence !	Vinton Harper has fallen head over heels over his next door neighbor , Food Circus Cashier-Naomi Oates ( played beautifully by All My Children star Dorothy Lyman ) . Naomi has just sold her home and got $5 , 000 . They go to the Bigger Jigger , the local hangout in Raytown where the show is set . After a few drinks and they return to the Harper House , Naomi and Vinton finally give in to their mutual attraction to each other . They were one of the most affectionate couples on television . Vint and Naomi spend the night in the basement where he shows her his TV Guide Collection . Of course , Mama Harper would blow the roof off when she learns that Vint had a woman over much less Naomi Oates , her neighbor who often gives her trouble . Rather than give up the relationship , they decide to get married .
Al and Steve buy a Car !	Al and Steve bond while restoring a car that they bought from one of Kelly's dates who she dumps when she learns that he sold his car . Al and Steve restore the car and they become obsessed with it much to the dismay of their wives , Peg and Marcy . While Peggy recalls her days in the backseats , Marcy confesses that she never done it in the back seat of a car . " We put our groceries there " she tells Peg . When Steve and Marcy do get to do it , they are found out by the Bundys . Resentful of their obsession with their lost youth and the car , Peg and Marcy are quite tolerable until as always things don't go for Steve and Al as well with their new toy .
Great cast but average writing !	The sitcom version was far different from the film version . I remember Sally Struthers coming into the role . During the 1980s , there was so many sitcom on television that some like this one were canceled because of average ratings but gained a following . Four years later , they reappeared in syndication where they had success and last about 3 seasons . Anyway , a lot of sitcoms like " It's a Living , " " Charles in Charge , " and " Mama's Family " all were on networks before being canceled and often replaced by something inferior . When they did return to syndication , cast changes were made because the original cast members had moved on to other projects . Anyway , I vaguely remembered watching this show on Saturday afternoons as a kid . I won't say it's a great show but it is far superior to today's television sitcoms with cast members like Valerie Curtin and Sally Struthers , they showed the office as it was and maybe as it is . Too bad , no local stations do reruns of the sitcoms anymore .
If you go to England , you should watch British Soaps !	I like Emmerdale . Since I live in America , it is hard for me to get shows like East Enders , COronation Street , Emmerdale and other British soaps . Emmerdale has been around as long I have been alive . I have watched it a couple times . But I am an avid American soap watcher , the main difference between British and American soaps is that British soaps look more realistic with people that look like they are your neighbors . The show could use better writing but I can't say much more since I only watched a few episodes . When you go to England , you should watch Emmerdale , East Enders , and Coronation Street which are the main soaps known to me . Emmerdale is set in Northern England around Leeds . The cast especially the Tates and Patsy Kensit playing a vixen is worth watching . The soaps are only 25 minutes . Unlike American soaps , where are actors and actresses looked like they were plucked from modeling catalogs . British actors and actresses look the role . In fact , Sir Ian McKellen appeared in Coronation Street for 10 episodes last year by his choice . Emmerdale is worth watching along with Corrie and East Enders . My big problem with the shows is the lack of attention to the veteran actors and actresses who have been on for years . Except for Patsy Kensit , I wasn't sure about the others in the show but it's worth watching anyway .
Lovely Linda Fiorentino and Cast !	After watching Dogma for the umpteenth time on Comedy Central , I became a Linda Fiorentino fan along with others out there who wondered what happened to this promising actress since 2002 . I have seen other films . This one shows that she can play a desperate housewife who can be both strong and vulnerable to her husband played by Joe Mantegna . Jamie Lee Curtis is underused in this role . Fiorentino and Chloe Webb's characters form a believable friendship on screen that I wonder why Linda hasn't worked in five years is a mystery to me . Anyway , it's an all star cast featuring besides Webb , Mantegna , and Fiorentino but also Kevin Bacon , Ken Olin , John Malkovich , and Jamie Lee Curtis . The storyline needs some work . I loved the scene where Carla steals the guys ' clothes while they are skinny dipping in a pool . The movie is about a reunion of friends who get together for a wedding that may or may not happen anyway . I plead that Linda gets work soon again because she is really one of the best actresses out there playing strong women rather than weak and superficial .
Don't Count This Show Out !	Okay , I am off of Desperate Housewives and have switched to Fox's comedy line-up . Personally , I don't miss the women on ABC . I love the fact that the best sitcoms today are animated which cuts away the politics of the shows . You don't have to worry about kids getting older or at all . American Dad is a pretty good show considering it's about an American intelligence agent who wants to protect his family and country at the same time . The show airs Sunday nights which is the best time to liven up your week ahead if you only work Mondays through Fridays trying to protect and provide for your families . It's still worth watching .
Not bad ! Quite funny !	It turned out to be a good idea after all . I actually liked this movie since I have seen it years ago . I can't remember until now the appeal . It's actually cute and well-done without any real nonsense . It actually makes sense when you watch it . It is actually entertaining without overdoing it . It's a great family movie too . There are hilarious moments between the men and baby Mary . I only wished she had a better name than Mary . The cast is first rate with Tom Selleck , Ted Danson , and Steve Gutenberg as the three fathers and Nancy Travis as British Sylvia . I love seeing Celeste Holm playing grandmother to baby Mary even if it was for only a moment . They have quite a ball with baby Mary in their lives even though she was a surprise beyond belief . Baby Mary usually steals the scene because of her beauty . Babies are beautiful and fun but lots of work for one parent , much less two or three or four parents . I won't give away the ending but I think they should have filmed it in New York City rather in Toronto but that's just my opinion .
The True Pursuit of Happiness !	Chris Gardner's inspirational story is brought to life by Oscar nominee Will Smith . His son , Jaden Smith , plays Chris ' son Christopher in the film . In this story , Chris Gardner is a man who wants to be a broker at Dean Witter . Unfortunately , Dean Witter internships don't pay a salary for six months . I hope they changed that since 1981 when the story takes place . Chris Gardner must deal with his broken marriage and fights to keep his son . They move to a motel after they can't afford to live or pay the rent . Christopher is what keeps Chris going despite losing his apartment , his marriage , his car , but he also has six scanners which he tries to sell . They are bone density scanners sold to doctors . The cast is first rate with James Karen as one of the bosses . Chris Gardner is a man who would do anything and does . It's an inspirational story of father and son in the toughest of times .
A great sitcom the old fashioned way !	There are too many new styles of the sitcom but the one that works best is the old fashioned way with an audience and indoor set . That 70's Show is a great example . When the show came on the air , nobody really heard of Kurtwood Smith and Debra Jo Rupp much less the adolescents played wonderfully by Topher Grace and Ashton Kushton ( both of them are leaving the show this year to pursue other interests ) I wish Topher would stay around because the show began about his character , Eric , and his close circle of friends . Ashton is already the John Travolta of our time . Remember when John was in love with Diana Hyland from Eight Is Enough , think of Ashton with Demi Moore . The cast of actors were never known to us which is a good thing because a celebrity cast member can spoil it . I miss Mo Gaffney who played Don's girlfriend Joanne . I miss Lisa Robin Kelly as the original Laurie , the replacement could not match her and I am sorry about that . I liked the casting of Tommy Chong as the wasted but beloved father figure to Steven Hyde . I loved watching Tanya Roberts besides Charlie's Angels . I loved Brooke Shields playing Jackie's mom . She really showed her acting talent before heading to Broadway . This show has been a delight with many surprises . I hope this show lasts longer even though 2 of their cast members are leaving but I hope they don't stay too far away too long . I wish the show's creators , Bonnie and Terry Turner , who also created my other favorite show , Third Rock from The Sun , is more successful on Fox than they were on NBC which sabotaged their show . The Turners are not dummies and I hope they create more shows like this in the future .
Robin's touching performance !	I remember this movie because I took a junior college course entitled literature and film . One of the books was Saul Bellow's novel , Seize the Day . I don't remember much about the story but I remember the film . It's set in New York City about a poor man played to perfection by the one and only Robin Williams . It's not a laughing matter with him in the starring role as the Jewish salesman . The final scene leaves more questions than answers . I remember the film was faithful to the author's version . After all , Saul Bellow is a Nobel Prize winner for literature . Robin's performance is no laughing matter because his character can never catch a break in New York City . You just realize that he is one of thousands who are more or less suffering from society's neglect . In the end , society can be hell after all .
It's worth watching once !	Emma Thompson really blossoms as an actress in this very difficult and moving portrayal of middle aged college English professor . It was based on a play but I can't imagine anyone playing Vivian Bearing than Emma . She plays a woman with ovarian cancer . Her battle with cancer is long and difficult and not short of pain . She becomes bald and the film flashes back to her childhood with Harold Pinter playing her father . The most heartbreaking moment comes when her mentor played by Dame Eileen Atkins visits her . We never really get to know much else about Vivian's personal life . She was married to her work and Jonathan Donne . This film was directed by the great Mike Nichols and is worth watching . It's no TV movie of the week . It is a well-written , entertaining and heartbreaking film .
X-way !	One of the great things about the X-Files was that the show had two strong leading characters Scully and Mulder played by Gillian Anderson and David ( I forget his last name , sorry ) who should have got together but they wisely played it safe keeping them apart . I loved the relationship in the beginning but the show went off-track with conspiracies and craziness that the show became famous for . The cast is great and I loved the show when it was on location in Vancouver . I think the weather and environment was also a great addition . Then they moved it to Los Angeles , maybe that's when I lost track . The episodes in the beginning were truly high quality and first rate . I think they tried so hard to keep the momentum going that they lost the show somewhere along the years . I know that two stars wanted out to pursue other interests but I didn't think that was wise anyway . Anyway , I still wish them the best and hope to see a reunion film .
Nothing like the 1939 classic version !	I didn't read the book by L . Frank Baum so I can't say if this adaptation is faithful but it was adapted by his son for a screenplay . In this silent film version , everything is minimal but still it is entertaining at times . The cast stars Dorothy Dwan as Dorothy . The supporting cast has Oliver Hard from Laurel and Hardy as the Tin woodsman . The film has retained Dorothy , the scarecrow , the tin man , and the lion in it's cast . There are no special effects but there are large crowd scenes . The story is about Dorothy who is the rightful heir to the kingdom of Oz but the Wizard of Oz is doing everything he can to keep her from gaining the throne . There is no tornado or wicked witches but the wicked wizard . This film would be good for die-hard Wizard of Oz fans as well as silent film-buffs but for not much else .
It Wasn't Amazing but It was Good !	This show had legs and an interesting plot . Jon Cryer plays Teddy Z , a guy who doesn't want to work in the family business , a Greek bakery . Instead , he would rather work in show business . he gets a job in the mail room and gets the attention of a film star who wants him as his agent . With little or no experience , Teddy Z gets the most unlikely promotion . I remember Alex Rocco as the old time agent without a heart or conscience who is Teddy's mentor . I remember Jane Sibbett as the cold , ruthless woman working to get to where Teddy is . Teddy got there by being himself and not some determined , egotistical college graduate who start by working in the mailroom and hope to be secretaries with a promotion to agents . Too bad , they cancelled it after a year .
Solid Comedy Starring Arthur Lowe !	I bought the DVD series because I was desired to see it . None of the local PBS stations in the New York City area bothered to show it in recent years , I found Arthur Lowe to be the heart and soul of this show as Father Duddleswell . The young actor , Daniel A . , plays a young priest named Father Neil Boyd . I have to say the comic humor is dryer than Father Ted . The show explores the elder father's flaws such as his gambling habit and the younger priest's naivety . Also , I love Gabrielle Daye as Mrs . Pring who may not always be approving of Father Duddleswell but she's great as their opinionated housekeeper . I have only seen a few episodes but the writing and acting are solid . Guest stars like Peter Bowles and Sheila Keith make it worth watching . I don't know why people don't think priests or sisters are interesting worthy to be treated as a subject . If I was born a male , I would probably have been a priest myself .
You're on a Vision Quest !	Linda Fiorentino pretty much debuted as the love interest to Matthew Modine in this film , Vision Quest , which is an odd title for a film anyway . It was also entitled Crazy for You based on Madonna's song for the movie . Both Madonna and Fiorentino were still new at the time . The writing for this story is bit predictable . Matthew plays a wrestler and Linda plays the object of his affections . The film is directed by Harold Becker who also has a great soundtrack to the movie . I love the music which are perfect choices and the sounds of the music keep playing in her your ears . It's predictable but worthy to watch over and over again . Keep watching it and you'll learn to become nostalgic for a time that MTV played music videos and you were young again . They filmed where they set the story in Spokane , Washington . They don't do that anymore . They film elsewhere you know and say it's the real thing . Anyway , Linda's role of Carla was a drifter from New Jersey . It turns out that Linda herself is from the same area of New Jersey herself . Matthew Modine seems a bit older to play a teenager but then again it always seemed like older people playing young like Beverly Hills 90210 . Also it was nice to see Forest Whitaker in a very small role as one of the other wrestlers on the team . He should get an Oscar nomination this year . Harold Sylvester plays the English teacher who befriends Carla and he is better known for his role as the shoe salesman sidekick on Married with Children . Ronny Cox plays Louden's dad . A funny name , Louden Swain , but anyway the film has great music . They filmed on location in Spokane , and for a film debut , Linda was good . We miss you and we're waiting for your comeback .
On the edge of your seat ! Another longtime soap bites the dust !	The Edge of Night to me now is a distant memory . I do remember it being canceled which I thought was a terrible shame . There is only 1 half hour soap on television today . So I am going to write about the importance of daytime drama to the New York City entertainment community . It was the backbone and a place for actors and actresses to work their days at a show and work evenings on stage doing theater . Sadly , the New York City entertainment community is not growing as it once did before . Most people can't afford to live in the area to begin with and opt to work in Los Angeles or Toronto . I wish New York City Film and television would pay attention to these soaps cancellation as a warning that they shouldn't be happening . The Edge of Night was a brief memory . I remember coming home and it would be on at 4 : 00 P . M . and now it's Oprah . I do not mind talk shows but I do the growing choices of daytime dramas . I still think these shows have produced some of the finest actors and actresses today . At 28 years , the network yanked it off the screen and replaced it with Loving which would be canceled in less than 10 years later . Maybe they should have kept Edge of Night on along with the others . Every time a soap gets canceled , I just feel like losing a member of my family . I don't remember much about Edge of Night but the last episode . Now NYC only produces 4 soaps , the youngest soap of theirs being All My Children at 35 . At least L . A . has 5 and it's youngest is 7 years old . I don't care where American soaps are made but that they are made .
Didn't read the book but the movie is quite good !	Vivien Leigh was one of the great actresses of her day despite her own personal difficulties . Her film career was shorter than most of her peers but she still earned two Oscars for unforgettable performances in classics as Scarlett O'Hara and Blanche Dubois . This film could have easily earned her an Academy Award as the title character . Really , Vivien Leigh knew how to play leading actress in films . She is quite attractive and appears to be vulnerable and gentle on screen in her roles . This role is no exception . She steals the film as Anna Karenina . The supporting cast includes Sir Ralph Richardson , Michael Medwin OBE , Leslie Phillips CBE OBE , Maxine Audley , and Martitia Hunt as well . The film adaptation from Leo Tolstoy's novel of the same name was probably adapted and changed to fit Leigh's role . Regardless , I haven't read Tolstoy's classic novel but this film is one of dozens where female leading actresses can sink their teeth into like Vivien Leigh and Greta Garbo .
Mickey Rourke the Wrestler both make comebacks !	Who would have thought that washed up and notorious Mickey Rourke would be the front-runner for an Academy Award for playing Randy Ram Robinson , a veteran professional wrestler and celebrity in the wrestling entertainment world . First , I am not a wrestling fan in the least and this film shows the bruises , damage , and the non glorious side of the sport . Rourke is beautiful as the bruised , damaged self-proclaimed " piece of meat . " The beginning of the film shows him as the washed up Ram after an appearance and his life where he lives alone in a trailer park where he hasn't paid his rent . He works days at the Acme supermarket and nights where he goes to a strip club and befriends Cassidy played by Marisa Tomei . If people thought her first Oscar win was a shock , she should get her second Academy Award for this performance as the stripper and single mom who wins Ram's heart . Ram has a daughter , Stephanie , played well by Evan Rachel Wood but her character never is fleshed out as more than just his lesbian daughter living with her girlfriend but it's never said . He just suspects and we don't know much about Stephanie's history in the first place . We don't have that connection between them which would help explain their wounded relationship . Maybe Stephanie is more her father's daughter than she pretends not to be . I didn't like the ending but I won't spoil it for anybody else except that it's not clear . Regardless , the film was shot on a very low budget but it's still inspiring and Mickey Rourke's performance is well alone worth the effort in watching him despite the pain and blood that comes with wrestling . If you didn't have any respect for wrestlers or strippers before the film , the film will make you look at wrestlers and strippers a little differently . Tomei's character , Cassidy , shows a different side of a stripper about aging in a profession where they don't want you too and where you're nothing but a piece of meat . In reality , Cassidy and Ram can both share in professions where they use their bodies . For both , it is not only a way of life but a living . For Cassidy and others in the profession , they make more money than working as secretaries in reality . Ram's whole life is wrestling . If you take that away from him , you take away his life's meaning .
Preferred the Older One !	I would have liked to have seen this version of George Orwell's classic , Animal Farm , to be animated rather than a live action film . I am not saying that the film is not worthy but I liked the older one with animation . I think anything with animals would be better off animated in the first place . They have a first rate cast including Kelsey Grammar , Julie Ormond , Julia Louis-Dreyfus , Peter Postlethwaite as Mr . Jones in a noteworthy performance . I can see why Spielberg claims that Postlethwaite is one of his favorite actors or one of the best under-rated actors around . The film is satisfactory and updated enough for today's audiences .
Overall , it's funny now scream your heads off !	One British woman , Catherine Tate , is multi-talented enough to play several roles in her titled show including the woman is not drunk enough to find her date attractive enough , or the woman who screams at anything because she is easily scared , then there is the couple of new parents with a sleeping baby who won't get out of the car for the mother's birthday party because the baby has finally fallen asleep and don't want to risk the sound of waking her up . Also , there is the couple of women who work in an office cubicle where she keeps asking her to guess how much whether it's weight or money . Catherine Tate might be a new face but she is somebody to watch out for in the future . She's very talented and capable of maintaining a sense of humor throughout the program even being unrecognizable . She does a fabulous job at showing off her craft of British comedy . Now if we can only get it in America .
When it was good , it was great but when it was bad , it got worse !	Santa Barbara came on with the hopes of changing the daytime industry and it did to many respects . THe Dobsons should be applauded for their soap . Sadly , Santa Barbara was on NBC which does not care for it's daytime audience . As an Another WOrld fan , I can say that network does not show the respect of daytime drama audiences by canceling one of it's soaps . Santa Barbara tried to be like other soaps just when it came out but it didn't work . Then , they brought together Cruz and Eden played by A Martinez and Marcy Walker . They were very good together . The casting was beyond to describe . The cast included Dame Judith Anderson , Janis Paige , Nicolas Coaster ( a soap vet to say the least ) , Sydney Penney , Nancy Lee Grahn , Louise Sorel , Jed Allan , Jane McConnell , and the list just goes on . When you are a favorite of Jill Farren Phelps , you become quite active on the show . Just to say that Grahn and Allan both joined General HOspital since Santa Barbara . The writing was witty and weird , brilliant and sometimes sloppy at the height of Santa Barbara's fame . But sadly , this show became a casualty of daytime's losing audience . Most people don't stay at home during the days like they used too . There are daytime audiences like me willing to tape while at work . I'll just wonder what it might have been if Santa Barbara had been allowed to grow old and gracefully . Santa Barbara won't be forgotten anytime soon . We still have a bit of it on General HOspital .
Three and an Elephant !	Sharon , Lois and Bram could be easily Canada's answer to America's Peter , Paul , and Mary but with an elephant and children's songs . I remember watching this on Nickelodeon as a kid . I remember them singing their songs included the famous elephant song and their on location in lovely Canada . I love Canada thanks to Nickelodeon who in it's early days imported lots of Canadian children shows . Sharon , Lois , and Bram always sang in harmony and they were genuinely fond of each other and children whether in Canada or the world . They treated it's fans which were mostly children with parents as people rather than little kids . I miss those days of my childhood and I wished that the children today can appreciate and enjoy Sharon , Lois , and Bram and the Elephant Show hopefully on DVD today .
Heaven's Gain is Our Loss !	It seems like only yesterday that Heath Ledger left us . His death was sudden and unexpected . As somebody once said , when it's your time it's your time to go . With the death of Heath Ledger by an accident of over-medication , Heath is finally getting the rest that he desperately was seeking for in heaven than on earth . This one hour is a loving tribute with cast members like mini-me's Verne Troyer showing genuine tears as he talked about his friend , Heath . In fact , nobody says anything negative about Heath's life except that he was taken too soon . There are some moments like the sex scenes between him and Jake Gyllenhall in Brokeback Mountain that could have been left on the cutting room floor . Other than that in a short hour , Heath is fondly remembered by co-stars , friends , and colleagues as a warm-hearted wonderful human being . In fact , I wish that there were more men like Heath around . Nobody has forgotten the daughter that he left behind too .
Finally the Untold Story !	We all knew about Different Strokes mostly about the kids of Different Strokes . Dana Plato's fade into obscurity did not help her substance abuse problems or her alcoholism . She lost custody of her son or relinquished him because she couldn't take care of him . She couldn't take care of herself . So it was no surprised that she would die so young . It was heartbreaking when Conrad Bain said that Dana was happy to have a baby because then she wouldn't be alone anymore . She wasn't alone . Everybody who was a fan loved her as Kimberly Drummond , the pretty , smart , girl from the show but her real life was from perfect or close to it . For Todd Bridges , he nearly went to prison for a crime that he didn't commit . Luckily , Johnnie Cochrane defended him and he was released . Todd has his own share of problems including an abusive father and his own substance abuse problems . Gary Coleman who became the most famous probably fared the best in comparison to Todd and Dana . Gary never recovered from his Arnold Jackson image to gain more acting jobs . His publicized legal fights with his own parents is heartbreaking because they need each other as a family . Even now , the Colemans are still together but without Gary in the picture . I hate seeing working as a security guard . It just seems unreal . Hollywood must not forget the children like Dana , Todd , and Gary and stop tossing them aside like garbage . There were questions that I would have liked answered like why they switched MRs . Drummonds from Dixie Carter to Mary Ann Mobley ( I liked them both ) but didn't see the need for it or the maids . We know that Charlotte Rae took Mrs . Edna Garrett to Facts of Life . Then there was Nedra Volz and Mary Jo Catlett who took over that job .
Mixed Feelings !	I have to say that I was really excited for this show to appear last night but I have to say that I have mixed feelings about the whole premise of Gypsy Travelers roaming the American South in prey of loot on us buffers . I think Eddie Izzard is brilliant as Wayne and I like Minnie Driver as Dahlia . As a couple , they have a lot of chemistry . I just love Eddie Izzard now . He can make me believe anything but somehow it's all hard to swallow . For example , he cons his way into a class reunion with his teen daughter and young son who likes dressing his older sister's clothes . Didn't anybody notice that he brought his kids while nobody else did . After all , it's kind of hard to believe that buffers are that dumb in general or they wouldn't have more . After almost getting busted by a cop on the road , they head to pick up Dahlia for a family reunion and a celebration of her release from prison . Anyway , Wayne steals from the Godfather of the Gypsy Travelers's safe because the heir has already fixed his teen daughter up to be married to a slightly slow relative for marriage in the fall . The Malloys take off after running into relatives . Dahlia is considered Gypsy royalty whatever that means and Wayne is not . They are fortunate to witness a terrible car accident who takes the lives of Mr . and Mrs . Rich who were on their way to their new home in a gated community . Wayne or Doug has a plan to move his family into the new digs . Will they fit in ? No , but they plan on trying to live a normal life whatever that means . I just have trouble believing that the producers didn't have a character with some moral conscience . Of course , it's only a show and it is to be entertaining but I was hoping for so much more but I love Eddie Izzard now .
A Series that could have lasted longer !	I'll never understand why the aliens had to be lizards or iguanas underneath their human form skin . Regardless , they return after they were liberated by smart humans on earth who finally got together to defeat them . This series was much like the two mini-series which preceded it . The aliens should realize that earth and it's billions of inhabitants don't want to become food for them . In the series , Elizabeth ( hybrid of human and iguana ) has a metamorphosis . She becomes an adult which I don't understand . Many of the original cast members from the mini-series return for the series like bad Diana played brilliantly by Jane Badler with both evil and sensuality to seduce Marc Singer's character and others before eating them . There is Fay Grant , the female character , who is involved in defeating the aliens . Unfortunately in the series , the aliens are here to stay on earth and they must find a way to cope .
Not surprised at all !	It seems that America and Britain and everybody else knew that the Japanese were up to something long before that infamous day in history . Could it have been prevented ? Why didn't they listen ? Who knows now ? Much like the events of September 11 , 2001 , people in power appeared to have ignored or misplaced their suspicions about any such attack . Why don't people in power listen ? Why didn't we ? We will never know the truth . Maybe American politicians thought it wouldn't happen but I disagree . They rather it happened then not at all . It was the middle of the great depression and America wasn't involved in World War II . Had America got involved sooner ? How many lives would have been saved ? We will never know the truth . This BBC documentary offers the interviews and depicts the FDR administration as having some knowledge of a possible attack . Why am I not surprised at all ? Maybe it's because the same thing happened on September 11 , 2001 . Of course thousands died needlessly and tragically . Many others suffered the loss of their relatives , friends , colleagues , and neighbors . Unless we learn from attacks on Pearl Harbor and September 11 , 2001 , we will never prevent another attack . It's sad and tragic . Maybe that's why this documentary shows another side beside the loss and that's that it could have prevented in the first place .
You'll laugh yourself seriously !	Will Ferrell can do almost anything and here is play a sex addicted ( heterosexual ) American men's single figure skater , Chaz Michael Michales . His main competition is played by John Heder from Napoleon Dynamite as James McElroy who is adopted by a rich billionaire who takes talented orphans and makes them superstars . He's played by the great character actor , William Fichtner ( I remember him from As the World Turns ) . Heder can actually hold his own playing this gifted , sexually naive , effeminate skater . Both skaters get booted from men's single competition after a fight . So after three and half years of doing ice shows and working at a sports store , McElroy's longtime coach played by Craig T . Nelson reunites them to do pairs skating . Unfortunately , the top American pairs skating is played by the funny Amy Poehler from Saturday Night Live and her real-life husband Will Arnett as Fairchild and Stranz Von Wallenburg . They are like Kitty and Peter Carruthers of their time , another brother-sister team from the United States . The Office's Jenna Fischer plays Kate Von Wallenburg , the younger sister and assistant to her siblings ' obsessive quest for the gold . In the meantime , Kate and Jimmy fall for each other but Kate's sister Fairchild has other plans for her sister . The Von Wallenberg siblings are always blaming Kate for their parents death in a car accident as they were driving her to ice skating practice . Of course , there are cameos by Olympic Gold Medalists , Peggy Fleming , Scott Hamilton who plays a commentator and Britan Boitano , and Olympic Silver & Bronze medalist Nancy Kerrigan at the National Skaters ASsociation . Of course , the writers have worked around not setting it around the United States Figure Skating Association and their Olympics is the Wintersports in Montreal , Quebec , Canada . It's a funny movie despite some flaws . If only ice skating was about art instead of about how many triple jumps that a person can do in four minutes . Most of the music , costumes , and actions in the figure skating world shown here wouldn't pass the world skating league .
Jump for Jump Street	This was Fox's first serious drama . It was aimed at a young audience . 21 Jump Street had a great cast including a young Johnny Depp , Peter DeLuise , and Holly Robinson among the cast members , good writing , and innovative plot about young cops posing as high school students to capture a wide variety of criminals in the school system . The show lasted a few seasons on Fox without network infiltration like other major networks . It lasted long enough to leave its mark on the baby network . Now there are a dozen shows like 21 Jump Street without the cleverness and the strive to be better than just the average shows on TV . In fact , the show was probably the first American drama on Fox to be filmed on location in Vancouver , British Columbia , Canada to cut costs . In the beginning of the Fox network lineup , 21 Jump Street launched a unique way of looking at secondary schools with a great cast . It was never awarded an Emmy which it should have been even nominated for Best Drama .
A Great Version of the Classic Tale	I loved Mr . Magoo growing up . We don't see him much anymore on television or this special around the holiday times . We see less and less television programming devoted to the Christmas holidays . Jim Backus uses his voice as Mr . Magoo , the four eyed actor , in this special where he plays Ebenezer Scrooge , the Charles Dickens character , forever immortalized in all sorts of holiday tales . Just like the story of a Christmas Carol , there are three ghosts and Marley , the predecessor who warns Scrooge to change his ways . Okay , this version is not the best out there but it's timely and good for kids and adults and fans of classic animation . I bought the tape years ago and just played it around the holidays . It's a treat to watch every year .
And they all lived happily ever after !	I was skeptical at first about seeing this movie . I'm not into Bollywood movies at all . I saw this film with a high school senior class in Newark , New Jersey and they were captivated by the film as well as myself . Mira Nair is becoming one of the world's best known film directors as I write this review with Namesake on it's way to release . The characters were fully fleshed out rather than just caricatures . Who didn't love the wedding planner who curses like a sailor and the servant who succumbed to his charm and spell ? Who didn't love the actual couple based on arrangement between families ? The bride has a secret that could have destroyed or stopped the marriage . My sister's friend is probably going to be married in New Delhi herself . I wonder how similar and different the wedding and reception will be . From what I know about Indian weddings , I can invite you which means you , your family , friends , and neighbors . They appear to have a really good time at weddings in India . There was a serious topic that could have dampened or ruined the movie but it was well-orchestrated by the director .
Pour Some Sugar On Me !	When Def Leppard returned to MTV with Hysteria , it was a revolution . The band members were adolescent friends who aspired to leave their Sheffield lives behind them . Instead , they became a leader in the music industry . Hysteria's legacy still lives on to those of us who remember it . The film reminded me of their ability to triumph over tragedy . They were all young when they rose to success . Of course , they hit obstacles like alcohol , drugs , and money . When Rick loses his arm in a car accident , he is determined to return to the band . I admire the band for not turning their backs on their friend . When Steve Clark is battling alcoholism , his friends are there for him as well . The film is not great but I bet it could have been better . I liked the flashbacks in the end to show the change in their appearances . They have grown older , wiser , and better for it . The road to Hysteria was marked by tragedy and triumph at once . The song " Pour Some Sugar On Me ! " was a hit video on MTV . I must have seen it a hundred times or more . In the 1980s , musicians and bands like Def Leppard created lyrics with music . Today , all there is vulgarity , sexual references , obscenity , and violence in the most popular music today . Gone are the music videos that inhabited MTV all those years . It was once a music station . I saw this film on VH-1 which was also begun as an alternative to MTV . Both now dedicate themselves to reality shows and other programming . I miss MTV and the videos like Def Leppard's Pour Some Sugar On Me , Hysteria , Photograph , Love Hurts , Animal , etc . Of course , young actors who play larger than life band members do a superb job in portraying . For a minute , I believed the band was actually playing themselves . I had to see the credits . I bet they could have marketed and released this film in the theaters and they would be rocking to the sound of Def Leppard . Too bad they placed it on television as documentary . To Def Leppard , keep rocking on .
well done !	Duet was a wonderful program . It was cute without being sappy or saccharine . Who could forget their first date with a married couple in the middle of an argument ? The cause of their argument was about family life . In the middle of it all , the dates try to compose themselves while the other couple are ready for combat at each other . They try to compose some normal conversation . In the end of their first date , the younger couple sit in the first seat while the older couple reunite the passion . It was all about passion and discovering one another . It was better than Mad about You then and is now . Duet was Fox's first show about relationships . I loved the casting of Alison LaPlaca and Chris Lemmon ( Jack Lemmon's son ) as the arguing couple . Jodi Thelen has a great role as Mary Page Keller's sister in the series . Mary Page Keller and her co-star Matthew / Mitchell Lawrence ( They're identical twins and actors ) . Lawrence plays a struggling writer while Keller plays a caterer . They meet at a wedding of course in the first episode . They had a great opening segment . It's a shame that shows do not have the quality it once had like it did then .
It was better on network television !	I hate to say this but I preferred the first family , the Pembrokes to the Powells , but beggars can't be choosers . I remember when the show first aired on CBS television . Again after a year , the show had a large following but there was not enough room in the prime time schedule for an average sitcom in the age of Cosby Show's success . If you think about , Charles In Charge paralleled Mama's Family on NBC which attracted probably not the kind of audience that the network wanted for their demographics . Like Charles in Charge , Mama's Family was cancelled after 2 seasons . It resurfaced over a year later on Saturday evening television in something called syndication . The same for Charles in Charge , there was the audience for the comedy . Unlike Mama's Family , Charles in Charge replaced an entire family . The Powells were prettier than the Pembrokes but I liked the first family better . Sandra Kerns who played Mrs . Powell disappeared even though her name and face were in the credits , she left sometime during the production to raise her own family sadly . We never caught much of her again . It was more about Skippy , Charles , and the new kids . So I still watched the episodes but I thought the show got weaker with Ellen Travolta playing Charles ' mother . James Callahan's role as the grandfather got bigger as well .
Next time , I'm in London !	84 Charing Cross Road is a wonderful enchanting film about the differences and similarities between the Brits and the New Yorkers over the years . Helene Hanff really was a special writer . She gave an identity to 84 Charing Cross Road to last a lifetime . Her letter writing relationship between a bookstore and herself is one of legendary stories to become part of London and New York . Sadly , she died 5 years ago . I am sure that 84 Charing Cross Road will always remember the writer , Helene Hanff , who inspired such a legacy . Anyway the film has a wonderful cast like Anne Bancroft who is ageless in the role . Sir Anthony Hopkins as the bookseller . Dame Judi Dench as his wife and Maurice Denham in a supporting role . Also , I have been to London three more times since I wrote this review and sadly this time , I made the effort to visit 84 Charing Cross Road , sorry folks , it's a Pizza Hut and I had dinner there tonight anyway . THere is no plaque . I still think Anne Bancroft was superb now that she's gone . So has Maurice Denham since I last wrote this review . God Bless them wherever they are .
I miss Suddenly Susan still !	One of the reasons that Suddenly Susan works for me is the ensemble cast of characters including Brooke Shields . Even though she is the star of the show , she manages to evolve her supporting cast of characters like the unbelievable Vicki and Judd Nelson as her boss Jack Richmond . The show is well-grouped with this cast of zany characters working at a fictional San Francisco newspaper . When tragedy struck the cast , the loss of David Strickland who played Todd was so catastrophic for the cast and crew for it to ever recover from his loss . David Strickland committed suicide in a Las Vegas hotel room . The cast was never the same again without him . The pairing of Vicki and Susan living together brought great laughs . These two should get together and spin off the characters into their own series . The show was never an Emmy winner or critically acclaimed . But from all reports , this show actually had a pleasant environment to grow and mature . Brooke Shields as a producer was not afraid to let her supporting cast branch out which is why I like this show .
An Insightful , often hysterical and silly at times movie !	I remember Parker Posey on " As The World Turns " before she became the Queen of the Independent movies . In this film , Posey shows her potential as a top fledged actress . In this film with supporting cast that includes Omar Townsend as Moustafa , a Lebanese immigrant who works as a falafel salesman on the street , who aspires to become a teacher . The supporting cast features a wonderful actress who plays her godmother and only family relative as Judy , the librarian who is old fashioned , dedicated and menopausal . Posey as Mary learns that she has to grow up and mature . Losing her librarian clerk position makes her realize how much she misses it as a place in her life . Mary's life is surrounded by friends in the Lower East Side Village of New York City before it became gentrified with yuppies . This film is quite good for an independent and I have come to enjoy Parker Posey as Mary as well as other characters in other films .
Simply an Enchanting Movie ! Take it to Broadway !	Amy Adams is simply delightful as Giselle , the engaged woman of Prince Edward , in a land called Anadalusia , a land where it lives in Animation . The beginning is a bit slow and typical . Once Giselle is tricked and pushed into the wishing well by a witch who is really Edward's evil stepmother . The cast is first rate with Amy Adams as Giselle , James Marsden as Prince Edward , Timothy Spall OBE as Nathaniel - the queen's henchman , Susan Sarandon as the wicked stepmother , Tony Winner Idina Menzel who won for playing Elfaba on Broadway's Wicked plays Nancy , the girlfriend , of PAtrick Dempsey's character , Robert . Robert takes Giselle in because his six year old motherless daughter , Morgan , insists that she is a princess . Of course , this is a Disney film . I'm sorry that one of the songs didn't win the Academy award for Best Original Song . I think this movie can be adapted into a Broadway musical since Disney pretty much dominates Broadway shows especially musicals .
Sally , you are still missed ! ! !	I miss Sally Jessy Raphael with her glasses and her mannerisms . She came before Oprah Winfrey's success in 1986 . I liked her and the show because she dealt with difficult teens and issues like Satanism , homosexuality , transgender , cannibalism , cults , etc . I was really upset that they canceled her show because she was one of the most genuine talk show hosts around who really cared about her guests and audiences . She always wore those red eyeglasses and showed genuine emotion . During the 1990s , the talk show craze included Sally who deserved a lot of praise for her performance . She wasn't Oprah nor did she try to be Phil Donahue . She was Sally and we still miss her show even five years later .
Lot Going for It !	Okay , this was the E / R show long before the drama on another network . It was a comedy and drama and a very good comedy too . The cast was first rate with Elliott Gould as the head doctor and Mary McDonnell playing the new doctor . If the show lasted longer , they would have probably gotten together and got married . George Clooney played the nephew to Conchata Farrell who is better known to audiences as the maid , Bertha , on Two and Half Men . She played a happily married childless nurse who doted on her nephew played by Clooney . The show had a mixed cast of characters and never really took off as it should have done . maybe there were just too many sitcoms on the air that even those above average got canceled after one season . It played on cable for a while only to be forgotten .
A Complicated But Yet Intriguing Case !	The cast of Law & Order : Criminal Intent features Mr . Big played by Chris Noth as Logan , a cast member of Law & Order , along with his female partner played by Cybil's Alicia Witt . In this law and order franchise , they do more investigative work and show the layers of depth and involvement in such crimes . The problem is that the crimes get more complicated but they are slicker than most criminals . In this case , it begins as Ukrainian mail-order bride is found murdered . Her husband is ruled out because of his alibi even though he had the motive . His wife , Anya , is a victim of the cruel blackmailing plan involving a lesbian murderer who also seduces men and controls one Iowa lady into playing the men for fools . I won't go more but it's worth watching again . Lola and Amanda Detmer ( from Saving Silverman ) is quite capable of doing dramatic as well as comedic work . This episode has some problems but it's worth watching and I'm surprised because I thought I was tired of Law & Order .
Bone Chilling True Story !	The names were changed but it's based on a true story of the events in Skidmore , Missouri and the real villain was Ken McElroy who was very much like John Gotti without the class , style , and grace of his demeanor . He had fathered children with two women who lived together . No , not because he's a polygamist . In this movie , the McElroy character is played chillingly by Brian Dennehy who is one of America's finest actors on stage , film or television . Oscar Winner Marcia Gay Harden plays one of his wives with a depth that is easily overlooked . Oscar Winner Cloris Leachman plays one of the man's many victims . No matter what this character did , the law and justice system failed to protect this small Missouri town so they took justice into their own hands . As Leachman's character states at the end " If you live by the sword , you die the sword . " The book entitled In Broad Daylight is equally riveting but adds another level of understanding of how a man like this can exist in the first place .
Philip Roth at his best !	I have been doing a lot of research on the author , Philip Roth , who wrote Goodbye , Columbus . Unfortunately , I am disappointed that it was set in the Bronx , New York and not Newark , New Jersey and that Westchester County replaced posh , upscale Livingston , New Jersey . What makes Roth special is that he really is a New Jersey writer even though he has lived in Connecticut for decades . Unfortunately , the story does not lose any of it's original impact as it was written in his novella . Richard Benjamin and Ali McGraw are excellent as Neil and Brenda . Neil Klugman , the Jewish librarian from the Bronx , and Brenda , the Jewish girl from Westchester , who get together . The relationship is believable at times while Neil is from the wrong side of the tracks so to speak while Brenda's family is upscale . Just because they are both Jewish doesn't mean that they don't have their share of problems . Jack Klugman and Nan Martin are perfect as Brenda's parents . The film would have been better or more authentic if it was set in Newark and Livingston rather than the Bronx and Westchester but what's done is done . I hope next time that they will take the time to film where it is set . It's not set that far from New York City anyway .
An unforgettable journey across Canada !	Mo and Willie are half-sisters that were raised by their loving grandmother , Nan . She dies in a nursing home across Canada . The granddaughters decide that she should be buried near her family homestead across country . Mo borrows an ice cream truck and the girls steal the corpse in a body bag from the funeral home or morgue one night . They travel and stop at a motel where they encounter Maury Chakin , a strange motel operator . Willie gets a date that night . Mo and Willie get back on the truck and head cross country but they get broke and need money . They act criminally to get their beloved Nan home and meet their relatives . It has a bittersweet ending but I never get where Sam fits into the family picture . The writer , director , and actress who plays Willie is remembered from her role on a popular Canadian show , Degrassi High . The actress who plays Mo does a believable and authentic job in making me care about her and Willie's relationship . There are some flaws but it's still a great film .
Finally , Tina ' s Turn in the Spotlight !	The show is not what I expected . I caught last night's episode with Tina Fey's character , Liz Lemon , set up by Alec Baldwin's character with Thomas . It turns out that Thomas is Gretchen Thomas ( a lesbian ) . Apparently , Liz gives the impression that she is gay to her new boss played by Baldwin . Anyway , she gave that impression playing herself on Saturday Night Live . Tina's a good sport because she used it to her advantage . If you don't know , Tina is married to producer Jeff Richmond and they have a baby daughter . I have always liked Tina Fey since she was writing for Saturday Night Live . I just wish that NBC would have placed the show a little later after I watched the Daily Show and Colbert Report . I only saw last night's episode because they had repeats . I wish Tina and the cast all the best .
Hey hey what's happening now ?	I was addicted to the first series so when syndication came up with the brilliant idea of bringing back the original gang . I was thrilled . The show came back with the same gang including Raj , Dwayne , Rerun , Dee , and Shirley . It was a shame that Mabel King who played Mama Thomas never returned to the show . I felt her departure from the first series left it a little emptier . She was a great character as Mama Thomas . I would have been thrilled to see her return to the second series . Anyway , you can only ask for so much . I was happy to see Ann Marie Johnson playing Raj's wife . She is an accomplished actress before this show and afterwards as well . Anyway , the show was never hard hitting . Of course , the renovation of Rob's Soda Shop was quite drastic to the original place . What's Happening Now remained the same about the group of friends who grew up together and the friendship among them . That was the glue that kept the show together was the friendship . Even now , I think about Shirley and the gang .
Perfect Friday Night Fare !	I have to admit that Balki and Larry were the male version of Laverne and Shirley . The show had a unique premise and it worked best with Bronson Pinchot as Balki who reminded me of Andy Kaufman on Taxi . Anyway , the show was never controversial or raised any eyebrows . It had it's moments including the relationship between Larry and Balki that emerged from complete strangers who were distant cousins to best of friends . The cast included the under-rated Ernie Sabella , JoMarie Payton France whose family would spin-off to more successful Family Matters . Friday nights on ABC were reserved for light family comedy fare . I just wish that they would bring sitcoms back . Bronson's role and performance was one of the best in a long time .
Almost Perfect Film !	I never thought that I would care about a movie about horse-racing . I saw this film by chance and I thought it was incredibly first rate and worthy of the Oscar nominations . Tobey McGuire is brilliant as is Jeff Bridges , the millionaire who loses his son in a car accident and his wife played by Valerie Mahoff in a divorce shortly later . The story about Seabiscuit is based on the true story about how America suffered through the Great Depression after the roaring 1920s . The film's art direction , costumes , and scenery is first rate . The narration by the wonderful David McCullough is somewhat appropriate but at times I felt that I was watching a documentary about the great depression which intrigued me more than the subject of horse-racing and how America survived the great depression . Tobey's character is an equestrian from a family who lost everything in the great depression . Before he would read Charles Dickens ' classics with his parents and siblings at the dinner table , after the crash is where his parents made the ultimate sacrifice in leaving him with a man who owned a home and horse-racing .
Makes you scared to go to sleep ! ! ! !	I remember this movie as a child and how frightened I was to fall asleep in case there were alien pods ready to possess my body . Demon and alien possession terrified me as a child . This movie has a strange plot in which alien pods from flowers become human replicas . I have a lot of questions as to how it is possible but the replacements are cold , mindless , unfeeling robots of humans . They become cult-like and frightening towards the humans that they attempt to control and conquer . I am sure that my fears are gone because it's just impossible but the film's cast including Kevin McCarthy , Dana Wynter Carolyn Jones , Larry Gates and others are great and believable in their roles .
Only Judi could have make me like Barbara !	I have to say that I have mixed feelings about the wonderful Judi Dench playing such an unlikable character as Barbara . At first , we pity this spinster who has nobody to love or lover her back . Befriending her as a woman could be dangerous to your career but Judi shows how this older mature woman has become her worst enemy by being so possessive and destructive and envious of Sheba's fulfilled life even if it means being trapped in an unhappy marriage with children of her own . Barbara is all alone , unhappy , and miserable but that is partially her own doing . She has become this person because society has first ignored her presence and she is invisible . I see a lot of her Lady Macbeth performance here which is both wonderful and painful because Barbara's suffering is forced on others like Sheba .
Come Back , Linda , We Miss You !	Linda Fiorentino really steals the screen in this film . She holds her own with Wesley Snipes . The film has political message about guns , gun control , and violence . Of course , it must be written from a leftist liberal point of view . Wesley Snipes ' character has a grudge against guns . Along the film , we learn his motives and why he is so angry and vengeful but we never really know the whole story . There are lot more questions that go unanswered . I found the ending scene to be more confusing . I get the message that guns are bad . For the beginning part of the film until the television stations begin with K that I knew it was West Coast . I thought it was set in New York City but it turns out to be in Los Angeles and I later learned that the film was filmed in Vancouver , British Columbia , Canada which is often substituted for other cities . Anyway , Oliver Platt has a supporting role as Liberty's husband . Although we rarely see Liberty interact physically with Snipes or Platt's characters except on cell phones . This film was probably in production long before the events on September 11 , 2001 and I can see why it was not promoted . Anyway , I wish Linda Fiorentino would come back to acting . She can hold her own against anybody .
Highly Under-rated by Critics !	I have watched the Drew Carey show for years both on network and on television in syndication . I have to admit that it still holds up . Who could forget the fights between Mimi Bobek and Drew Carey played wonderfully by Kathy Kinney who should have been nominated for Emmys rather than being short-sighted by the television academy . I loved her relationship with Drew's cross dressing brother . Over the several seasons , the show peaked from modest and humble beginnings to success and then soured by critics and fans . Christa Miller's departure was upsetting but Cynthia Watros was equally interesting . Drew Carey Show was truly blue collar . This was not Friends nor did it appear to be and we didn't want another Friends where their biggest obstacles was their relationships with each other and the opposite sex . The Drew Carey Show was real to it's audience . The casting of Craig Ferguson as Drew and Mimi's boss was genius as was Nan Martin who plays the store owner . We loved Oswald and Lewis and their shenanigans with Drew and Kate as well . The show tried to be different and it succeeded but Drew doesn't give up his show easily to say it's over . Maybe the swan song took longer than it should but I believe Drew Carey show will live forever in reruns with audiences rediscovering it's humor and the genius of it . Too bad , the Academy never noticed the Drew Carey Show for it also had great guests like Shirley Jones , Marion Ross , etc .
A Wonderful Children's Film based on a Classic Novel !	Edith Nesbit was before our time . She wrote this novel in the early part of the last century . The casting is first rate with Freddie Highmore as one of the children ; the divine and future Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire Zoe Wanamaker CBE as the eccentric housekeeper of the castle ; the always fascinating Kenneth Branagh as Uncle Albert , and Eddie Izzard as the voice of It . Okay , the story is a bit eccentric and bizarre about five children who are sent to live with their writing uncle in a desolate castle in the country . During their summer in the country , they come across making wishes that they would soon regret . The film works and is worth for children to watch it as well as adults . It can be serious at times while the children's father is sent off to fight in World War I and fun at times like the missing October and Thursday when they arrive on Friday at the castle . It's a charming film overall .
A Gem of an Independent Film !	I first thought it was a Canadian film . I had no idea until I read the credits that it was filmed entirely on location in Austin , Texas . This film is quite a gem and treasure about the relationships between a father and son , Frank and Zak Nelson , after the suicide death of the family matriarch . Zak blames himself as does Frank for her death . The father and son moments in the film are alone worth watching . There is no glamor with this largely unknown cast . They do a brilliant job worthy of awards . Zak becomes withdrawn from his girlfriend and his friends as well as his father . He paints his room black to symbolize his mourning . It isn't until a life-changing experience that determines how to live after a family tragedy .
A Beautiful film	The Italian film , the Best Man , is very well acted and believable about the Bride who falls in love with her husband's brother who is older and an American success . I found the movie to be well-paced and well-acted and believable . I enjoyed this film very much and do recommend it as a change from other films . Maybe it's because I have been fascinated by the beauty of Italy and the Italian language all of a sudden . I love Italian movies including this one . It shows another time in Italian life where family and tradition was still important including having a large family . That's all changed in contemporary Italy , people still get married and maybe live together without raising an eyebrow . They have smaller families maybe just one child much less two or more as it has even in New Jersey . Families are smaller and everybody is so involved in themselves . It doesn't help that the long working days in the rural fields have been replaced by a cubicle and an office . But that's what I miss about the old world of Italy , it's charm and eternalness .
Has a few problems but is worth watching !	The story of Needful Things comes from Stephen King , who else could it have come from . A store opens up in a small Maine town ( where else ? ) called Needful Things . The funny thing is that it's owned and operated by Christopher Plummer who appeared in Stephen King's DOlores Claiborne . Anyway , he is the devil in disguise . He coordinates trouble . The stories sometimes are problematic with me . I thought the Elvis mom who spends all day long playing Elvis Presley music and sleeping with a statue of him was pretty bizarre . I only saw the TNT version so I am sure there was editing going on . Ed HArris and Bonnie Bedelia are perfectly cast as a couple who try to escape the devil's lure but they are only the few who are able to escape . Valri Bromfield plays the hot-tempered local who seeks vengeance thanks to the devil . The story of Needful THings has a purpose . Be careful what you wish because it might happen and you wouldn't be able to control it . The town soon learns that they are messing with something inhuman . Anyway , it's worth watching for sheer entertainment . You can't get too caught up with it or you'll go crazy .
Save Life with Bonnie !	Life with Bonnie is a show worth saving from cancellation . It has a great cast with the great Bonnie Hunt , talented David Alan Grier , hunky Mark Derwin , and the wonderful Marianne Meulleruex . The other supporting cast members are also worth mentioning especially Holly . The supporting cast is an excellent ensemble . This show is an ensemble show with each actor doing excellent work . Like the show's theme , it is old fashioned wholesome comedy . It would be a terrible shame for ABC to allow this show to be cancelled after two seasons on the air . I hope some network will come and save this show from permanent cancellation . ABC does not know what it has until it's gone permanently . Until Hope & Faith came on , Bonnie's show was the Friday night anchor for wholesome family comedies . Bonnie Hunt is one of the nicest people in Hollywood . She has reunited with Mark and Marianne Meullereux who worked with her previously in other shows . I just can't understand why this show can't survive after all . Bonnie Hunt has been nominated for Golden Globe Award . While she is in the category with cast members of Sex in the City , she stands out for being wholesome , clean , wonderfully charming , and delightful to watch . Her show has garnered emmy nominations for Jonathan Winters and David Duchovny . She is a giving person . I have noticed she always sets her shows in Chicago as her main setting . I enjoyed the recent episodes with David Alan Grier living in the house with him . I am sorry that this show is going . I wish ABC reconsider ! My best wishes to Bonnie Hunt and to everybody else in the cast and crew !
The Landlady ! !	I have to say that this episode was probably a lot more groundbreaking because Kate and Allie are forced with a rent increase because their landlady rents the apartment to one family . First of all that apartment would be affordable only to millionaires now and maybe even then . Kate and Allie decide to say that they are a lesbian couple to keep the apartment . Fortunately , the landlady and her female partner are also a lesbian couple . They are played very well by Gloria Cromwell and Chevi Colton . There is a double standard here because Kate and Allie are forced to pretend to be a couple in Greenwich Village in New York City of all places . You wonder if they had just said that they were sisters rather than best friends or pretend to be gay that the landlady might be more understanding of their arrangement . The episode is painful when the landlady learns the truth . I remember this episode because it was well done although unrealistic . Greenwich Village is one of the most tolerant neighborhoods in the city , country , or parts of the world . I doubt that the landlady would have maintained the huge rent increase because they are two families . Kate and Allie's children are blended family of another kind . Two divorced heterosexual women with children living together after their divorces from their husbands . Kate and Allie were never couple nor it would have lasted as long as it did . The show's dynamic would have been all but lost . Maybe in today's world but in the 1980s , divorce was still new to audiences .
A Great Show !	WKRP in Cincinatti was a great show with a stellar cast including Gordon Jump who played the station's owner . Gary Sandy who played one of the disc jockeys . Of course , the unforgettable Howard Hesseman as another disc jockey . The guy who played Les Nessman was also memorable as the news guy . Frank Bonner who played sleazy Herb as the advertising salesman and of course the ladies played by Loni Anderson and I forget the other girl's name but she was good too . Anyway , the show was well-written , acted , and performed that it left a timeless impression on us . Of course , Tim Reid was also excellent as well . The show had a first rate cast which worked very well together comically and produced some of the finest moments on television .
The Show was Cut Too Short !	The premise with Pam Dawber , Samantha Russell , as a successful San Francisco photographer who is reunited with her younger sister , Patti Russell , played by the late Rebecca Schaeffer . Supporting cast members include the wonderful Jenny O'Hara as Dixie , Sam's assistant , and Joel Brooks . David Naughton as a friend and neighbor . The show only lasted two seasons on network television but I bet it could have done well in syndication if given the opportunity . The sadness comes when you realize that Schaeffer was killed by a deranged fan . The case was prosecuted by Marcia Clark . Sadly , the show never really peaked or risen to the occasion . It came across in the midst of a sitcom frenzy on television in the era of the sitcoms . The premise may have been light but the show worked for the time it was on television . The cast was first rate and the writing was second rate but the show always tried harder to succeed .
You go , girl .	Martha Inc . is actually worth watching to see Cybill Shepherd's take on the character . She really delves into the role and begins to show a sympathetic and vulnerable side to her . Sure , she's pretty and definitely intelligent , perhaps a genius . She worked Wall Street and modeled her way through College . She got married and had a daughter but domestic bliss was never enough for Martha . She wanted more and more in time . She became a successful Connecticut caterer . Even though she won't admit it , she is born and bred in New Jersey to Polish born Parents who immigrated to America . She was brought up in a large ethnic family rather than the small waspy family in Connecticut . Maybe Martha was no great wife or mother but she is creative and brilliant enough to succeed in a man's world . She has done it with class and brilliance . This movie does portray the messy divorce and the affair that broke up this longtime union . Martha may not have best people personilaty but just compare her to Barbra Streisand who is far more difficult . Martha is a perfectionist but brilliant and creative enough to establish herself as a household name . This success always comes with such sacrifice like a marriage and an estranged relationship with her daughter . Most men have often done this but why does it bother people when it is a woman ? You go girl , Martha .
Just one of the best shows !	I loved this show in the second season . I awoke in the middle of a Sunday night . My first episode was about the identical twins ! Unlike other shows , this show spoke to me about the paranormal in our world . While I have had paranormal experiences , it is nice to have a show of our own for a change . Thanks and I wish there was more of the second season . The first season was quite boring but I think it's best season the second season with a great cast including Nigel Bennett as Frank Elsinger , Matt Frewer , Nancy Anne Sakovich as Lindsay , the wonderful Colin Fox as Dr . Anton , Barclay Hope as Peter , etc . The third season was tough because Frewer departed the show in a most unusual way and they added Joanne Vannicola as Dr . Mia Stone who never fully developed in the role . Matt's departure was hard because I think he was the glue that held the show together and made it better . The story lines became dull in the third season and Elsinger was also gone from the series as well with Anton in his role and we see less of Anton . They tried to recover but you just couldn't beat the second season . You just didn't want to miss a second of the middle season . Rare that a show would thrive in the middle rather than the beginning but PSI proved that there is a lot out there that we don't know about .
Everybody's A Star in This Dutch Film Classic !	I don't know much about the Dutch language but the film is based on a young girl who aspires to become a singer much like Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera or others . I don't know . Today's young singers are tomorrow's Tiffanys . I could tell you that it's modern and the story is done beautifully with great acting , writing , and directing . It's a modern fairy tale story with a fairy tale ending . The cast is great but I don't know any of them because I don't know much about Dutch actors and actresses . Anyway , I can see why it was nominated for an Oscar for Best Foreign Film Award and won several awards . It does it's best to show the human involvement and desire to be more than average .
They could have had a better title !	To start with , I always forget the episode with Anne Baxter who I believe is one of America's greatest actresses . Also , I can't forget Kevin McCarthy who is equally prolific and long overlooked as one of America's most talented and versatile actors . Anyway , the story of Anne Baxter playing a movie star who lives on the lot and refuses to turn over the property for tons of money is suspicious . Anyway , Columbo smells murder when her beloved assistant , Jean Davis , is murdered . Falk and Baxter's scenes together are always worth watching again and again . Falk's Columbo is starstruck but not dumbstruck by seeing a movie star involved in such a crime . Anne Baxter's character could have used a little more work in the storyline but she does a superb job in acting her out and she is simply of the grandest actresses of old Hollywood .
An entertaining Columbo !	I like this Columbo episode . It features American legend , Dick Van Dyke , as the prime suspect in his wife's abduction and kidnapping . His character is an accomplished photographer . He is fed up with his wife and sets up another man who is a paroled criminal to take the fall . Of course , this is Columbo and he will get his man or woman no matter what it takes . I love how Dick Van Dyke's character reveals his dream and nightmare to his wife who has no idea what she is in for . I love the scene with Joyce Van Patten who plays a nun who mistakes Columbo for a homeless person and wants to provide a better raincoat than the one he is wearing . That's another trademark in Columbo episodes , there is often light-hearted humor and Columbo always manages to use his charm and charisma to get away with looking so grim . Anyway , Columbo treats everybody with a kind of dignity that you wouldn't expect .
An improved Columbo !	Columbo's wife is away in Bakersfield while he investigates this case involving the founder's heir exploded during a cannon misfire at the founders ' day events . I love Madeleine Sherwood's performance as the devoted and loyal secretary . Patrick Goohan who is a veteran of Columbo episodes plays a devoted military man who refuses to hand over the school to become a co-op private school . Columbo appears to enjoy spending time with the kids . Don't forget the cider jug that is part of the story which is worth watching . It's one of the longer episodes but it's always worth watching . They filmed this episode out of California which is unusual for Columbo . They filmed it at one of the schools in the south like North Carolina for a change . They filmed it at the fame Citadel and I didn't know about Bruno Kirby and son in the film . Anyway , It's worth watching again or once in a while . Watching Columbo get his man is always worth watching .
Better than Will & Grace !	I loved Thomas Hayden Church here as Ned and I prefer Debra Messing here as Stacey than Grace . I think this show could have been a bigger hit if the network allowed it to grow . The premise was silly but somehow Church and Messing made it work even if only for two seasons . Church left his beloved role on Wings to pursue his own sitcom . The comparison between the two roles is noteworthy for any aspiring actor . Here , Ned is intelligent and lot less naive . He marries Stacey to get a promotion and she marries him to live in a grand New York City apartment . What won't people do to live in Manhattan ? At first , there is this friction and uncomfortableness but slowly they turn out to be in love and if only love was really like that . The show was heading in the direction that Ned and Stacey were going from being a fax pas couple to an actual duo . Too bad , the network canceled it . Of course , Church has moved on to other things and Messing will always be known as Grace but I much prefer her here as Stacey .
One of the better sitcoms !	I really miss Newsradio because it was a great cast of eccentric characters and writers who knew how to write . The cast included Phil Hartman who was better known for his roles on Saturday Night Live during this tenure . He was a comic genius and sorely missed by his fans . The other cast members included Canada's Dave Foley from Kids in the Hall , Vicki Lewis as the useless secretary , Maura Tierney as the serious , intelligent and love interest of Dave's character . The cast also featured Stephen Root , an underrated actor , Joe Rogan , Andy Dick , Khandi Alexander , etc . The show's eccentric characters worked well together . When Phil's real life tragic death occurred , the cast and crew worked to remember him fondly and brought in fellow Saturday Night Live alum and close friend of Phil's , Jon Lovitz to replace the void . Of course , the show lasted a year . Much like another NBC sitcom , the show never truly recovered emotionally and maybe the audience couldn't get past it . We did accept and love Jon not as Phil's replacement .
It should have been these four women !	One of things that bothered me about Designing Women was the loss of Delta Burke and Jean Smart leaving the show . Saturday Night Live's Jan Hooks and Newhart's Julia Duffy joined the cast but the show was never the same again . Alice Ghostley and Meshach Taylor were regulars in supporting roles . I remember watching this show on Monday nights when it first aired . They were four loud , opinionated , Southern broads with a sense of humor and chemistry . I truly could believe that Suzanne and Julia played by Dixie Carter and Delta Burke were sisters . I didn't care about Suzanne or Delta's weight . It wasn't an issue but people in Hollywood think that weight is a bigger issue than it should be . Anyway , I never saw the four women ever appear to be working . The place didn't look like an office but an actual house . I know they were supposed to be interior designers but I never saw them do any work . Anyway Annie Potts and Jean Smart were great as the divorced mom and single receptionist . I remember the episode in which Julia was a juror and she was invited to meet President Carter and his wife . Well she missed the dinner but they invited her for desert because of her obligations . It was a well-written show too and very well acted .
It had so much promise !	Murder One only came to my attention because my professor mentioned it in class . It was quite a smart series but I think it lost my interest after the first season . It was based solely on one case . I thought Mary McCormack was brilliant as Justine Appleton , the young promising lawyer . Daniel Benzali was magnificent as the balding lead attorney and Patricia Clarkson was also splendid to watch as his understanding wife . The second season followed with Anthony LaPaglia in the leading attorney role and Oscar Winner Eileen Heckart as his mother . The story was not much different about proving the innocence of the client . The show had Bochco's prints all over it like trying to revive L . A . Law's claim in the legal drama . The show did not gain the same appeal and apparently it was canceled after 2 seasons by the network which seemed focused on other shows rather than the quality of this show .
Dulac's memorable classic !	I studied Women and Film with author , Dr . Sandy Flitterman-Lewis at Rutgers University and this is one of the many films that we watched in the viewing . Germaine Dulac provided us a glimpse into the life of women in France during Pre-World War II era and Post World War I world . Paris was a city who loved the arts at the time and was thriving with literary salons and American expatriates as well . Germaine Dulac never captured as much attention but she should have been on league with her male counterparts like Jean Epstein and others . Sadly , the war and the depression may have ended her career like so many others . We can only imagine what might have been if Germaine Dulac had been given the same advantages that her male counterparts received during that time . But she was one of the lucky ones to get the experienced to direct such films like this that are controversial and eye opening as well . Language is not necessary since sound didn't come until the 1930s and Germaine's career went elsewhere .
Terrific Animation but weak storyline !	Jerry Seinfeld had one of the most successful television programs in history . Now , he returns as the voice of Barry Benson , a young bee , who graduates from Bee School with all Bees . All the bees in the hive work after they graduate from Bee School but in the same job for the rest of their lives with little time off to enjoy life . So one day , Barry manages to get out of the hive and experience the world out there . New York City never looked so good on television . He befriends Vanessa Bloome , the voice by Rene Zellweger , who is a florist after she stops her husband from killing him . The voices are first rate with top stars including Patrick Warburton , Matthew Broderick as Barry's best friend , Kathy Bates , and others as well . It's a great film for children but it gets boring and tiresome at some times . THe look is great but it's not perfect .
Sad to Say Goodbye !	I was ready to cry last night when I watched the cast of aliens leave forever . I never cry . I'll miss them so much . I was hoping for a happier ending . Dick and Mary get married and she is pregnant . Don and Sally also get married and Sally is also pregnant . Vicki leaves the Big Giant head for Harry . All in all , it would have been a happier ending to an original sitcom which was neglected by the network who favored Will and Grace and Friends which are two very unoriginal shows . Third Rock was different and fun to watch . I love every episode and will miss everyone in the cast . I wish them the very best in the future . Maybe there will be a reunion movie in the future when they come back . I refuse to believe they ever actually left earth permanently . This became their home . Third Rock from the Sun's first season will be released on DVD this summer and I am order on the list to get it .
A great fun film to watch for the whole family !	I was just watching the Wedding Singer last night on television . I still love this film for all its quirks . I love the fact that it was set in the eighties . Contemporary music and MTV with all its real world shows are not the same as in the eighties . I become very nostalgic watching this film . I remember all the songs , the Madonna look of the moment , the Rubix cube , Freddy Kruger , etc . It is hard to believe that it's almost twenty years since 1985 . It was much better in 1985 for me , I was still a child and there were always music videos on MTV . They weren't just concert videos neither . They told little stories . I wished that we were still in the eighties with the music and culture . Besides all the eighties stuff , they never tried to outdo it in the film . It really is a beautiful , sweet love story between Drew Barrymore's character , Julia , and the wedding singer , Robby Hart . I love the flight to Vegas and I won't spoil the ending for anybody else . The scenes at reception hall were always a pleasure to watch and a great cast . I love watching fellow SNL - - Jon Lovitz , Laura Kightlinger , Kevin Nealon , play even small roles . I loved Ellen Law playing Rosie . She was the best supporting character in this film . The fact that Billy Idol is also in it playing himself is another reason to watch . I wish there were films about the 80s .
Take a note , this show's hysterical !	The show only lasted a few episodes but John Inman ( a man deserving of his own British honor where it is an M . B . E . , O . B . E , C . B . E , or even Knighthood ) is worth it playing the role of Mr . Jones , a secretary to an professional executive woman played by Rula Lenska . One of the joys is Miriam Margolyes O . B . E . in the role as Maria , the Italian housekeeper . She is wonderful in this role . The theme song is quite catchy . John Inman has been out long before Ian McKellen and he is quite well known for the obvious reasons . He is a comedic genius . After watching for years on Are You Being Served ? , he chews the scenery easily . It is time for John Inman to get something for his contributions to entertainment over the decades . People who have done less have gotten something so please award John Inman . One queen surely deserves to meet Queen Elizabeth II . John Inman M . B . E . sounds great doesn't it ?
One of Hollywood's legends !	To be honest , I never really cared much about James Dean . I never saw any of his films but I saw this one about his life . I became fascinated by it . In his short life , he became the rebel with a cause . Watching this film , I became very interested in him . It's too bad that we lost him so young and too soon . much like Marilyn Monroe , Elvis Presley . He became a bigger legend after his death . In reality , he led a very sad lonely life . I'm so glad that Michael Moriarty is back to acting . We do get to know James Dean as the person behind the persona much like Marilyn MOnroe and Elvis Presley . It's hard to imagine that James Dean only acted in a handful of films and has maintained a legendary status since his tragic premature death at a young age . You wished he lived to be an old man because we were robbed of him as the person before our eyes .
It could have ran on for years !	The network powers don't know a good thing if it came and bit them in the behind . Anyway , the main character is played by the wonderful John Forsythe who is a Washington Politician . He is married to the equally wonderful Holland Taylor who is so brilliant as his wife . David Hyde Pierce was here before his life changing role on Frasier . Robin Bartlett played the politician's illegitimate adult daughter . Joseph Gordon Leavitt was here before playing an alien on Third Rock from the Sun . The show had a solid cast , writing , and a good future but I guess networks don't care about quality as so much as the age of it's viewers . I remember this show and think it would have lasted given the opportunity but I guess network executives are smarter than the general public .
Delightfully Surprised !	The little boy in the movie has read William Shakespeare's A Midsummer's Night Dream . Like the title , he has a dream where he goes to different worlds and sees them act out the comedy . While it can get confusing , I prefer this film version because the little boy can be the audience . Not everybody who is going to see it is going to relate to the film . Shakespeare's Comedy is fantasy as well with fairies and an underworld all on its own . The boy may not grasp the language neither can most of the audience . But he does see what going on . Just like a title , it is his dream . Dreams can have fairies and be weird on its own . I like the fact that the director tried to do something different . After watching other versions , I like this quirky film for its pure hearted attempt to get people involved in Shakespeare . Like our dreams , they don't make sense a lot of the time . The acting here is average . You can't compare these actors to the other versions . They are not as seasoned as them but that's not the point . The Royal Shakespeare Company should be commended and applauded for taking a daring chance at bringing this play to a mainstream audience . If you want the old fashioned film , watch the 1968 version with Dame Diana Rigg , Dame Judi Dench , and Dame Helen Mirren . If you don't want that , you will enjoy and open your mind to Shakespeare's play without the bloodshed of his tragedies . By the way , since I am going to become an English teacher . I like this version because of the little boy .
A Lot of Happy Days !	Growing up in the 1980s where seeing shows in reruns or syndication was the norm , I remember Happy Days as a silly , conventional family comedy with Marion Ross as the mother and Tom Bosley as the father with children , Ron Howard and Erin Moran as Richie and Joanie Cunningham . Who could forget Henry Winkler as the Fonz with his black leather jacket ? The show appeared light-hearted and rarely did anything more than entertain audiences and families without being so offensive . There was no bathroom humor and we were introduced to characters such as Laverne and Shirley and Mork played by Robin Williams . Happy Days was the opposite of All in the Family where it was more friendly and kind to it's family . We remember the Cunninghams owned a hardware store and Mama Cunningham stayed home but the characters were more than just one notes . They became full-fledged as time went on and the show lasted 10 years but the memories are still intact .
A Show that was too good to get canceled !	I remember this show vaguely but I remember it fondly because I liked it not just because of the hit song or the film because I never really saw the film itself . I remember the series as funny and wickedly charming with Barbara Eden in the leading role . I remember Fannie Flagg too as her best friend . It was about a woman who was somebody that deemed inappropriate in Harvey Valley . When she gets involved with Harper Valley P . T . A . , they are in for a shock . She is no bubble-headed bimbo as they liked to think of her . She has a brain and the guts to take the snobs of Harper Valley head on . Maybe the show was a little less Hollywood and New York and more American because I remember it was mostly shot outside and without a laugh-track . I hope they bring it out on DVD because I would like to revisit who I considered to be old friends . It was a good show that could have lasted more than one season .
Introducing Halle Berry !	Halle Berry deserved recognition for the recreation of a Hollywood legend . It was interesting to watch her character's relationship with her agent played beautifully by Brent Spiner who is known for his role as an android in Star Trek , the Next Generation . I liked watching him so much that I have a crush on him now . It was sad that Dorothy did not realize that true love was underneath her all those years by her agent , Earl Mills . He helped her and truly loved her . I don't know if he was gay or just too obvious . Halle Berry really struts her acting abilities in this role . She makes us understand Dorothy's painful life . The violation by her own family to see if she was still a virgin after dating the Nicholas brothers . She was more than just an actress , she was truly an entertainer who deserved more . She puts a feet in the swimming pool and the hotel drains it because of her race . It was kind of hard not to be saddened by the racism of the past and what Dorothy did to endure .
Joan Crawford steals the show !	Before she was Mildred Pierce , Joan Crawford played the role of Sadie Thompson based on Somerset Maugham's story entitled Rain . She is a prostitute or too loose with the men especially the sailors . When she and others are stranded on Pago Pago in the Samoa , they have to stay there before they can go anywhere else . Walter Huston plays a devout religious hypocritical merciless minister who tries to steer Sadie in the right direction . Anybody else could have made Sadie either laughable or one-dimensional , Crawford shows her talent in keeping us to like and dislike her character . Crawford's first and final appearance is simply impressive . You can't take your eyes off her . She wants to be the star of the film and she is because she has the talent in order to succeed and she does to legendary status . Crawford's knack for being comical , cruel , vulnerable all at once in this role . Beulah Bondi has a supporting role . For one of the first films in the early thirties , it's an entertaining film .
Bewitched , Bewildered , Bedazzled !	I have to say that I got a lot of Bewitched in reruns on local public stations usual during my school summer breaks . The great Elizabeth Montgomery played the witch , Tabitha , married to a mortal played first by Dick York and later by Dick Sargent for health reasons only . Of course , the wonderful Dr . Agnes Moorhead played Tabitha's witch of a mother is perfectly cast as Endorra . There are other regular cast members like Sandra Gould as the nosy neighbor and Alice Ghostley as an Aunt . The writing was solid enough and the show lasted for eight seasons . Being married to a mortal , Tabitha must endure with-hold using her powers because she promised her husband . While she is the ideal wife and mother , she also has her hands filled with relatives played by Paul Lynde . There will never be another Elizabeth Montgomery who proved that she can be beautiful , smart , and talented like her father .
The Show of the 1980s !	Dynasty was the show of the decade . What a cast that included the wonderful John Forsythe playing the attractive , mature , wealthy and lovable billionaire Blake Carrington . His first wife was played deliciously by Joan Collins ( Make her Dame please ) . His second wife was played by Linda Evans who played Krystle . Who could forget those cat fights between Krystle and Alexis ? or the other cast members like Emma Samms replacing Pamela Sue Martin as Fallon Carrington . The show explored serious topics like homosexuality and included Steven Carrington as the homosexual in the show . I thought they really did a very good job in explaining homosexuality without overdoing it and insulting the audience . The season finales were always worth mentioning like the shooting at a wedding in Moldova ( fictional country ) .
Mona's dead , let's celebrate !	Mona Dearly of upstate New York was a housewife and mother of a son played by none other than Bette Midler . She was married to Phil ( played by the wonderful William Fichtner ) Mona was abusive , mean , and probably the most disliked person in the small town . Her husband claimed to have been battered man . Watching Mona in action , you can understand his claims . Her husband Phil is having an affair with a diner waitress Rona , played by the wonderful Jamie Lee Curtis , who is also having an affair with Phil and Mona's son at the same time It's like a Jerry Springer episode at times . Neve Campbell plays Ellen who is engaged to Calzone , Casey Affleck's character , and is pregnant . Her father is played by the wonderfully talented Danny DeVito as the town Sheriff . There are other characters like lesbian Lucina who comforts Ellen with a kiss . The writing is fair to say the least . The cast look like they are having the time of their lives on screen and it comes across off screen as well .
Please more of Rosemary & Thyme ! !	I was saddened to hear that last night's episode of this show was the last of the series . I found the platonic chemistry between Felicity Kendal CBE and Pam Ferris to be very entertaining . Felicity's Rosemary Boxer is more down to earth , sensible , and smart while Pam's Laura Thyme is quite charming to watch as well . They work very well together and it would be a terrible shame to end the series now . Granted , two female gardeners working on grand estates where murders occur is unlikely to happen in reality but it's not real . It's television after all and I hope that they would bring them back together for another series . Last night's episode featured one of my favorites like Anne Lambton as Queenie and the storyline was not magnificent but worth watching . In one hour , they solved a double homicide with twists and turns but also kept me guessing and entertained at the same time . The British love their gardens and murder mysteries now they have combined two hobbies into one for an entertaining show to be shown for years on television .
A Welcome return for an old friend !	I think of Peter Falk's Lieutenant Columbo as an old friend . I love watching him in action . Peter Falk is so good at playing him and he obviously enjoys it as well because he keeps coming back to him as well . I know that he kept the trademark raincoat from the series . Columbo Goes to the Guillotine was the first of many Columbo television films that came back after a decade long absence from our homes . We notice that Columbo hasn't changed that much including his raincoat over the last ten or so years that he stopped playing him . He's still the smart , funny , forgetful , and lovable Italian detective that we remember and treasure . I wish there was another episode even now . They're all treasures . I love how he doesn't change with the times but the characters do .
Dennehy makes this role his !	I'm sure Brian Dennehy must have hated doing this role portraying sadistic , cruel serial killer , John Wayne Gacy . In this film version of the events that led to his capture and the revelations of the thirty plus lives that he tortured and murdered and kept as souvenirs to remember . Dennehy gives a performance that is both riveting and frightening and yet we can't wait to see what he does next . Especially when he's trapped by the law and being followed everywhere , still trapped in the closet , he refuses to describe himself as homosexual . Gacy was truly a hated individual who nobody missed now or ever . Dennehy deserves an Emmy for his portrayal because he tries to bring a heart to a heartless villain of a character . In reality , Gacy was the bogeyman that we children feared . Margot Kidder is memorable as the psychic who sees the horror at the home . THe mini-series is worth watching to see a great American actor like Dennehy turn this role into a winner .
Weird even for Columbo episode !	An artist with a wife and two female lovers . First , he's straight or too heterosexual if you ask me . Of course , Shera Danese who plays his wife is the real-life wife of COlumbo himself , Peter Falk . I like Fionnula Flanagan who has a supporting role . Yes , it's the same formula for Columbo . I am always amused by his embarrassment and his ignorance even in this episode . He always seems out of place and fascinated by the situation . Artists have been prime suspects before . He always has a wealthy , prominent , and celebrity prime suspects but he is always at the top of his game and he always catches his man or woman . I just love having him back but this is one of my personal favorites to watch again and again .
displaced person	Displaced Person is the story of a post World War II black German boy orphan who seeks his father . Until now , he has never met or seen another black person in his life . When he reaches American soldiers , he attaches himself to the African American Seargent in charge . Instead , the boy calls him " Papa " and he becomes attached to the boy . He is the consciousness of the film . While it is a short story and old after-school special , it did win an Emmy award for outstanding children's program . It certainly deserved it . This short story is excellently done with a fine cast including one of my favorites , Rolf Saxon , in a small role . It should be studied and seen in classes especially in urban cities and even in the rural areas . Children can learn to identify easily with these characters .
Our Hearts Were Afire !	I think I preferred the show best when it was set in Washington D . C . over Arkansas . Anyway , the relationship between Markie Post and John Ritter sizzled on screen . They had a terrific supporting cast like Billy Bob Thornton , Conchata Farrell , Beth Broderick , Wendie Jo Sperber , etc . The show was created by Bill Clinton's friends , Bob and Susan Thomason . The show never appeared to be a huge success but the show's writing was alright but the cast was first rate with sitcom veterans Post and Ritter . I think the show could have lasted longer but CBS who also had Evening Shade and Designing Women must have had problems with the show's creators . I don't know what happened but I still think the show had legs but the network didn't give it a chance to shine . It could have sizzled if time was allowed for it to adjust .
I thought it was really a documentary	I do remember the re-enactment of the events that led up to the Jonestown Massacre but I also remembered thinking that the re-enactments were additional with the documentary interviews with the real characters like survivor and defector , Vernon Gosney , concerned relative Sherwin Harris , and the real Stephan Gandhi Jones , Jim and Marceline's only son who survived by playing on the basketball team of Jonestown . While I appreciated the mixture of both documentary and docudrama , they could have used the Powers Boothe performance in the mini-series because Powers gives an amazing performance on screen that is simply unforgettable which is why it's hard to imagine somebody lesser known incapable of delivering the material . The real names of the characters also helped in the case . I am not going to compare movies but I thought this was the history channel's version of Jonestown .
It's only the beginning ! !	Mama Thelma Crowley Harper played by the under-rated Vicki Lawrence is one of television's most memorable characters . She is ideal grandmother and widow living with her old maid sister , Frances Crowley , played by the wonderful Rue McClanahan before Golden Girls . Betty White appears regularly in the first two seasons as Ellen Harper Jackson , Mama's firstborn snobbish daughter . Of course , there is the middle child played by the unforgettable Carol Burnett as Eunice Harper Higgins . Her youngest son is played by Ken Berry who is Vinton Harper , a divorce with two teenage children , Buzz and Sonja played by Eric Brown and Karin Argoud . This episode marks Vinton and his kids moving into Mama's house after their home was put for auction after a bad investment regarding chinchillas with his buddy Claude Harper . The show may not have had the best writers but the cast make it worth while . I can't forget Harvey Korman who plays Eunice's husband , Ed Higgins . Then there is the neighbor , Naomi Oates , played by Dorothy Lyman . The show was never meant to be upscale but I remember it so well because it was the first time that I actually saw a family that wasn't perfect or aiming to be .
Still Fresh & Alive 50 years later !	I got this movie from Blockbuster for $5 . 00 and it's worth it . It is a classic film with great performances by Richard Burton , Victor Mature , and the always fabulous Jean Simmons . If you're really interested in Christian movies , this is a fabulous film with wonderful scenery and acting . It will make you a believer in great film-making . The Robe is about Jesus Christ and his infamous Robe . The writing could be better but the acting is superb with a first rate cast . The costumes are colorful and the scenery is well done to recreate another era in history . I recommend watching if you are a fan of the above listed actors . I wish Jean well and she is always fabulous to watch again and again . I wish Jean became a Dame because she truly is one .
A Worthy but disappointing effort on the Civil War	I applaud their efforts about America's darkest hour which was the American Civil War from 1860 to 1865 . The drama is that it was brother and brother , north against south . America lost more men on it's own battlefields in this war than any foreign wars combined . While Europe remembers two World Wars , America must remember the Civil War . It's sad and depressing to know that most Americans know less about the Civil War than foreign wars . Anyway , the film's battle scenes are shot exquisitely . The brutality and force of the war must be seen to know the evil and horrors of any war . The Civil War is a tough chapter in American history . Unfortunately , this film is almost four hours long and there is so many situations and characters about that you can easily get lost in it . I watched it on video at home . My boss who is a big Civil War buff drove almost 2 hours to see this film and liked it . While some of us are not geared to watching war movies , if you like Gettysburg , you will like Gods and Generals . The actors , Jeff Daniels and Robert Duvall who lives in Virginia himself perform brilliantly and almost unrecognizably . I also liked Frankie Faison in the film as a Black soldier . If this film was released on television as a mini-series , I have no doubt that there would have been awards . The scenery , costumes , and art direction have spared no expense . I believe it was a mistake to release it in theaters because I don't think audiences can sit through 4 hours of this film . Ted Turner , the media mogul , did a service to producing this film . Maybe students in American classrooms will learn to appreciate the magnitude of the Civil War . I'm giving it an 8 .
A great movie	It is truly an entertaining movie based on the Henry James novel . Although the ending was the most troubling part of the film . It did not follow the novel's ending . I enjoyed it with Helena Bonham Carter as the leading role . I felt the movie could have been better though but still it was an entertaining movie for a certain audience of romantics and Henry James readers . I love the scenes filmed on location in Europe such as London and Italy . The film deserved several Academy Award nominations but it was overlooked for Titanic that year . Still , it's a great adaptation of a classic novel . Henry James may be one of our greatest writers or authors .
Something for today's classroom !	As an aspiring school teacher in an urban public school , my local Warner Brothers station affiliate WPIX Channel 11 airs Welcome Back , Kotter followed by other seventies ' sitcoms , The Jeffersons , The Odd Couple , and Taxi ( all shows set in New York City ) but what a night to watch television - - Saturdays from 8-10PM . After watching several episodes of Welcome Back , Kotter , I am exploring the possibility of using this show as an educational tool in the secondary classroom . Welcome Back , Kotter is about those disadvantaged students like me to show that they can succeed with a teacher who believes in them . Besides they have an excellent cast led by Gabriel Kaplan ( whatever happened to him ? ) , Marcia Strassman who plays his loving wife Julie , and the students or sweat hogs known as John Travolta playing Barbarino , Ron Palillo playing the lovable Horshach , and others like Juan Epstein ( a Puerto Rican Jew ) and others . The sweat hogs were not the high achieving students and looked down upon by other students . I can't wait for this show to come on DVD .
Puzzled over a the Cancellation of a Quality Program !	Okay , I wasn't much of a fan as I should have been . I think it's because dramas on television today have become more actor / actress driven than the writing etc . Anyway , this show should have been an easy slam dunk for the network who was known to making interesting decisions . First , Oscar Winner Geena Davis as a likable Vice President who becomes President was a great casting call . She was believable in the role . Second , the other cast members were equally perfect like Kyle Secor as the First Husband and Donald Sutherland as the President's friend and foe . I don't understand why the West Wing was such a hit but not this show . People were tuning in to see this show regularly . I guess the network didn't want the controversy of a female president . Think Hilary Rodham Clinton ! Maybe they felt that women should just be resigned to playing mothers and wives like at Desperate Housewives or lovesick surgeons on Grey's Anatomy . This cancellation is appalling and the network executives should be ashamed of themselves for letting one of the good shows go .
One Problem ! It was too short !	Airplane has to be one of the funniest spoofs on the disaster genre ever made . It was a spoof off all those Airport movies with star studded cast members and melodrama beneath the surface . This film has everything except it's just too short in my opinion . I love Julie Hagerty and Robert Hays as the star crossed lovers . Hays as the pilot traumatized by a war so he became a cab driver . Hagerty as his love interest . I love how he describes how he meets and falls in love with her on a tropical island . The rest of the cast is stellar featuring Lloyd Bridges , Ethel Merman , Leslie Nielson , Lee Bryant , Barbara Billingsley , Jill Whelan , Lorna Patterson , Ann Nelson , David Leisure , etc . The scenes are unforgettably funny when Hays confides in Nelson's character . There are typical spoofs of life aboard the flight . Remember Helen Reddy playing a nun singing to an ill girl aboard the flight but this is done with a twist . It's no wonder that the film became a hit to spark a sequel . It could have sparked a sitcom .
too short just like Dusty's life	I hesitated to watch this program before about Dusty Springfield's life . I thought it would spend too much time on personal life , sexuality , and addictions . But it was rather very pleasant and informative to watch people recall Dusty . For any Dusty fan , they would find this documentary as a short tribute . Unfortunately , it's too short and her brother , Tom O'Brien , is not in it . I respect Dusty's right to privacy but her love was celebrated in her music and she was very passionate about cats including her own . She would have made a wonderful mother . I still miss her after 3 years and this documentary is satisfactory for her fans . It's been 6 years since her death , the world is not the same without her .
Today's Special is comedy and fun with friends !	I remember this half-hour show about a department store set in Toronto , Ontario Canada where another world comes to light after the store closes . With a friendly night female Black Canadian manager and the mannequin who comes to life after the stores closes . She teaches him about life and of course there are the stuffed animals who come to life . Today's Special was one of the first children shows on Nickelodeon . I was enchanted by it's simplicity and it sometimes went out on location in Toronto . The cast was fine and the show was great to watch even though it would be repetitive . I thought there were more episodes but I guess I was too young . I always remember coming home after the show had just started . I prayed that my bus would get us home sooner from school to see the show before we had VCRs and DVD .
A Terrible Tragedy !	Minute by Minute was an Arts & Entertainment series that didn't last very long . One of the episodes that they could have focused enough was on Pan AM 103 about the explosion of a large commercial airline , a 747 , which blew out of the sky . There were plenty of witnesses in the Scottish area near Lockerbie . Of course , there are the grieving inconsolable parents of some of the 35 college students who were returning home for the holidays . Daniel and Susan COhen , Kathleen Flynn , and others that I have forgotten their names . I don't remember what I did on December 21 , 1988 when it occurred . I have been trying to find out for years . Sadly , it wasn't an accident but done on purpose . Worse , there were warnings but they were never passed on properly to the people who boarded that flight and the security system missed matching baggage with the passengers . Surely , if they had noticed an extra bag and no passenger . They would have recalled . The bomb was so small that it eluded detection . 270 lives lost 13 years before the events of September 11 , 2001 and sadly , we have not come far enough since the Lockerbie investigation .
A Tragic story	The author , Russell Banks , must relish in personal agony and complicated estranged family relationships . Nick Nolte certainly deserved his Oscar nomination for the playing the tragic hero . His father played by James Coburn deserved his Academy Award for playing such a pathetic abusive alcoholic . Maybe many people who did not see this film but there is an audience who can relate to this tragedy . When James Coburn's character is first introduced to Wade's girlfriend played by Sissy Spacek , he is drunk and pitiful . He opens the doors and windows to die of hypothermia after his wife has been dead for days in the upstairs bedroom . Even though , he beat and abused her . He still loved her enough to want to die too . These stories are not common but very realistic . Depression , alcoholism , abuse , are all here in the dead of winter in upstate New York with snow . Banks must enjoy the snow's presence in both this film and The Sweet Hereafter .
A Sad Tragedy South of Me !	This mini-series is one of my personal favorites . It was one of the first to show New Jersey not as gang-related or as urban but suburban Ocean County in Toms River , New Jersey . Joanna Kerns does a beautiful job playing the mother and the late Robert Urich does an equally superb job playing the father . The boys were played exceptionally well in despite of the growing suspicion of the father's involvement and his obvious guilt . He is still on New Jersey's death row and will never get executed in the state . I remember when I first watched this mini-series on television and later I watched it on lifetime . The mini-series depicts the story of a family who should have had it all only to blow up in the face of Mr . Marshall who arranged his wife's murder to collect insurance money . You can't forget Dennis Farina as the prosecutor in the role , Doris Roberts who plays the loving blinded older woman who helps with the boys , and Robin Strasser does a superb job playing the mistress who finally helps bring down Marshall . I am not saying that she wasn't guilty but you know that you can't judge somebody .
The Best Drama on Television or Anywhere Else Period .	When I read that Dame Vanessa Redgrave . She refused Damehood in 1999 was going to play Joely Richardson's mother , Erica , on the show . I decided to give it a chance . When Erica wanted to look younger for an upcoming book on child psychology . Her character is a well-respected child psychologist in the Miami area . I was kind of disturbed that she uttered the remark " The man who took this photograph of me 20 years ago had an erection at the time . " or something like it . NOw I know after watching it Friday night again , it is a very different show . First , they show the plastic procedures , the blood and gore , is just too much . I hope it discourages people from getting plastic , elective surgery done . The characters are all pretty defined by their sexual orientation . The lesbian anesthesiologist , Christian's bisexual fianc , her lesbian lover , and the bisexual plastic surgeon Quintin . I remember a time when the sexuality of a character seemed less important . When Julian McMahon was on " Another WOrld , " I believe had less love scenes than in one episode on Nip / Tuck . It's just unbelievable . I love Joely RIchardson , Julian McMahon , and Dame Vanessa Redgrave , and the actor who plays Sean Macnamara . But the show sometimes goes a little too far for me and it's not my taste . The whole carver situation is a little disturbing as well and I couldn't imagine who it is and don't want too . If this is what breaking ground drama is nowadays , I am glad to remember the good old days of television , the 1980s . But despite the gore , the sexuality , and style of the show . It remains interesting to watch though . Maybe I will tune in but I know what I am getting isn't Sean's son dating a trans-gender person ? I have to say it is still a great show anyway . The writing , acting , and scenes take off . You don't see many heterosexual males bond like Christian and Sean do on prime time without it becoming sexual relationship . I started finding myself attracted to this show and wanting to watch it again . This show really surprised me . I thought I wouldn't watch it again but I did and I am glad . I just have to get through those plastic surgery parts and I'm fine now . It's something you have to get used too .
Reminds us of what is missing in films today !	One of the reasons that I don't like going to the movies now is the violence and profanity that fills films rather than great meaningful dialogue . I knew the ending which is why I didn't want to see it . I didn't agree with it which is the only reason that I am giving it a 9 . I found the relationship between Clint Eastwood and Hilary Swank to be both beautiful , meaningful , and surprisingly platonic which is rare in movies today . There is too much focus on sexuality and this film lacks it completely . The relationship is more father and daughter than anything else . Clint's character Frankie Dunn finds a willing substitute in Hilary Swank's character , Maggie Fitzgerald . Her character recalls her father fondly in spoken memories only . She does not share the same fondness for her mother and other living relatives . Maggie follows her dream to box professionally which her mother disapproves . Maggie works hard , long hours of waitressing . She saves her pennies and even brings home scraps of leftover food . Hunger and poverty is never really talked about in films anyway . Maggie is a strong character who never gives up her dreams and she is loyal to her trainer , Frankie Dunn who learns to train her . The film's ending still leaves me asking more questions . I am not a person who cries easily and I had tears in my eyes . Morgan Freeman is also wonderful and deserved his Academy Award . In any other year , Clint would have won for Best Actor too and Hilary's performance is both heartbreaking and Oscar winning . She is the best actress of her generation with her own heartbreaking story . She always gives it her all in film and this is no exception .
A Great Sitcom !	Redd Foxx made a lasting impression and impact on audiences in America when they took a British comedy , Steptoe & Son , which was more darker and depressing than Sanford and Son . They brought to America with Redd Foxx as the father Fred Sanford and his son , Demond Wilson , playing Lamont . Fred always cries that he's going to reunite with his wife , Elizabeth in heaven . Fred's sister-in-law Esther is played by the wonderful and hysterical LaWanda Page . I loved the interaction between Fred and Esther . It was a love and hate relationship on both ends of the spectrum . They would trade insults as champion boxers threw out punches . They were hysterical and unforgettable on screen .
The Boxer pulls some surprising punches !	I never thought much about the situation in Northern Ireland before . This film opened my eyes to the British occupation and the division between the Irish Catholics and Irish Protestants . I don't understand why there are problems and I probably never will . It's a desperate situation with no winners on either side . I wish the cease fire will be permanent but you never really know . Daniel Day-Lewis has played an Irishman before in " My Left Foot " and " In the Name of the Father . " It's no surprise that he felt so comfortable in an Irishman shoes that he became an Irish citizen even though he comes from affluent British family lineage to impress anybody . It's sort of like choosing coach over first class in my opinion . Day-Lewis does an extraordinary job playing Danny Flynn to be likable , flawed , and charming . Emily Watson is also excellent as the love his life despite her character's marriage to an I . R . A . Prisoner . Jim Sheridan doesn't forget his Irish roots or heritage or the situation in Northern Ireland . People are getting killed in the midst . Violence and war never solve anything but cause more problems . I pray and hope that the situation in NOrthern Ireland comes to peace . Maybe the same could happen in the Middle East as well . I look forward to seeing more of Jim Sheridan's work . I felt this film could have been better . I was kind of miffed by the ending .
Excellent Show but Not For Me !	The West Wing is Hollywood's version of life in Washington D . C . with a beautiful cast of accomplished actors and actresses but it's nowhere near the behind the scenes version of the White House's Presidential Wing . Granted , the great Martin Sheen can play President Josiah Bartlett as he did playing John F . Kennedy in the mini-series . Stockard Channing is brilliant as the first lady while Allison Janney shows her acting abilities beyond the call of duty as one of his right hands . There are others like Dule Hill , Mary McCormack , John Spencer , Bradley Whitford , and Richard Schiff in an excellent supporting cast . There were also guest stars like Kathryn Joosten and Lily Tomlin . The writing was solid as the acting itself but I'm not into dramas . They suck too much energy from me . I want to leave laughing and not thinking because I do it already . In fact , I was studying political science when the show went on the air and I've lost the interest because I went towards education .
What if he is ?	Matt Roth plays a divorced homosexual who befriends Alan Harper at a parents without partners meeting . Even though , Alan knows he's gay . He brings him home and they become good friends and so their kids , his daughter and his son , Jake . When Jake is asked , " how did you know that your father is gay ? " Jake spreads the word and everybody realizes especially his ex-wife , Judith , the housekeeper Bertha , and even his mother even though we don't see her reaction . There are hugs and kisses and Alan wonders if he's actually gay . At the same time , Charlie begins to wonder his sexual orientation despite the fact that he's Malibu's foremost male prostitute who doesn't get paid . Art imitates life ! Charlie visits his wonderful psychiatrist played by the under-appreciated and not enough attention , Jane Lynch . Once Alan tries to kiss Greg , he says he's not attracted to him but he finds his brother attractive instead . You can only imagine Alan's hurt and reaction . Overall , this episode is a longtime in coming .
For even those who love good drama !	I won't lie to you . I don't normally watch television dramas today but I caught Smallville a couple of time and I was really impressed with the acting and storytelling . Of course , I grew thinking only that Christopher Reeve can play Superman . Sorry Dean Cain ! To me , Reeve was both Clark Kent and Superman on screen and off screen but I won't lie to you that this show is actually worth catching up with if you love Superman and it's impact on our American culture . The actor who plays young Clark Kent does a superb job . Annette O'Toole who plays his earth mom is wonderful as Mrs . Kent . She co-starred beside Christopher Reeve in the awful Superman III as his love interest . Dukes of Hazzard Tom Schneider plays his earth father . The actor who plays Lex Luthor does a superb job . Both the actors who I don't know their names who play Lex and Clark do superb acting jobs and I begin to feel for the characters which always makes me want to know more or be in the same room with them for some strange reason . Anyway , Clark's adolescence is a painful time just in general but to know that you have superpowers is quite unbelievable especially if you are capable of abusing them . That's why the role of this Clark Kent has to be superb in order for us to believe that anybody else would botch the role . COngratulations , you have a great drama .
You can kiss my grits !	I have avoided seeing Ellen Burstyn who won an Academy Award in the movie version because I grew up watching Alice on television whether in reruns or on network television . It was a lively show and it had a terrific cast . Linda Lavin will always be Alice to me regardless of her wonderful acting career . Linda Lavin has stretched as a character actress whether in small , supporting , featured , or leading roles . Linda Lavin is a comic gem . Doug McKeon who plays her son , Tommy , is the brother to Nancy McKeon better known for her role as Jo on " The Facts of Life . " Whatever happened to Doug anyway ? Well , Vic Tayback is brilliant as Mel Sharples and the casting of American legendary entertainer , Martha Raye , as his mother is something I have never forgotten . The show re-introduced Martha Raye as a sharp-tongued wise mother to Mel . The show I remember aired on CBS Sunday nights with the likes of " The Jeffersons , " and " All in the Family . " After 9 years on the air , it came to an end . I loved Polly Holliday as Flo with one of the most memorable catchphrases " You can kiss my grits . " I never had a grit . The show was memorable also for lovable Vera , likable Jolene , and Diane Ladd's role . Although it worked best with Vera , Flo and Alice , Flo's show never took off and she should have returned to the show . Since I haven't seen an episode in about a year , I am vague because I have missed the show not being on the air anymore whether on TV Land or anywhere else . It made you want to move to Phoenix which is probably one of the reasons that Phoenix is over a million in population . You have to thank the show for bringing Martha Raye , we all knew her as Mel's mom but in reality , Martha's life was truly extraordinary . I learned that she went to entertain the American troops wherever and whenever they were at war . We can't thank Martha enough even now . She was given America's highest honors for her services as a civilian during wartime . But the show also provided lots of laughs and entertainment during it's long run , we don't see shows like Alice anymore and we probably never will .
Sometimes Unfair ! Sometimes Brilliant !	The chefs who compete in this series are all seasoned and professional and work in top rated restaurants around the country . Until now , I was watching it because I found it interesting that the group of chefs in this series and season were compelling and real to watch . If I was teaching culinary arts , this show would not only be a staple but mandatory in the world of restaurants and culinary fare . The fact that they shop at Whole Foods rather a normal supermarket would have saved them some money . I was rooting for Ariane Duarte in this season and thought she might make it to finals . I won't spoil who gets eliminated when . I think the fact that your colleagues are not voting you out helps a bit . I found them to be supportive of one another during those tough times like students in a class . In fact , Ariane started out on the bottom and suddenly redeemed herself by cooking turkey , lamb , etc . , and she won Martha Stewart's choice during a quick challenge and a guest spot on the Today show . But Ariane's luck can change in a matter of days on this show as it does for some other seasoned chefs . Unlike other reality shows , this competitiveness is rather healthier and more entertaining . During their time , they live together while they are working . Their views and comments are often enticing . The culinary world is tough in itself and fiercely competitive just as it is on the show . I wouldn't know because I don't cook but go out to eat in restaurants . I'll probably keep watching this show to see who becomes top chef even though my first choice was let go .
Come Back , Rose , Come Back !	I hoped it was not the last time that we see Melanie Lynskey on this show as Rose , Charlie's longtime stalker . It was heartbreaking to think that she was actually leaving . I still don't believe it . Like Charlie , I'm in denial about it . Maybe because Melanie is leaving for better or more things , but even those few minutes with her as Rose on the show was golden and one of the show's strengths . It was sad to see Charlie realizing that Rose maybe wasn't kidding . We're not quite sure . You can never tell with her . Maybe she'll come back in the future . Anyway , I always thought Melanie should have been recognized for her role as Rose at awards shows . The show should now focus on bringing back Holland Taylor regularly because she is always a scene stealer . So Melanie Lynskey , I wish you the best but hope this door doesn't stay shut for long .
Still a Christmas Tradition !	I remember when the Christmas season came after Thanksgiving and the networks all began showing Christmas films especially White Christmas and It's A Wonderful Life . Anyway , I liked White Christmas but only for the ending . It was kind heartwarming and sentimental at times but still you can't beat this cast featuring Bing Crosby , Danny Kaye , Rosemary Clooney , and Vera Ellen . Of course , there is romance in the air and a plot to help an old friend out . The film is dated but still beautiful in color and should be seen to be appreciated . Stay till the end of the film when you see those four wonderful stars of yesterday sing White Christmas with the white snow in the background . It's worth watching during the holiday season . Rosemary Clooney used to say that Bing would see her on Christmas Eve . You think they're all in heaven serenading God and the angels with White Christmas .
It Should Be Frank's Oscar !	If I was a voting member of the academy , I would vote for Frank Langella as Best Actor for his performance as the disgraced president Richard Nixon . I also think Michael Sheen OBE should have been nominated as well but he would easily won in the supporting actor category playing Sir David Frost OBE . Both Frost and his producer , John Birt , were knighted by the Queen . I didn't like the Reston character very much and I have read one of his books on Rev . Jim Jones . Langella and Sheen performed the same roles on Broadway and the West End in London . They did a brilliant job and were both equally brilliant in their roles . I never thought that I would have sympathies for the former disgraced president but I did . I felt Langella brought the role of Nixon from a caricature into a full-fledged multi-dimensional human being . Of course , the President is a human being although they were elected to the highest office in the country . This film is one of the best that I have seen but I would have liked to have seen Nixon's interaction with underused Patty McCormack who plays his devoted and dedicated wife , Patricia .
It was one of the best of the soaps ! '	This show never caught on and I'll never know why . The writing was crisp and witty . THe cast was excellent and it was only 30 minutes long . Their half hour has been replaced by news which to me shows the lack of interest in keeping daytime television especially dramas like Ryan's Hope on the air . Claire Labine who lives in Brooklyn , New york was one of the major writers of this show . I don't recall it ever being outrageous but it reminded me of the British soaps where it was only 30 minutes long and there was a bar . Helen Gallagher played the matriarch and she is still a fabulous actress who has done television , stage , and films as well . Other cast members were Nancy Addison who passed away so young and Ilene Kristen now on One Life to Live . The show is gone but not forgotten in my opinion . It was one of those shows that should have gone on forever as well but I guess ABC thought it was expendable . Too bad , people out there would have enjoyed a nice written show like this . Since they were set in NEw York ( big cities as settings don't fair well on soaps except Bold and the Beautiful ) , they also went out on the streets of the city to shoot . It was great to see .
One of the better newer ones !	I have to say that this episode of Columbo is a lot better than the newer ones that started coming back in 1990 with new episodes . It's still the same Columbo though and I would have him anyway to watch . Lieutenant Columbo is one of the best characters on television today or ever . He has charisma , charm , and class . Columbo is also one of the most intelligent characters on television as well . He doesn't dumb down his suspects or the audience . So this episode was indeed worth watching because of Faye Dunaway's performance . I think she is one of the best American actresses around today . She won an Emmy award for her performance in this film . Faye always has class and style . Her character is equally delicious to watch as she does what she does . I won't spoil the plot . It's great for Faye Dunaway fans and it shows that older women are more like fine wine . I wish Faye would do more acting but they would cast her in grandmother roles rather than the seductive , sensual woman that she exhibits on screen . She is one of America's legends on screen and she should be still working . She has talent , beauty , and intelligence .
This film is one of the dysfunctional family films !	Alright , Billy Bob Thornton as a crooked Santa Claus or Father Christmas as Kate Winslet would call him is a terrific safe cracker and alcoholic too . He takes a job as a Santa Claus with this dwarf actor who plays his elf . Anyway they go from Milwaukee to Phoenix for another score , there Billy's Willie befriends an unhappy overweight kid who thinks he is Santa Claus and saves him in the parking lot . They have an unusual friendship . The boy , Thurman Merman , lives with grandmother played by the multi-talented Cloris Leachman in this small , thankless role . The grandmother stays home and watches television and is oblivious to her grandson's new friend . His father is in jail for a white collar crime . Thurman lives in a nice Phoenix neighborhood and Willy is the only friend he has so far . I think the film needs a little work especially with Cloris ' role . She was underused . Of course , this was John Ritter's last film role before his death in 2004 . Still it's one of those dysfunctional Christmas movies that we are beginning to see more of now .
Rock and Roll Live Forever !	I love Jack Black . YOu can have your Leonardo DiCaprio , Orlando Bloom , Sean Bean , Jude Law , and any other hunk but I'll take Jack Black because he is not only funny but he appears normal like the rest of us . He rocks this film playing a guitarist who gets kicked out of his own band . Hard on his luck , he accepts a substitute teaching job for $650 . 00 per week under his roommate's name . Under pressure for not chipping into the rent , his roommate's girlfriend played beautifully by Kathy Silverman even in this small role does a great job . So he takes the substitute job with hopes that he will start a band again . Anyway , he discovers the band under his nose when he learns that the kids play musical instruments at a top notch private school where tuition is about $15 , 000 per year . Joan Cusack was perfectly cast as the school principal , uptight and disliked by the teachers . Of course , Jack Black's character and the students of ten year old wonder actors and actresses all have a part in the project of a rock band under the disguise of a competition . Anyway , everybody even know-it-all Summer has a part as band manager . The band has a role for everybody in the class . One student works the light while another works the security in hopes of keeping the principal away from the classroom secret . I love his role of teaching rock and roll history . I feel ancient now . Jack Black earned a Golden Globe Nomination for Best Actor in a Comedy Film and I think the honor is very well-deserved and I look forward to more of Jack Black .
Walters makes her real rather than just a caricature !	Mary Whitehouse played by the divine Julie Walters CBE could have been silly , over-reacting , or just a caricature of a woman who fought and won in her own mind . The film is quite a tribute to a woman who caused a lot of trouble in the 1960s regarding television content . Whitehouse is a schoolteacher , mother , and wife to Ernest . They live not in London but in Wolverhampton and she is concerned by the explosion of sexuality on television through the BBC which is national television . She gathers and recruits quite easily mostly housewives who have the same concern . All she wants is some time with the director of the BBC which was Sir Hugh Carleton Greene who is portrayed a chauvinistic boss and unlikely character . Whitehouse has her moments like when she telephones the BBC regarding a sketch spoofing her husband involved in a car accident as crossing the line . There is more to it . Despite all of the hatred and vulgarity in the letters and telephone calls , Whitehouse is persistent in trying to clean up the filth in national television .
Naomi's Dinner Party Disaster !	When Naomi and Vint come home from a dinner at one of her friends ' home , she is upset because she can't invite her friends to have dinner at her home . Well , she gets Mama to make the dinner and pays for a night out at the movies with Fran and the kids . Of course , Fran wants to see Gandhi while Mama wants to see E . T . All is going to plan when Mama's back goes out . She can't move and remains on the living room floor when the guests arrive . Only two couples who make bad jokes and help Mama eat the home-cooked dinner . Of course , Naomi sees this event as impending disaster of a party . Of course with Mama on the floor with her back out , the two couples are obviously uncomfortable and Mama makes some wicked comments regarding Needa who is bit of a snob . There is Marsue played by Micole Mercurio , what a stage name . Anyway sometimes things doesn't go according to plan .
They don't make films like this anymore !	Burt Lancaster may have an important role but he's not the leading role . THat role goes to Peter Riegert who plays Mac , an American businessman , who goes to a small Scottish community to broker a deal . What he finds there is something he never expected to find , a sense of belonging and a home that he never had in his native America . At home in Houston , Texas , he has a beautiful home and car and a good paying job . Something most of us would crave for but something is missing in his life . When he goes abroad to a small village of 300 inhabitants , he begins to belong with them like the Russian fisherman who comes to fish the waters . I am upset with what happened to the injured rabbit , Trudy , who they bring up there to take care of . That to me was horrible . To me , I love rabbits and Trudy was truly worth watching . They treated the rabbit like a human being . At the village , Mac plays the important role of making the locals to become millionaires . Plans don't go easily when there is an eccentric holdout who wouldn't sell his property - - the beach front for all the money in the world . The end of the film is obscure and I can't make sense of it . Although Burt Lancaster gives a memorable performance of a rich American businessman , it is probably one of his finest later performances in film . Not much goes on that it would need an R rating if it has one . This film reminds me much of the early 1980s films where they were played continuously and repeatedly on new cable stations like HBO and Showtime . This is a very reserved film in the British tradition . They don't make films like this anymore and boy , do I miss the 1980s .
It ' Graduation time !	When Thelma Harper is named class valevictorian for the upcoming commencement ceremony , she learns that she has to make a speech in front of everybody . Her grandson Bubba is planning to join his parents , Ed and Eunice in Tallahassee , Florida . When he doesn't get into his desired school , the family except Mama suggests that there is a junior or community college down there . Bubba doesn't know that his parents aren't coming up from Florida for his big night and they don't want him to live with them in Florida . Heartbroken , Bubba decides not to go the ceremony unless Mama Harper talks some sense into him . During this time , the ceremony is on hold and stalled by Iola , Vint and Naomi until Thelma and Bubba arrive to hear her speech . Joseph Campanella returns as Mr . Hanson , the teacher , to inform Thelma of her accomplishment .
Mama's Dream Funeral !	After attending the funeral of a relative , Mama desires to have her dream funeral even if it means giving the money that was saved for a trip to the Grand Canyon with her family over to the funeral home . In this episode , we get the wonderful Dorothy Van as Aunt Effie . While Mama knows why she is being so stingy about groceries and not going bowling with her family , Iola insists that she tells her family about her funeral plans while she is hemming her dress for her final resting place . When the family is outraged and goes bowling leaving Mama alone , Mama imagines what it will be like when she does go and how the family does react and behave at the funeral home is worth watching . The funeral director has persuaded Mama to have a lavish funeral and costing her a mighty fortune .
A Memorable Attempt at a Sitcom !	George Carlin plays if I remember a New York City taxi driver who frequents a bar which is also like his second home . He is surrounded by a group of fellow barflies . A single older New York City blue collar man played by the wonderful George Carlin who also produced the entire season . Maybe the show never got the right attention because it was a far better sitcom than others on television . Sadly , it was canceled after only one season . Of course , George would go on to do what he does best which is his stand-up . Nobody was like George Carlin who was brash , honest , candid , and devoutly atheist and proud of it . George Carlin did everything else well including his roles in film especially in Kevin Smith movies like the Cardinal in Dogma and the father to Ben Affleck in Jersey Girl . George might have been more comfortable playing the blue collar roles like the New York City taxi driver struggling to survive but George was great at being George and I loved this show which never got the praise it rightfully deserved .
The best sitcom on NB	Just Shoot Me is the best sitcom currently on NBC . A show with a terrific ensemble like David Spade , George Segal , Laura San Giacomo , ENrico Colantini , and Wendie Mallick can't get better than this . I worked in a magazine setting with superegos in New York City . IT is nice to have a sitcom without the preachiness . SItcoms are there to provide humor and laughs . I love watching this show . I tape it since they air it late at night in reruns . Please watch this show . It is really there for laughs and I love their ad to watch this show . They brought in models to play the staff of the show to portray realism of Blush magazine . The commercial itself is hysterical and it should be showed all the time to promote this show .
Stellar Cast and Story ripped from the headlines !	A school bus load of high school students from Des Moines , Iowa make a trip to New York City probably a graduation trip . Unfortunately , Bethany and her two girlfriends go clubbing in the city two nights before she disappears at a game club like paint ball or laser tag . Bethany disappears without her cell phone which was confiscated by one of the chaperones and is never heard from again . Logan and Eames investigate and discover that Bethany is not the only girl to go missing from meeting the chairman or Ethan Garrett who turns out to be the son of a prominent New York City judge . Colm Meaney guest stars as the slick lawyer more than fatherly role . Ethan attacks a police officer and is sent to jail where he unknowingly taped when he talks with his cellmate . Soon , the story that begins with a Nancy Grace type journalist who would do anything to send somebody to jail including accusing the chaperone since he confiscated Bethany's cell phone . Kathleen McNenny does a superb job as the grieving , Bible-toting mid-western mother of Bethany . The actress who plays the Nancy Grace clone does also a superb job in showing the character as nothing more than a sensationalist rather than a compassionate objective talk show hostess . This two part drama is worth watching since it gets complicated .
Drive for yourself , Thelma !	Everybody is tired of chauffeuring Thelma around . With Sonja going for her license , Thelma gets driving lessons from Vint , Naomi , Ellen , and even Aunt Fran . All end up in disaster but Thelma wants a hat down at Niedermeyer's department store which has been on hold for her for a week . Desperate she takes a chance after wrecking Ellen's car , Thelma probably didn't think it was as dangerous as going to the Department of Motor Vehicles to get a permit for driving . Of course , she has to put with lines and people directing her to the wrong place . Anyway , Mama's experience behind the wheels is quite humorous at times . Of course , Vint and Naomi teach her in the living room . Still I remember Mama getting her license after all that trouble . You are never too old to drive or learn something new .
Almost as Perfect as the First Two !	Okay , Megan Follows owns the role of Anne Shirley after her fantastic performances in the original 1985 mini-series and it's 1987 sequel . In this film , Anne faces a world war with her beloved husband and soul mate , Gilbert Blythe abroad . She gets a child but not by ordinary means . The cast is still first rate but I think by now that I expected so much more with the final part of this trilogy . Unfortunately , Colleen Dewhurst had passed on in 1992 to the great stage in the sky and the role of Marilla Cuthbert could not have been played by anybody else . The producers took Anne abroad during World War I , I believe but I could be wrong but I don't think it was World War II . Anyway , if you are a big fan of the first two mini-series , you will appreciate Megan Follows in reprising the beloved role of Anne Shirley Blythe .
A Different kind of war film	1947 was not an easy year . In fact , the British and the world was still recovering from World War II . This film probably raised a lot of eyebrows and concern . Germany was still the enemy and Frieda played beautifully by Swedish newcomer , Mai Zetterling , should have been honored with nominations for her performance . Frieda is not well liked because she is German so you're not going to trust a German girl in the first place . Anyway , I imagine how it was first released to the British public after a brutal war and the rebuilding of the damage done by the blitz . Anyway , I can imagine audience members not being welcoming to Frieda but she is somebody we grow to understand . It's not her fault that's she's German anymore that I'm an American . She grows on you because she is somebody we can like but I think that's part of the problem . We see her only flaw as being German and not much else . Anyway , Mai Zetterling performs well and should have been honored with a nomination or two for being the star of the film .
Mama Goes Back To School !	When Bubba has failed an English , Mama has arranged him to take it at night school . Mama is steaming mad because she herself never finished high school . With some encouragement , she goes back to night school with an English teacher played wonderfully by John Ingle who was also an acting teacher but retired and became a professional actor himself . In this episode , Mama confronts some of the bad memories that forced her to drop out . Mama has to read " The Scarlet Letter " and is having trouble with it at first until Iola reminds her that she's read books twice the size . It's the same book that chased her away from school to begin with . Well Mama has read the book while her classmates have read Ray Notes sort of like Cliff Notes . If they can get away with their answers , you just have to watch and see .
One of the Best Shows on Television	Chris Rock revisits his childhood in the tough part of Brooklyn , New York with Tichina Arnold playing mom . Chris Rock narrates each episode with a great cast including the child actor who plays him . The show is set in the 1980s Brooklyn before gentrification took over the borough . Chris Rock has some memorable stories about growing up like his job at a local convenient store where he discovers the minimum wage is $3 . 35 and his boss is only paying him $3 per hour to work in the store . He claims that he can't afford the minimum wage so Chris gives an ultimatum . So he loses his job but he does have thoughts about striking and protesting the store owner . There was another episode where he and his brother went to see Wayne Gretzky out on Long Island which was pretty good . This show is an excellent comedy in times when we need to laugh more than ever .
The Brilliance of Wendy Wasserstein !	I miss Wendy Wasserstein , the playwright , who wrote feminist related plays . This play is probably my favorite starring Meryl Streep , Swoosie Kurtz , Jill Eikenberry , Ann McDonough , and Ellen Parker long before they were famous . Streep just won an Oscar . In this taped version of the stage play , the women of Mount Holyoke College talk about college life . I loved the interaction among the women . I wished that Wendy had lived because she really was the voice of women in this generation . This is not Sex and the City and thank God . These women are strong , intelligent , and independent . Almost 30 years later , Meryl Streep is one of America's greatest film actresses , Jill Eikenberry struck big with L . A . Law , Swoosie Kurtz is still on Broadway but also known for her appearances on television and film , and Ellen Parker won an Emmy for her role on Guiding Light . The story about these women characters reflected the women who played them .
Oh Raytown ! Oh Raytown !	Everybody in Raytown even the Harpers is getting ready for Flounders day or Founders day but Mama Harper . It turns out that she was supposed to sing the song , " Oh Raytown , " but the founder's descendant would sing the song even coming on her walker across the stage . When Iola breaks the news that the woman has died and the pageant might be canceled . Mama Harper now has a chance to reclaim after fifty years that she can sing in front of Raytown on Flounders day . When the piano tuner , Jane MacCauley , comes and tunes it , Mama is again facing unlikely competition from this girl who can belt or sing a tune much better than she ever could . Could Mama wreck Jane's chance or her own of singing " Oh Raytown ? "
Ellen's final appearance !	Ellen Harper Jackson hasn't been a good daughter since she blew off her Aunt Fran's funeral for a bridge tournament . She tries to make amends in this final appearance of Betty White who was now Rose Nylund on Golden Girls . Ironically , her co-star is Rue McClanahan who played Aunt Fran . Mama is playing scrabble with her family and Iola who is like family in the dining room when Ellen arrives with a gift to make amends . Ellen tries to apologize for not being there at the funeral . Regardless , Ellen is in the hospital for a procedure and the family learns that Ellen is there . Not knowing the kind of procedure , Mama and the gang head straight to the hospital without having dinner .
Mama & Eunice in the Jug !	One of the far better episodes regarding Mama's family , it's one of the most memorable . Anyway , Vint and Mama are at the Bigger Jigger Bar to surprise birthday girl , Eunice , and Ed . She was convinced that Ed was going to take her to the Babylonian Roof Garden , one of Raytown's top restaurants . He surprises her by taking his wife to the Bigger Jigger . They sing Happy Birthday Barbara not Eunice . All's fine until Vint sees a picture of Duke Reeves , the love of Eunice's life . When he starts recalling that Duke had stopped by at the house when Eunice was a lovesick teen obsessed with him , it gets ugly . Eunice and Mama end up in the local jail and befriended by Scarlet Dubois , a local prostitute , who has more sense than the two of them . I think this is one of the best Mama and Eunice episodes where they learn a little about something .
Classic Mama's Family !	Bubba gets a band of girls , a trio including Stacey Q who sang " Two of Hearts " back in her day . In this episode , there is an event like a county fair in town where Bubba gets the band booked for and they stay at Harper house much to the delight of Thelma and the family . The girls are punk rockers and Thelma has a change of heart when she learns that the girls know something about baking candy cakes for the county fair . The moment where they sing " Sugar " song is quite a treat since they change their outfits and look so wholesome even warming up to Iola . When Bubba thinks he's lost his band to Mama , he discovers all is not lost . The episode is still wonderful to remember as it was to watch . The band and Mama bonding over baking and sewing was a treat .
Gays Came out of the Closet and The Virgins Went In !	Compared to the fact that anybody who is still a virgin is often ostracized by non-virgins for not getting . YOu wonder if it's all worth it whether it be the wrong or right person . This movie will please a lot of religious conservatives who make the presumption that you are any less because you are still a virgin . This movie allows a great comedian like Steve Carrell to play the oldest virgin known to mankind because he is so good at acting in general . We grow to admire and like this character unlike his television show . The fact that he has to come forward and admit his virginity is kind of like coming out of the closet . I love Jane Lynch . She is such a great actress and comedienne and deserves to be recognized . She is wonderful in Christopher GUest films and I saw her last night on Charlie Sheen's show and as always , she is wonderful . This movie is good to show for its lightheartedness and its attempt to be different . It's successful at that . It shows virginity in a positive light rather than as a freak show . There a lot more virgins out there but I'm not one of them sadly . I grew up where getting rid of your virginity was a top priority and how sad is that to give it to somebody who never calls you back .
A Terrible title but a good show !	To tell you the truth , I had my hesitations about watching another medical drama but this show surprised me . Hugh Laurie deserves a lot of credit for taking on an American accent and playing it so well . You forget he's British . The casting of Lisa Edelstein is a welcome addition . She carries her character very well . Robert Sean Leonard is playing an Australian . Funny since the show is set in New Jersey and that's where he is from . Omar Epps is touching in a strong role as the neurologist . My favorite episode is starring Leslie Hope in a guest appearance as a homeless woman down on her luck . It is one of the most touching episodes on television lately . I even teared a little . The fact that this show is set in New Jersey is a welcome change for us . Rather than depicting us as fun loving mobsters or crooked politicians , the show provides an interesting location . I will be watching it more . I love Hugh Laurie and hope that his die-hard fans would nominate him for a British honor . He is long overdue for it in my opinion . The casting , writing , and acting is superb . I watched MAD-TV's parody of the show starring Michael McDonald in a perfect performance as Dr . House . HE is so good that you wonder if it is actually Hugh Laurie himself . Great show overall .
Columbo matches wits with Scotland Yard	In this Columbo episode , it features Honor Blackman ( who denied a C . B . E . ) and Richard Baseheart as an aging acting couple . The wife , Lilian Stanhope , played deliciously by Honor seduces a powerful older British gentleman to produce Macbeth for them to star in so they are not washed up like most actors and actresses in their predicament . Anyway , the plot is more like Macbeth and the film could be useful in an English class if you're teaching Shakespeare's Macbeth . Anyway , I have always enjoyed watching it from beginning to end . Let's not forget Wilfred Hyde-White who should have been knighted in the episode . Anyway , Columbo is a guest in their country and he becomes wrapped up in the investigation . While others have assumed it's just a robbery gone awry , Columbo always comes through . It's fun watching this delectable group of characters and props like an umbrella . It's great to see London location . I believe apart from the Mexican cruise that London was the only other place that Columbo got to travel too .
A Story about Heroism !	United States Senator and Presidential Candidate John McCain's story about his five and half years in Vietnamese prison camp as a prisoner of war is told here . Most of the cast members are not well-known but they all play very well in this ensemble . The movie does it's best to show the brutality of war and the humanity that sometimes comes within . The actor who plays John McCain as the wounded soldier does a brilliant job in portraying him as a complex but likable fellow . The story offers a background regarding his complex relationship with John's father , a high ranking military man and the family's military history . We only see mother , Roberta , and hear her reaction that her son may not be coming home when his plane is shot at down . The same scene for his wife and the mother of his three children is also shown . We also see how he met his first wife , Carol . The five and half-years is well-documented as painful , violent , and inhumane at times but it built character in John to protect his squadron as well as remain behind rather than go home sooner than later . He couldn't bear to leave his men who became his friends behind . This movie is about politics but about a man's battle to survive with broken limbs but not a broken heart .
Just a lot of fun to watch for the whole family !	First , the casting of Teri Garr and Michael Keaton was an excellent choice for the role of yuppie couple . Don't forget Ann Jillian as the seductive neighbor and Miriam Flynn as the friend . First of all , this film is quite entertaining . Martin Mull is great as the boss of Teri's character . Remember when everybody was allowed to smoke indoors ? I do . Mr . Mom was never a film to receive awards . It was made to entertain the idea of a clueless father turned house husband and the wife to go out in the workforce after his co-worker screwed him over . The script was the first of John Hughes and it shows his amazing talent into the minds of suburbia and middle class living better than those Desperate Housewives . It is more believable in my opinion . My favorite moments in the film is when he becomes the sloppy house husband who puts on weight and becomes what he feared most . I love the scenes which included the Young and the Restless . Ann Jillian is perfect in her role . I also liked Jeffrey Tambor who plays Keaton's colleague in the film . THe script could have used more work but it's still entertaining . THe cast is excellent as well . Edie McClurg has a small part as a supermarket cashier . MArc Cherry should hire John Hughes to write about suburbia on desperate housewives .
It's Irrestible	Wings has always been a great show with a wonderful cast of colorful actors like the Hackett brothers , the Chappel sisters , Lowell , Antonio , Fay , & Roy but I am probably leaving somebody out . Unlike most sitcoms , the show is set in Nantucket , far from the Los Angeles or New York City which is another reason to watch alone . Set in a small airport , Fay and Roy are always a pleasure to watch . Lowell is a unique character . The fact that the Hacketts , Lowell , and the Chappel sisters have a history in Nantucket is also useful for creating great plots around their history . I have plenty of favorite episodes like the psycho Valerie Mahaffey's character in recreating their senior prom , honeymoon , wedding etc . I also liked Farrah Forke's character but she left one season . These actors appear to have a good time on screen and off-screen which makes it another reason to watch . I just watched the Christmas episode where Antonio's girlfriend is the wife of his kidnapper , the new air traffic controller , who takes him hostage when he takes his donut . Sure the absurdity sometimes is half the fun of this show .
The Inspiration for Law and Order	American Justice is perhaps one of the finest hours of American television on the arts & entertainment network . It is well-researched and fascinatingly put together to give one of the best hours . It is informative and condensed to one or two hours . There are terrific episodes featured about real criminal cases like O . J . Simpson , Menendez Brothers , and others to name a few . I found it to be one of the most captivating shows on television to watch repeatedly and continuously over the years . Maybe I just like Bill Kurtis because he always provides us with information and an explanation on how a crime is solved or the tribulations of trials and investigations . There are lots of stories about real people . This show probably inspired Law and Order but why watch fiction , when you can watch the real thing on Arts and Entertainment . They don't dumb it down for the audience . They educate and inform .
It's Just Grand !	Vicki Lawrence performs a dual role of Mama Harper and her rich cousin from Atlanta who visits on her way to a cruise . She sends her letter rather late to inform Mama of her impending stay . She is only staying for a night . Her cousin is wealthy , lonely , prominent , and has socialized with the likes of Truman Capote in Atlanta society . Mama feels second to her cousin's accomplishments . Of course , the gang is there to support Mama and to indulge in her cousin's wealth . Her cousin always says grand as we see in the episode . As Mama says , " I just stepped on dog poo and isn't it just grand ? " in mocking her cousin's language . In the end , we learn about Mama and her cousin's relationships about one who stayed in Raytown and had a family while the cousin moved to Atlanta with a kicking and screaming husband for a better life . Now both widows , her cousin has nobody to go home too .
L'Avante-Garde	Germaine Dulac was no ordinary French female film-director . She was Avante-Garde and radical in her film-making which did not include a laugh track or sound . Everything was visual and her silent classics were visuals to be appreciated and understood by all of us . There was a reason that so many people saw the same movie numerous times during that era . First , it was very inexpensive and second , you needed to revisit and see the film again and again until you saw it completely . That's how films once were , films were visual masterpieces and in Dulac's case , she helped reshape the role of women in films to include more than just being an actress . She was the producer , director , and writer . She was many things to many people on film sets in France . Film was new and fresh invention that those of us who seek to learn more about art should watch Dulac's classic .
A Quality Production but not the costumes !	THere are three British dames in this film adaptation : Dame Judi Dench , Dame Diana Rigg and Dame Helen Mirren . While the cast is outstandingly directed by Sir Peter Hall , the costumes appear to be weak and cheaply made . When Titania played by Dame Judi Dench kisses a horses ' behind , you can see his eyes . The costumers dressed Titania as a green fairy which was just painted on like silly . The William Shakespeare play is a festive comedy for the light-hearted and entertainment of its audience . It's not an expensive production but it's worth watching to see three Dames in their younger days . Everybody in the cast has been part of the Royal Shakespeare Company and are veteran actors by now . THe play does entertain and I can poke fun at the cheap costumes and lack of expense towards the production . It's nice to see Dame Judi Dench before she was ever a Dame . Not even an O . B . E . in this 1968 production . She appears to enjoy playing the role . Dame Helen Mirren is also cast as the young Helena who seeks to be in love . I probably got the names wrong but it's Shakespeare , who can remember ?
A little too long but still a great thrill ride !	Frank Abernagle Jr . becomes one of the most successful con artists of the last century . He likes to fool people into believing . If he had studied acting , he would have probably gone very far . Frank is played by Oscar nominee Leonardo DiCaprio and Frank Sr . , is play by Oscar winner Christopher Walken . The cast is first rate which includes French actress , Nathalie Baye , as his French mother , Ellen Pompeo before Grey's Anatomy , Kitty Carlisle as herself , and the Oscar winner Tom Hanks . The film is directed by Steven Spielberg . The film is quite detailed about Frank's life conning everybody from his parents to everybody else . The film earned several Academy Award nominations . It's a smart film but it's too long . It does bring back the Pan Am airline legacy even for a little while . Before 1991 , Pan Am Airlines was the king of the airlines before it closed down due to poor mishandled financial matters and weak security which helped cause the 1988 disaster . The story ends before Pan Am's image is tarnished .
Let Conan host the Oscars !	And why not ? He did a wonderful job hosting the Emmy Awards . He made the time fly by and entertained the audience much like Billy Crystal did for the Academy Awards . I love the Bob Newhart segment . I don't think they would have let anything happen to him . I love the memoriam segment but I didn't think they should put the clip of Shelley Winters winning an Emmy . They should have shown a clip from the Roseanne show . Anyway everybody cheered when they showed DOn Knotts name and maybe he should have had a similar tribute as well like Aaron Spelling . I thought it was touching to see the clips , hear the theme songs , and realize how much Spelling meant to Los Angeles and everybody in the entertainment business . I loved seeing the original Charlie's Angels , Kate Jackson , Farrah Fawcett and Jaclyn Smith reunite to say goodbye to a television legend and icon . I just wished the SPelling family would patch up their differences and reunite as well . They shot a lot of Candy Spelling and Tori who sat on the other side of the auditorium . Candy was in tears next to Randy . Anyway , I loved the Dick Clark tribute and realize that he is no longer the teenage idol and Barry Manilow's tribute to him . I thought it was ironic that Simon Cowell introduced him . Poor Dick , I hope he is recognized and inducted into the Kennedy Center Honors this year and the National Medal of the Arts as well . All we can do is hope and pray that he gets better . My favorite moment is when Stephen Colbert addressed the audience as " godless sodomites . " I know he was only kidding .
Cicely's brilliant !	With an all star cast , Cicely Tyson deserved at least an Emmy nomination for her performance as Flora Henning Palmer . The other cast members is Mario Van Peebles as her son , William Palmer , Queen Latifah as her granddaughter who has a baby boy and is in need of trouble . What does Grandma Flora do but bring them to her home in Stockton , Tennessee from the big city of Baltimore . She begins to tell her story in flashbacks . There is young Flora played brilliantly by Erika Alexander . Young Flora falls in love with the plantation owner's son who hires Flora to care for his elderly grandmother played memorably by Della Reese . Young Flora realizes that nothing can happen between them and she ends the relationship and he ends her employment . She ends back home in her parents ' shack . She gives birth to a baby boy that is ripped from her and given by force to his father . She is forced to leave town or her family would lose their farm . Young Flora falls in love again in a new town in Stockton , Tennessee on the road to Memphis when a railroad conductor suggests she stops in this town along the way . She stays , works , and gets married to cotton picker , Booker Palmer . They have a son and she works for a white woman in town who has a baby . When her husband doesn't get enough for his cotton , he resorts to stealing and he gets murdered for it by a white man who gets away with it . Their son Willie drops out of school and Flora is raising her niece since her sister died . There are unforgettable scenes like the one where Flora tries to write since she was never taught in school or when she is honored by her church who kept her going . I know the film may be stereotypical at times but Cicely rises above the occasion like phoenix . She is a just one of America's brilliant actresses who can take on any role and make it her own completely .
You'll go overboard for more laughs and a good time	Overboard is the kind of a fun movie to watch anytime . I saw it the movie theater 14 years ago . Today , I still watch it on television or on the video tape . It is truly a comedic classic not to be disregarded at all . It is truly funny , entertaining , and enlightening . If haven't seen it , you must for a good time . Great cast of actors and characters , I miss Roddy McDowall . I wished that Roddy got knighthood while he was alive . Kurt Russell and Goldie Hawn have been together what must be like an eternity in Hollywood or at least a few years . Edward Herrmann has a great supporting role as Joanna's husband and Katherine Helmond from " Who's the Boss ? " plays Joanna's snobbish New Yorker mother . The story begins with rich Joanna wanting a closet for her shoes so she hires a local carpenter , Kurt Russell , who does not meet her criteria . She insults and mistreats him like an animal and refuses to pay him . When she falls overboard accidentally , she loses her memory . When Kurt's character finds out , he decides to bring her home and make her pay him back . The predictable event happens so watch and see and don't watch the butchered television version either .
Nearly Perfect Sports Film even if you don't like Baseball !	I am not a sports fan . I remember watching this film growing up . I remember the great Walter Mathau as the grumpy coach and Tatum O'Neal as the female pitcher . I enjoyed the relationship he had with the team especially Amanda . I also loved the theme music in the movie . The movie was well-regarded for many reasons particularly it's smart writing , great acting , and direction . I enjoy classic and this one is certainly a classic to be remembered . It's funny yet realistic and touching as the former major league player becomes the most unlikely coach of a losing baseball team . Mathau was perfect for this role . O'Neal shows how she won an Academy Award and the cast is well memorable as well . The film would come up with a series that didn't last as long because the magic just wasn't there .
A Great Film for people of all ages !	I never read the book and I don't care too . I love Mai Zetterling's performance as the beloved Norwegian grandmother who smokes cigars and tells tales about witches . Angelica Huston might have top billing but don't underestimate Zetterling's role in the film . It is her grandson played wonderfully by Jasen Fisher who appeared in Parenthood . Brenda Blethyn OBE plays Bruno's mother in the film and Jane Horrocks plays the assistant to the grand high witch played by Huston . Rowan Atkinson does a superb supporting role as the hotel manager , Mr . Springer . Roberta Taylor has a small role and so does Anne Lambton who later appeared as a maid in Dan Ackroyd's sitcom . Anyway , they are there to attend the grand high witch's annual meeting . Angelica Huston does a delicious job in playing such a character . I love the music too . It has a great sound and I hope there is a soundtrack out for it . Anyway , they begin the film in Bergen , Norway where grandmother Helga lives , her son and daughter-in-law are visiting grandma with Luke . The son and daughter-in-law go out for the night and never come home . Luke's grandmother takes him in . They move to her house in England where Luke attends a prep school chosen by his parents . Grandma and Luke take a weekend at the seaside in Cornwall , England where the witches are gathering for their annual meeting . The film is always worth watching . I hate the television versions where they edit out scenes . It's a delightful movie all around . I just had some questions that is why I am giving it a nine because I think there was more they were not telling us like what happened to Helga when she pursued the grand high witch and whatever happened to Erica . Who was the assistant to the Grand High Witch played by Jane Horrocks ?
A fine Shakespeare film !	I have to give this film a 9 because watching Emma Thompson and Dame Geraldine McEwan O . B . E . ( She declined both Damehood in 2002 and an O . B . E . in 1986 ) speaking French was laughable . It was uncomfortable seeing such British actresses speaking French . I know Emma was married to Kenneth BRanagh C . B . E . ( Who turned down that honor down in 1996 ) at the time of this film but still I wished he picked somebody French . There are plenty of qualified French actresses . Other than that , I liked Sir Derek Jacobi C . B . E . as the chorus which gave the film a narrator . Paul Scofield C . B . E . , C . H . ( he turned down knighthood 3 times because he didn't want to be called Sir Paul ) played a small role as the King of France and Emma's father in the film . Dame Judi Dench O . B . E . , C . H . had a small but acted divine in this film even with such a minor part . Her husband Michael Williams was also in there . Richard Briers O . B . E . , C . B . E . , has a great role and is one of Branagh's favorite actors . Branagh's role as Henry V and as director is commendable which earned his nominations for the Oscars as both actor and director . He looked so young and gorgeous in this film . You can't help but fall in love with him . In the same year , that Lord Laurence Olivier died , Kenneth BRanagh proved to be an exceptional successor to Shakespearan roles . I wish Branagh stretched his acting and directing talents to other roles . But still this film is worthy of watching . THe Oscar winning costumes by Phyllis Dalton M . B . E . is also worth mentioning . It was their only Oscar that night . Christian Bale has a small role in the film as well and so does Brian Blessed , another of Kenneth's favorites .
Thanksgiving to Remember !	It's the family's favorite holiday , Thanksgiving Day , with Aunt Effie on her way , Bubba in the holiday parade , Naomi's centerpiece , Iola's fish , and Thelma in the kitchen making turkey . It's a family holiday but it's one of the worst days regarding weather . Mama says it doesn't rain on Thanksgiving . Effie has brought her rum balls and Mama's gravy boat isn't on the table . When a tornado blows through Raytown , the family go to the basement hungry and bored . They play cards , argue , and try to find a way out after they stuck down there . It would have been nice if a relative telephoned like Eunice , Ed , Ellen , Buzz , or Sonja or even have them visit for the day . Still , it's a memorable episode and one of my favorites .
Just about a perfect film !	I would give it a 10 but I still think it should have been another actor to win best actor that year . Yes , Kevin Spacey did a brilliant job in this role . He always gives his best in any role . He lives to act in my opinion . Contrary to other people's opinions . He puts 100 percent in the film and he will go down as one of the great American actors in history . Well anyway , I still think and believe that another actor like Richard Farnsworth should have won for his role in Straight Story because it was his last great role and he has spent a lifetime in the movie industry but that's my only complaint . I do have another complaint and that's the gay couple that lived next door . They just seemed almost functional in my opinion in a neighborhood where straight families are generally dysfunctional in the first place . I don't believe there is anything functional about any family regarding their sexual orientation - - straight or gay . Everybody's dysfunctional , it would have been nice to see some of it in the gay couple . They just seemed too happy if you know what I mean . Well anyway that's another little problem with the film but it's otherwise a great film overall . I think Annette Bening should have won Best Actress Oscar beating Hilary Swank who won for Boys ' Don't Cry that year . Again she was beaten for her role in Being Julia . Kind or ironic ? Annette is brilliant . Sam Mendes has a tough act to follow after winning his first Academy award for his first film . Anyway , I thought Mena Suvari and Thora Birch were pretty good in their roles . I didn't even recognize the great Allison Janney as the depressed wife next door . Maybe her son should give her his stuff to make her happy . She's almost zombie like . I love the scene at the drive-thru restaurant . That's American suburbia in my opinion . I loved Peter Gallagher in his small role . I did feel that the main characters did love each other despite their problems . It's heartbreaking at the end of the film . A great film like this makes you think about your life in suburbia or anywhere . Is anybody really happy ? Why do we take on roles like working at jobs we hate and pretend to be happy ? That's what American Beauty is really about , are we really happy in our lives ? Maybe not as much as we could be . I think everybody can be a great actor or actress-pretending to be happy in an unhappy world called the living . Not to sound depressing but when I saw Carolyn trying to sell a house . The scene of her breaking down and crying was the heartache of life in general . It didn't matter if it was the city , suburbia or rural . Maybe it's a film about materialism , Even the rich aren't really happy , neither is the poor .
A Decent Columbo	William Shatner is best known as Captain James T . Kirk from his Star Trek days . Now he is considered one of Canada and America's finest actors on television to date in his role as Denny Krane on the ABC hit drama , Boston Legal , with Emmy winners , Candice Bergen and James Spader . Anyway he plays an actor who kills his agent rather than be blackmailed by her . The best and most memorable moments in this episode are between Peter Falk and William Shatner's characters . Later , William Shatner guests again and of course as the prime suspect . But Columbo is always entertaining whether by meeting people in the entertainment industry or anywhere else , he always takes an interest in them and this episode is no different .
A Very Smart Series !	Get Smart was a popular series and no wonder it was created by the geniuses of Buck Henry and Mel Brooks . The show stars the late and beloved Don Adams as the bumbling Maxwell Smart , a government agent , with his female partner and love interest played by the wonderful Barbara Feldon . The show has been made into a movie like Bewitched and others . One of the reasons that Get Smart was a very smart show was that it didn't take itself too seriously and we enjoyed watching Smart and his fellow agent getting into all sorts of trouble during the cold war era . The show did not have a studio audience despite it was a comedy series . The show thrived in syndication where I watched it as a child . They don't offer us that anymore and I miss it terribly . The kids today don't know what it is like to wake up and watch Get Smart and the other comedies .
Same Gang ! Same Story !	The first Poltergeist was so popular that they were compelled by financial reasons to make a sequel . Well the Freeling family has moved in with Grandma played beautifully by the wonderfully missed Geraldine Fitzgerald . They have no television set for the obvious reasons . Of course , Dana Freeling played by Dominique Dunne was not recast . Maybe she went off to College but I think it was kind of them not to recast the role as Dominique's tragic death . Anyway , Julian Beck who was dying when he was filming this role plays an important part . His character follows the family and causes trouble . Heather O'Rourke is still as cute as ever in her role as Carol Ann and Oliver Robins plays her brother in the film again . Craig T . Nelson and Jobeth Williams reprise their roles as done Zelda Rubenstein , the psychic , and the guy who played the Indian has an important role in making the strange occurrences go away . There are some changes and the story is not as good as it could have been but if you are Poltgergeist die-hard fans out there .
Lovely but Lethal is Classic !	My biggest complaint is that we don't see much of Vera Miles anymore acting wise . She really holds this Columbo episode together . As the main character , Vivika Scott , she really brings her to life better than anybody else around . Sian Barbara Allen who plays the female spy with some suspicious tendencies toward Vivika . I do not know whether she is coming on to her or wants to be more like her . Her character is quite interesting . Vincent Price is exceptionally wonderful in his small supporting role as Vivika's main competitor . A young Martin Sheen is fabulous as the young chemist who wants more from the possible youth cream . There are some lighthearted moments like when Columbo visits Vivika's fat farm . The episode could have been longer too and that is one of my biggest complaints with it . It could have been a better two hour episode than ninety minutes on a Saturday afternoon . I always enjoy Columbo at that time . Vera Miles role as Vivika Scott is memorable for her fans . I only wish Vera Miles would act more even now .
Simply worth watching !	What a cast of actors and actresses in this Columbo episode , beside Peter Falk , you have Julie Newmar , Jeannette Nolan , Martin Landau as twins . Anyway , the old uncle dies mysteriously and it looks like a heart attack on the bicycle discovered by his fianc , Julie Newmar , who plays the role so deliciously . Jeannette Nolan plays the other woman of the house , the housekeeper who prides herself on her talents and chides Columbo's sloppy and often typical behavior with his cigar . Martin Landau plays identical twins in this one . Each who accuse the other of murdering their uncle for money . Well , you'll just have to watch and see the outcome but I can assure you that it's always worth watching this one for the cast and the crew .
Still Entertaining after 40 years !	The Days of Our Lives may not be the best soap on the air but it is certainly one of the most entertaining hours of television . You can't take this show seriously because it's outrageous . My family and I have watched this show for 20 plus years for the sheer enjoyment and entertainment value . We knew John Aniston before he was Jennifer Aniston's father as Victor Kiriakis . We love Frances Reid as the beloved matriarch Alice Horton . Deirdre Hall still looks great in her 50s . You could dress her in rags and she'll still look great . The cast has featured long term actors and actresses in roles we love . We love these couples too . Of course , you can't take anything on this show seriously but that's because we already take life too seriously . The show has one of the strongest fan bases around . If you want to argue , just go look at the results of the Soap Opera Digest Awards . Days has swept those award ceremonies for years . Who cares if the story lines are ridiculous like Marlena's possession and that she was the secret killer of so many beloved characters on the show . Ironically , they all went to a secret island somewhere like Lost long before that show came on the air . I was just happy that they were alive somewhere that I didn't care about the logic of it . We wanted them to be alive living somewhere . The show will never be the classic like Young and the Restless has been over the years . If you want fun , you will watch Days of Our Lives because regardless of the show's story lines which are outrageous , the cast pulls it off better than any ensemble around . NBC , if you are reading , soaps are a part of the American culture and should be around forever .
There here for all the wrong reasons !	Aliens and their spaceships circle the major cities above the earth before they land . Of course , they have their real motives which are far more disastrous for us humans . They want our water and they need food but beneath their skins , lie an iguana and lizardlike complexion . Not only that , they talk funny like with a second tongue . In this mini-series , they first appear friendly but they are deadly . It takes Marc Singer and Fay Grant to see through their phony lies and pretense regarding the aliens desire to maintain their existence . How will they fight aliens who are far more super technological than we are ? With all the controversy regarding UFOs , it is no wonder why they are so afraid of turning up on earth and becoming lab experiments .
I'll still watch it again	I have seen this miniseries twice on American Women's Movie Network . I never even heard of Diana Dors and I am saddened to know about her too late and her difficult life . Diana Dors never even earned a British National Honour like a C . B . E . ( Commander of the British Empire ) which is sad enough and tragic too . She deserved it for being an actress , singer , and model . We watch her grow up from a young pretty girl to the British version of Marilyn Monroe . Diana married and was widowed before she met husband number two and had two sons with him . When she returns to England , she is paired up with a young actor , Alan Lake , and the two are truly soul mates despite his alcoholism . It is nice to see one celebrity marriage to last as long as they did .
Almost a Canadian Masterpiece !	The main reason that I am giving it a is because we never really know what happens to everybody else who survives . It would have been nice to know what happened to Tom and Vincent . I didn't know they were brothers until I read it here . The film opens with silver tongue blonde attractive man who flirts with the people from the wrong side of the tracks . We see another side of Canada , the New Brunswick province . I love Canada too ! This film is well-orchestrated with Peter Outerbridge as evil Everett . Elaine Cassidy is great as Carrie . I didn't know the year until the end of the film . I knew it was about the early 1980s judging from their cars . Madonna and Silver's sibling relationship is complicated and only furthered by Silver's involvement in a tragedy which I won't mention . Anyway , a drug deal sinks off the coast of Prince Edward Island and gone are thousands of possible dollars that the gang otherwise would never get their hands on . There is a lot going on in this sleepy town . I have to say that it was worth buying . I don't get to see much of Canadian cinema in New Jersey that I picked it up at a drug store for a dollar . It is truly one of the better movies I have seen in years .
Moving , controversial but lovable film	Louis Malle perhaps has directed his most controversial film about Laurent and his complicated relationship with his mother . Because he is the youngest of three boys , he is still a virgin and coddled like the family baby . The film seems to last forever but in a beautiful moving way . We watch as his beautiful Italian vivacious mother seems to attract admirers even her own son . Without discussing the film's oedipal issues , the film has some very pleasant scenes and some that are not so pleasant . Maybe Malle is trying to bring reality of a young body's sexuality . His two older brothers are not the sympathetic or kind older brothers to him especially . Laurent is truly the film's most important character but his mother is definitely the most important figure in his life . As he comes of age , she has to grasp with losing him to another woman , the inevitable outcome of any mother-son relationship . We learn a lot about Laurent's mother too in this film . While sexuality is another theme in this classic film , there are touching scenes between the Laurent and his mother . As he finds himself attracted to other women , he becomes daring , insulting and even unlikable . I won't give away the ending of this film . But it's worth watching even today more than 30 years later , I cannot believe it's older than me . It seems like it could have been done today and that's why it's a classic film .
Way ahead of it's time !	Drew Barrymore is probably one of the youngest actresses to receive a Golden Globe nomination for her performance in this film . This role came after her ET fame , remember her as little Gertie . Pity the other stars in that Spielberg film never became the household name that surprisingly that Drew has accomplished . She has got quite a pedigree with the Barrymore legacy . Despite her personal problems , Drew really is a solid actress with a lifetime behind her . Anyway , I never saw this film until Sunday . I remember it being out but I have to say when I was 11 years old , I wanted to be Drew Barrymore ( that was before I knew what happened to her ) . So I guess , I didn't watch it out of envy . I like the casting of Shelley Long who is probably one of the greatest female comediennes of our time who never gets enough work in my opinion to let her talents shine . She can do both drama and comedy equally well . She combines them both in this role as a desperate housewife turned writer . I like the way the film is set up with blame on both father and mother . Sharon Stone debuts in this film too . Ryan O'Neal is worth mentioning because I don't think he was acting in this film . It just hit too close to home . SO you want a good comedy from the eighties , this is pretty good . It's probably a classic compared to contemporary comedy that has become both vulgar and profane .
a beautiful film	I really loved this film . It is beautifully done with a stellar cast of actors and actresses . The countryside setting is beautiful and heavenly . A touching story of a rich family who becomes poor and loses their father to prison . Their relationship with Sir Richard Attenborough's character is charming , delightful , and wishful . The children seek escape from their problems at the railroad tracks . By a simple wave , they begin a wonderful relationship . Sir Richard is more like a Santa Claus character and he does his humanly best to help them . It doesn't matter by the end , that they still live poorly than before as long as they're still together . I would strongly recommend this film version and the Edith Nesbit book to teachers and their English classes . I think they would benefit it form it .
A Depressing Story of Aileen Wuornos !	I don't know why Aileen Wuornos , American female serial killer , gets more attention than others like Sante Kimes and Karla Homolka . She has a terrible childhood which included abuse of all kinds including sexual , physical , and psychological . Aileen is a tragic figure of society while Charlize Theron plays her quite brilliantly as a sad , tragic figure also a murderer . Most serial killers like Gacy and Bundy are remorseless and refuse to admit any wrong doing but not Aileen who finally confesses to murdering her johns but the motives are vague and unclear . She was probably threatened psychologically from childhood trauma . Unlike most serial killers , she was a detached killer who shot and robbed her victims who were mostly men . The film shows the men in a sympathetic light which is right in this case . The victims deserve sympathy while I feel sympathy for Aileen who I had trouble watching this film because she is so tragic and humanized by Theron's performance . In the end , she faces her fate while most killers sentenced to death fight all the way . Aileen stops the appeals because she wants to face her penalty . Even her relationship with SHelby whose named was changed shows that Aileen did have a conscience and the ability to love that few serial killers or sociopaths are capable of to do at all .
Nobody does it like Mama !	Of all the Carol Burnett show sketches , Mama's family was always my favorite with Eunice and Ed . When it came on television in NBC primetime , it stayed on for two seasons . It was worth watching a dysfunctional family like the Harpers for a change . No , the Harper's are not perfect but nobody else is . Perhaps the fact that the Harpers were really one of the first dysfunctional families in prime time television . I liked Rue McClanahan and Betty White as Aunt Franny and snobby Ellen on Mama's Family more than on the Golden Girls . I love watching the Harpers on TBS . After its prime time cancellation , they resurfaced in syndication and stayed on for a few more seasons . It is wonderful to have them again . I didn't care so much about the changes because they came back in syndication . Granted , I would have loved to see Eunice , Ed , Ellen , Buzz and Sonja again but it's better than not having anything . It shouldn't have been cancelled in the first place . So when they returned to They are Midwestern family , middle class , and highly dysfunctional but if they were functional than there would be no reason to watch this show but still it's worth to watch Mama and take a few lessons from the pro .
A great classic Shakespeare film !	I believe that this film version of William Shakespeare's classic , " A Midsummer's Night Dream " is better than the 1968 Royal Shakespeare film version . Now I am not saying that the acting is much better , it could fare better with this cast like Kevin Kline , Michael Tucci , Calista Flockhart , Michelle Pfeiffer , David Straitharn , and others to mention . The quality of this film is superior to the 1968 version starring Dame Judi Dench C . H . , Dame Diana Rigg C . B . E . , and Dame Helen Mirren . The quality is shown by the location , costumes , and the expense it took to make this film look first rate . It tries to be faithful to the text and I believe it is more than satisfactory . I hope this film version is shown in schools because I believe that if you are going teach Shakespeare that you should do both comedy and tragedy . His comedies like " Much Ado About Nothing " and " A Midsummer's Night Dream " shows Shakespeare's sense of humor and playfulness with the living as opposed to watching a tragedy . Most high schools are working on the tragedies like Romeo and Juliet , Hamlet , Macbeth , and Julius Caesar but I think they should also do one comedy for each tragedy than maybe students would not cringe with distaste over doing Shakespeare at all . I gave it a 9 because I think the acting could have been better or improved .
When Birds go Wild ! ! !	The Birds is a Hitchcock classic but I never understood why the birds attacked people in the first place . After all , they can go anywhere thanks to their flying capabilities . Tippi Hedren plays the female who travels to a small Northern California town from San Francisco to deliver love birds to a young girl played by Veronica Cartwright who becomes a great actress as an adult as she was a child . My biggest complaint is why the birds go mad in the first place . I admire Hitchcock for all his genius but I never get an answer and it's still an enjoyable movie . Maybe we just have to figure it out for ourselves or maybe we should stop abusing our habitat . The supporting cast includes Morgan Brittany , Darlene Conley , and Suzanne Pleshette as a school teacher .
Worth Watching ! ! !	I watched the Kennedy Miniseries last Saturday on the History Channel . Blair Brown made a perfect Jackie Kennedy in very way but voice . She recreated that presence . I also loved watching Ellen Parker , a New York Stage actress and Guiding Light Emmy Winner as Mrs . Bobby Kennedy . Geraldine Fitzgerald made the perfect choice to play Rose Kennedy in every way . She should have won an Emmy for it . Martin Sheen really perfected the Boston accent and was the perfect choice to play a President many years later on the West Wing . Even Kelsey Grammar had a bit part . I enjoyed Vincent Gardenia's performance as J . Edgar Hoover ( They should change the name of the FBI building because of him ) . I now really believe that he had something to do with the Kennedy assassinations . Overall , the seven hours flew by . Everything appeared near perfect . I am giving it a 9 because I think it could have used some editing but it is still worth watching any day . I also give it a 9 because I think they left out some scandalous activity in the Kennedy family . I think the world loves the Kennedys because they America's unofficial royal family . Now that they are so few of them , it makes us miss them ever more .
Rest in peace , River , We still miss you	Before the Riches on television , Judd Hirsch and Christine Lahti play Hippy refugees trying to raise their two sons on the run from the law while they can escape their past . River Phoenix is the older son and has to choose between running with his parents or pursuing a college career . Martha Plimpton , his real life love , plays his on screen love interest as well . This film earned River , his Oscar nomination . Unfortunately , River died of a drug overdose at an early age . In the few films including this one , River showed his range of talent and his ability to make you laugh and cry all at once . I could see why Martha considered him the love of her life as I'm sure he was to her . I still recall them in the teen magazines and tabloids . I only wished the two of them would have had a future together . This film will only remind of a great loss that was utterly senseless as well .
16 years of wedded bliss !	Al and Peggy Bundy celebrate their 16 year wedding anniversary . While trying to keep it low key , Peggy is encouraged by Marcy to have a celebration . She hires a caterer , a violinist , and invites friends to the event like Steve and Marcy and Luke Ventura , Al's co-worker . All is fine because Al is planning to buy a watch for his wife . The only problem is that his credit limit is maxed out and he doesn't know why until he comes home to a surprise anniversary party . There are some key moments in this episode especially the scene at the jewelry store and how the violinist used to work as a clown at children's parties . When Al comes home empty-handed , Peggy is rightfully upset because he doesn't have a present for her .
Give this Man , his Emmy !	Dr . Phil McGraw may not be one of my favorite talk show hosts but I do respect him as a serious psychologist who does his best to help his guests and his audience as well . Regardless of how you feel about his mentor , Oprah Winfrey , Dr . Phil has come into his own with this show . He tries to reason and help families dealing with relationships and issues about trust and boundaries . Sometimes , I don't think we set our boundaries or think about trusting our family members . We do relate because we have all had relative abuse our trust and cross the boundaries . Some of his shows have in-laws in battle which can seem fiercer than actual war battles . Dr . Phil spends an hour giving us the television therapy we need in our lives if we choose to watch him . If not , watch something else instead but please , he deserves an Emmy for always performing consistently .
A Smart Television Show about Dumb Hollywood !	This morning , the show displayed two of Hollywood's expert insiders on the business of movie-making , Peter Bart , and the other guy whose name escapes me . They were discussing about why the Oscars were so bad this year with low ratings . Of course , if you had Larry the Cable Guy , Jeff Foxworthy , Ron White , and Bill Engle as hosts of the Oscars or any awards show , maybe the ratings would have increased . The movies were not that great last year for starters . It was kind of a bad year in the film industry . As an outsider since I live and work outside of the industry but I have observed the entertainment industry since I was a kid . I do believe that most of us outside of Hollywood and New York City are somewhat disenfranchised and disenchanted with the industry itself . People like myself have other concerns . Of course , we go to the cinema to escape reality but we don't need to be preached too . I'm still puzzled why Sicko lost in the best documentary category . When you look at television programming in particular , there is this enormous focus on sexuality in almost every television show whether sitcom or drama . There is a recession going on right now . 50 million people by liberal estimates are uninsured . The gas prices are rising and there is two wars that America is fighting in . At home , there is a war between the elitist liberals and I include myself as a liberal lefty in that category but I have tried to understand where people are coming from . While the same disenfranchised hard-working people are struggling to survive , they are constantly reminded of issues that don't concern . They are being preached too like children . The audiences today are quite sophisticated with internet and computers anyway . I don't want to spend time and money on a film that will only depress me . I want to escape after all away from the sad reality that faces me outside the theater . Instead of trying to come up with bad movies , maybe Hollywood should swap lives with hard-working middle class people . That would be a great television show or movie I can watch .
Has anybody seen the Australian version ? Give this show a chance !	I liked Kath and Kim , the Australian version , and I have two DVD sets which I can't watch in America because of the regional difference in my DVD player . The show is about mother , Kathleen Day , played by Molly Shannon , and her daughter Kimberly , played by Selma Blair . Both are somewhat self-centered , vain , and totally into themselves . The pilot opens up where after 6 weeks of marriage , Kim and Craig have split up because she won't do anything like cook for him . Kim thinks of herself as the trophy wife who doesn't have to do anything but things are done for her . It's part of how her mother Kath have spoiled her . In the Australian version , there was Sharon , an overweight enthusiastic athletic woman , who is Kim's best friend and ally . The show tries to maintain the quality but it's more Americanized for audiences . Kath falls for the guy who runs the sandwich shop and Kim and Craig try to repair their marriage . Now there is a lot of silliness and quirkiness but I say give it time to let them grow on you . You might like this show .
Go Nurse Betty !	Rene Zellweger is truly a wonderful actress both comically and dramatically as well . In this bizarre scripted film , she witnesses her husband's murder by Morgan Freeman and his sidekick Chris Rock , a great pair of actors . Despite all the seriousness , this movie is also a comedy as well . Rene's character believes that she is truly Nurse Betty and goes to Los Angeles where her favorite soap is filmed . Greg Kinnear plays the man of supposed affection . Alison Janney has a supporting memorable role as the producer of the soap but she's also acted on Guiding Light as a Ginger , the tall lanky maid for Alexandra Spaulding ( Marj Dusay ) and butting heads with Roger Thorpe ( played by the late Michael Zaslow ) . Anyway , Janney and Kinnear manipulate the Nurse Betty situation . Her character settles into a new life and this belief that she will be part of this soap's life . Of course , the story is not perfect and Nurse Betty comes to her senses before it's too late . It's worth watching but mental illness isn't something to be used as running joke . Zellweger makes us care for a character who has experienced a trauma of witnessing her husband's murder .
Steve and Marcy babysit Bud and Kelly !	The Bundys would like to get away so Al can watch a boxing match but they don't have cable . The Rhoades suggest a motel in Wisconsin for the weekend . The only problem are the kids so the Rhoades volunteer to babysit and do the things that the book suggests they do in child-rearing . Bud , Kelly , and the dog Buck come over and Kelly says " it's like death here . " While the Rhoades try to play the role of parents , it's a lot more than they bargained for as Bud and Kelly are there . They are not interested in playing Trivial Pursuit with the Rhoades . Kelly asks if her friends can come over and they are a delightful group . Liane Curtis who was in Sixteen Candles plays one of her friends . They are the kind of bunch that could wreck a house . So when the Bundys announce that they are coming home early , the Rhoades allow Kelly to have a party so they wouldn't have to babysit them anymore .
A Warning to Men : This could happen to you !	I think men don't have any idea about women . We don't ask for much - - love , respect , honesty , truth , understanding , sympathy , and we don't get it . When you screw with women , this could happen to you . The characters of Velma Kelly and Roxie Hart are quite unique - - they are played beautifully by Oscar nominee Renee Zellwegger and Oscar winner , Catherine Zeta Jones Douglas . I have to say that Richard Gere was robbed again of an Oscar nomination for his performance as Billy Flynn . Bob Fosse would be proud of this film . It incorporates his dance style which is darkness , black , hats , and just similar to Cabaret , one of the greatest musical films of all time . New York City Columnist , Cindy Adams has named this film one of her all time favorites . The movie was long overdue in the first place . Yes , it's dark and morbid . I can't forget Oscar nominee Queen Latifah as the prison matron . She did a good job . I like the fact that the film was not that much different than the musical . I can't imagine the musical to be any better than the film . For men out there , treat your ladies or significant others right or this could happen to you .
Great but not one of my favorites from Woody Allen !	This film is typical of Woody Allen's brilliance . He creates the scene about 1920's New York theater scene with scene stealer Dianne Weist who wins her second academy award again with Woody Allen plays a theater dame with a grandiose presence who takes on John Cusack's character . Of course , the play has problems getting produced . They filmed it at the real Belasco Theater in New York where I saw Jackie with Margaret Colin in 1997 . Of course , that's what makes Woody Allen's films special is that he always films it in New York . I don't recall him as an actor in this film . He was wise enough to pass the role over to Cusack who does a superb job playing Woody's younger self . Anyway , Tilly does a terrific job playing an annoying and terrible actress but girlfriend of a mobster . What she wants is what she usually gets . First rate cast with Chaz Palminteri who was nominated along with Tilly for supporting acting Oscars . I hope Woody Allen will finally be recognized for his genius and get top honors like the National Medal of the Arts and honored by the Kennedy Center finally for his work . Nobody does New York like Woody Allen , of course , we all would like a bit of diversity in his films .
Albert Finney Shines in this Film !	The cast of the recently updated " The Browning Version " based on a play by the late Sir Terence Rattigan includes Albert Finney , Sir Michael Gambon , Greta Scacchi , and American actor , Matthew Modine . The film is first rate in art direction , costumes , and sets . The film's adaptation from the play is loosely based . Albert Finney deserved an Oscar nomination for playing Andrew Crocker Foster , a retiring Classics instructor at a private boys ' school in England . His wife , Laura , is unhappy and carrying on with Modine's character , a science instructor . The scenes with Finney and the boy playing Taplow are unforgettable and probably the finest . This film is a quiet gem and highly underrated . It should be considered a classic because it's well done without over-doing it with theatrics . The film's subtle and goes by pretty fast as well .
Who's Afraid of Al Bundy ?	The pilot episode of this show reminded me of the Edward Albee's play , " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , " but funny and worth watching . Al and Peg Bundy are a veteran married couple with two children in Chicago , Illinois . Al gets tickets to a basketball game thanks to his co-worker and single guy but Peggy has other plans including inviting their new neighbors , Steve and Marcy Rhoades , who happen to be newlyweds to their home for the evening . Peggy reminds Al , " The credit cards are in our name . The checkbook is in our name and the stores are still open . " Al already is upset that he can't go to the game . The newlyweds played by David Garrison and Amanda Bearse do an excellent and believable job . The kids , Kelly and Bud , aren't the most delightful around . This show was the beginning of the dysfunctional family sitcoms . It was the virtual opposite of the popular family sitcoms of the day . We don't have many family sitcoms any more . Maybe that's why I'm nostalgic for it .
Bela after Lugosi , no Abzug !	There have been burglaries in the neighborhood . While Al and Peggy are ready to get it on the couch , they are greeted the neighborhood watch . This time , it's the Rhoades house that gets burgled stealing their answering machine and Marcy replies " God knows who called . " Instead of getting a gun like the Bundys , the Rhoades get a big dog named Bela after Abzug , the feminist , but he won't wear her famous hat . Bela is impossible and complaints file from the neighbors because of the dog's constant barking . The Rhoades haven't had a burglary but Bela has a bigger problem . As Al says when the Rhoades ask for more dog food , " What's the matter , the cat wasn't enough for him ? " and Steve replies " that cat was taunting him . " Anyway , the Bundys use the gun when they hear a noise and it could be a burglary . There is a casualty and you guess who that was .
Always funny and memorable to watch	I get nostalgic about television shows like Family Ties . It was based around two parents who graduated University of California at Berkeley in the sixties . It was wise to have their eldest son , Alex P . , to be on the opposite fence of politics . ALex with his tie and pictures of Ronald Reagan and Nixon . His younger sister , Mallory , played well by Justine Bateman cares more about fashion than grades or Alex's politics . It's great watching these two in action . The younger sister , Jennifer , develops from a young girl to an independent adolescent . There were always two story lines going on in every episode . Marc Price's SKippy is priceless for a thankless job . Scott valentine plays Mallory's boyfriend , Nick , a painter who never finished high school . Some of the best moments in this series happens after Nick enters the Keatons lives and his relationship with them . The mixture of great characters with witty dialogue . You can't stop laughing when Mr . Keaton tries to apologize to Nick in a ladies ' shoe store . He comes across as a former gay lover than the father of Mallory but it's full of laughs . Despite the witty dialogues , this was a believable family who introduced Andrew , the youngest and fourth child . What do the children think when they find out . " I was talking about closet space " Mallory says to Alex . Oh , this is truly a family show for everybody . I can't say how I miss a family centered show on such a wonderful family like the Keatons .
George Washington's Favorite Play !	Okay , the Broadway Theater Archives were to American public television that Masterpiece Theater is and was to television . This classic comedy drama play about manners , classes , and the problems that arise can be both funny and tragic often at the same times has a first rate cast featuring Blair Brown as Lady Teazy , an unsatisfied married wife , whose husband deplores her youthful behavior . They travel to England and meet and socialize with the British gentry . Mind you that this play was written before or during the American Revolution . There is still that British type of humor and fun with an American cast such as Blair Brown and Larry Gates in roles . The costumes and art direction are first rate and the story and dialogue may be dated but it's worth watching . It's like being at the theater without all the troubles of being there .
The Best of Bette !	Bette Midler is truly a versatile performer . She can sing and act better than the rest of perrformers today . Her taped show is a great example of her abilities to truly dazzle the crowd . She still does that today 25 years after this concert has aired . Bette comes alive on stage more so than in film or television . In this taping , she really is at her best and peak despite her personal problems . I was hoping to see Katey Sagal as one of her Harlettes but she wasn't in this one . My best advice to Bette is to go back on tour . I never did understand the mermaid thing but Bette takes it to a new level . She has an amazing energy and can belt out " the Rose " and the songs before she returned in 1986 . This taping must have happened before her nervous breakdown . Bette has performed everywhere imaginable from gay bathhouses in Greenwich Village to Radio City Music Hall uptown . This taped version is quite an event without pushing the envelope even by today's standard . She is still pretty tame in comparison and she can teach the younger generation of performers that you don't have to bare it all to grab their attention . Bette knows that people have paid good money to be entertained by her and she does that . She always does that and that's why she is one of the best live performers of our generation . Sing on , Bette .
Smart Comedies Don't Have to Be Dirty ! ! ! !	Okay , the Bob Newhart Show wasn't for everybody . I never got a chance to watch it on television . Now on DVD , I am discovering it for the first time . The writing is smart and the acting is smarter than ever with Bob Newhart in the title role as a Chicago psychologist , Susan Pleshette as his wife and third grade school teacher . They are great couple on screen . Surprisingly , they don't have children in the show which is a big plus because the show works better without them . Marcia Wallace is wonderful as his secretary . The show is smart , funny , savvy , relevant , and most of all timeless . It's a classic sitcom that might be overlooked because it's not dirty or stupid like most sitcoms are today . The Bob Newhart Show and others of that era are classic and timeless and relevant to today's life . Too bad , shows like that aren't being developed for television today . It's our loss , isn't it ?
One of the Most Surprising Comedic Films with a Western Flavor !	I have to say that I was surprised about how much I liked the film . William Faulkner ( American Nobel Prizewinner ) wrote " The Reivers . " The story is about a boy , Lucius , and Boone played by Steve McQueen . They take the 1905 car that Boone promised not to take out for a joyride while his bosses were away at a family funeral . Boone , Lucius , and an African American co-worker who I forget his name but sneaks aboard the car on the way to Memphis to visit friends like Miss Corey played by Sharon Farrell and the brothel's matron , Miss Reba , played by the wonderfully talented Ruth White who died shortly after the film . The film is more of a mix of comedy and drama . There is the story of the 1905 yellow car and a horse and about horse-racing with Lucius in the saddle . There are some serious moments like Lucius discovering that he is staying at brothel and Miss Corey who he grows to bond with .
Al spends a night out with Luke !	I missed Luke Ventura , Al's single salesman at Gary's Shoes . He was let go but he was great . He was living Al's dream as the single guy with lots of women around . Now Luke lives in a building that is for airline stewardesses , guest stars Jerry Hall and Pamela Bowman play Terri and Sherry Cherry , the Cherry sisters . After Al gets into a fight with Peggy about going to a family wedding , he needs a place after work so he goes to Luke's apartment . In the meanwhile , Peggy is worried about Al not coming home . She calls his usual spots and he is not there . Anyway , the question and purpose of this episode is if Al would cheat on his wife with a woman who just wants somebody to spend the night .
A Brilliant and Chilling German Classic !	What's a girl to do when she is surrounded by women in a female boarding school ? She falls in love with her female teacher who shares some mutual feelings . This film is not so much about lesbianism as it is about Germany was striving to become so disciplined and unfeeling towards one another . Of course , lesbianism was bound to happen . There were no other options . You have a girl who wants to be loved and love just seems unthinkable in the German culture of the Nazi uprising . Even though this film was made in 1931 , the girls ' uniforms reminded me of the concentration camps uniforms . The school was trying to discourage close relationships between girls and among teachers and students . I don't think of it much as a lesbian film as a chilling portrait of how Germany was bounded for destruction during World War II . Maybe the film points as a good reminder of how relationships should be encouraged and feelings are human . This school was trying to restrict the girls ' humanity into an almost robotlike existence . That's how I always saw this film . I never thought of it as a lesbian film because the girls in the school had no other choice or option . They weren't allowed freedom and that's what the major theme of this movie is . Germany was beginning to restrict it's freedom on their citizens and forcing them to become less human in order to succeed but that's just my opinion .
Try Being in her Shoes !	Believe me , I'm there working as a student teacher in one of America's toughest cities . Of course as the Ccaucasian teacher , I understand , sympathize , empathize , and totally understand Erin Gruwell's experience . It's tough to be an English teacher when your students have a million other things on their mind . Of course , I admire Erin's determination and was recommended this film . From what I saw , I think it was amazing that they got Imelda Staunton in this film . Patrick Dempsey in a supporting role as Erin's boyfriend . Hillary Swank makes me believe and understand her as Erin Gruwell , the teacher who won't give up with her students . The administration is equally discouraging as is the faculty . The post-Rodney King integration is not working at Long Beach High School . The races are just divided . In order to understand them , she reads their personal journals which shows the horrors of their young lives . She gives them Anne Frank's diary to read . While I haven't read their book , I'm sure they can identify with Anne's plight . The line in the classroom was a good way to get them to come forward about their personal lives , the tragedies , the shootings , the drugs , the domestic violence , etc . Life is not easy but for children of inner cities where their neighborhoods are more war torn in mentality . As an aspiring English teacher , I hope to make a difference and get students involved . For instance , I'm working in Newark and the Bard of Newark is Philip Roth . Of course , most people don't know Roth or his works or that he writes about them . I went out and got books for them to read and write about . I'll find out tomorrow about how effective it is .
An Unforgettable Wedding !	I really have to say that Mama's Family was at it's finest moment when they got the cast together including the wonderful late Harvey Korman who played bungling Ed , Betty White as snobby Ellen , Carol Burnett as mess Eunice , Vicki Lawrence as Mama Harper , Rue McClanahan as Aunt Fran , Ken Berry as goofy Vint , Dorothy Lyman as Naomi , and DOrothy Van as Aunt Effie . This wedding is full of laughs . This was the first time as a child that I ever saw a family yell at each other on television . The wedding with Vinton and Naomi is sweet but it's the surprise for them in Arizona . Eunice gets upset when Mama gives her daddy's sapphire ring to Vint and Naomi as a wedding present . Eunice is all cheers when she finally convinces Naomi to let her sing , Oh Promise Me . Ellen is in good spirits as her husband has just bought her a new Cadillac Seville . We never see Bruce .
Let's hear it for Dame Rosemary Harris ( She should become a Dame )	I caught only the last hour of this play taped for PBS . This play is well written and somewhat outdated but it displays the enormous , beautiful talent of Dame Rosemary Harris ( She's not damed yet but she should be ) she's beautiful and very talented . She's one of the great divas of the theatre overall . Then there is Eva LaGallienne who is one of the great acting divas of all time . Eva and Rosemary should have earned Emmys for their roles as mother and daughter . They were totally into characters . It's worth $30 to order it now . It wasn't until I recently read more about Eva LaGallienne who should have had more roles in her lifetime that brought her fame and happiness . She was respected for her caliber in the theater but it never transferred to film or television because of her sexual orientation . She never denied who she was attracted too and she should be remembered that the true passion of her life was truly the stage . That's how I will remember Eva's legacy is that the stage is where she belonged most .
Why we'll miss the King of Queens !	Kevin James is a very funny guy . He's the blue collar New York comedian . On screen , he and Leah Remini who plays his wife Carrie does a remarkable job in making us believe that they are couple . For the last decade and without children to jump the shark , Doug and Carrie are the example of today's couple . They are not rich but working class . Carrie is a paralegal in New York City and her husband works for a UPS . He has a friend , Deacon , who is African American . Of course , you can't forget Arthur , Carrie's dad , played by the under-rated and long overdue for Emmy Jerry Stiller . You can't forget Arthur no matter how hard you try . He lives with Carrie and Doug in their modest Queens home . I loved the addition of MAD TV's Nicole Sullivan to the mix as walking Arthur since she plays a professional dog walker . Despite other shows who cave in , not all couples want children to fulfill the marriage . These two have enough without kids in the mix but they sure have plenty of fun . I'll miss them but we'll catch up with them in syndication .
Rockwell is turning over in his grave !	Let's face it , Christopher Titus is a comic genius . He started his stand-up comedy career talking about his relationship with his girlfriends and cars but what made him more successful was his dysfunctional family life . His father was a drunk womanizer who knew how to play mind games or just be manipulative . If you think Chris would have been better off with dear old mom , think again , his mother was institutionalized for paranoid schizophrenia . Anyway , his girlfriend turned wife which he is now divorced , Erin , came from an equally dysfunctional family of a drunken mother , drug-addicted siblings , etc . Chris ' half-brother has been arrested for marijuana possession and his best friend is often perceived as gay by his effeminate nature and sensitivity . Anyway , Christopher Titus has brought mental illness out of the closet to the stage . He's funnier than he ever was or will be . He ends the show talking about how most families are dysfunctional and when the world comes to an end that who's watching the Lexus dealership . I can't understand why they canceled his show , it was the funniest show on television and the most relate to families today .
Can't Stop Loving Audrey !	So what if Audrey Hepburn's character , Sabrina Fairwood , has the worst Long Island or New York accent ! Audrey Hepburn won people over like fans , co-stars , and film directors . She was truly a classic and timeless beauty with a sense of style , class , and grace every time that she entered the room . Audrey Hepburn made you love her effortlessly just by being herself . Audrey's Sabrina becomes a woman with style after two years in Paris in a prestigious cooking school . When she returns as the chauffeur's daughter , David Larrabe ( played by William Holden ) finally take notice of her . Unfortunately , he has to marry a wealthy woman to maintain the family's wealth . His brother Linus Larrabe ( played by Humphrey Bogart ) has to steer Sabrina away from David or the wedding and plans for a merger are off . Hepburn steals the scenes out from Bogart and Holden hands down . The film is a classic because of her . Nobody else could have delivered Sabrina so well . I didn't realize that Ms . McArdle , Linus ' secretary , was played by Ellen Corby from the Waltons . Still It's a Wilder Classic . Maybe it should have been filmed in color .
The Spirituals of Harlem Come Alive !	There is no real story here but vignettes of monologues regarding African American history filled with songs , dance , and plenty of heart . The cast includes the wonderful Lynne Thigpen , Cleavon Derricks , and Reginald Veljohnson ( Family Matters ) and others . It was directed by Dirty Dancing director , Emile Ardolino . At times , it is a funeral scene or the disco in Harlem . The cast is first rate and the writing is somewhat disconnected . At times , it can be somber and at others as glim and hopeful and full of joy . This Broadway Theater Archives production like many often have that staged feeling because it's done on stage but we do hear an audience reaction which is positive . The ensemble cast never has one character but they have many and it's hard not to notice their costumes and hairstyles of the seventies but I still recommend it because it can appeal to the wide audiences regardless of race , gender , religion or sexual orientation .
Coming to TV Land !	I watched Benson before I saw any episodes of Soap so I never knew the connection . I remember watching an episode with the lovely Katherine Helmond guest starring reprising her soap role . Her character's date ends up dead and it could be scandalous . Her character turns to Benson for help . Of course , he helps out rather than let his beloved friend in trouble . His character's rise from governor's head housekeeper to Lieutenant Governor is a bit unrealistic but he makes it believable for the audience . I remember him winning an Emmy . I think it's a first for an African American actor to win for Best Actor in a Comedy Series . I remember cast of characters including an understated actress named Inga Swenson who played Olga . Peter Noble who played the widowed Governor very well . Rene Aubernois who played Benson's nemesis . I won't write enemies because they weren't . I remember them being at odds with each other . I loved Didi Conn who played secretary and the man who played her on screen husband . They left before the show ended after 7 seasons . I also remember Missy Gold , Tracey's Gold's older sister , who played the Governor's daughter . I'm kind of sad that it's been twenty years since it left our airways . Friday nights were never the same on the ABC network . Good shows like Benson are hard to come by nowadays .
Another song to sing !	I remember when I first saw this film many years ago on television . I always feel like I'm returning home to those memories after twenty years . I love Julie Walters as Rita / Susan in the film , a hairdresser who aspires to become an intellectual . At first , she is not your typical college student . She is older , married , and not ready to have children with her husband . She seeks better . I remember how she nearly gave up when he invites her to dinner because she thought that she brought an inappropriate bottle of wine or champagne to her teacher's house . Anyway , her performance sparkles with sheer delight and Rita / Susan becomes an endearing character who has not forgotten her roots or her future . Anyway , she leaves the party without even going in afraid of being laughed at by the snobbery bunch of college intellectuals . Anyway , she goes to the bar where her family is and they're singing this ridiculous song " I'm so happy that you're so happy " and she witnesses her own mother crying and saying that they're must be a better song to sing and she decides to come back to class not that she is not met with pleasure by her own husband . He seems content with a home , wife , and child rather than his wife going out and becoming smarter and alive . Julie does a fantastic job at bringing her to life that you just can't imagine another person in this role . Anyway , Sir Michael Caine plays the drunken lost college professor who learns from his student , Rita / Susan as well . Michael Williams also has a role but you might know him better as being the husband to Dame Judi Dench . Anyway , the relationship between student and teacher despite a small age difference could have gone further and I wished it had but the movie does have a satisfying ending which is why I am giving it a 9 and not a ten . Anyway , the chemistry is there . Watching pros like Walters and Caine engage in conversation is worth watching again and again . Rita / Susan becomes who she wanted to be and that is an independent woman .
wonderful sense of feeling	There is nothing like snow . And Smilla has a sense for it . This wonderful movie is captivating and divine . I just love Vanessa Redgrave's small part as a wannabe nun . Julia Ormond is simply divine in her search for the cause of a little boy's senseless death . Gabriel Byrne is wonderful as her lover and Robert Loggia is terrific as Smilla's father . This small film deserved more recognition . It was one of the best films of that stellar year . I love watching the final scenes on the ice but I found some of the story unbelievable . I still had questions to be answered about the plot and why a child was actually murdered . I don't want to reveal too much but this film is worth watching for any Vanessa Redgrave fan as well . The relationship between Julia Ormond's Smilla and Roberta Loggia as Smilla's father is believable . I hated her stepmother who is about the same age as Smilla .
It was never the same as the original but still worth watching anyway !	Carroll O'Connor's character Archie Bunker was so popular that the network could not let him go so easily . Jean Stapleton , Rob Reiner , and Sally Struthers were eager to move away from their television personalities . But let's face it , they were on one of the most popular sitcoms ever and for them , it is both a blessing and curse as well . Archie Bunker's Place had a girl , Danielle Brisebois as the Jewish girl from Edith's side of the family . I remember watching Anne Meara , Liz Torres , and others who try to recreate the magic that was All in the Family but the show is still superior to anything on television today so I'm being a little more liberal because the character of ARchie Bunker became an American icon and part of the fabric of American culture that we would miss him too much . THis show allowed us to slowly move on . We love Archie Bunker and the actor who played him , Carroll O'Connor . For most of us , we'll always think of him as Archie .
A quiet film with meaning	I ordered The Perfect Husband for research purposes only especially on the late Victorian era . It was set in 1900 Prague so I bought the tape to observe the wardrobe , art direction , and style of that period . The most interesting moment is in the beginning about a man who fights with an old lady and a dog . She throws his cigar out the train window . He takes and throws the dog out to fetch it . It's a pretty sick moment in the film with a happy ending . There is much more to this story about marriages , infidelity , and a child's illness . It is done quietly and with subtleness . It is worth watching again but I would fast forward the scene about the dog because it makes me uncomfortable to think about it even . I'm sure nothing happened to that dog in real life .
It was a Movie for the 1980s !	I was watching the Goonies again . I wanted to be a Goonie in real life and live in Astoria , Oregon . The film is quirky about a bunch of kids who may be spending the last time together before their homes are torn down and made into a golf course for the country club of Astoria . It had a great cast especially young Sean Astin who really changed from being Mikey to the Frodo's pal in Lord of the Rings Trilogy 15 years later . Who would have thought that Josh Brolin who plays his older brother , Brand , would turn out to be Barbra Streisand's stepson ? Martha Plimpton still acts as well . I don't know what happened to Kerri Green who played her friend . Corey Feldman had a difficult adolescence , his estranged relationship with Michael Jackson , his drug problems , and family problems as well . Jeff Cohen went on to college and I don't know what happened to the kid who played Data . Anne Ramsay has a great role as Mama Fratelli with her two sons , one who just escaped prison , and the other as his accomplice . She has a third son , Sloth , but he is locked up downstairs . The beginning sequence is always worth watching over and over again . The film shows lovely sequences of Astoria , Oregon which I have yet to visit but plan too sometime in my life . Anyway , the film was dedicated to Mama Fratelli and the actress who played her . By the end of Ramsay's life , this film and Throw Momma From the Train finally gave her recognition . Ramsay was battling throat cancer . She had tongue removed between films and she was a beloved character actress . I love this movie . It reminds me of my childhood and I wished that children would have that kind of childhood today and that's why I'm glad that I don't have children because I can't imagine them being in today's environment .
One of my favorite John Hughes films of all time !	My biggest upset with this film is that I think it's too short . They should have had more in it but it's a great comedy . John Candy stars as the Uncle Buck who comes to the rescue of his brother and his sister-in-law when they have to travel to Indiana for a family emergency . Elaine Bromka is brilliant as the mother . Jean Louisa Kelly from " Yes , Dear " plays the oldest daughter , Tia , with a chip on her shoulder . She doesn't like the move to Chicago and misses her life in Indiana . Laurie Metcalf plays the neighbor who sets her sights on the not so quite bachelor Uncle Buck . I can't forget Amy Madigan as the girl who steals Uncle Buck's heart . Their relationship is no less entangled by Tia's tricks . I think this is one of John Hughes ' best films . Macauley Culkin before Home Alone fame plays the younger brother in the film . Anyway , the cast is always great and the writing is more believable . The film was so successful that they turned it into a failed sitcom . But without John Candy as Uncle Buck , it wouldn't have worked out anyway . He is the heart and soul of the film . John , we miss you down here .
Poor Reefer !	Reefer is the homeless guy played beautifully by Charles Haid I believe . Anyway it's a small role but he does a very good job in making us like this drunk homeless guy who lives across the street from the practice . Anyway , Sean hasn't recovered from his loss . He is devastated when his daughter Annie can't come to Miami for Christmas and begins drinking . He performs surgery intoxicated allowing a woman to experience an orgasm at the drop of a hat . Anyway , Christian's life is getting better with a new home , his son Wilbur , and his new fianc Michelle . Of course , Michelle has yet to inform him of James ' true profession . You thought prostitution was bad , unfortunately , James befriends Reefer and you can figure out the rest if you know what's going on . There are humorous scenes like Sean playing Santa Claus and depressing the children who sit on his lap . Of course , don't forget his scene with the female dwarf .
A Poignant Film !	Cliff Robertson earned an Academy Award for playing the title role based on the novel by Daniel Keyes entitled " Flowers for Algernon . " His portrayal is heartbreaking and you can't help but feel for the character who is the butt of so many jokes by his so-called colleagues and friends at his workplace , a bakery . Seinfeld's Barney Martin and Dick Van Patten play his co-workers . The divine Claire Bloom ( who should be made a Dame ) is the sympathetic attractive teacher . Ruth White plays the landlady in one of the last film roles before her death in 1969 from cancer . The setting is filmed on location in Boston , Massachusetts .
Everybody Should See Gracie !	Gracie is a great , family film . Gracie is played beautifully by Carly Shroeder as a girl surround by three soccer-playing brothers , Johnny , Mike , and Dan . The film opens as her brother has her kick a soccer ball barefoot to hit an empty bottle on top of the car . This film is set in South Orange , New Jersey in 1978 and is inspired by the events of the Shue family . Elisabeth Shue plays the mom and school nurse at Columbia High School in South Orange which does exist and whose alumni includes the Shues and Zach Braff . South Orange is also an upscale suburb of New York City and Newark , New Jersey . At the time of the movie set in 1978 , an average dual income working class couple with four children could live comfortably there . South Orange has become an upscale white collar community ever since 1978 to feature celebrity residents like Kelly Bishop and Andre Braugher . Also , South Orange is home to Seton Hall University . The film was filmed on location around New Jersey including Maplewood where we see Gracie running on a downtown street . It was a family affair in the filming process including Elisabeth Shue not only as an actress but as an executive producer along with her husband and director , Davis Guggenheim . Her brother Andrew Shue plays an assistant soccer coach and history teacher . In real life , Andrew played soccer too . Dermot Mulroney is terrific as the father , coach , and moving man in his profession . At first , the family has a star , Johnny Bowen , but tragedy strikes the family . We see Gracie rebelling against her parents who are already heartbroken with despair over their loss as well . The two younger brothers seem unaffected at least in the movie . Gracie has one best female friend who is afraid of being labeled a lesbian because of her association with Grace . She decides one night to take her brother's spot on the team much to her father's laugh . She is serious but rather than prepare and strive . She rebels , dates a boy , fails history , and plays hooky at Asbury Park with a college boy . Until her father decides that he will coach her to get on the team , there are difficulties since she is a girl but she is determined and the film is not entirely predictable . It is a family oriented . It's just in time for Father's Day ! The film is somewhat believable and realistic at times . They do their best to maintain the authenticity of the time and playing Bruce Springsteen songs as well . I admire the Shues for their determination in making the film entirely on location in New Jersey keeping with their roots . Stay until the end of the credits , you will be interested to see what it has to say . I like this film overall and it's message is that a girl can do it too .
I too prefer the Highlands to New York City , Gertie !	Okay , I have seen Clerks and Dogma . Since his film debut in 1994 with Clerks , Kevin Smith's direction has taken a different step with Jersey Girl . Yes , it's a bit sweet and there is no Silent Bob or Jay who are just annoying anyway . In this film , Ben Affleck who I love is a star publicist married to Jennifer Lopez who played Gertrude , his wife and the mother of their only child , Gertrude or Gertie . Raquel Castro does a very good job in this role where she is up against Affleck , George Carlin who plays Pop or the girl's paternal grandfather , Stephen Root and Mike Starr are cast along as Pop's working class friends . Before any of you pack your bags and move to the Highlands , you should be aware that the Highlands is located with a terrific view of New York City . Nearby is the Sandy Hook National Park where they have my favorite beaches . Before September 11 , 2001 , you could have seen the whole New York City skyline on a clear day . Sadly , it's not the same anymore . Anyway , Kevin Smith allows Oliver played by Affleck to lose his wife , his job , and his New York City life . He moves in with his father who is working on the streets in the Highlands with Root and Starr . Aside from getting porn movies , Liv Tyler plays a psychology student and a video rental clerk who shows interest in Oliver . I don't know why they didn't have Oliver take the ferry to Manhattan since there is a ferry that goes directly to the Highlands regularly . The Highlands can be quite a commute but it's worth it . With the views and access to the beach and city life , a house can cost a lot . I know Kevin Smith is from the Highlands himself and this movie is really a great Father's Day film . Sadly , one of Smith's major flaws in film-making is the approach to his female characters . Now , I understand that guys and girls as as different as Mars and Venus respectively . I think girls care more about sexuality , pregnancy , and the husband aspect . It might be from the cultural belief that a woman who has a man is one of the lucky ones . I wished that Smith would take on more challenging projects . Yes , you can have your fun with the silliness but try more films with relationships . Jersey Girl is not a bad film but it's not for the cinema . I could see it on cable or network television but of course , you can't get stars like Affleck , Lopez , Matt Damon and Will Smith with small parts . I love the Highlands locations because I was just today and I got a little burnt but it's a great place to visit too .
An Excellent Look at the Life of Hoarder !	Eugenia Lester was not just any hoarder . She is a mother of Cynthia Lester , the film-maker , and her sons , Andy , Brian , and Jack . Twice divorced , Eugenia Lester's background is far more complicated . She was born in Poland after World War II and abandoned by both her parents . She was raised by her aunt who survived Auschwitz . At first , Eugenia shows her home which is piles of filth that she believes are her treasures . Her home is so filled with junk that you have to climb through a window . The last straw came when Eugenia's neighbors in her Los Angeles neighborhood petitioned for an eviction . Her children including Cynthia and her brothers have stepped in to help her troubled mother . At first , Eugenia is resistant to their help seeing herself as being treated as a child . Her family sends Cynthia and Eugenia to Cynthia's apartment in New York for a while her sons clean up the house . Eugenia seems to get better , wears make-up , dresses up , and is more outgoing . When a fight occurs , she returns home to Los Angeles to discover her home has been utterly gutted out by her children . Feeling robbed , violated , and alone , she stumbles into a deep depression . I felt that this first hand account of Eugenia's circumstances helped me feel sympathetic to her .
Not the Movie !	I was watching 48 Hours on Saturday nights because they focus on murder cases like Katherine Woods case and others on a weekly basis . They go into detail of a case , talk with suspects , witnesses , friends , relatives , and others about the case as well as the prosecutors , policemen , and defense attorneys . They also help us understand the community and environment where these crimes happen . Of course , they talk about injustices , legal talk , and the case at hand . Trials can be both boring and exciting at the same time . The show has changed from being investigative to focusing on one subject to help us understand the story which is always reality . It's always frightening how potent the truth can be . How people who look like you and me could be involved in such horrendous crimes ? Especially when the victim is close member of the family , spouse , friend , etc . Recently , they had done the Napa murders and are going to do an hour on the Atlantic City Murders which has not been solved . They also follow up on cases like the Katherine Woods case too .
Classic Independent Film !	This film has a first rate cast including some famous faces like the wonderful and missed Madeline Kahn , the brilliant and subtle Barbara Barrie , the under-appreciated Julie Kavner , and Emmy Winner Edie Falco in the title role as an aspiring actress from Long Island . The suburbia has become the new it thing . Of course , suburbia is not as boring as we like to make it out to be on screen . There are some brilliant moments and casting of Barrie and Falco as mother and daughter is perfect casting . Kahn plays the bored housewife and loving mother who needs assurance from her husband played by Bob Dishy who is a school principal where Berlin's mother Sue works as a teacher . Kavner plays a cafeteria lady while Anne Meare plays his secretary . It's shot in black and white which is a departure from the normal color . The shots are quite first rate and the film has a slow but steady peace . The characters are realistic at least to my lifelong suburban eyes . I can identify with almost all of them .
A Classic French film !	I bought this film on VHS years ago to help me with my French . I guess England has the theater and the French and Italians have the cinema . I love the story between the English teacher / actress and the rich businessman Mr . Castella who tries desperately to fit in to her world . How could she not fall in love with him ? HE is more than willing and able to love her back . Anyway , there are other stories that go on here . I love French films or cinema because they focus a lot more on character developments , relationships , and beauty as well . The beauty of France cannot be overlooked . I still miss if after 10 years and long to return home again . This film looks at the loneliness of people even the married ones or involved ones . It always appears like everybody is in their own little world of loneliness . Well , the writing is good but then again I was reading subtitles and trying to remember my French lesson plans as well . If you pay attention , you notice the differences in the written language from the spoken but that's with ever subtitled film . If only French film directors can teach American film directors that you don't need violence , sex , or special effects to make a good movie . You just need a good story and flawed characters .
They're back and they're fighting mad !	I don't know why these aliens with lizard like skin and speak in double tongues return to disturb us humans who had enough of them before . They want our water and food which is humans . In this series , there is a birth of twins between humans and lizards . The boy born has lizard skin and human insides while the girl born and named Elizabeth has lizard insides and human outsides . The humans have found something to repel the lizard aliens out of earth for once and for all until the series . I remember this series quite well as a child and it was quite extraordinary seeing humans of all walks of life unite to save their earth and their mere existence . It would be nice to have that unity in today's world . Of course , Jane Badler's Diana is the most memorable character as the female leader ( rare in television ) of the alien home ship headquartered in Los Angeles . Her performance is not only sensual but terrifying as well .
Britain's Answer to Blue Collar Humor !	America had Hee Haw and the Blue Collar Comedy Tour while the Brits had Benny Hill and Carry On movies . Sure , they also had wonderful stars like Sid James , Joan Sims , Bernard Bresslaw , Kenneth Connor , Barbara Windsor , Hattie Jacques , and others to make us laugh and ease living a little . I could see why Babsy is so popular because she is so much fun . Sadly , Sid James died in 1976 and he was the king of the Carry On playing the dirty old man most of the time . The lovely Dame of British comedy , Joan Sims , never got to be a dame , a CBE , An OBE , or an MBE during her lifetime but I hope somebody out there would consider an award named after her for women who provide lifetime achievement in comedy . Even though , most of us known Joan from As Time Goes By as Madgie . She was truly a gifted comedic actress worthy of such honors that was never properly bestowed upon her and it is pity . Maybe it's because Carry On stars like Barbara Windsor and Kenneth Connor were finally awarded MBEs but it was something . Maybe the honors committee don't consider the Carry Ons to be anything to be proud so they knight and Dame those Shakespearan actors and actresses instead but I bet that they don't have as much fun as the Carry On Gang does here . Carry On isn't classless but a teaser of a show for everybody involved . They appear to have a lot of fun making it without getting awards . Maybe that's why they don't matter as much .
Almost Perfect !	I have to say that Sir Anthony Hopkins CBE gives a perfect performance of the ultimate butler and the anti-Hannibal Lector image is long gone . In this film , he is the ultimate repressed butler who serves his employers for a lifetime much like his father who was also a servant . In this film based on the novel , he re-teams with Emma Thompson who plays the housekeeper and the woman who he loves but can't bear to mention . Emma gives a brilliant performance as the housekeeper who seeks marriage and family life . Their characters reunite many years later only to break my heart and cause me tears . The film is nothing less than spectacular . Christopher Reeve is in one of his last major film roles as the younger owner of the estate . Sadly , Reeve will become paralyzed in real life . The cast also includes James Fox as the previous owner and Hugh Grant as well . The war wrecks havoc on the estate so far away from the drama on the fields and in the camps .
God Bless George !	This show was the first of hundreds which was hosted by none other than George Carlin . The sketches were done with the not for ready prime time players . George never appeared in them but he was there to introduce the two musical performers , Billy Preston and Janis Ian who each performed twice themselves . Despite the initial premise , George performed his baseball-football comparisons to the laughter of an audience who should be so lucky to have attended the first night of many on live television . The show was never at outlandish as it is now . The humor was from within . It was nice to see the original players who all became stars on their own . The show evolved and changed . Janis Ian , an American folk singer , sang beautifully and poetically the second time around while Billy Preston was legendary in his performance . It showed that the show took chances in bringing the popular and unpopular performers who should be famous .
The best laughs of the night	Long ISland's WLIW aired a British battle for the best British comedy to fill an upcoming empty spot in their Friday night lineup . The other choices were Father Ted , A Fine Romance , Murder Most Horrid , and Barbara . My vote goes to this innovative recent British import . Gwen Taylor is marvelous and the cast is surprisingly good . I wanted it to win but Father Ted won the vote . Maybe next time , Barbara who is played beautifully by Gwen Taylor from another British comedy , Screaming , and her husband is played by the veteran comedian Sam Kelly . Her sister is played by Sherry and the woman who plays her best friend are both Coronation Street veterans . I like the fact that Barbara is a strong woman , a mother , a wife , a sister , and a friend and not perfect in any of them . I love Jean Alexander , another Coronation Street veteran , playing her mother-in-law too . There are great episodes too like her grandson's christening , her sister's wedding , and whatever you could imagine happens . Mark Benton is memorable as her celebrity son-in-law .
A New Jersey State of Mind !	Garden State is the state motto . Zach Braff was born , raised , and lived in South Orange , New Jersey which is home to celebrities like Kelly Bishop and Andre Braugher . South Orange is an upscale suburb of New York City and neighboring Newark , New Jersey . Zach Braff is perfect as the director , writer , and leading actor in this film which I heard about when he hosted Saturday Night Live . His loving homage to his home state makes you wonder what really goes on in New Jersey . There are multiple sides to life in New Jersey . I just couldn't believe that he got the wonderful Sir Ian Holm to play his father . Natalie Portman is truly believable as the girl of his dreams . Jean Smart is unforgettable as Carol , one of his friend's unconventional mothers . Life in New Jersey varies from the very rich to the very poor , rural , suburban , and urban . His story begins with a phone call from his father informing him that his invalid mother drowned in the bathtub . He returns home to New Jersey for the funeral and reunites with old friends . His character is an aspiring Hollywood heterosexual actor who works as a waiter in a Vietnamese restaurant until he gets another acting job . In Hollywood , he's one of thousands aspiring actors out there . I love how he compares Natalie's family to his own .
An Owl , a Hippo , and the Frog !	The cast and crew of this children's show was first rate in my opinion . In fact , I sometimes catch it occasionally . It was one of the funniest and best shows of that time . I remember watching it when I was a child . I loved Henrietta Hippo and Freddy the Frog and the smart Owl . They were joined by human counterparts like Emmy Jo and the guy and Fran Ryan as Ms . Goodbody . The show was never that much of a hit but among kids like myself who watched it years later . I always enjoyed the silly costumes , the seventies hair and make-up , costumes , and set design . It wasn't anything like it is today as it is with technology but the place was friendly and warm and a memorable part of my childhood .
One of the most entertaining half-hours on television today ?	I don't care much for negative reviews . I have watched soaps most of my life and Bold and the Beatufiul is one of the best soaps on the air . I love Susan Flannery as matriarch , Stephanie Forrester . Of course , the cast is first rate with actors and actresses like Ronn Moss , Darlene Conley , Colleen Dion , etc . This show was Bill and Lee Phillip Bell's second soap and it's one of the most popular soaps on the air today . The style is very similar to it's sister show , THe YOung and the Restless . Sometimes , I don't care for the story lines but I do find the show's history enduring . It came on in 1987 and there is always that rumor that it will be extended to an hour . They never have or intend too in my opinion . The show has a steady cast of players that have been on since day one which is a good sign . The fact that they set it in a major city like Los Angeles and it has succeeded immeasurably shows that major cities can be daytime drama settings . Some have failed like Ryan's Hope which was set in NEw York City . I wish there were more soaps out there in the waiting . I don't want to see American soaps become an endangered species .
Almost Brilliant Comedy !	Rowan Atkinson delivers an unforgettable performance as the clueless Mr . Bean who never goes far without his Teddy Bear . The appeal of Mr . Bean is largely his childish behavior and innocence . We don't know if he came from the sky or another planet . He is the kind of strange character that you can't make up quite easily . He is often alone and used to it . He has a hard time communicating through speech which might be why we only hear his grunts at times . There are other characters who speak to him and he responds . The character of Mr . Bean is a mystery and still is . He lives alone and does the unthinkable when he can do the sensible thing . Mr . Bean is rather an odd man out who does not mind it much . He rather live a simple life with his yellow car and teddy bear and hopes to get to work on time .
Deserved to be a Hit !	I remember this show fondly because it was filmed in New York City on location without a laugh track or studio audience which was quite a departure for a sitcom about a single woman in the thirties played by the wonderful Blair Brown as Molly Dodd . She must deal with her mother played by the equally wonderful Allyn Ann McLerie . I don't remember ever seeing Molly's brother and sister twins , Mamie and Dwight Dodds who lived in the suburbs . Molly's single life is far from the Sex in the City girls . It was more realistic and believable about Molly trying to find the right man and job . I remember it first on network later on lifetime before it ceased completely from television . The cast and crew were first rate and the writing was simply wonderful just like Molly's life .
Not the movie ticket place !	I remember Fandango when it aired on then The Nashville Network back in the eighties . It was followed by a comedy show set in Nashville as well . I remember this game show but I never did master it because you needed to know the names of songs especially country songs . Gone are those days when country music was actual country music . I don't know much about the new country music today because I think it's like our pop music . THe sound is a little different but it's not that much different . Fandango was truly the jeopardy for country music fans . My sister made me watch this show instead of anything else on television at the time . I think Country Music Television should have something like this back on the air but I don't have COuntry Music Television and the Nashville Network has become The National Television Network and most recently Spike television , the lifetime channel for men . But during the TNN days , this show was quite entertaining even if you were a kid who had seen all the reruns of other shows .
An Excellent Mini-Series !	I have to say that Mimi Rogers gives probably the performance of a lifetime playing Melody Woodman , a rich and wealthy Jewish housewife in Los Angeles , California . Her husband Stewart Woodman is played by Elliot Gould who really shows his acting ability playing this despicable son , father , brother , and husband . The Woodman murders is really a crime that should not be forgotten . It's about greed , jealousy , and a hunger for wealth and power . The Woodmans became one of the wealthiest and prominent families but their three sons were at war over the family fortune . Kim Hunter plays the matriarch Mrs . Woodman , a loving and kind grandmother , whose marriage to Mr . Woodman is not what it appears to be . She is a good , loyal , and dedicated wife . Their marriage would have been better if they were poor because money doesn't buy you happiness . The elder Woodmans are murdered after ending their fast on Yom Kippur . The relatives suspect the couple's own sons involved in this hideous crime . Nicole Thom from The Nanny has a memorable role as Stewart and Melody's daughter . Emmy winner Bonnie Bartlett plays Melody's very understanding mother . I miss these mini-series about real crime because they really go into detail .
Now Read Very Carefully , I shall say it only once .	Allo Allo may not be offensive as it sounds . I even watched this show in Poland . A sitcom about WWII , Germans , French , British , in a small French town at a small cafe , Renee's . He owns it with his idiot wife , Edith , who helps her ailing , bedridden mother , and hides 2 British airman in her wardrobe / closet . Renee has enough on his plate with his constant infidelity relationships to his servant girls . He always comes up with an excuse to have them in his arms at one time or another . The French resistance and the French communist resistance only complicates Renee's already complicated life . Despite the fact , that the leader of the communist resistance is also in love with Renee too . Michele of the French resistance always says " Now listen very carefully , I shall say this only once . " There's plenty of laughs to watch and enjoy on this show . Don't miss it .
An Awful Title but a Quality Show !	Anton Rodgers is better known to me for his role on the other British comedy , " May to December . " On this show , he plays alongside the amazing Julia McKenzie , a well known British musical actress . The pairing of them as a couple with an empty nest syndrome . Rodgers plays William , the beloved husband to Hester played very well by Julia McKenzie . The other cast members include Hester's mother who lives just across the driveway and her friend Sonia played by Ann Beach . Anyway , I only caught glimpses of this show the first time around but NJN has brought Fresh Fields which is also the name of a supermarket chain and a legal firm on Fleet Street in London , England . With the kids grown and gone , Hester is left to fend for herself and keeps busy by jogging , joining the local community center and pottery classes , and cooking French food . Anyway , I recommend Fresh Fields because it is a well done show for mature audiences who love British comedy . Somebody compared Julia to Lucille Ball and I couldn't agree more . She has a wonderful singing voice as well and a good comedic voice too .
Just in time for Halloween	Diabolique is an excellent film . It has terrific actors like Simone Signoret . What makes it terrific is the suspense and horror that goes with it . From beginning to end , it is a film in time for Halloween . It will make you shiver with suspense . That the truth is stranger than fiction . It is a twisted version of the Children's Hour . The Black and white version is better than any colorized version . I watched a dubbed English version . To see it is to believe the " diabolique . " I would have loved to have seen the French version without subtitles to improve my French but this tape was worth the price and it's frighteningly good beyond belief . The ending is worth watching again and again . The film is well-written and acted .
A Great Modern Version of Shakespeare's Classic	My college professor says that Othello may be Shakespeare's finest drama . I don't know if I agree with him yet . I bought this video version of the film . First I love Kenneth BRanagh as Iago , he was perfectly complicated and worked very well in this adaptation . SUrprisingly , he didn't direct it but played a role . Lawrence Fishburne shows that American actors can play Shakespeare just as well as British actors can do . not that there was a British vs . American issue about it . In fact , if we all work together then Shakespeare can reach the masses which it richly deserves to do . Apart from other Shakespeare tragedies , this is dealt with the issue of race . Something that has existed since the beginning of time . The relationship between Iago and Emilia could have been better and shown the complicatedness of their union together . While Othello loves Desdemona with all his heart , he is weak for jealousy and fears losing her to a non-Moorish man like Cassio . It's quite a great scene at the end of the film but I won't reveal the ending . IT's just worth watching . I think they edited much of the lines to 2 hours but they always edit Shakespeare .
I could see it on Broadway !	The Court Jester's film version has dancing and music as well as a storyline about the court jester played by the wonderful Danny Kaye . The great ( not dame yet ) Angela Lansbury CBE plays the beautiful Gwendolyn who doesn't want to marry Griswold . The great ( not dame yet or honored at all ) Glynis Johns plays maid Jean . She fits right in with the boys of Robin Hood of Sherwood Forest . The film version is colorful with great costumes , art direction , and scenery to recreate the Arturian times . The cast is first rate that includes Sir Basil Rathbone along others as well . The film is smart enough not to be corny and to poke fun at itself . Like the scene with the baby who holds the mark , Kaye's character suggests that a woman should hold the baby . Gwendolyn states " if you love him ( Griswold ) so much , then you marry him " to her own father , the King and ruler of Camelot . It could be adapted to a Broadway musical since most of Broadway musicals are now being adapted from films anyway .
Funny , tragic , sad , and yet very watchable !	How many fans out there can say they have a more dysfunctonal family than Royal Tenenbaum ? You can raise your hands . Every family even the the geniuses are dysfunctional . I was impressed with the writing although I thought it was set in another decade . The car and wardrobe seem to indicate an earlier time period . I thought this was a New York City story but I think it happens in the Bronx . Maybe it is set there but it's not the Bronx that we as fans imagined it to be . The Bronx representation of this film is one where even elite intellectuals like the Tenenbuams can live and have pride in . Even though , the film never says New York City at all which is a great puzzler to me . I thought Gene Hackman gave an Oscar nominated worthy performance as the father of this dysfunctional family . Angelica Huston who I usually see as strong was shown as vulnerable in this role and yet strong as well as Etheline . I liked Ben Stiller who shows that yes he can act besides do comedy . I was surprised by Gwyneth Paltrow's performance as the depressing , private , closet smoker Margot . I don't understand why she is adopted by this family in the first place . They have two sons . Ben's character is afraid after his wife's death in a plane crash . Owen Wilson's character is the brother , a tennis player burnout . I don't know if Dudley is his son or that would make sense . I did like Danny Glover as the man who loved Etheline . It's nice to see interracial romances portrayed as normal as you can get with this film . By the end , you become sad for these characters .
A good quality show with a great cast !	Kate & Allie was one of my favorite shows when I grew up . It was also one of the few NYC based sitcoms filmed in New York City . Jane Curtin and Susan St . James play divorced best friends who live together after their divorces with their children in a Greenwich Village apartment . Of course , the apartment is unrealistically huge and is only affordable for the millionaires . The writing is genuinely funny and worth while to watch . It was one of the best comedies in the eighties . I remember when CBS's Monday Night was the place to be with shows like this on the air . Those days are long gone now . As for the rumors that they were supposed to be a couple , maybe that would be on television today . Sadly , it's not uncommon for sisters with their children to live together . I always assumed that Kate and Allie were more like sisters rather than best friends . Back in 1984 , two divorced women living together with their children would not have sparked the controversy . They went to high school together and they dated men as well . Their arrangement was platonic but they were family without anything offensive . Maybe they should have written them as sisters to avoid the controversy . The network insisted the show ending with them going to separate beds at the end of each episode to avoid that speculation .
Highway to Heaven with Two Angels !	Okay , Highway to Heaven was one of those feel-good dramas with a heart and soul . Of course , Michael Landson's last show brought us one of his finest acting performances as angel sent to earth to help the mortals make amends with their loved ones , relatives , friends , and themselves . All the episodes had a heart and soul kind of feeling that made you want to reach out and grab a handkerchief . This show was one of the better shows of the 1980s . Sadly , Michael Landon and Victor French died shortly later . They both acted wonderfully as friends , travelling companions and nothing more on a journey that took them all over the country . We don't have shows like Highway to Heaven anymore and I hope they will bring it to DVD soon .
Silly , gay ( no not in that way ) but it a light-hearted pleasing sense !	I don't know why talented actors like Kenneth Branagh revel in William Shakespeare's works . I am sure there are other writers out there like Ibsen , Chekhov , Pinter , and many others . This film adaptation is a splendid example of bringing American actors like Denzel Washington , Keanu Reeves , Michael Keaton , and Robert Sean Leonard to doing Shakespeare with Kenneth BRanagh , Richard Briers , Emma Thompson and her mother Phyllida Law , KAte Beckinsale , Brian Blessed . This film adaptation is quite lovely to look at in the first place . Everybody is happy and alive in FLorence , Italy . Phyllida and Emma looked tanned and quite happy there . At the time of the film , Emma and Kenneth were married and supposed to be the heirs to Vivien Leigh and Laurence Olivier . Sadly like them , they both split up after the movie . I suppose it has to do with Ken and Emma's egos or whatever . At that time , I guess we all wanted them to be madly in love . Two attractive and cerebral people like Ken and Emma get together . It was not meant to be I guess in real life . The film is worthy to watch because it's William Shakespeare being silly , witty , and comical rather than tragic and sad . I have to say Emma's mother , Phyllida Law , has become one of the busiest actresses of her age since the 1990s . She works more than her two daughters combined . I look at her and I can see her own talent . She comes quite alive and happy in this film version . Maybe Phyllida will get an O . B . E . someday before Emma . I hope so .
A Superior British classic film with Dame Judi Dench giving a great role .	I saw this film aboard a Virgin Atlantic flight from New York to London . I like the film overall but I wouldn't call it a great film . It is a superior , old fashioned classic film set during wartime . I love Thelma Barlow of Coronation Street playing Mrs . Henderson's friend . Thelma is long overdue for a British honor herself like an M . B . E . ( Member of the Order of the British Empire ) . She does very well with Dame Judi Dench's grand dame performance as wealthy Mrs . Henderson . The film moves smoothly and it is based on a true story . I love watching Bob Hoskins play the real Vivian Van Dam , the theater manager . Hoskins is long overdue for an Oscar and a British honor himself perhaps a C . B . E . ( Commander of the Order of the British Empire ) . While this film is okay , it's not the kind of quality for a best picture that the academy looks for . Dame Judi Dench may get another nomination for Best Actress in this film and if she wins , great but it has been a disappointing year overall in films for the actresses . When she should have won for Mrs . Brown , she lost to Helen Hunt and won the following year which she should not have had to playing 8 minutes of Queen Elizabeth I in " Shakespeare in Love . " When will the academy award the right actresses and actors like Dame Judi Dench and Bob Hoskins at the appropriate times . I would be thrilled to see Thelma Barlow on that list for supporting actress though .
Stop Being Serious and Start Having Fun !	Ellen DeGeneres is one of the best known lesbian talk show hostesses around . That's because she does not use her show to preach or force people to accept her lifestyle . Her show has fans that range from conservative Christians to left wing liberals like myself who do appreciate that Ellen uses her show for good rather than protesting . I think that's why she went away . She allowed her sexual orientation to define her rather than having her own identity . I think she's better than that because she does admit to it upfront . Audiences do want honesty and truthfulness . They don't care about it but they don't want to be deceived or lied too . It's better to be clean and upfront about her personal life especially if you are doing a television show like this . While I think she's secured a niche in daytime television , she uses her comedic humor to poke fun as life in general . I think she's best when she's non-political because we already have enough politics for the next year with this 2008 election . I don't understand why she's winning Emmys because even though she's great most of the time . The show's momentum has passed . It can be silly , serious , and straightforward at times . She dances in the beginning because we don't get enough of it . Ellen might be a great role model for lots of confused teens out there but she is seen as a great role model for all of us because we don't have to grow up and stop having fun . I think that's what the message of her show is about , stop being serious and having fun .
Sometimes better than SNL	I always loved MadTV since it's debut . How did they get their cast ? They went out in a truck and recruited a couple of prostitutes , pimp , a suicidal woman , a homeless veteran , and an overweight crossing guard . They are some fabulous skits like " That's my White Mama ! " with Artie Lange as fat white man who has the soul of a black woman . Ms . Vancome is always vocal about her bigoted opinions . Ms . Swan is a priceless character of sheer irritation . They spoof the President Bush and Clintons needlessly . They even did a good spoof of ER where everybody in the show is getting ready to leave . I thought that made a strong criticism of the show . Finally , sometimes they do things that SNL won't do or forget to do . I love SNL and MadTV . I just wish MadTv would start at 10 : 30pm than 11pm . so I don't have to debate which to tape . I hope MadTv last as long as SNL .
Except for the Ending , this is a classic film !	This film follows Roman Polanski's mindset . By the time , he directed Chinatown , Polanski had survived the Holocaust in Poland and survived the Manson trial . I know Polanski is guilty of molesting a young girl and fled the country . Those events occurred after this film . For the record , Jack Nicholson is brilliant as Jake , a man with a conscious . Fay Dunaway is brilliant as Mrs . Mulray and the legendary John Huston acting as her father is bone-chilling . The film is the story about life in Los Angeles during the great depression when it was nothing at the time before all the development . It's hard to believe that Los Angeles was once a small town that prospered into the entertainment capital of the world . It has become one of the world's priciest places to live in or around . The story is well-known especially about the relationship between Mrs . Mulray and her father , Mr . Cross . But in 1974 , they never would have revealed such truths . After all , Huston plays a powerful wealthy businessman and investor . I am giving it a nine because I dislike the ending . It's chilling for me to see the wrong person to be killed and another character on the way to be victimized .
Penelope Keith runs this show !	Penelope Keith CBE OBE is better remembered for her roles as Audrey Fforbes-Hamilton in " To the Manor Born " and " The Good Life " as Marjery Ledbetter . In this series which was prematurely shortened , she and William Gaunt plays parents and grandparents who must raise their three orphaned grandchildren after their son and daughter-in-law have died in a car accident . The children are now orphaned and now must be raised by their grandparents who are not normally affectionate towards children even their own son . The news and circumstances that they must endure but the writers do a splendid job in bringing the unlikely pair of grandparents who probably would prefer traveling the world rather than raising their own grandchildren . This show could have been a hit if it was allowed too .
Missing Info ! but faithful to the Glaspell's play !	It should be Trifles which is faithful to the Susan Glaspell one act play of the same name . It would have been nice to have the cast and crew names to note and compliment or criticize them there but I don't know their names or I would do the deed . Anyway , the short film is faithful to the one act play and it's superbly done . Susan Glaspell would be proud to see this film . The actresses do an admirable job in portraying the local townswomen and the actors do an adequate job in probing the case against an unhappy married woman who kills her husband but why . I won't spoil it . You just have to watch if possible . I was lucky because my college professor , Ellen Gruber Garvey , worked on the film with the director in the film crew but even she's not listed nor is the cast and crew which is a terrible shame because they deserve to be recognized .
It's Johnny Cash !	When Academy Award nominee Joaquim Phoenix was researching Johnny Cash , he mentioned this Columbo episode in particular . Johnny Cash plays a man who is very similar in some respects to his real personality . They're both musicians and singers but that's it . Johnny's character is a recovering criminal who married Ida Lupino's character who is overly zealous about God and religion . When her character learns of her husband's straying with younger girls , he decides to off them on the plane but survives . Anyway , I love watching Johnny Cash and Peter Falk together . I love the scene where Columbo researches parachutes and goes into the sewing room where the woman thinks she is losing her mind . Anyway , I remember that scene in particular as he tries to figure out how he did it . In the end , it's just worth watching . It's for Johnny Cash fans especially . He would have been a wonderful actor as well as singer .
God Bless the Cavanaughs !	I remember the Cavanaughs particularly Barnard Hughes and Christine Ebersole playing father and daughter . I apologize but my memory could be wrong . Anyway , they did a very good job on the show . The sitcom could have been a hit but CBS had too many other sitcoms on the air at the time . Unfortunately , I don't remember it being about stereotypes about being Irish Catholic . I'm Polish Catholic so I related to the family relationships . I was a kid when this show aired on television . It was one of the few shows that ever gave us Catholic characters at that time . Maybe they wanted Barnard Hughes to be the Catholic Archie Bunker , the show didn't last long because there were too many shows and not enough airtime . It may have succeeded in syndication if given that opportunity . It was just another good show that never really evolved on it's own .
An Almost Perfect Biographical film of Holmes !	First , the casting of Lewis Calhern as Oliver Wendell Holmes and Ann Harding as his wife , Fanny Bowditch Holmes , is perfect together . The film is set around Holmes ' life as a Supreme Court Justice with the late Louis Brandeis who was the first Jewish member of the supreme court . The film is first rate and the script could use a little work . This film is an example of old Hollywood at it's brilliance with class , style , and a terrific cast and crew . The film's historical basis allows the story to be told easily . You can't help but enjoy Harding and Calhern on the screen as a loving couple . They don't make such high quality films anymore where it's character driven . I watched this film this morning and I couldn't take my eyes off Calhern as he played the late Oliver Wendell Holmes nor Ann Harding as his wife . The film is a perfect example of what thrived in Old Hollywood in it's golden era . It's never recovered from days where veterans like Harding and Calhern and many others worked five films per year .
Oh Canada !	I would love to see more comedies out of Canada . Most of today's American comedies are downright dumbed down to the audience of the young and the restless . Anyway , I was surprised that I actually enjoyed watching this show mixed in with the British comedies on NJN . I love Canada . I was watching the episode which was well-written about pretty boy anchorman who enjoys doing stories on pets in Kabul . I love his school teacher who said that he had a great voice and looked great enough to be doing something that wouldn't require too much thinking or intelligence . Anyway , this anchorman gets kidnapped while on assignment . The ransom was 2 million American dollars not Canadian but it was brought down to 1700 Canadian dollars because the reporter captured wasn't anybody worth keeping . Of course , his boss was on the shortlist for an Order of Canada . If you don't know what the Order of Canada is , it's like the Order of the British Empire or Order of Australia with no knights or dames . Well the boss was on the shortlist until his anchorman gets kidnapped and he gets bumped . By the time the shortlist comes out after Jim Walcott's unflattering tapes of his past surface and he gets bumped off . Who gets on the list is the substitute female anchor . It's all political but it shouldn't be in the Order of Canada . Oh well , God Bless Canada .
The Answer to Our Prayers !	The Blue Collar Comedy Tour has launched a successful comedy show not filmed in New York or Hollywood but in Atlanta , Georgia at a local theater . Sadly , the yuppies in New York and Hollywood don't understand the rest of the country . We're not all ignorant , bigoted blue collar trailer trash as the elite might think about when it comes to audiences . The reason that these comedians have become famous and rich without losing their touch with middle America . I've loved blue collar humor because I grew up in working class union community . I don't know what country clubs are like nor do I plan to join one . The Blue Collar TV show is the answer to our prayers when we feel down about our personal , financial situation . At least , we can expect to see these guys around a lot more making fun of themselves , their families , friends , and of course , it's audience without malice .
A Classic Canadian Show !	I always wished that Degrassi Junior High admitted that they were set in Canada . They always seem to omit the city location . I remember spending my weekends watching Degrassi Junior High on our PBS stations with my friends . We were about the same age as the cast . Let's not forget those awful clothes that the cast of characters wore . The show never ignored away from serious subjects such as teenage pregnancy , homosexuality , poverty , drugs , abortion , alcoholism , etc . It was the kind of show that teens should be shown to show that they are not alone in the world nor are they alone in getting trouble . I have to say that the first season with Arthur and Stephanie was worth watching . I remember the identical twin girls , Spike's pregnancy , Snake's brother who comes out of the closet and gets disowned , etc . The teens were never treated like superstars . They dealt with big topics in ways that I wished adults would deal with . The show was a big hit .
A Great Cast but missed opportunities !	This show had a great cast featuring Oscar Winner Ellen Burstyn with Elaine Stritch playing her mother and Megan Mullaly playing the daughter with a young son . Sadly , the show never caught on to public attention . But with great cast , how could you go wrong ? Well , this was the era of nothing but sitcoms and now we have nothing but reality shows and dramas . In the 1980s , New York City tried to bring back comedy shows to prime time . Unfortunately , New York City never accomplished in even a close victory aside it's main rival , Hollywood or Los Angeles . The network lost a good opportunity but not allowing this show to grow and expand . It had a talented cast and the writing could have gotten better in time . Sitcoms take time to develop an audience .
Cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs !	That's what nurse Linda said as she brought in Sean's next patient . At this rate , Sean feels second best , his ego hurt because a client preferred Christian over him for surgery . Anyway , Willy Ward is ventriloquist who wants plastic surgery to look more like his dummy Ralphie . I know what you're thinking and just remember the episode with Catherine Denueve as a widow who wants her beloved ashes placed in her breasts . So Willy's sad , pathetic and lonely but then who isn't ? Sean feels like Christian's puppet and wants to separate from the hand that seems to control him . Anyway , Willy is well-played by this actor . It's kind of sad that he treats Ralphie as real with his own bed and locked up in the closet as if not to see Willy . It's a powerful moment in the show . Anyway Christian and Michelle have other worries like Gina , Wilbur's birth mother , and James , a far more dangerous friend . Well in the end , we find out who James was really working for and now Michelle is going to wish that she hadn't gone away at all . Anyway , Matt and Kimber are having problems in the bedroom and that has some laughs for us .
Almost Perfect ! Left Wanting More !	Dame Helen Mirren ends perhaps her most famous role besides that of Queens . Jane Tennison DCI is one of the most original female characters that television has produced in recent years . She is almost unforgettable . When Dame Helen Mirren first started , few people knew who she was and now everybody knows in the world that she is one of the finest acting talents from Britain . I knew she was in 1986 when I saw her play a maid in a Titanic film . As Jane Tennison , Helen Mirren embodies the role with such complexity that it seems so easy and natural . Jane approaches retirement with one last case but you know that Jane has lived for this job . They have this marriage between them . In the final installment of this legendary series , Helen and Jane bow out gracefully in the end . Jane battles alcoholism , loneliness , and her father's pending death . She reunites and befriends AA member , Bill Otley , played by Tom Bell shortly before his death . I felt the parents of the missing girl were quite believable in their roles . Jane's pending retirement is beset by loss , wonder , and disappointment . In the end , she bounces back , makes a shattering discoveries about the case , and you wonder what would happen to Jane Tennison that you want more . Maybe she is lecturing on crime techniques at a university or other British police officers . One can only hope that this is not the last we see of Dame Helen Mirren as Jane Tennison .
Sally Field and Joanne Woodward's Best Film	Forget Sally's other movies , Sybil is her best performance to date even though it is a television miniseries . It beats film . Sally and Joanne give compelling performances as patient and psychiatrist relationship . Sybil's no ordinary person , she has 16 personalities inside her . Dr . Wilbur has to help her dig out the painful memories from her childhood . For people who do not understand multiple personality disorder , people like Sybil have suffered early childhood torture and horror at the hands of adults . Sybil's personalities help her exist in the present world even though she would be considered crazy by normal standards but she's not . She's a tragic human being who was tortured by her mother as a small child . She took an alternative route by creating her personalities to survive the painful torture and exist in the world . People like Sybil do exist in our world unfortunately , they should be treated with kindness and understanding rather than prejudice and poor judgment . Sybil's mother was classified as a paranoid schizophrenia but she was untreated herself in the small town . She spent most of her days abusing Sybil . We must not allow this to happen again . Sybil is the story of a survivor .
Let the Good Times Roll	Good Times was a groundbreaking comedy about the first nuclear black family living in the Chicago projects . Whether or not , you live in the inner cities , ghettos , suburbs , or rural countryside , this show is still a treasure to watch and observe a family being just a family rather than a show about a poor black family . But they don't dwell on it . They find humor and have strong family values and morals . Despite the story behind the scenes , this show was worth keeping on the air except I didn't like them killing off the father which I agreed with Esther Rolle who fought hard to keep the family together . But despite all the fights behind the scenes , Good Times was a show about a family . We all loved JJ's dynamite and his antics . We watched Janet Jackson's Penny grow up a little . This show was groundbreaking to show despair in drugs , gangs , and alcoholism . Without being to preachy , The Evans always tried to do the right thing rather than do something wrong to get out of the ghetto .
First Entertainment Show and Probably the Best ! ! !	Okay , Entertainment Tonight may have lost it's way with the whole Anna Nicole Smith baby , Dannielynn Birkhead , and about her life . But for most part , Entertainment tonight was a classic must-see television experience for those of us who study entertainment and those of us who wanted to be part of the business . Sadly , it's not for everybody because I never got to Hollywood or New York City for that matter to work as an actress . I'm a terrible actress but that's okay . Entertainment Tonight has been a Hollywood mainstay but I think over the years that the show has deteriorated because the audiences prefer listening and watching celebrities like Lindsay Lohan and Britney Spears . The celebrity class has definitely gone downhill since the millennium . I don't blame Entertainment Tonight because they did provide rare interviews and stories with those golden age of celebrities . For years , I watched it as a source of information and entertainment . I loved watching the show's relationship with the old celebrities of the past and present . Today's celebrities don't have the same class as their predecessors and it's a tragedy because the show did pay attention to everybody from soaps , radio , television , music and film . You know you've made it in Hollywood when they announce your birthday on entertainment tonight .
Creepy & Spooky !	Okay , the Addams family is not for everybody . It was kind of the first family on television to be different . First , you have a beautiful seductive mother , Morticia , with lovely long black hair and dressed often in black , and her equally strange husband played by John Astin . Carolyn Jones devoured the role of Morticia that you didn't recognize her at all later on in her years . Mr . and Mrs . Addams have two children , a girl named Wednesday and a son who were both equally strange . Their home had characters like Uncle Fester and their home was equally frightening as well as enchanting . This show is perfect for Halloween marathons . While the Addams ' family was strange , it showed that not all families were like the others on television like the Cleavers , the Nelson , and others . My biggest complaint is that they cancelled the show prematurely which didn't let it grow and the reruns are never tiresome .
Sorry , Mayor Giuliani , I can't forgive you for this cancellation !	This Friday is the last episode of Another World . A show beloved by a significant number of fans of all ages comes to an end after 35 years . Another World will be missed so much . It was a show character and story driven . Sometimes silly , sometimes touching , funny , and poignant . The love affair between Mac Cory and Rachel Hobson was one love story that could have lasted forever was cut short by Douglass Watson's untimely death . Vicky Wyndham has been the courageous matriarch of this show ever sine 1972 . She has made Rachel Cory Hutchings , from a plain outcast to the lovable socialite . I'll miss so much about Another World . I think Cass WInthrop , Frankie Frame , and Kathleen McKinnon would have had such a wonderful threesome together . Felicia Gallant was truly another fun character . My favorite moments are with Carl Hutchings and his son , Ryan . Before the truth of Ryan's parentage , their relationship was great . Then the truth , I wished I had saved those episodes of the realization and Ryan's reluctance to accept this criminal as his father . He arrested his own father and that night in prison together . I'll also miss Grant and Cindy ' s relationship too . I wished that I had saved those tapes and watched them from the beginning . They were my favorite couple to love and hate one another at the same time . So long Another World , you have a very special place in my heart . Right now , I will never forgive Mayor Rudolph Guiliani who allowed his former wife to make a cameo on the show but never bothered to save the show itself . 35 years of television history in favor of another Law and Order spin off . I don't care that anybody thinks I'm crazy for not forgiving Mayor Giulani for not lifting a hand . Now there are only 4 one hour daytime dramas filmed in New York City out of 9 on American television today . Every time , a show like Another World is cancelled , cast and crew members lose their jobs and face unemployment like the rest of us . Of course , a daytime actor lacks respect and payment compared to the wining babies over at ER . Sorry , Mayor Giulani , I can't forgive you for not saving this show from cancellation . But I guess you really wanted to host Saturday Night Live which is only live 20 times a year . Another World had an average of a 180 episodes per year .
Why everybody loves this show ?	Everybody loves Raymond was a labor of love for the cast and crew for nine seasons . It maintained a steady helping of humor , love , and family relationships without missing a beat during those nine seasons . The whole of adult actors like Ray Romano , Peter Boyle , Doris Roberts , Brad Garrett , and Patricia Heaton really brought about the lives of the Barone family with both humor and love . Each episode is worth watching from the first to the last . During those nine years , Emmys went to both Patricia Heaton and Doris Roberts who both earned them multiple times . Patricia as Debra is almost flawless as is Doris playing Marie at times . No matter how many times that Marie can irritate us , she's playing the role of mother very well . Peter Boyle who is no longer with us was wonderful as the Barone patriarch Frank . Him and Marie were fabulous together . Ray and Debra's relationship was believable . Don't forget the endless guest appearances by the likes of Robert Culp and Katherine Helmond as Debra's liberal parents , Fred Willard and Georgia Engel as Amy's WASPy Pennsylvania parents who would become family at Robert and Amy's wedding , Chris Elliott who plays Amy's weird brother , Jean Stapleton appears once as Marie's sister , Sherri Shepherd playing Robert's professional police partner , and others too mention . They once took the gang to Italy for a couple of episodes . This is one of the last great family comedies on the air that did not spend enormous amount of time with the children as the central part of the show . Everybody Loves Raymond will remain forever in syndication now .
The near perfect adaptation of Shakespeare's classic !	This adaptation is probably the finest involving Romeo and Juliet . Olivia Hussey is superb and so is the young Michael York as Tybalt . Milo Shea plays the friar who helps Romeo and Juliet . It's a tragedy . We all know the story but after viewing it in my high school days , I can't imagine a better film to show adolescents about Romeo and Juliet who were doomed from the beginning . The story of Romeo and Juliet is as old as time . The director does a superb job in recreating the magic , fire , and romance on screen in this film . We believe that we are transformed into their world of Verona , Italy . After seeing this film many times , I tried to watch other adaptations but anything fails in comparison to this classic Romeo and Juliet . The costumes are precise and beautiful . The scenery is lovely and of course the acting is all done seriously and brilliant at the same time . This film deserved it's nominations and awards . It's not easy to take Shakespeare and make it unforgettable but the director has sure done his job .
Rest in Peace , Lana Clarkson !	Oh what might have been if Lana Clarkson had finally gotten the break she deserved in this cruel industry of Hollywood . In only a couple of minutes , she plays Janine who works for a Nantucket plastic surgeon . Even in only the couple of minutes she was on the air , she was radiant , funny , and talented . She had it all except the opportunity to strut her talents . She was no dumb blonde at all . In fact , she was beautiful , smart , and funny . I only wished that her death wouldn't overshadow her career which was her life . Anybody could have done the job but Lana in this episode gives a hundred percent . I wonder what might have been if she had gotten the dream job that she richly deserved in life . I only wished there was more of her in this episode or that the producers brought her back to play one of Brian Hackett's many girlfriends . She was great .
Very Entertaining !	Soap stars Ian Buchanan from General Hospital and the always beautiful Deirdre Hall from Days of Our Lives are involved in a disappearance and possible murder of a publisher . Of course , this brings a slew of much needed publicity for a starving magazine . Gigi Rice has a role as well . It's a familiar story with Ian playing a British Hugh Hefner style younger man and his empire in financial ruins . His partner is played by the beautiful Deidre Hall ( she hasn't aged in years ) wants out of the business . Of course , the motive is about money . Columbo episodes try to use simple motives rather than complex and the crimes are always pretty simply done whether it is done with a gun . We are never truly left with a gruesome crime scene in Columbo episodes and that's a good thing because Columbo has always been light-hearted at heart and his interactions with the prime suspect is always fascinating . When he thinks he's wrong , he's not .
Good for the ultimate British comedy fan !	I was in London over the holidays and I finally got to see this show . At first , I was hesitant about it . I felt it was too dry but I learned to like the humor and relationship between Sir David Jason O . B . E . and Nicholas Lyndhurst as brothers . It was realistic and worth watching again . Buster Merryfield should not be forgotten as the third in this odd trio of characters trying to get ahead in life . I was kind of sad when they finally got there . It seemed that their life before money was far richer and more interesting than when they had little and was struggling like so many of us . You can see why David Jason was knighted and honored for his services to drama . He is a gifted comedian . His fellow cast members , Nicholas Lyndhurst and Buster Merryfield were also perfect to play his brother . I began to really like the show when the three men went away for a weekend and ended up in the worst hotel across the street . The writing is pretty dry so you have to develop a very good taste to watching this show . When there was nothing else on , Only Fools and Horses was worth watching for the laughter , memories , and great cast .
Please no More Rosie O'Donnell	All I can say is that Nip / Tuck never disappoints but the idea of Rosie O'Donnell getting a series based around her character is quite appalling . She just plays herself and she has never really acted before in the same context as the others . I don't know why she came back twice . Just leave her to the View and those talkative hens over there in New York City . If you want to make a series around a guest star , think of Brooke Shields , Larry Hagman , or Ruth Williamson not Rosie . Just put a giant blob in her place . Anyway this episode has Escobar Gallardo returning with his beautiful wife who was mauled and disfigured . Anyway , the scene in the post-operative room will answer some questions about the future of the show . Although you are going to have wait an excruciating nine months for the next season which is just torture to think about it . Anyway , Sean decides to relocate to Hollywood , plastic surgery capital of the world . I won't say much more because I don't want to spoil any surprises for the fans out there . You will just have to watch and see and you won't be disappointed .
An Alternative to the Addams family !	I was more familiar with the Munsters than with the Addams family . I thought the Munsters were more friendly and less threatening and less spooky . The show had a first rate cast that featured Fred Gwynne as Herman Munster , the lovable Frankenstein father figure , Yvonne De Carlo as Lily Munster , the vampire's daughter , and Grandpa played by Al Lewis . Lewis and Gwynne were also in Car 54 together so they worked quite well on this show . I thought the relationships between these characters were more authentic and less serious at times . While they scared their neighbors or would be visitors , the laughter was on the audience because we fell in love with this odd-looking family . Who cares if the grandfather is a vampire who can turn himself into a bat ? Or that the father works as a gravedigger ? Or that lovely Lily Munster looks like a vampire herself ? or that little Eddie Munster looks like a future wolfman ? As long as the family was functional , that they loved each other despite society's disapproving views and looks upon them . The show is still being shown to a new audience and maybe today's audiences will amuse themselves inside the Munster estate at 1313 Mockingbird lane .
An Excellent Short Film !	The acting is above average . I liked April Nicholson playing Mrs . Wright , the grieving mother , and the young man who played an aspiring reporter . The young man's role is that he just lost his mother and is on assignment to ask a grieving mother about pictures of her dead son from a car accident . There is a third character , Tamara , who is like a mentor to the journalist . The cast does a fine job in their performances and I wish them well for the future . The film has a surprising twist without an explanation which is why I am only giving it a nine . The film is short enough to play this story and three characters is defined very quickly . I think they should be proud of this short film but I want to ask what really happened at the end . I am wondering what happened if at all . I think that is what the director wants us to do and discuss what happened .
Send in the Clowns ! ! !	I don't know why we haven't heard of Judy Cohen since this episode . She can break your heart singing Stephen Sondheim's Send in the Clowns . She plays herself as an aspiring singer who beats herself down very much because she is overweight and not the classic beauty . J . J . takes to her because he is need of a good act in the music business . His previous act fell apart and he takes on Judy as a client . They have a short working relationship because even though everybody loves Judy so does a powerful agent who forces J . J . to make a decision about Judy's career . The episode is powerful and quite interesting to see how Judy interacts and treats J . J . with the same respect and loyalty that he did for her . But for her career , J . J . had to make a difficult decision . Where are you Judy Cohen ? I hope you're still singing your heart out .
It's a fascinating look at Bundy & Ridgway	I had just bought the book , The Riverman , in Ketchikan , Alaska . I was on vacation and I bought it at a drugstore . It is perhaps one of the best books ever written about Bundy . Keppel does not leave anything out regarding Bundy or Ridgway in the book but the film version is conduced to keeping the important facts and information . Those pictures of Bundy's murder victims are real authentic . What other films about Bundy fail to express is what he did with the bodies of his murdered victims afterwards . In order to catch the Green River Killer , he had to befriend Ted Bundy , played admirably by Cary Elwes . He does such an excellent job that it's frightening and often chilling . Cary Elwes is the best Bundy I have ever seen in television movies . He even brings out a sympathetic side to his human monster never before . No , this movie is not for children or squeamish adults . If the viewers watch without much information , they may not be able to grasp the horror of both the Green River and Bundy's legacies . But watch how Bundy uses his knowledge to try to solve one of the world's biggest mysteries . While Bundy did not live long enough to see the Riverman's capture , he died a complete coward and confessed to all his crimes with hopes of saving his own life .
Quite good !	I have to say Crispin Glover was born to play the role of Williard Stiles , a lonely disturbed man beaten down by his boss at work . His mother does not even like his name and changes it to Mark . I like the usage of Bruce Davison's role in the film as Williard's father . Poor Williard , he never had much success with women , work , or friends . So he befriends a white mice that he names Socrates and he chooses him to be his sole companion and friend . That is eerie enough . Big Ben is a huge brown rat who is jealous of Socrates ' place in Williard's life . Williard uses the rats and trains them to become his weapon against his vile soul-less boss , Mr . Martin . First , he uses them to seek revenge . When Socrates is murdered , Williard uses Ben and the thousands of rat followers to seek vengeance on his killer . When Williard loses his mother , we see his loneliness in life and in death . Poor Williard , he is friendless except for his Socrates . It is amazing how the rats know how to behave in this film to be dangerous and murderous . I liked the supporting cast which includes Jacie Burroughs playing poor Mrs . Stiles and Laura Elena Harring , the only human friend Williard has at all . The ending makes us want more and a sequel could just do that . Crispin Glover rarely gets to use his acting ability in other works until now . He allows the audiences to see his potential as a lead actor and not just a supporting actor . I am giving the film a 9 score because I think they could have explored Williard's painful childhood and explain the man that he becomes in this film .
Take out your handkerchiefs !	I think this film is a very good television movie that did not receive a lot of credit or attention . Interracial romances have always been controversial from L . A . Law to All My Children . Remember Michelle Greene got more hate mail regarding her kiss of African American actor , Blair Underwood , than when she kissed female Amanda Donohoe and that was in the early nineties . Courtney B . Vance plays an African American soldier during World War II who meets and falls in love with Kerry Fox's character , an unhappy wife of a British soldier and mother . The casting is excellent with Ned Beatty and Rolf Saxon reminding the African American soldiers to keep their hands off the British women . I felt this film showed another side of the war . It was just as ugly . The segregation of black and white soldiers is unforgivable part of American history . I disliked the unhappy ending so I gave it a 9 but other than that . I felt this is a movie that should be seen and discussed about for years to come .
Bring back the after school specials ! We Need Them !	Seasonal Differences had a great cast including the wonderful , incomparable Uta Hagen as a Holocaust survivor Omi and family matriarch . Her Jewish American granddaughter played by Canadian actress Megan Follows who is under-rated , is dating a non-Jewish boy . Friction occurs at school when the nativity scene raises highbrows and causes problems among religions . What I remember most about this after-school special was the seriousness and delicate approach that was made to understanding two people from different religions , Judaism and Christianity . The special was special because it taught and displayed religion as a positive rather than negative around the holiday time . When her boyfriend and Omi talk about Christmas presents , he makes a negative remark but Christmas is about miracles in general . We need miracles no matter what faith you are in this day . Seasonal Differences was a great example of teaching students and teens like I was about respecting and tolerating differences and sharing them and celebrating them too .
Another Classic Britcom ! 4 C . B . E . ' s !	When I heard of Good Neighbors , I didn't think much of it . Then when they began airing it after Waiting for God on WLIW Long Island last year . I became enchanted by a star cast , Richard Briers , Felicity Kendal , Penelope Keith , and the late Paul Eddington . Paul , Richard , and Felicity have been honoured with a C . B . E . ( Commander of the British Empire ) . Richard and Penelope also received the O . B . E . ( Officer of the British Empire ) and now have C . B . E . ' s as well . It's so amusing to watch these four talented actors at work . Richard and Felicity's roles as Tom and Barbara Good are wnderfully portrayed with such charm . Felicity has such a wonderful musing face to watch on screen . You can't take your eyes off her . No wonder Richard Briers is one of Kenneth Branagh's favorite actors . He is simply likable . Paul and Penelope's Margot play their neighbors who prefer offices and modern technology to Tom and Barbara's new lifestyle of pigs and crops . You wouldn't know it if you knew that Penelope actually is an avid gardener herself and lives in Surrey from her performance as the socialite , Margot Ledbetter . Good Neighbours actually had a command performance for the Royal Family who were big fans of the show . No wonder , it's a great show .
Yes , Saving Private Ryan got robbed ! But it's still a fine film !	Shakespeare in Love is an alright film . I like the casting of Tom Wilkinson , Imelda Staunton , Judi Dench , Anthony Sher , Gwyneth Paltrow , Ralph Fiennes , Ben Affleck , etc . It really is a first cast . The script is better than good , almost great . The directing is also first rate . But this is where I agree that another film by Steven Spielberg should have won the Best Picture for the Oscar . What Shakespeare lacked , Spielberg well provided for in his triumphant film of the Normandy landing . Yes , Tom Stoppard is a wonderful playwright , very cerebral , and it is a good love story . I don't think it was Paltrow's finest performance to date but then I like Shallow Hal better . The film is worthy to watch for historic and educational purposes . It is also a very entertaining film as well . It has a humorous moments . First of all , Judi should have won an Oscar for a role earlier in her performance in " Her Majesty , Mrs . Brown . " Like another film , she gets honored a year later for an 8 minutes performance ( a record ) . Maybe they forgot Beatrice Straight's performance in Network which won an Oscar as well .
A Promising Director's Impressive Debut Film !	Scott McKinsey is the son of the late soap actress , Beverlee McKinsey . Scott has worked as a director behind the soap scenes for years to earn his status . In this film , he takes a true story of Eddy Patterson , an 18 year old autistic but intelligent and likable sports adult . The actor who plays Eddy does a brilliant job in bringing this character to life . He is played by Brian Presley who could have easily earned nominations if the Hollywood community would pay attention . All Eddy wants to do and dream about is playing for the Los Angeles Clippers so he takes a bus to Los Angeles where he doesn't know anybody or have any money . Thank God for Anna Maria Horsford's character , Carol , who runs the homeless shelter downtown . She relays the task of mentoring to Mike Jeffreys , a former pro basketball player , who is doing community service within the shelter . He is reluctant to be big brother . I was hoping to catch a glimpse of Scott's mother , Beverlee , who retired from acting since 1994 officially in any role capacity . Regardless , Scott is an incredible director and has a promising future .
The show is going on for John !	ABC has done more for this show by allowing television veterans James Garner and David Spade to join the cast of this show . At first , the show was watchable and even predictable with John Ritter and Katey Sagal . John's loss shocked the world . Katey and the three kids are really a solid professional cast . The hour lesson after John's death in real-life struck home to me . I lost my father at 17 years old and could sympathize and understand their pain and agony . ABC should be proud to maintain this show and even preserve this as John's final wish . This show has matured and developed because of such impossible circumstances . They should be rewarded with Emmys .
If the Walls Could Talk , They would tell such stories !	What a season for Nip / Tuck with guest stars like Catherine Deneuve who flew all the way from Paris , France to appear in this show , Brooke Shields who played the stalking psychiatrist Dr . Wolper , Jacqueline Bissett as James , the pimping body part stealer , and the wonderful Larry Hagman who played Bert Landru who died under the wrong circumstances . In this episode which also featured Brenda Vaccaro , Diana Lubay is a European woman who has lived in Miami for 15 years . Well , she wants the doctors to place her husband's ashes into her breasts . Once they do the deed , they learn that she was not married to the man but his longtime mistress . Vaccaro who is always worthy to watch plays the dutiful wife . Anyway the cast also notice Sean's sudden behavior change over Julia's departure . The show also had Christian selling his condo . If only the walls could talk , Christian starts seeing the women in his life like the blind woman , Kimber of course , and the woman who had to put a bag over her head because he didn't find her attractive . Well , Mario Lopez reprises his role as the fit plastic surgeon . I liked the scenes with Christian trying to close the door on his past . I don't care for his relationship with Michele . I'm sure the end will come soon enough for the season but I can't wait 9 months for the next season . It's too long .
A Very Funny Movie !	The movie is first rate with a great acting ensemble like Ron Livingston better known for his leading role in Office Space , Emmy Winner Christine Baranski playing his adoptive mother , Edward Herrmann as his adoptive father . His adoptive parents are conservative WASPY and prominent country club member folks living in suburban Chicago . Neve Campbells plays his loving and supportive fianc . Beverly D'Angelo is almost unrecognizable as his tacky future mother-in-law . Of course , the movie gets wild when he is introduced to the Menures played by Oscar winner Kathy Bates and Danny DeVito as the traveling carnival trailer park folks who are the complete opposite of his adoptive parents . It brings the argument of nature v . nurture . Bates and DeVito really liven things up after only a weekend which lasts longer when their trailer is destroyed by a tornado in Illinois . There is a moment where he imagines his birth parents to be intelligent , elitist , and left wingers only to get the Menures . The movie was just shown on Comedy Central and I'm sure we'll be seeing it again and again if Comedy Central knows what it's good for !
Okay , you won me over !	First , let me say that I am not big on dramas of any kind . There usually is more drama behind the scenes that is far more interesting than on camera but somehow I am won over by this show's different take . It's filmed and set in Albuquerque , New Mexico with two U . S . Marshalls . The female U . S . Marshall , Mary Shannon , is a tough broad who acts more masculine but her femininity is clearly coming through . If the character was played by an unattractive or homely actress , she would come across as masculine . I think because she is attractive that she is more likely to get away with beating up on men while her male partner watches her . The actress , Tony nominee Mary McCormack , has produced a character that is not always likable at times . She's rough and aggressive especially towards the men . Some critics might argue that she hates men even though she is clearly drawn to her partner Marshall Mann played equally well by Fred Weller . He has to play straight man to Mary Shannon's quirks . Regardless , I keep thinking of Mulder and Scully in the X-Files . There is clearly a deep attraction with their characters that hasn't reached the surface . Okay besides that , this episode has guest star Dave Foley as Horst something who is taken into custody by the Marshalls . During this time , Shannon learns that her partner has put in for a transfer . There is a shootout and they are somewhat stranded in the middle of the desert in an abandoned gas station / restaurant . Shannon's younger troubled sister and equally troubled mother played by the wonderful Lesley Ann Warren bond over drinks . In this show , Mary Shannon's character is more than just a tough U . S . Marshall but more of the family caretaker and leader . We don't know much about Father Shannon's character or if Jinx , the mother , is widowed or divorced but I'm waiting to find out . I am surprised that this show is a hit on USA .
Almost Perfect ! It Should be in the West End or Broadway !	In my opinion , I didn't know that this was a musical comedy . The French make the best films around with character driven story lines . This film has a first rate cast but I didn't care for Lambert Wilson's performance as the American , Eric Thomson . I did love Isabelle Nanty as Arlette , the old maid . She was perfect and memorable . Arlette's sister , Gilberte , has a problem . She has three men in her life including her unsuspecting second husband who thinks he's her first , her first American husband , Eric Thomson , who comes to Paris on business , and a young male artist / teacher Charly who prefers older women . The film is first rate in art direction , costumes , music , casting , and writing . I felt Lambert Wilson was out of place and out of tune as the American . But still , this film has memorable characters and can cheer you right up .
A Movie Still Relevant Today !	I saw Kramer v . Kramer on video and it still touches my soul . The original score is excellent . I love the fact that they filmed in New York City by showing the sights and sounds of New York in 1979 . I thought Meryl Streep showed that she's a scene stealer in this film and deserved her academy award as well as Dustin Hoffman did for Best Actor . Jane Alexander is superb as the supportive divorce and single mother Margaret . Justin Henry proved his acting abilities as a young ten year old in this special role . The direction of the film moves quite decently for this melodrama . Films about divorce have come and gone but this film is still a classic because it seems so genuine , real , and authentic . If you have a first rate cast , writing , and a great director , Robert Benton , the film is an American classic in the same sense as Ordinary People . It's still a movie that everybody can relate too .
Never on Sunday ! That's my day of rest !	It is easy to see why I am fascinated with Greece . It is not because of it's role in this film . Melina Mercouri plays a self-made woman of the world's oldest profession in one of the world's greatest civilizations . She is beautiful , intelligent , and independent from men . In fact , she entices men to her rather than play subservient and inferior . Melina Mercouri was perhaps Greek's best known actress . While American born and bred , Jules Dassin's character , Homer , tries to capture his vacation in Greece . He tries to change her like Professor Higgins in Pygmalion and My Fair Lady . He cannot change what is special and unique about her . Ilia is a force to be reckon with and returns to her glory as the best person around , herself . She is a strong woman who makes no excuses for her lifestyle . The men adore and worship her like a Greek Goddess . Perhaps , that's what she is - - a Greek Goddess ! It makes you want to go to Greece ever more . It is no wonder that in real life , Jules Dassin and Melina Mercouri fell in love .
Classic Columbo !	This Columbo episode is probably noted more for the director , Steven Spielberg , as one of his early films . It should be looked at for Jack Cassidy's role as the murderer who kills his partner in writing to maintain his lifestyle . Jack Cassidy would appear in a later Columbo . After all , Columbo meets his match in Jack Cassidy's character . He is a mystery writer who plots to perform the perfect murder . After his first murder , his next victim would be the annoying general store owner / widow who would blackmail him for money . Rather than losing more money , he kills her . It is very entertaining to watch Cassidy and Falk as always . Falk's familiarity as Columbo makes him watchable after viewing this episode repeatedly over the years . What television today forgets about the success of years is that people will want to watch the shows again and again if they like the characters . It's not about who does it , how and why , it the familiarness of Columbo and his likability which scores high with viewers like myself .
A Wonderful Heartfelt Movie to be watched over and over again !	I read somewhere that Gwyneth Paltrow wore her fat-suit around to see people's reaction . Almost unrecognizable , she received negative , malevolent treatment from total strangers . People were not giving her the time of the day . Obesity is seen as a weakness or an embarrassment by the general population . Even though , the American population is getting more obese each day and not just by eating the wrong foods . One of the reasons I love this movie is that Gwyneth Paltrow's performance as Rosemary gives her a heart and soul . You cannot help but like Rosemary . When Hal sees her under Tony Robbins spell , you begin to see a pattern . He sees other people in the same light . Their inner beauty comes alive . The most heart-wrenching scene is at the pediatric burn unit where he is comforting Cadence . It is perhaps my favorite scene in the movie . Hal becomes more human and falls in love with Rosemary even though he does not see the actual person until the end of the film . I cannot help but like this film for not trying to change Rosemary nor anybody else . It was Hal who needed to be changed . Love is blind until you see the inner beauty of your soulmate . This film is also good to watch to gain a better tolerance and understanding of obesity . You do not have to be physically beautiful to have inner beauty . Inner beauty remains long after the physical beauty has faded away .
Thank You , Bob Ballard ! But People , Leave Titanic alone now !	Dr . Bob Ballard is one of my favorite people of all time . It is he who helped discover Titanic's location . I remember watching this special after TBS aired the film S . O . S . Titanic from 1979 . During this special , you can't help but be moved and touched . Dr . Ballard never wanted Titanic to be seen as a place for scavengers . He wanted it preserved from it's legacy . Sadly , every since the discovery 20 years ago , people like film director James Cameron and others have visited this holy site where over a thousand people died , some of their bodies have never been recovered . I remember the film that aired right before the special and I still have that tape believe it or not . I have a couple of the Titanic copies by the National Geographic Special . I also have A Night to Remember tapes as well but I can't watch any of them . I even have James Cameron's Titanic but I can't watch it neither . Titanic has always had a place in my heart . While the film , S . O . S . Titanic , never spent so much money , I remember the closing shot of the film and Titanic's deck chairs in the snow-capped ocean . It reminded me of her and all those lost among them . Anyway , Bob Ballard brought a lot of respect and dignity to the ship itself . He never forgot the thousand of people who died . He never picked up a souvenir . His souvenir to all of us was finding her as she deteriorates more and more each day . Like a one time beauty queen who left the limelight , Titanic has become older , frail , and taken by time and the elements . We will never forget the legacy of Titanic . As Susan St . James ' character said in the film before the special ; " I won't feel safe again . "
Definitely not for the Squeamish or Easily frightened !	The Silence of the Lambs is one of the most frightening yet intense and intelligent films from the early nineties . The casting of Sir Anthony Hopkins as the evil Dr . Hannibal Lector was a perfect choice and he won an Academy Award for his 16 minutes of airtime . Jodie Foster deserved her second Academy Award for Best Leading Actress in this film . Jodie's Clarice Starling is perhaps one of the best female heroine roles of all time . I enjoyed watching this film again on AMC with tidbits of information on the bottom of the screen about the film-making . I would have like to have seen more Diane Baker on screen . I would have like to have known more about Dr . Lector's past too . The film always packs a punch when you least expect it at the end of the film . Besides great acting , directing , and writing , there is something unforgettable about this film . You walk away wondering about why this happens and about the monsters inside of them .
Still my favorite show !	I loved the Carol Burnett show when I was a child . It was in half-hour reruns . After spending the last weekend watching TV Land marathon , I just learned why . It was one of the most entertaining experiences in television history . This was a great cast of highly talented people not just the beloved star , Carol Burnett . Her former husband Joe Hamilton produced the show . Her friends like Harvey Korman , Tim Conway , Vicki Lawrence , and Lyle Waggoner were all uniquely talented and gifted . We can see why this show thrived . Most of the cast were there from beginning to end . After 11 years of superb Emmy winning and golden globe episodes , the show is available on DVD and can be seen on TV Land where it belongs with some of television's classics . It is still a classic . Sometimes Saturday Night Live and MAD TV can embrace the wholesome comedy as a risk in itself .
Still the Vagabond !	I can't believe that I saw this film ten years ago in Dr . Flitterman-Lewis ' class on Women and Film at Rutgers in New Brunswick , New Jersey . It was probably one of the most memorable films from that class . I thought Sandrine Bonnaire did an absolute brilliant job as playing Mona . I felt so sorry for her . She was never really home anywhere and nothing ever worked out for her . Maybe she just didn't fit in anywhere and longed for something better but she was getting worse . She lived anywhere in the fields , etc . She needed the kindness of strangers who never forgot her as they told her friends . She needed a bath to be washed away from the dirt of her existence . She never belonged anywhere . We didn't know her parents or where she came from . She just came and left without answering questions .
So Funny that you'll cry laughing !	What a combination of great talent in this cast and that includes Oscar nominees Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton with 2-time Oscar winner Jane Fonda and Dabney Coleman playing their despicable boss . Remember when typewriters were the computers of our time and on every office desktop imaginable . Anyway , I liked Peggy Pope and Marian Mercer as well but you can't top Tomlin as divorced mother of four Viola , Dolly's Doralee happily married to a country singer , and Jane's Judy who is not always goody two shoes . The three women become friends and smoke a joint after their boss played brilliantly by Dabney Coleman . I think the cast just had such a grand old time making this movie that there is still talk of a reunion and the four major cast members reunited last year for Jane's charity benefit in Atlanta , Georgia . I loved the scenes where they imagined giving Hart played by Coleman , a taste of his own medicine . The kidnapping is also worth watching as well . I can't forget Sterling Hayden . This comedy is one of the all-time classic comedies especially about working environments and women's rights . When these three women take charge , they make changes that brought differences to the working place where their employees became better people which means happier employees . I guarantee if you are an employer and you want a productive environment , you have to have a happy working staff regardless of the cost .
One of the Greatest All Time Musical Films !	Cabaret was far different that the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical films like The Sound of Music or Mary Poppins or Oklahoma . This film was decadent for the time of Berlin before Hitler's rise to power . As the Nazi movement was gaining power , Berlin residents like Sally Bowles played by the one and only Liza Minnelli had relationships with men and lived on her singing at nightclubs until she meets Michael York ( When will he be knighted ? ) anyway he plays the writer . Joel Grey won an Oscar as the Maestro . I loved the movie and won't bother to see the musical whether it's Judi Dench or anybody else playing Sally Bowles . THere was only one person who played Sally Bowles to me and that was the divine Liza with a Z . She totally becomes the character . When you see this film version , any musical whether the West End in London or Broadway in New York City will always be second rate to this cast . Of course , the fact that Bob Fosse directed this gem and changed the musical films forever from light and happy to dark and sad like in Cabaret . It's eerie to think that the people in the Cabaret have no idea of the horror that lies ahead with World War II and that's terrifying in general . I won't give away much but that this is Liza at her finest and best .
A heartbreaking adventure of a film !	I have to say that this film is quite difficult to watch sometimes . I believe Jane Fonda gave one of her best dramatic performances as a desperate woman . She earned an academy award nomination for her performance and it was worth it . Her co-star Michael Sarrazin won an Academy Award for his role in " West Side Story . " I think this was a great performance that followed his success but he never went anywhere . I like watching Bonnie Bedelia as the pregnant dancer . I have to confess that the main reason that I rented this film wasn't for any of the listed actors but for one of my all time favorite soap opera actresses , Beverlee McKinsey . I would give anything to see her act again whether it was a commercial or reading the phone book . SHe had a non-speaking role but her facial expressions was priceless . The dance telethon is cruel at times . The dancing goes on forever with breaks where the characters get to know each other a little better . The film also has Gig YOung who I believe won an Academy Award for his role .
The Story only a daughter could have written about !	Lorna Luft was the daughter of Judy Garland and her husband , Sid Luft . The mini-series stars the brilliant Judy Davis as the older Judy Garland while the younger Judy is portrayed by Guiding Light alum Tammy Blanchard . Both actresses would win Emmys for their performances . Judy Davis brings her to life once again as a brilliant but troubled performer , Judy Garland . The film displays Judy's drug and alcoholism as well as poor choices in marriages except for Luft and Vincente Minnelli . The film also shows Judy's estranged relationship with her stage mother played by Marsha Mason while doting on her beloved homosexual father . Frances Gumm was Judy's birth name and she was born to be a star by her mother's determination . Vincente Minnelli , Liza's father , was played by the wonderful Hugh Laurie OBE long before his role on House MD . Anyway , the film is a great tribute to Judy's legacy and Lorna has done a commendable job bringing the story to life and it was probably not that easy anyway .
Better than Absolutely Fabulous !	Dawn French who believed it or not turned down an O . B . E . ( Officer of the Order of the British Empire ) with her comedy and professional partner , Jennifer Saunders in 2000 , is worth watching alone . She is one of the funniest women in the United Kingdom or worldwide . The show is funny and worth watching over and over again . I love watching Emma Chambers who is better known to audiences for her role in " Notting Hill " with Julia Roberts . As Alice , she is purely divine and innocently funny . The popular Liz Smith ( not the gossip columnist from New York City ) is better known to audiences as the grandmother and has appeared in " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " and " Oliver Twist " is also memorable for her role as Letitia . Why they took her away , I'll never know because she's still working at 85 years old . They have an Easter episode worth watching again and again and a Christmas episode that you won't believe . I don't remember the other cast members but Geraldine as the Vicar is one of the most memorable and familiar faces to have made an enormous dent in this British comedy . Forget Absolutely Fabulous , this show is absolutely fabulous and better than that show than it could ever could .
The Best Film of the Year !	I am amazed that this film does not get the same attention at Brokeback MOuntain . It is simply an incredible achievement for director George Clooney . My biggest complaint is that it is too short . There is so much going on during that time . I am reminded of how the news changed since the days of Edwin R . Murrow . I am reminded of how much I dislike my local and national news . There is too much softness regarding on reporting abroad . Major international news stories go unnoticed anyway . Maybe our society has become content to worry about our own problems . Murrow was an unsung hero of his time . He went against McCarthy who orchestrated a mass witch hunt unprecedented in American history since the Salem witch trials . I don't care for our news system today . It has become a sad commentary . This is a first rate cast with David Straitharn sure to earn a Best Actor NOmination at the Oscars . I would like George Clooney to get one for director . This film is a triumph over controversial yet an important time in American history . We must not forget the communism witch hunt of the 1950s . Today , there is another kind of witch hunt going on . I don't care about other films . Nothing has made a strong impression on me this year but this film . I left wanting more of it . The black and white cinematography added a film noir to it . It could have been done in color but not as effective . Bravo , George Clooney . Your Aunt Rosemary would be so proud of your achievement .
One of My Favorite Movies !	I saw this film first on my way home from Paris to Newark aboard Air France in August 1996 . The film itself I believe is quite a masterpiece . It's the kind of film that people should be making . I still think Daniel Auteuil is one of the sexiest actors around . In this French film , he plays a divorced father and businessman who has lost his zest for life until he across a Down Syndrome man who lives in an institution with other Down Syndrome patients . The actors including the actor who actually has Down Syndrome create a believable friendship and relationship between these two unlikely men . Daniel's life and ours changes forever with the Down Syndrome man . He realizes that life is not just work and not play but for the living and loving and that's what life should be all about . The ending is kind of silly though but I still think it's one of my favorite movies . It's enough to bring a tear to your eye .
A Classic Frankenstein !	This was really the first film about Frankenstein . While it is over seventy years old , it is still amazing to watch . It's one of those early cinematographic achievements that remind us the origins of film-making . Colin Clive is superb as Dr . Henry Frankenstein . Unfortunately , he died of alcoholism . He could have accomplished so much more in his acting career if he had stayed off the sauce . The monster of Frankenstein has poignant moments like the scene with the little girl by the lake . I don't think he knew his own strength when he threw her into the water . I think he thought it's what she wanted . He didn't know any better . There is a great morality in this tale about cloning and playing God . Doctors today still play God by creating monsters . The cloning issue is a today issue and this film can remind us of the consequences when you play with God . You have to feel sympathy for Frankenstein . HE did not asked to be born or created . I am sure that there will always be remakes but this is the best original Frankenstein . The other version was silent . I felt that this film transcend time and reminded us of the early golden days of Hollywood where they were just happy with speaking in films . Maybe our film industry has gone too far , they have forgotten about language and character development .
One of my all time favorite Columbo episodes !	I love this episode of Columbo . Maybe it's because Ruth Gordon is in it and she is wonderful as successful mystery writer Abigail Mitchell , an American version of Dame Agatha Christie . She is delicious to watch as the perky , lovable author who suffered a terrible loss when her niece died in a drowning accident . She blames her niece's husband , the nephew . She plans to kill him to avenge her death since the police have abandoned her . I would have loved somebody else than Mariette Hartley to play Veronica . I never really like Hartley in anything personally . And of course with Columbo , there are some laughs like when he questions Veronica at a belly-dancing class . Ruth's Abigail is a smart sleuth herself and she matches wits with Columbo always played wonderfully by Peter Falk .
Then There's Maude !	Unfortunately , I never saw Maude until I got the DVD first season of her show . It appeared nowhere in syndication maybe because it was too controversial and might offend too many people . Compared to other shows today , Maude is quite mainstream and ahead of it's time . I loved Beatrice Arthur in this role of Maude , forget Dorothy Zbornak . Bea plays a terrific Maude Findlay , the cousin of dimwitted Edith Bunker , from All in the Family . Anyway , the casting of Bill Macy as Maude's fourth husband is genius . They work so well together . Adrienne Barbeau is terrific as her divorced daughter , Carol . Of course , we never see Philip , the eight year old dimwitted grandson . Then there is the supporting cast which is stellar like Conrad Bain as the conservative Republican right wing doctor neighbor and friend to Walter's character and Esther Rolle who plays the African American maid , Florida Evans who is fawned over by Maude's character in the beginning that she doesn't get much work done . Don't forget Rue McClanahan as dimwitted Vivian and friend of Maude . I can't help but like Maude . For all things that she gets wrong , she gets a lot of it right . Today's television writers and developers should learn from the sitcom master , Norman Lear , that a great show like Maude's can be both controversial and funny and genius too . Most sitcoms today lack the balance between left and right . Lear's sitcoms provided both sets of opinions without winning the battle . I'm sure if the sitcom people today would watch , they might learn something about developing quality sitcoms . Remember it's not quantity but quality and it's a shame . They think we want to see beautiful people like Friends in sitcoms with minor problems and the same point of view .
Come to the Magic Garden !	When I was five years old , it was my favorite television show . I remembered it was on channel 11 at 2PM everyday . The show's premise was simple with Carole and Janis as the hostesses of this children's television show . They sang songs and read stories to us as children . It was done in a studio with only 54 episodes which was re-broadcasted over and over . I remember Sherlock , the puppet , in the tree . The show taught us how to count , add , subtract , and the alphabet . For thirty minutes a day now , I learned something new with Paula and Janis . I remember those days as pleasant memories and now I hope the children of today can learn to love simpler things like hearing stories , inexpensive props , riding the swings , and talking to puppets . The set was ideal and simple but it was Carole and Janis who made it worth while while . I miss my childhood and those days where the most important thing was watching the Magic Garden . Life seemed so much simpler and better . Now , I hope the kids today enjoy the show .
What Made Television Great !	This show , MASH , is one of television greatest sitcoms . Based about life in the Korean War , the medical unit with a stellar cast like Alan Alda , Loretta Swit , Mike Farrell , Maclean Stevenson , David Ogden Stiers , Jamie Farr , and others maintained a show that would last a decade and be more popular than the original film . In fact , I can't imagine seeing the film because it would be something else to me entirely . The gang at 4077 maintained a great sense of humor in time of war . There weren't silly , ridiculous , and insensitive . Rather they were the complete opposite . This show should be studied for students of sitcom production to show how a good show can be done with a stellar cast , writing , and directing . Sometimes , this show can be addictive to watch and makes you long for those days of Grade A golden age of television where sitcoms were of the finest caliber . A show like MASH today would never survive the harshness of Hollywood's war against quality sitcoms .
Better than the Remake !	I didn't appreciate this film until I saw the updated version . This film starring Jack Lemmon and Sandy Dennis as Ohio visitors to New York City . The trip is nearly disastrous from the moment that they get off the airplane . Of course , this film is one of Neil Simon's better works . The couple lose their luggage , get robbed , and don't have a clue about the way that the city works . George is here for a job interview and has high hopes of moving to the city with his wife , kids , and dogs . He has a romanticized notion of New York City that he sees in the films and television shows . Being there is different from just the movies , I think the ending speaks for itself . New York City is not for everyone but it's how they came to the realization of how tough it is to be New Yorker and even the ending is something that could have generated a sequel .
Won't Be the Same Without You , Bob !	I can't imagine anybody else than Bob Barker hosting the Price is Right . After all , he has been hosting for decades . Now in his youthful eighties , he is retiring . No longer will he be the game show host or retired . The game show is based on the normal people , randomly chosen by the show's announcer to come on down to be one of the four bidders . Once you win the closest bid to the item , you win the item and get on stage with Bob Barker which must be a thrill in itself . If you're lucky , you make it to the final round and get a chance to bid on possibly a new car , expensive vacations , etc . You can win both showcases if bid under a hundred dollars on your showcase . The show won't be the same without him . He's the heart and soul of the show . They named the studios after him . Nobody could fill Bob Barker's spot now or never !
Brilliant even without sound !	Before sound and talkies became the norm in the film industry , we had to settle with black and white cinematography and an original score to understand the story . Mary Pickford was a brilliant actress and one of the first true movie stars who made the transformation from the silent films to the talkies . This film should be considered one of the true classic silent films of all time . Mary Pickford was one of Hollywood's earliest stars and it was a time when the film industry appeared innocent and so new . Everything surprised audiences with delight and films were scene over and over until they knew it by heart . It's a shame that today's films forget the brilliance of simplicity and work on shocking us or losing the role of actors and actresses . Great films don't have to be spectacular spectacles . They could tell simple stories with great acting and writing and you have a great film .
They don't make them like they used too !	The Jeffersons happened to be a spin off from All in the Family . I loved the relationship between George's mother played the wonderful Zara Cully who passed away during the series long run and Louise known as Weezy played by the wonderful Isabel Sanford . Then they brought in Florence as the maid played by the hilarious Marla Gibbs , the sparks flew between her and George . Not those kind of sparks but a funny rapport between the two to last for years . The show explored everything like interracial relationships and race with tact and dignity . My most memorable moments from the show were about George being secret Santa to a Harlem family who now lived in his building . But then who could forget George opening the George Jefferon Museum . I am glad to watch this show again one night a week on a local station which pays homage to the seventies shows like the Jeffersons . The show had a stellar supporting cast like Roxie Roker and Franklin Cover as the interracial couple , the Willises , who become dear friends of the Jeffersons . Isabel Sanford passed away about a year ago . She was the first African American woman to win an Emmy for Best Leading Actress in a Comedy Series . She was very worthy to be a pioneer for the rest . The fact that Sanford was twenty years older than Helmsley is fascinating . Isabel always looked fabulous and younger than her actual age . I miss Isabel . She was one of a kind !
The Best of the Best !	After watching St . Elsewhere on Bravo , I realized that it is truly a superior show even now . It took chances that nobody else is willing to take . It is even more multi-ethnic than most dramas today . It makes ER and other medical shows look like they written by first graders . Even after all these years , St . Elsewhere has aged like fine wine . It is fresher now than ever before . Too bad , it struggled in its day . What a shame . It is truly one of the finest dramas on television today even in syndication . ER could learn a lot from watching St . Elsewhere . Too bad , ER's stars are ruining their own show . Maybe if William Daniels joined the cast , I would start watching it again . St . Elsewhere is one of the finest hours on television . Even now , it will blow you away . I miss the chemistry among it's characters and it's controversial but yet compassionate way of handling some situations . I still think Christina Pickles should be recognized with an MBE ( Member of the Order of the British Empire ) because it would boost the show's genius and brilliance all around the world . I dislike the fact that she will be more remembered for her role as Ross and Monica's mother on Friends than her days on St . Elsewhere as Nurse Rosenthal , a British woman with a love for Jewish men . Anyway , it was a show that just gets better in time . It's classic television and every medical show should watch and take notes .
A Fun Movie that will leave you in stitches long after !	I have to admit that I wasn't first crazy about this movie . But I watched it a couple of times on television and I still laugh about it . Sandra Bullock is perfect and I can watch her in anything anyway . She is one of the down to earth of today's crop of stars . Well , she plays Gracie Hart or Gracie Freebush ( an F . B . I . agent turned pageant contestant ) representing my state of New Jersey . I love Benjamin Bratt in the role of the other F . B . I . agent . I love Sir Michael Caine as the flamboyant pageant consultant . It's nice to see Ernie Hudson working again . I love watching William Shatner as the pageant maestro and the multi-talented Candice Bergen as Miss Morningstar . Both Shatner and Bergen are pretty good at their roles in this film . Maybe that's why they work so well together in Boston Legal . This movie has it's moments . I didn't care for the scene which Miss New York comes out of the closet . I felt that was silly and useless . They could have edited it out . Then the guys asked " Is it okay we say lesbian on television ? " Then the female ( let me guess that's she a lesbian too ) retorts " Do you have a problem with that ? " It's kind of the worst part of the film for me and embarrassing overall . But then you get to the crowning which I can't imagine a funnier moment in the film which I won't spoil for those who have yet to see it .
It's like a roller coaster ride ! It's addictive , fun , and entertaining !	I love Casino especially if I watch it from the beginning . Robert DeNiro should have won an Academy AWard for this performance along with Joe Pesci and Sharon Stone . The film is perfectly entertaining about casinos before it became Disneyland . There were other great performances by Don Rickles , Alan King , etc . The film is a Martin Scorsese film with two of his favorite actors - - Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci giving Oscar performances . The script was fresh and entertaining . I also have to say that James Woods ' performance as Ginger's pimp was worthy of being nominated for best supporting actor . THis film has several fabulous scenes and moments . By the end , you really don't want it to end because it's that good . I love how Ace and Nicky ( Joe Pesci's character ) narrate and explain the on-going activities between the Las Vegas Casino and it's connection to Kansas City , Missouri . I really enjoy watching the scenes of Ace being in control and the corruption that occurs . But it's that kind of film . You know what happens but you enjoy the ride anyway and I do enjoy this film . I always look forward to seeing it on the cable stations . Of course , Ace and Nicky's friendship is the crutch of this film .
What a sheer delight to watch Dame Geraldine McEwan	She should have accepted one of England highest honors bestowed upon a woman , Dame Commander of the British Empire in 2002 . She declined to accept maybe just for the same reasons that she declined an O . B . E . ( Officer of the British Empire ) in 1986 . She is very well deserved of any honor . I am going to call her Dame Geraldine anyway because she is truly a great Dame of the British theater , television , and film . I remember watching her performance on Mulberry , a British comedy . Here she is perfectly cast of Jane Marple . She is a Marple for the twenty-first century like Joan Hickson O . B . E . was in the eighties and Dame Margaret Rutherford was in the sixties . Everybody's favorite sleuth is back . I think Dame Agatha Christie would be thrilled to have such a talent like Geraldine McEwan to play this role . The filming is exquisite . The setting is an English country village . The cast is also filled with some of Britain's finest theatrical actors like Sir Derek Jacobi known as the Lord Lawrence Olivier of our time , Janet McTeer , Miriam Margolyes O . B . E . , Jane Asher and others . The costumes are perfectly set to fit in picturesque English village . I loved the countryside in this adaptation . It makes it so inviting for us all to enjoy . The Murder at the Vicarage is entertaining from beginning to end but so much more with Geraldine McEwan as Jane Marple .
The Best Cartoon Family on Television !	Ten years after the Simpsons first debuted , Fox took another chance and gave us the Hill family from the Office Space guy , Mike Judge . At first , I grew to prefer the Hills to the Simpsons because I liked the Hills better . I identified with them more easily . Hank and Peggy Hill are a nice Texas couple who live with their never aging son , Bobby , in Arlen , Texas . They have neighbors who think they're just country bumpkins or hicks . Hank's friends are your neighborhood guys . Peggy Hill is an aspiring Spanish teacher / substitute teacher who has plenty of good ideas and believes in the best of people . This cartoon comedy has gone on for ten years because the characters never age and the story lines have ranged from serious to downright hysterical at times while dealing with serious issues at hand .
A Classic Film !	William Shakespeare would be proud of Kenneth Branagh's work in this film adaptation . Granted the uncut version is long and tedious but it is visually stunning and extremely well directed by the star as well . Maybe KEnneth Branagh is not only Laurence Olivier but our Orson Welles of this generation . They spared no expense in casting the finest actors around for pivotal roles . Sir Derek Jacobi was casted as King Claudius and Julie Christie was casted as Queen Gertrude . I guess Judi Dench was busy . Kate Winslet was casted as Ophelia . I'm sorry but I never did care for her in this role or in any other role . Besides Derek Jacobi who is also Kenneth Branagh's mentor . He casted Richard Briers ( The Good Life or Good Neighbors ) as Polonius or Ophelia's father . He does a fabulous take on the supporting role . Besides Briers is often casted in Branagh's films and if you knew him , you would see why . He is one of the most popular chaps in this business . The costumes are colorful . The scenery is also magnificent as well as the art direction . I am sad that Kenneth Branagh did not get an Academy Award nomination for this role . It's one of the best film versions to date . His only weakness is that he does not appear to go mad enough like Nicol Williamson in an earlier version who was really going mad . I liked the fact that he casted American legend , Jack Lemmon , in a small role . Also American legendary actor , Charlton Heston is also unforgettable in this film as Fortinbras . And Robin Williams in a small role . It is nice that he chooses talented American actors like Jack , Charlton and Robin to play roles . He could have chose anybody else . It's probably one of Charlton's last grat performances since he is suffering from Alzheimers . If you can , please watch and treasure this film classic .
A Fantastic Adaptation of Anne Frank's Diary !	Let's face this fact that Anne Frank's diary is almost as well read as the Bible , Torah , and Koran . We all know about Anne Frank , the Dutch Jewish girl , who hid in the attic with her family during World War II from the Nazis . She wrote in her diary about life in the attic and how they lived under constant fear and terror . The cast has Sir Ben Kingsley as Anne's father , Otto Frank , and lone survivor . Brenda Blethyn OBE is also in the cast . It's chilling when they get to the concentration camp of Bergen-Belsen , the separation , hair-shaving , and ritual act of dehumanizing everybody there . There was no talk among them as they sat with their hair being cut off for another purpose . We know who made it and didn't . After visiting Auschwitz in 2000 , I didn't feel what I supposed to feel like ghosts and hauntings which I feared the most because it drains you emotionally . Even 60 years after the Holocaust , I fear that people are forgetting about it and not learning from it . We haven't learned because there are other Anne Franks out there . It is still a haunting and chilling testament of survival and the human spirit .
Don't call her that !	Yeardley Smith guest stars as a runaway from the juvenile hall that Bubba was in . She runs to his house after seeing him tee-peeing the neighbors house . Bubba is equally afraid of her since she is considered to be one of the nastiest girls at reform school . Of course , things couldn't get worse since Mama Harper is planning to be the next president of the Church Ladies League and is expecting Reverand Meacham and his uptight wife , Alberta , for dinner . Earl Boen and Anne Haney are always memorable as the Reverand and Alberta , the older couple . Of course , Bubba's unexpected guest is starving and hungry and will do anything to eat or she'll ask the good reverend to pass the potatoes at the dinner table .
Classic Episode !	When Bubba come home drunk and causing trouble , Mama Harper gives him a hard punishment . It's not until Iola explains about Thelma's experience with Eunice years ago . In this episode , Thelma and Eunice were scheduled to perform a mother-daughter act at the mothers and daughters luncheon at the church . Iola played amazingly unrecognizable by the actress , Nikki Cox , as a young girl who needs Thelma . Meanwhile older Eunice has already planned to be used and abused by Duke Reeves and his friends . They already have her making their sandwiches for the picnic . The actress , Heather Kerr , who plays Eunice does a brilliant job . Unfortunately because Vint's a boy , he can't go to the luncheon . Anyway , Eunice is brought by Duke Reeves , the love of Eunice's life , and she's wasted away . Thelma has to get her sober enough for their solo . Thelma sends Duke Reeves away . When Eunice sees Duke gone , she blames her mother for sending the love of her life away .
Restores my Faith in American Cinema !	I read the book a couple of years ago . When I was watching in the film in the smaller theater of the cinema , I kept remembering the names like Strank , Franklin Sousley , Iggy , James Bradley , Hank Hansen , Rene Gagon , and of course Ira Hayes . The movie can only do so much that the book is a great resource for learning more about Ira's life especially losing siblings at an early age . I remember Franklin was from Kentucky and his mother's name was Goldie Price Sousley Mitchell . Of course , James Bradley's son learns his father's life only before it's too late . I have to say that this film should be a front-runner for the Academy Awards easily . I predict Ryan Phillipe will get a Best Actor nomination but I don't think he would win . I think Jesse Bradford and Adam Beach should get Best Supporting Actor nominations . Judith Ivey was on screen for only a few short minutes . Clint Eastwood proves that he can direct something as emotionally challenging as Million Dollar Baby and something as riveting and complicated as the Flag Raising at Iwo Jima . I recommend to anybody who is interested in history to see this film and stay until the credits have finished rolling because you see the original photos of the men next to the actor's name and photos from Joe Rosenthal who just died recently . I hope he saw this film and gave his approval . The flag raisers of Iwo Jimo never considered themselves heroes , it was the public and press . They became icons and legends . Melanie Lynskey as a supporting role as Rene's girlfriend / fianc / wife in the film . She is worth watching for in the future . This film is a must see on your to do list . Screenplay adapter , Paul Haggis ( Crash Oscar Winner ) and Clint Eastwood are going to win more Oscars to add to their crowded mantelpiece .
Spielberg's best film to date !	I first saw this film in the movie theater . The beginning of the Normandy landing has not left my mind . It is one of the most spectacular introduction to the film . You have a cast that includes Spielberg's favorite actor , Tom Hanks , Matt Damon , Paul Giamati , one of my personal favorites-Rolf Saxon in a non-speaking role . This film is mostly a male-dominated film with little or no romance . SPielberg's best asset is creating a spectacular image and this time , the landing on Normandy was not for the easily sickened . You will see the graphic display of the horror on that day which is what we should see . HE does not shy away from showing us human brutality at its worst but he later shows it at it's best . I didn't care much for the title about them rescuing one soldier to bring home . I wanted Steven Spielberg to know that this is his best film to date about World War II even surpassing Schindler's List which I felt was inferior to this film . The script was superb , the movie is just a breathtaking spectacle to date . It still should be seen in the movie theaters to show the effects and brutality and to remind us about how cruel war is on any level . he won the Oscar for best director but after seeing Shakespeare in Love , there is no doubt in my mind that Saving Private Ryan was robbed of Best Film . Sorry , Shakespeare in Love !
Think Positive !	Carol Burnett delivers her best performance as the miserable Eunice Harper Higgins in this episode . When her nephew Buzz comes in with news and help about the power of positive thinking in an audiotape , Eunice reluctantly buys a tape player and listens to it . Believing in the tape's message , she manages to get a small part in the local play . Eunice has never been happier nor has Mama ever been suspicious about her daughter's change even though it's far more positive . When Mama attends the rehearsal with Eunice , she sees that her daughter is getting stepped on by an over-possessive actress Sally played by Gloria DeHaven . There is a scene that is unforgettable in the Pepperpot Playhouse that I won't get into . We do see a bit of Ed Higgins played by the late Harvey Korman .
Absolutely Hysterical !	This show is Britain's greatest export since Faulty Towers . Patricia Routledge is truly a great physical comedienne to the like of Lucille Ball . Her character , Hyacinth , is one of a kind creation by Harold Snoad . He deserves all the kudos for creating a show with such intelligent humor about the class and family . Clive Swift compliments Routledge as her long suffering husband who takes orders from his wife . Why ? She doesn't listen to anyone . Her neighbors , Elizabeth , have understood her . Elizabeth is terrified of spilling coffee in her friend's kitchen or living room . She is so nervous of ruining her friend's table . Not that Hyacinth makes a fuss about it . She'll only say " we were thinking of getting another table anyway . " Emmett , Elizabeth's brother who runs the local operatic society and plays the piano . Hyacinth believes her voice is great enough to belong but rather break glass and cause him to hide from her . She believes he has a crush on her . Did I mention her sisters , Daisy , Violet , and Rose . Violet is the wealthiest sister with a cross-dressing husband who shapes ice in the form of naked ladies . Rose has been with almost every married man in town . She wears mini skirts to the disapproval of her big sister , Hyacinth . Daisy is the married sister with a strong sexual drive and a bone idle lazy sloppy husband , Onslow , who prefers to drink beer and watch racing on the tele . They live to the embarrassment of Hyacinth . She says " 50 years after the blitz . . . what do the garbage men know what to take . " Rose , Daisy , Onslow and Daddy all live together with a broken car sitting in front of the yard and a dog living in it . Daddy is senile and a dirty old man . He is picked up by Richard at a department store wearing a spacesuit one day while Hyacinth ditches the Councillor Nugent . Daddy says little but he is always going back to the war . He digs trenches in the yard and the commands the house . He even becomes a naturist or nudist . He goes after women all the time . He likes Mrs . Zbygn , a Polish immigrant who speaks no English . Why ? He says there's something mysterious about her . Hyacinth tells a huge dog that he can't sit in front of her house . " Go . You can't stay here . Go . " Hyacinth experiences with a horse aren't much better . Watch this show ! ! !
Classic Mama's Family !	I loved Mama's Family when it remembers the past . In this episode , Mama wants to clean the attic . Since everybody has an excuse but Buzz , he assists and asks her about her thirtieth birthday party . Mama remembers being younger and with three kids , Ellen , Eunice , and Vint . The kids who play younger versions of them are wonderful . First , Thelma is excited because if her husband Carl gets a promotion then she could get a freezer of her dreams . With more money , they could spend more . Of course , Thelma gets no encouragement from her mother who is also played by Vicki Lawrence who calls to inform her that she can't make the cake or come to her party . Grandma Crowley says it as she opens a can of beer and criticizes her daughter for being a terrible cook and her son-in-law as a loser . The party is not going so well when she has to use a fruitcake to substitute for a cake and Carl doesn't get the promotion .
Be ready for Mama's girls !	Aunt Effie needs to exercise according to her potbelly chain-smoking doctor . Mama has some suggestions but they don't work until Iola brings by tap-dancing shoes of her mother who can't because the class runs during her soap opera . Effie remind Thelma of her tap dancing days . With interest , they decide to enroll in the tap-dancing class for the senior ladies at the center . They find out that the teacher Bambi offers a few steps and leaves . They learn that insurance companies think tap-dancing senior ladies are a liability . Mama takes over the class and soon it's Mama's Girls on stage . Unfortunately , they learn that the insurance won't cover them tap dancing and wants to close down Mama's Girls . Well , let Mama handle it .
Better than the film version !	For some people , Felix and Oscar will always be Jack Lemmon and Walter Mathau but not for me . To me , it will always be Tony Randall and Jack Klugman . They always seemed perfect together . The writing was always crisp and fresh . I never thought Tony Randall was gay . Just because you socialize or befriend Rock Hudson does not mean that Tony is gay . In fact , Tony was married to the same woman , Florence , for 54 years which is unbelievable nowadays . In fact , their marriage was stronger than most marriages today . When he lost Flo , he never thought that he would get married again much less become a father in his seventies . Tony Randall was the unsung hero of theater , television and film . He deserved America's highest honor to be inducted into the Kennedy Center Honors . He founded the National Theater Company with his own money . His love for theater was obvious . He loved to act also even on television . The Odd Couple was one of the best television shows of the seventies . It was a better adaptation from any comedic film and it's most successful series as well . Tony Randall hosted a weekend salute to this show on a local channel . I forgot how fresh and alive comedy could be . A great supporting cast like Al Molinaro , Elinor Donahue , and Penny Marshall . Even though they film in Los Angeles , it was very much a New York television show . I can't imagine a better odd couple and I will always regret not seeing them on stage in London in 1996 . Rest in peace , TOny . We miss you .
Absolute Best Film of the Year ! The one you can't miss !	Truthfully , I didn't want to spend a couple of hours in a movie theater on Christmas Day but my sister wanted to see this film . It was a remarkable experience because it far exceeded my expectations . The casting was perfect with three actors playing the main role of Jamal Malik who goes from the slums of India to possibly becoming the first person to win the grand prize in Who Wants to Be A Millionaire ? In the beginning , he is suspected to have been caught cheating and is interrogated for the night quite harshly but it's nothing compared to his life . He works as a gopher for a telemarketing office in Mumbai which is India's Hollywood . There is a reason for everything and the film is well-thought out and executed to perfection . The young actor who plays Jamal is brilliant in the role . Everybody in the film really delivers as well as the thousands of extras . Of course , there are difficult scenes to watch but I won't go there and spoil it for those who haven't seen it . I can see why this film is a front-runner for the Oscars . It has everything going for it including a great cast , a great script , and directed brilliantly with the perfect edited portions .
Mama for Mayor !	Mayor Tutwiller is now Ellen's boyfriend . They are a perfect match . She gets Mama to have a press conference at her home with the Mayor , the press , and the Seniors . Mama makes some comments regarding the Mayor's lack of leadership and ends up as a front-running candidate for Raytown's Mayor . In this episode , Fran cooks up a great theme song with everybody in the family helping out except Ellen of course who believes her mother can't handle the job like her boyfriend who has interests in becoming Governor someday . There is even a debate and Mama has a book about running for president . Of course , the episode ends with the election results which by then , Harper House has all fallen asleep .
Mama as Mayor !	The second part has Mama Thelma Harper as Mayor of Raytown with a hysterical inauguration ceremony . Ellen is still with Tutwiller while her family stands firmly behind her . Of course , Mama hasn't read up on all the paperwork regarding bills , laws , and politics that go on . She attends her first meeting with the city council unprepared and lost regarding rules . Of course , her secretary is played by Marian Mercer and has been around for years tries to help her . Things get ugly when Mama doesn't reform to the ways of politics . The bus drivers go on strike , the garbage men are on strike , and everybody else in the city is upset and angry with Mama Harper as Mayor in two weeks . Ellen realizes that her mother is in trouble and does her best to get her out of it .
I just miss this show ! ! !	Phil Donahue was the alternative to the Oprah Winfrey Show . Sometimes , all it would take to pick one over the other was the topic or show's guest . I felt Donahue was better than Oprah as a talk show host because it tackled the controversial , difficult , emotional , and celebrity guests without being so cautious as Oprah is with celebrities . Phil tackled issues such as homosexuality , divorce , atheism , politics , religion , and others . The show had Phil running up and down with a microphone in the audience . While I have a great respect for Oprah , Phil was the alternative until he could no longer compete with the competition . I always felt that Phil tried to understand a person's point of view , lifestyle , or choice as well as a person's mistake be it a celebrity or your neighbor . Phil never really treated his guests with preferential treatment . He may have married Marlo Thomas but I don't recall an episode with her . The show's legacy was that it was cut short of Oprah's phenomenon and I wonder what might have happened if we were allowed to choose between the two hosts . I have to say that Donahue holds a special place in my heart and nobody could take that away .
There are lot more Josies out there !	It is nice to see a good girl like Josie Geller finish first for a change . I am happy to watch this film . It brings back memories of high school . Rather than dwell on being unpopular and a social outcast , I now look back at my high school days fondly . I am a college graduate who is going to Graduate school to teach high school students . I work in a high school and I always identify with the outcasts and misfits . I cannot imagine fitting in anywhere which is why I understand Josie's plight and trip into being popular at the risk of selling soul to the devil . The popular ones makes the self-sacrifice of creating us to be the outcasts in society . Eleanor Roosevelt's famous quote was " Nobody can make you feel inferior unless you give them permission to do so . " This film is one of Drew Barrymore's best performances . I loved to see Molly Shannon in something different for a change too . While the film acts more like an unrealistic fairytale , it still is a gem of a film and worth watching . Just imagine Shakespeare's own role in this film with the backdrop following his classic comedy , As You Like It , about disguises working better for one in the costume just like Drew's character , Josie , who becomes somebody else .
Still a Classic after all these years for all ages !	What can I write about a Charlie Brown Christmas that it is still a classic around the holiday . It's still viewed by millions around the holidays whether it's aired on network television and one of the few specials to maintain a regular audience . It is right up there with It's a Wonderful Life and White Christmas . Well it's a story for people of all ages and faiths around Charlie Brown who is lonely , doubtful , and questioning the purpose of the holiday season . While it's only 25 minutes , it was created to be aired on television . Whether you see it once or a hundred times , it never gets old , dated , or out of style . It's one of the best Christmas classics out there .
Thelma's dream comes true !	In this first part of a two part episode , Mama wins a trip for four to Hawaii and takes Bubba , Vint and Naomi . IOla manages to tag along on her own payment to go to Hawaii . Thelma has always dreamed of going to Hawaii and actress Vicki Lawrence and her family lived in Maui after the Carol Burnett Show ended before coming to Mama's Family . In this episode , they throw their flowers and pray that love will come true . In fact , Bubba finds a Hawaiian girlfriend , Iola finds a suitable Norwegian sailor , and Thelma who threw her whole lei in the waters is being chased down by Bill Fields , a beach bum . She saves his life and he falls for Thelma . Of course , their Hawaiian dream vacation is that for them a dream come true . It's memorable about Naomi getting burnt when Vint puts the wrong cream on her . Vint takes up golfing and makes unlikely friends with golfers and businessmen who talk business . Once Vint gets talking about what Naomi does for a living as a cashier . The businessmen thinks she's another market broker and not a supermarket cashier but when they start making money . Vint's not so silly after all .
It's not the patient that's going crazy but the doctor !	This film will make you smile and laugh . Bob Murray is brilliantly funny and wonderful as Bob Wiley , the compulsive addictive man who is afraid of germs and people . His relationship with the wonderful Dr . Leo Marvin played wonderfully brilliant by Richard Dreyfuss is great as well . I can't forget the supporting cast of characters . Leo's wife Fay played beautifully by the talented Julie Hagerty . I always she deserved better roles . This role shows her talent in comedy as well . Kathryn Erbe plays the daughter , Anna , just as well . I always forget the actor's name who played Sigmund Marvin , the younger son . I love Fran Brill as Lily Marvin and I wish she did more stuff . The film is written with a lot of wit and sensible humor . Doris Belack has a nice small role as a psychiatrist in the film as well . It's not the patient who's crazy but the doctor who goes ballistic . I love the Guttmanns who own a caf in town and whose wish was to own the summer home that the Marvins spend at Lake Winnipegsaukee . The scenes in New York City never really bother me . It could have been in Boston as well . I love the lake and the story and the characters to watch it again and again .
Uncle Roy visits !	Uncle Roy played brilliantly by Jaws ' Murray Hamilton is an old sailor who returns home to see his brother on his birthday . He doesn't know that Carl has passed on . Instead , he brings stories , tall tales , and himself to Mama's house as well as oysters or some seafood for them to enjoy . Of course , the episode begins with Vint complaining about nothing ever changing around . Ellen is in this episode with Fran out of town or something . When Uncle Roy arrives , he helps Vint , Buzz , and Sonja but Thelma has a different reaction . He helps Sonja in preparing for her big night out in a local pageant . Buzz is cooking or baking or both and Vint had dreamed of being a fireman . As Uncle Roy , Murray Hamilton was brilliant and easy to take as an estranged family member .
Quiet in the Courtroom !	When Mama's vacuum cleaner is broke , she uses her daughter-in-law to vacuum the rug which is a family heirloom . It also turns out that a key which belong to Naomi was on the rug which ruined her vacuum cleaner and the rug as well . Well , Naomi and Mama decide to take it to court . Michael Constantine is memorable as the judge who must decide who is right and wrong . Of course , Mama makes references to Judge Wapner and People's Court and offhanded comments . Naomi uses her husband Vint to testify on her behalf . I loved it when Aunt Fran makes a confession to the judge regarding the tag on the rug . Of course , nothing works out as it should for everybody involved but it's still one of the funniest episodes in the series .
Probably one of the best if not memorable episodes !	I think Betty White's voice must have been hurting while she was filming this episode . It was a bit coarse at times and not like it normally is . As Ellen , she is now divorced but she has returned from traveling the world and showing slides of her trip to her long-suffering family . Then one night , she decides to go to Quitters and Losers singles group . There are lot of great lines . Well , Ellen meets a guy who turns out to be younger than her . She avoids telling her family and when Vint wins a dinner for four at Chez Ray , Raytown's French restaurant , he takes Naomi , Mama and Aunt Fran . There they see Ellen without her new boyfriend . When Ellen introduces him , the lines come out like fireworks especially from Mama . In this episode , we see Ellen and Mama bond over unlikely situation .
Mama's Problem Child !	When the Harpers get home from their weekly church service , they talk about the boy causing all the trouble . It turns out to be Reverend Meecham's grandson , Eugene . The Meechams played by Earl Boen and Anne Haney stop by to ask the Harpers to look after Eugene for the afternoon while the Reverend goes to the hospital . Eugene can't go because he gets in trouble . During his afternoon at the Harper house , Mama has to tolerate him drawing on the tablecloth , his insults , and his desire to eat at a fast food restaurant . When he dumps tabasco sauce and ruins the family dinner , Mama is trying not to break down and spank him . Things only get worse when Eugene has to spend the night when his grandfather has broken his leg at the hospital . The boy who played Eugene would get nominated for his performance . It's one of the better episodes .
Probably the Best Film if Not most Entertaining of 2007 !	Ratatouile is one of those films than can entertain children as well as adults . It's smart , beautifully crafted in animation . The story of a Rat who aspires to be a great French chef like Gusteau , a fictional male Julia Child . He gets caught up watching Gusteau as he learns of his death from television where the resident of the house , an old French lady with a gun , goes literally ballistic when she sees two mice . She blows the ceiling only to discover a scene like in Williard or Ben about a thousand rats living above her . Horrified , she begins shooting like Dick Cheney on vacation . She doesn't stop once they leave her house which almost destroyed . She goes right on separating the main character rat and his family and friends . He begins talking to Gusteau in his cookbook which he uses as a life raft away from the crazy lady with a rifle actually . Slowly , he finds himself at Gusteau's restaurant and slowly warms up to the aspiring human chef .
The Best Film of 2005 !	I saw a few films this year but this documentary about the rise and fall of Enron is far more important than anything out there today including Brokeback Mountain . This film provides insight into an American tragedy . The thoughts and opinions and observations of reporters , businessmen , businesswomen , and everybody involved had me glued to the screen . Enron had all the power , influence , and energy to make a lot of money but the truth was that they flawed by building their bridges too high . THe money was not there and there was a lot of talk but little financial return . The California Energy Crisis was a big sign of what was the beginning of the end . Ken Lay and his men were arrogant , selfish , and corrupted by the power of money . They did not notice that money was going out but not coming in like they had planned . They sold a lot of Brooklyn Bridges to anybody gullible enough to believe them . Yet , they had powerful friends both President George Bush Senior and Junior and Dick Cheney as well . When the coast came clear , Enron's tragic tale of greed and lies became crystal clear to those who worked so hard in the Enron Dream . Thousands of employees lost their pensions by buying into the Enron Dream only to turn up broke and crying poverty . I cry for those employees who believed in their company and the dream of Enron . Sadly , this movie does not do enough to enlighten its audience about the plight of the average Enron employee . We see the top of the heap and those who aided knowingly and unknowingly in it's downfall . I pray for those Enron employees who are working 2 or 3 jobs to make up their loss . God Bless You .
Ask Mama !	When Aunt Fran gets a temporary job as an advice columnist , her ideas and research go out the window when her sister gives her better advice which the paper uses over the helpful information and analysis . While the real advice columnist is out having an operation , Aunt Fran is becoming a successful substitute and might be given the job permanently . When Thelma realizes that her boss has other interests in Aunt Fran , she gives her some sound advice . Conrad Janis plays the boss who has different ideas on how to ask Aunt Fran . Anyway , this is one of the best episodes because it involves Fran and Thelma debating how much one helps the other . Of course , the family is involved and has two cents to give on everything including sex and kittens .
Welcome to Harper House !	Mama Harper wants a new appliance and she would sleep in a ditch to get it so sleeping with her family can't be too bad . Raytown is having a convention fair and the town is filled to capacity . They suggest that Raytown residents open their homes and rent rooms . Well , Mama Harper decides to rent a room . She expects only to rent one room but Naomi and Bubba have already rented a room . They all rented their rooms . Mama rents her room to the snobby Thornberrys with their precious orchid . Naomi rents her room to Ernie Carruthers and his significant other ( I won't spoil it for you ) and Bubba has rented his room to three cheerleaders . Well , you can imagine what life is like at Harper House .
Classic Lost Episode !	Who says you can't have fun when you're old . In this episode which features guest stars like Imogene Coca as Aunt Gert and Jack Gilford as a resident of a nursing home . Mama Harper visits Aunt Gert at the nursing home and is appalled by the treatment of the nurse played by Barbara Stuart who treats them like little children rather than adults . When Mama takes charge , things start to change and Aunt Gert comes back in form as Mama remembers her with the spunk and vigor in their youth . This episode for some strange reason does not get played often enough . Somehow it is either lost or forgotten but it really should always be on in syndication . Unfortunately , I'm praying and hoping for season two of Mama's Family . We can only hope that they'll restore the episodes so we can always enjoy them .
You want more after 3 hours	The Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring would make the late author very proud . It is extremely well done with a great cast of actors . There are not enough female roles in this story and it is a great story . Who would have thought that Sean Astin grew up to be a hobbit from his days as a " goonie " and Tobey Maguire who was best known for his role in the Ice Storm as Mike . Now he is the star of the film . He plays beside the wonderful attractive Orlando Bloom , John Rhys-Davies , the magnificent Christopher Lee as the dastardly wizard gone arye , Sir Ian McKellen as the wonderful charming gandalf ( Sure he could play Macbeth and Shakespearan role but he certainly can play his friend , Dame Maggie Smith , in a Saturday Night Live appearance . He was just perfect and now he plays with his action figures . Then there is wonderful Sir Ian Holm ( Just imagine two Sir Ians on the set , what are the chances ) . The film is about 3 hours and after all that there is still more and you want more . I only wished that they would finally give knighthood to Christopher Lee and John Rhys-Davies .
A Shocking Movie of Racism against Natives	The true story of a Native Canadian girl who was brutally murdered in November 1972 by four white Canadian teenagers . the four hour mini series is long enough to explain the town of The Pas ' racism and reactions to the crime . One murderer even confesses to the crime . The character of Lee Colgan can become sympathetic to the audience . Since that night , he has become the second victim in a psychological sense . He himself has become unemployed , chronic alcoholic whose wife left him with their only son . In the small town , it becomes a well-known fact of Lee's repetitious confessions on his drinking binges . For fear of being killed , some girls remain silent but the town itself is fully haunted by the whole murder . They themselves become an ignorant accomplices to the crime with their silence . By protecting their own , they have cursed themselves into an real ugly image of racism . Still , the racism exists between the white Canadians and their Native Canadians . May Helen Betty Osburne rest in peace now . One painful scene in the movie is the last moment between Betty and her mother before Betty departs on a small plane to The Pas . While justice went undone for many years , it still haunts Manitoba .
We Need Season Two on DVD !	Thelma Harper goes to pay her respect to her dearly departed Carl on his birthday . When she can't get anybody in the family to go with her , she goes alone . She learns that he is buried next to a strange woman . Furious , she goes home and is greeted by Ellen who has her phone off the hook to avoid the telephone call . Ellen is confronted by Vint and Naomi about her behavior . Anyway , Thelma explains that Carl is buried next to a strange woman . Of course , Ellen takes control and gets the truth out of the cemetery director that there has been a mistake . It's not Carl buried there . The headstone was misplaced in error . Of course , it only makes more problems because Thelma has poured out her heart to Clive what is his name . Now , Thelma has to resolve her relationship with Carl . How will he forgive her ?
A great film !	When I first saw , Office Space , I couldn't believe how somebody in Hollywood could create a comic masterpiece . I have worked in offices for years and I totally recommend this film to all office employees . I love Ron Livingston's character as the unhappy coworker ready to explode any minute . When he finally changes after being hypnotized , he becomes a happier person . He gets to tick off his boss most of all . I love the beginning where everybody bothers him about the TPS report covers like they are the most important things in the world . When the company begins to screw around with their employees , watch out for Milton , he's brilliantly played by under-appreciated Stephen Root . The monotony of the offices , cubicles , and the life it creates is not what God put us on earth for is exactly what this movie searches for . These characters are more real to me than anything I have seen in the movies or television . I know what it's like to loathe Mondays and wish to be left alone to stare into space for hours at a time . I know slavery didn't end in 1865 . It just took a different form . I am one of the lucky ones because i work for the state . But I feel for those companies that once created family oriented environments . You can sense the desperation . While I enjoy the movie , there are laughs along the way . MAD TV alums Orlando Jones and David Herman also star . Jennifer Aniston plays a waitress who sets Ron Livingston's character on the right path . I loved Gary Cole as the annoying boss .
Please Don't Remake This Film !	Harper Lee created a classic in her novel . This film adaptation is probably the best novel to film ever . It stars Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch in his Oscar winning role . Mary Badham plays the unforgettable Scout . One of the main reasons that I purchased the film was to see Ruth White in her performance as miserable Mrs . Dubose . Sadly she had a much bigger role in the novel but for everybody involved in this film classic , it was worth any minute of time . Alice Ghostley is also in the film as one of the mother and neighbor . Rosemary Murphy plays Maudie Atkinson . The film is first rate and classic which should never be remade even for today's audiences . It stands on it's own much Godfather and Citizen Kane . Please don't remake this film with today's stars .
One of the greats starring the great Kate , Cary , and Jimmie Stewart ! What more can you ask for in a film ?	To tell you the truth , they don't make films like The Philadelphia Story anymore . Maybe it's because the talent , class and grace of the great Katharine Hepburn , Cary Grant , and Jimmie Stewart don't exist anymore in the film industry . This film brought back Kate Hepburn , America's most honored actress of all time . I bought the 2000 VHS edition which featured a documentary of her life after the movie from 1992 . Kate was by all accounts very much like the character of Tracey Samantha Lord in the movie . Cary Grant plays her loving ex-husband who comes back into her life for her second marriage . It's a society marriage of course . There are no jokes about the Main Line society and it was not filmed at all in Philadelphia but a Hollywood set . Anyway , the acting was superb with Jimmie Stewart who got his only Oscar for playing the reporter who is smitten with Tracy but his real love is his work and his partner LIz played by the wonderful Ruth HUssey . I didn't forget Ruth because she does her job well playing among 3 huge stars . I also can't forget British actor , John Howard in the role . When Kate got the role , she asked for Clark Gable and Spencer Tracy . She got Jimmy Stewart and Cary Grant instead but we wouldn't have it any other way , would we ?
More Questions than Answers but we miss Kubrick !	I was a bit disappointed because I felt that I still need to know more about the party . I wanted to shake Sydney Pollack's character and asked him more questions . Why was he there ? How do you join ? Is it a secret club ? What was the purpose of the red caped man ? All I could think of was that the red caped man was a leader of a satanic cult . The music and the chanting of the words . Now if this was some kind of party , why did they have such creepy music and chanting . Then some of the masked guests or participants removed their capes , the women were beautiful but practically naked with only their masks and bikini bottoms . Then they all started touching each other as the music and chanting continued . Once they were done , they went off with the other cloaked men . We saw scenes of debauchery ( I hope I use it properly ) at this mysterious mansion . Naked women mostly and few naked men engage in sordid lovemaking . Of course , Pollack's character only hinted that the masks were protect the identities of the rich and powerful at these parties . No matter what , what was a prostitute doing there ? When one woman risks herself to save Tom's character , we are expected to believe it was all an act . Come on , I can't believe that Tom's character was just playing a role in dark play . I'm sorry but I have so many questions about the house , the party , and the participants which left me kind of disappointed . While I love Kubrick , the film is worth watching but not for children or for the squeamish . We miss you Kubrick , wherever you are .
A Brilliant Heartwarming and Heartbreaking Documentary !	I never heard of architect , Louis Kahn , until this documentary . In this almost two hour documentary which goes very quickly , his son , Nathaniel Kahn , explores his father's life from Estonia to the slums of North Philadelphia to the University of Pennsylvania in West Philadelphia where he studied and taught . He travels to Bangladesh , Israel , Connecticut , Trenton , and La Jolla , California as well as New York City to explore his father's creative genius . Personally , Louis Kahn had three families including his wife , Esther , who refused to give him a divorce and their daughter Sue Ann . Nathaniel includes his family members . Louis also has another half-sister Alexandra Tynge from his father's previous relationship with Anne Tyne , a fellow architect . Louis ' passion was his art .
Brilliant American Story of Two Men Making A Journey Together !	The casting is first rate although at the time , the actors Paul Giamati and Thomas Haden Church and the actresses Sandra Oh and Virginia Madsen were barely members of the A-list . This film is quite a feast of fun and at times quite sad . Miles played beautifully by Giamati is a school teacher who aspires to be a published writer . His best friend Jack who is engaged to get married a week from the day that they start a journey is beautifully played by Thomas Haden Church whose best known roles for his sitcom characters on Wings and Ned and Stacey . Virginia Madsen plays the waitress and graduate student , Maya , and divorce . She makes the role her own . Sandra Oh better known for her role on Grey's Anatomy is too brilliant as Stephanie who falls for Jack . Not everything goes according to their plan , it wouldn't be a great film if it did .
Your view of Death Penalty will change from watching this movie !	Despite the difficult subject of death row , Stephen King's Green Mile is a story about death row inmates and the men who guard and will execute them in the end . The cast is excellent with Tom Hanks always turning in an Academy Award winning performance as the head guard . I never imagined the Bosom buddy could be brutal . He is surrounded by very accomplished actors and actresses-Bonnie Hunt plays his wife and Patricia Clarkson plays the ill-stricken wife of James Cromwell's character . I enjoyed watching professional actors like James Cromwell , Harry Dean Stanton and William Morse turn in excellent performances all around . I have to say that I was saddened by Michael Jeter's finest performance in the movie before his own death by AIDS . Of course , the main reason I watched was for Doug Hutchison who now plays Sebastian Hulce on Guiding Light , my favorite soap . As wonderful as he was in The Green Mile , he is better as Sebastian . I found his performance to be a breakthrough performance for somebody . But it is Michael Clarke Duncan who truly earned his Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor that was really inspiring to watch . If you ever had a definite view of the death penalty , this film will change your mind about the barbarism and cruelty not on the death row inmates but on the guards themselves . I probably won't watch this film again . I get too emotionally involved . I am glad that the electric chair is not used like it used to be . It is rarely used nowadays . It is replaced by lethal injection . But now I wonder about the guards who befriend and form relationships with their prisoners whether they liked it or not . Now I wonder what happens to the guards after they become executioners themselves ? You wonder what makes them different from the criminals !
Don't Wait Much Longer !	One of the funniest shows to come out of England in the nineties , it has a terrific cast of veteran television and stage players . It's funny and timeless comedy with a bit of slapstick humor and a polished verbal English wit . The wonderful relationship between atheist feminist single Diana and the widowed Tom Ballard is fascinating to watch unlike most relationships , they get better when they're together than apart . Tom's boring son , Jeffrey , can bore anyone to death but he is in a marriage to unfaithful , drunk , and pill popper , Marion , who despises and resents Diana as a threat to their inheritance . The cast includes another heterosexual relationship between old maid plain Jane and the Bayview manager , Harvey Nigel Bains . Harvey constantly mistreats the wonderful sweet Jane . He doesn't know what he's got until he almost loses her . Three great love stories and romances in a wonderful sitcom . The wait is over .
Are you there ?	The Whisperers is a quiet British film set in Manchester , England which is northern and quite separate from the southern part of the country . In this film , Dame Edith Evans plays Margaret or Maggie Ross , a lonely elderly woman , who has a son , Charlie , and an estranged husband , Archie . The film opens as she spends her day going to the police complaining about the interracial couple upstairs or anything . She goes to the library to read the newspaper and places her feet by the heater for warmth . She also stops at the office for assistance where one person , Conrad , played wonderfully by under-appreciated Gerald Sim looks upon her very well . Her son visits for only five minutes and leaves a secret stash of money behind which causes more problems than solves for her . Maggie is quite lonely but fiercely independent . She gets the money and believes it's hers from assistance . Not realizing it may have been her son's stolen money , Charlie goes to prison but no mention of him after the money leads to meeting a woman who takes her to the bar and takes advantage of Maggie's vulnerability . Once she is passed out , the wife's husband takes her and dumps her near her home . They have robbed her and left her to die in exposure . She survives and recovers and somehow the audience meets Archie who is bribed into taking Maggie home from the hospital and staying with her . Maggie kept all of his newspapers just as he ordered and read them in her spare room which was like a library . When she comes home to the flat , the room is cleaned up . We learn that the newspapers symbolized her husband's presence in the household . After all , she never bought the paper but read it at the library for free . So all the old papers were his is cleared up . You feel sorry for Maggie but there are so many of Maggies out there who just want a little companionship , friendship , and compassion without something in return . Dame Edith Evans surely proved her acting skills making us feel for Maggie Ross .
13 Episodes Weren't Enough !	The Ben Stiller Show proved that good comedy exists out there . Unfortunately , Fox never gave the show a chance and it was cancelled after only airing twelve episodes . In fact , the show earned an Emmy award in the following year . The show is brilliant satire of television and modern culture of the early 1990s . I love Melrose Heights 902102104 etc . which fuses the shows of Melrose Place , Beverly Hills 90210 , and the Heights ( which was shortly canceled ) all into one . I love Janeane Garofalo who was in her element whether playing wife to a sock puppet named Skank , a prim and proper telephone operator , or spoofing Shannen Doherty . Andy Dick is also memorable as is the show's star Ben Stiller who is on the verge of stardom . I love the pilot episode where they spoof the group of U2 and Bono is singing for a cereal and at a Long Island Bar Mitzvah . The fact that they got the same manager from the Partridge Family is genius as is Paul Dooley who shows . They spoof Monkees with the Grungies in Seattle , Washington . I love the DVD and I wish there was more of Ben Stiller Show to go around .
A Heartbreaking film !	I have to say that this film really broke Leonardo DiCaprio's career . He earned his first Academy Award nomination as Best Supporting Actor for his role as retarded Arnie . Somebody who was never expected to survive . His brother is played by JOhnny Depp and their mother was casted by Darlene Cates who gives a superb role as the obese mother . Her performance is equally heartbreaking . Martha Plimpton plays the girlfriend or love interest to Johnny Depp's character . His character is a loving son , brother , and employee of a small grocery store where a new store in town like Walmart opens up luring their customers . Depp's character is truthful to his word even though he has to attend the supermarket because they need a birthday cake breaking his employer's heart . Their obese mother is so overweight that she spends most of her time downstairs . It's painful to watch Darlene Cates ' go to the police station to pick up Arnie . He is lovable and unforgettable in his role . Depp's Gilbert is equally unforgettable . He is the son that you want . His friend is played by Crispin Glover who is a mortician . The end of the film is also unpredictable . It's worth watching and it will break your heart .
Damn the Consequences !	I can't imagine the thought of remaking this film . To begin with , the cast is amazing . You have Dustin Hoffman , Robert Redford , Martin Balsam , Jason Robards , Jack Warden , Penny Fuller , Jane Alexander , Polly Holliday , Hal Holbrook , Valerie Perrine , Allyn Ann McLerie , Meredith Baxter Birney , Stephen Collins , Sloane Shelton , etc . Can you imagine a finer cast together ? It would win a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Ensemble . The writing is also amazing as well . This is real life and based on a true story . Now that we know Deep Throat , we don't need somebody to make a remake of this film . You can't bring together a finer group of people . Alan Pakula is one of the finest directors . Sadly , it did not win Best Film . I don't know who it lost too but this film is still breathtaking , addictive , and always worth watching even with editing and dubbed language over some of the cursed words . Watching Redford and Hoffman play Woodward and Bernstein is like a great roller coaster ride . You don't want to watch but you can't imagine not at times . As journalists , they show the rigid dead ends of life before the computer age . Remember manual typewriters , no answering machines , library card catalogs , and paper records . The scene in which they are digging endlessly for receipts remind us of their hard work , sleepless nights , dead ends , answers from few brave souls who confessed about greed , money , lies , and corruption in our government . Imagine a simple burglary opened a Pandora's Box of American corruption . You still have to wonder about the people involved for real . Imagine yourself in their position or in Woodward and Bernstein who were brave , smart , and had the guts to do their journalistic jobs despite the consequences .
Those idiots at the network !	The reason that Judy Garland Show was canceled was because she attracted the wrong audience , a mostly gay crowd . But who cares , Judy Garland was one of the legends of Hollywood who can sing like nobody else can or did . The show had Judy as the star but it also had guest performers who were the A-list celebrities of their day like Frank Sinatra , Dean Martin , Liza Minnelli , Barbra Streisand , Lena Horne and others . The network must have been idiots to have allowed this show with one fan , the President , among them . Judy said that she sang for the people . She didn't intend or plan to have such a gay following but she sung to the masses . Judy was a remarkable performer despite her personal or professional difficulties . It's hard to imagine that her show was canceled because she didn't attract the right kind of audience of the time .
C'est Magnifique !	This film is one of the best French films that I have ever seen recently . It is no wonder that French filmmakers like Francois Tuffaut are brilliant and terrific storytellers . Despite being released in 1976 , it still has the ability to remain fresh and wonderful today like a brand new film . The story is wonderfully told with great acting and writing . If you don't know French , you don't have too to see this film . You could learn from watching the wonderful visual scenery and the children's acting ability . They are all natural . This is a great French film and a wonderful film overall . I bought it for $5 . 00 in a local supermarket . It's worth more than that . The children in this story grow up as we do .
Just Unbelievable !	Liza Minnelli has it in her genes from her beloved mother , Judy Garland , and Vincente Minnelli . Although she states that her sister Lorna Luft is the singer in the family , LIza is the entertainer of our generation . She can sing , dance , act , and do it all . Thirty years later , her career is revived after another divorce and health problems . Liza may never be as fit as she was when she performed on stage in a live production in 1972 . Liza has always been an incredible performer . I love her in Cabaret and I refuse to see any production of the musical because I can't imagine anybody but Liza as Sally Bowles , the sad Berlin singer who craves the love of a good man and the love of her own father in the film . This stage version is like an extended performance of her from the film , Cabaret . Unlike the film , this show is not as dark and lonely . Liza worked hard for six weeks before this production . IT's a once in a lifetime event and I wasn't even born yet . I first bought her Liza with a Z CD to listen in the car . You can't imagine not singing along with her as well . Now I look forward to seeing her dance , sing , and entertain us in the DVD . Believe me , nobody today can touch Liza as a performer .
It was one of the first and best of E ! True Hollywood Stories !	Dominique Dunne had everything going for her . She was on the brink of acting stardom and came from a prominent Dunne family . Unfortunately , she had an abusive relationship with her boyfriend which resulted in her tragic murder . The story here is well-told in two hours on E ! . This and the Rebecca Shaeffer murder was also well-done with dignity , respect , and informative . I don't like her father , Dominic Dunne , who has been a thorn in the side of many defendants . He harbors a lot of resentment towards the legal system for failing to protect his daughter and keep her murderer behind bars . I can understand that but there is no reason to convict somebody without evidence supporting it . So Dunne's life was forever changed by his daughter's murder not for the better because his anger doesn't do anything except destroy his credibility . I know that parents of murdered children do hold this anger for the right reasons but I don't think Dunne has done anything productive except write books criticizing the legal system . I still feel for Dominique who had such a promising future as an actress and the tragic death of hers is an absolute loss to the acting community . If we can learn from her death , then her death was not entirely in vain .
Chilling , Terrifying but True !	I will never forget this film or the events that lead up to Jonestown in Guyana . It just seems so tragic but needs to be told . Powers Boothe give a commanding performance as the leader Rev . Jim Jones from obscurity until total madness . It would have won him an Academy Award easily if it was released in the movie theaters . It is the kind of mini-series you won't forget . You won't forget the images of the cult's brutality , control , and obsessiveness of it's leader . His rise and fall and the threat from the outside world to destroy what he considered to be paradise . The mass suicide is horrifying , almost unreal to anybody's imagination as to why so many people ( 900 + ) went willingly or resisted JOnes ' orders . They don't make mini series like these anymore where we're left with out mouths open and hungry to know what happened to the others .
Jack Cassidy , we still miss you !	All I knew about Jack Cassidy was his sons who were in the Hardy boys . He died before I got to know him . I think this is my favorite Columbo episode with him as a magician with a secret , he was a Nazi in Germany during World War II . Cynthia Sikes plays his lovely daughter who is clueless about her father's identity and history but she is memorable and she is better known for her role in St . Elsewhere . Sadly , I hated reading about Jack Cassidy's tragic death . Wherever you are Jack , we miss you still after 30 years . Columbo always catches his man or woman even in this episode . As Columbo always says , there is no such thing as a perfect murder . Just when you think he's got away with his crimes , nothing could be further from the truth . If you love Columbo , you will love this episode and how he catches his man is just as much fun to watch and learn .
An Excellent Columbo !	The Lyttons are not a normal Southern California family . They are of the old money and had a place in society . Peter Falk's Columbo could not be more out of place than with eccentric bunch . Joyce Van Patten is a brilliant , under-rated actress who deserves awards and nominations for always leaving her mark in any role . After watching her in this role as Ruth Lytton , you want to see more of her . Celeste Holm does an exceptional job of playing her sister who won her sister's fianc , married , and produced Janie , the heir to the Lytton fortune . Ruth and her brother Edward are caught in a conflict over the family's legacy which includes a museum that is constantly losing money . Ruth is determined to keep the museum alive because it is her life . Edward wants the best for his family and thinks by selling it that they would all benefit from it . Well , the only weak casting is the role of Janie , the niece . I liked her performance but I can't get that one awful vision of her reaction to finding her uncle's body in the museum . It is the most awkward reaction regarding murder . I won't say anymore but I think the writing was excellent . I think Joyce's Ruth and Peter Falk's Columbo was a good pair . I can sympathize with Ruth's loss of love and her devotion and loyalty to her family .
I just loved this episode !	This is one of my favorite episodes . I love watching Diane Baker and Robert Vaughn . Wilfrid Hyde-White is also in it . Both Vaughn and Hyde-White are Columbo veterans by now , I love the unusual love story in this film an I won't spoil it for the viewers . I love Columbo and have seen almost all of them about a hundred times . The Commodore is murdered . While he was a proud businessman , he is disgusted by the greedy vultures that seem more interested in money than sailing . He had created an empire from building boats , yachts , and ships . Diane Baker plays his alcoholic daughter and I believe she is one of the best actresses around who doesn't get enough credit or work in my opinion . Robert Vaughn plays her husband . There are a lot more twist and turns in this episode than the usual Columbo episode but it's always entertaining and worth watching with great actors .
Simply Columbo	This Columbo episode is one of the best episodes of this popular long running series . It is based on a California Senate campaign . I loved to watch this one to see Katey Sagal as the candidate's secretary , years before her Married with Children fame . I enjoy watching Joanna Linville's performance as the drunken candidate's wife . Columbo is at his greatest in these classic episodes . The plot is well written and sensible to understanding the motives and actions of the murder . One of the best scenes is when Columbo goes to an exclusive tailor in Beverly Hills and ask about buying a suit . They recommend Sears or some mainstream department store . After all , Columbo can't afford a tailor made suit on a detective's salary .
One of My Personal Favorite Episodes !	I love Peter Falk as Columbo . Here he investigates the disappearance of a very active groom to be . Well , Joyce Jillson plays his fianc . He learns that the groom was considering selling the family business over the objection of his older half brother played beautifully by the wonderful Donald Pleasance ( who should have been knighted ) as Adrian Corsini who ran the winery and is quite a snob with his wine friends . Anyway , his secretary , Karen , is played by the unforgettable Julie Harris who has a crush on her longtime employer . Of course , Columbo has to put the pieces together to solve the crime and I won't say how he does it but it's clever .
It was the Saturday Night Live for Children	I am not going to deny This show's place in children's television history . It may have been slapstick , silly humor but it still brings back so many happy memories . I watched this show as a child religiously . Back when Nickelodeon was for children . I just wanted to be part of their cast too . I loved their opposite sketches , Christine and Lisa , little Dougie , Alanis before she became a famous singer . I had a crush on Alistair . Too bad , there is not a show like this now on television for children . When Nickelodeon first came on , this show really became part of our childhood life . I remember always talking about this show and what they got up to . I only wished they did more with the original cast . They always had a theme . This was not best written show nor did it pretend to be . It was made for it's audience and that was the children of the 1980s including myself . I will always have a soft place in my heart for this show which is rarely shown . Outdated maybe for today's kids but not for me .
I have rediscovered the brilliance of Chekhov	After having studied Chekhov in college classes , I never considered his work to be in the same league as Tennessee Williams or Eugene O'Neill . yes , he was a brilliant Russian playwright who wrote The Seagull . In this filmed play version , the material is fresh with great actors like Blythe Danner who could have been the next Meryl Street in the seventies . It is rather remarkable to see the similar features and compare Blythe Danner and her daughter , Gwyneth Paltrow . As Nina , she is truly the star of this drama . But it has a great cast including the husband-wife team of Louis Zorich and Olympia Dukakis and Frank Langella as a young man . It is wonderful to watch a character actors Kevin McCarthy and Lee Grant too as actors in an ensemble . This filmed version is on par and equal to our British counterparts . There have been many versions but I like this so far . And now , I'll have to reread my Chekhov and discover it's true masterpiece . I also think Marian Spencer gives a great supporting performance as Masha .
They should have kept Aunt Effie as a Regular !	My only complaint is that they should have hired Dorothy Van to be a regular cast member but she was also a writer on the show with her husband , Jim Evering . In this episode , Aunt Effie suffered from a fall in which she's just dazed and out of it . Mama Harper takes matters into her own hands when she finds Aunt Effie mooning the candy at the hospital gift shop . She brings her home to Harper house . While Vint is exciting over putting a puzzle of the Merrimac and Meridien together with his wife , nephew , and neighbor . Effie stills remains unchanged since she was brought home . It's a different Mama Harper in this episode . She does her best and has patience with Effie to the point of madness . It's one of the best shows and Dorothy Van was definitely great as Effie .
The Movie that Broke All the Rules in the Industry !	Midnight Cowboy is not for everybody . It's raw , painful , and realistic but very entertaining . The lead actors Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman who would go on to become Oscar winning actors deliver amazing performances . Voight as the Texas hustler , Joe Buck , who migrates from small town Texas to New York City to become a hustler . He does not apologize for his chosen profession but it is not that easy . The New York City women like the rich lady played by Georgeann Johnson and Cass played by Oscar nominated Sylvia Miles are different than Texas women . Sadly , Buck is trying to escape from his past life in Texas . He was raised by his grandmother , Sally Buck , played by the wonderful actress Ruth White who died in 1969 from cancer . The locations in New York City are wonderful to watch as is the relationship between Fatso played by Hoffman and Buck's characters evolve into a moving male to male friendship . The men are struggling to survive the New York City life by not playing by the rules like getting a real job . As the film evolves , Buck's past comes to the surface and it's haunting but not clear . The film is not for children but compared to today's films and television programming , Midnight Cowboy might be more tame . I can't forget a young Brenda Vaccaro and a party that you can't forget . It's also a tearjerker of a film , so get your hankies out too .
Cher's best performance to date !	It's sad , depressing , and inspiring to watch this movie about a disfigured teenager and his wild mother played by Cher . It is the teenager who acts more like a parent to her . He is smart , brilliant , kind , generous , and has no many qualities lost by the tragedy . Cher's is untouchable and deserved to be nominated for an Oscar for this role . Even though there are times of sadness and tears , this movie will lift your spirits . There are also wonderful supporting performances by Estelle Getty who plays Cher's mother , Laura Dern who plays his blind girlfriend in one of the most touching love stories in recent film history , Sam Shepard as Cher's boyfriend in the film , Alexandra Powers , but one of the most moving and touching performances is by Eric Stoltz who is unforgettable in this movie . He should have been nominated for an Academy Award along with Cher . This film is truly a tear jerker . So bring your hankies !
Excellent Merchant Ivory Production !	James Ivory and his longtime partner Ismail Merchant produced some of Britain's classic first-rate films . In this adaptation of E . M . Forster's novel of the same name , it has a first rate cast which introduced Emma Thompson in her Academy Award winning performance as well as Oscar winner and nominee Vanessa Redgrave in a masterclass performance as a dying woman who misses her home in Howards ' End . Sir Anthony Hopkins plays the bereaving widow who remarries Thompson in the film . The story is a complex plot but it is well-developed and displayed with first class art direction , costumes , and scenery . The film also has Nicola Duffett in a small but unforgettable role and Helena Bonham Carter as Thompson's sister . The cast is first rate as is the story in itself .
Off to see the Wizard and Dorothy and Toto too !	The Wizard of Oz has survived , thrived , and often influenced great works like Broadway's Wicked musical based on the evil witch who died . The story from L . Frank Baum's novel of the same name is adapted again but starring the wonderful Judy Garland as Dorothy , a role that never really escaped her identity . Margaret Hamilton , a former school teacher would play the evil witch in this version . The supporting cast of characters included munchkins that earned a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame . The munchkins introduced it's audiences to dwarf sized adults many of us for the first time . The Wizard of Oz and it's unforgettable cast of characters included in the Tin Man , the Scarecrow , and the Cowardly Lion . The film version has inspired spoofs and countless attempts to recapture it's brilliance . The cast and crew are unforgettable in developing one of the finest film classics of our time and with Judy's Over the Rainbow performance , you won't forget her ever .
Smartest Film of 2006 so Far !	I wanted to see this film for a long time and on a flight to London , I finally got to see it and it was worth the wait . This movie is funny , smart , and entertaining . Let's face it , we all know smoking is bad for you just as too much alcohol or anything else . I have never smoked but I know a lot of smokers . They started smoking because they choose too and now they are addictive . Of course , smoking was once hip in the 1950s . My father smoked and probably would have lived longer if he didn't at all but what's done is done . You can't blame the cigarette industry for people lighting up and smoking . There are few places left that they can smoke . Aaron Eckhart does an excellent job in making us feel for the tobacco lobbyist Nick Nailer . He plays devil's advocate . I found Katie Holmes believable as the reporter who would do anything to get a story . I love Maria Bello playing the alcohol lobbyist and that guy from Saturday Night Live playing the firearms lobbyist . The three call themselves the Merchants of Death Squad while lobbying for their causes in Washington D . C . Marianne M . who plays Nick's son's school teacher has a small but worthy role . Sam Elliott who I always mistake for Sam Shepard is the retired Marlboro man in this film suffering from lung cancer . William H . Macy has a great role as the Vermont Senator . Wait until you see what his character wants to do with old films portraying smokers . It's unthinkable . Anyway , the film is just too short in my opinion but the director is the son of Hollywood Director , Ivan Reitman , his name is Jason Reitman . His father directed films like Twins and Junior with Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwarzenneger . For his debut as director , Jason Reitman will probably win an Oscar before his own father .
When network films were excellent ! SOmetimes better than cinema !	THe movie of Adam based on the tragic tale of Adam Walsh is heartbreaking . It chronicles the tragedy of a young boy's life who was snuffed out from under us . His death was not in vain because his parents became advocates for missing children in real life . The movie ends with photos of missing children . The tragedy of missing child is often worse than knowing their fate . This film is faithful to the story . Daniel J . Travanti and JoBeth Williams play Adam's parents and they could not have done a better job . THe film may be over 20 years old but it is still very effective in bring human emotion to a story like Adam Walsh . He became the symbol for missing children . When Reve is reading those letters from people who have been through the hell that the Walshes have been through , it is heartbreaking . Rather than wallow in self-pity , they pursue justice for others who have been through the same . THey realize that they are not the only ones . The Walshes lives changed forever when Reve went to inquire about a lamp at the mall . She turns around and their little boy is gone forever . I remember the scene where they go to the car , leave the doors unlocked , and prepare if Adam comes home . That's probably the most memorable moment in the film .
Terrific Show for Kids and Adults	Bill Nye is an established scientist and comedian from Almost Live with fellow announcer Pat Cashman . His show is very enjoyable , informative , and entertaining . I wish it was around when I was a kid . I learn more from him than any science teacher in my life . He has one topic on his show and he sells it easily like the forest . He can produce a music video to help sell the forest and he even used a supermarket type idea for kids . Even adults with college education without children can enjoy it . I love his outdoors in Seattle and guest stars . It's too bad the show is no longer being produced . He has a new show filmed of course in his beloved Seattle , Washington . Bill Nye is truly one of a kind . He is today's answer to Mr . Wizard . His show should still be repeated on public stations for adults and children audiences . He provides entertainment as well as education .
It's addictive !	I have to say that after watching it last night . I became addicted to this groundbreaking show . Andre Braugher best known for his role as Frank Pemberton on the NBC show , Homicide : Life on the Streets , which I still consider one of the best cop shows ever made has breathed life into this character , Nick , who by all appearances works in the auto field but his real career is that of a professional thief . Granted , I would have like to have seen the interracial relationship between Nick and Wanda but that was cut too short . NIck's stepdaughter is kind of a typical teenager girl who just lost her mother and doesn't know what to make of her stepfather . Although her father lives in Hawaii , he never comes to his former wife's funeral is a testament to watching this interesting relationship unfold in the upcoming episodes . There are a lot of crime shows on television but this show is set apart by the fact that even the criminals have a code and they could pay with their lives . THe fact that the show is set in New Orleans is also a strong factor as to what they can come up . I just saw one night but I wanted to see more . I like Linda Hamilton's character . She's a breath of fresh air . You have to see it once just to get the feel of it and want to see it again and again . I love Andre Braugher and I think he should get an Emmy and a Golden Globe for playing this role .
Not Nice ! But Excellent !	Sharon Gless and Tyne Daly redefined female relationships . No , they were never lovers and the thought had never occurred back in the 1980s . They were partners , allies , friends , and comrades in a man's profession . They were unlikely heroines . Mary Beth was married to Harvey with two sons and a daughter . Christine was the troubled single woman . Partnered together , they formed a dynamic duo with the likes of Starsky and Hutch and Miami Vice but with estrogen and a women's touch . As Cagney and Lacey , the audience realized that women can be more serious and intelligent than the other female duo of Laverne and Shirley . No , this show was serious , thought-provoking , and entertaining . We loved Cagney and Lacey and it was a show that it's audience fought to bring back to the airwaves with passion . Unfortunately , shows like Cagney and Lacey probably wouldn't come back . The idea of having mature , plain women like Daly and Gless is gone . Although the show garnered plenty of honors including Emmys for both Daly and Gless , it is hard to imagine that nowadays a show like Cagney and Lacey wouldn't be more Police Woman and less serious . On screen , Daly and Gless proved to be a dynamic duo . You knew you had two strong actresses giving the performance of their lives as female cops . Gone was the glamor and present was the seriousness that women should be taken more seriously . Unfortunately , actresses like Daly and Gless who are terrific American actresses of the highest caliber who can turn any guest appearance into an Emmy nomination should not be forgotten and discarded like yesterday's garbage . Daly and Gless proved that audiences didn't always go for glamorous , attractive , but a realistic portrayal of women in a man's department . It's still a man's world but Cagney and Lacey proved that they had what it took to make it there after all .
A movie that inspires you to be the best with what you got !	William Macy and Helen Mirren deserve Emmys for their performances as mother and son . Helen is almost unrecognizable as his ailing mentally unstable mother . William is perfect as the lovable Bill Porter . If anybody had doubts about the casting choice of Helen Mirren as Mrs . Porter are going to be shocked . William and Helen are both equally fabulous in their roles . William is at his best performance of the cerebral palsy salesman who persists and becomes friends . He befriends the lonely wife played by Kathy Baker . He falls in love with Kyra Sedgwick's role as Shelly , his hired assistant . Kyra is also wonderful in her role as the assistant who loves him . Then they are his customers who he never gives up on like the gay couple or the man who disses him . He treats his customers like members of his own family than customers and that's why he is so wonderful . His mother taught him best . If you can see this movie , it will move you to tears and inspire you .
Cheers for Cheers !	Cheers was a comedy which lasted eleven seasons miraculously . The comedic rivalry and interaction between Sam and Diane has survived and thrived even today . Even after Diane's swan song due to personal problems in her life ( she still is married to the same man for twenty years and they have a daughter together ) , the show continued with Kirstie Alley who did her best but could never fully outperform Shelley Long's legendary perfectionism . Shelley deserved better to be ostracized by her cast members . Had they befriended and settled the uncomfortableness on the set , she would have no reason to leave the show . But for us , we survived and the show continued for six seasons . Shelley did do a favor for us . If she had stayed , the show could have ended after 7 seasons . After all , how much could they do .
Save Our Soaps !	Back in the 1980s , soaps ruled daytime . It's not replaced with talk and service shows now . There are only 9 shows . Only four are produced in New York City and the 5 are produced in Los Angeles . There was a time when it was 14 and New York City ruled daytime television . Those days are long gone because of production costs and the fact that audiences don't seem to be interested in daytime television as much as prime time . In England , soaps are very popular and acceptable . They have become part of their culture . It's sad that the same country that produced the early daytime serials like Search for Tomorrow which showed Agnes Nixon's creative genius and actors like Mary Stuart and Larry Haines play Jo and Stu for 35 years to lose daytime television . Daytime soaps like Search for Tomorrow are no longer being produced in New York City . I don't believe New York City will ever reclaim or want to reclaim it's title of the daytime television industry . It's a shame . There are plenty of actors who want to stay in New York City and work in stage , film , and television without having to relocate to Los Angeles . Maybe the answer is north in Toronto where actors and actresses can work on stage , film , and television . I remember Mary Stuart and Jane Krakowski from Ally McBeal fame in this show . This was a pleasant half-hour on television . We don't have them anymore .
Gotta love Earl and Jason Lee	I like Jason Lee as an actor ever since I saw him in Dogma . In this quirky television show , he plays lovable Earl Hickey who wants to redeem himself and bring karma to his life . He creates a list of over 200 people , deeds , and mistakes that he made . Last night on NBC , they aired 4 episodes and I was in love with Jason Lee and Earl . This comedy is well-written and well-meaning . I loved the episode with the multi-talented and recently won an Emmy , Kathryn Joosten , who is quite his match . I could watch Kathryn in anything . I hope she reappears in this show too . I don't care for much of the supporting cast . I feel that Jason Lee is the heart and soul of the show . There is no audience like in normal sitcoms . I miss that today . While I am laughing at the show , I am enjoying what other critics have enjoyed . I know that I have disliked Arrested Development simply because I could not stand the characters . But with Earl , you have to like him . He reminds you of somebody . Maybe it will encourage others to change for the better and improve their karma .
Still lots of fun !	I am giving this film a perfect score because I think it's still worth watching again and again . I love John Ritter and Jack Warden as father and son . You can't forget Junior . Amy Yasbeck who first played his wife in the first film now plays a lovely school nurse who has a problem child of her own . I love Gilbert Gottfried as the annoying principal . This film was never meant to do anything but be fun and it does it just fine . I like seeing MArtha Quinn and Charlene Tilton act as possible second wives to Little Ben Healy . Of course , Loraine Newman is great as the multiple divorced bride who wants little Ben Healy and can't stand children . Her scenes with Junior are fun to watch . Of course , they double the problem child with Ivyann Swann who plays Trixie . She does a devilish time making trouble for Junior as he comes to a new town and school . I love the Problem Child movies and wished that they moved to television rather than stay in film . I never saw the third sequel because they don't have John Ritter or Junior , that lovely red head boy . It's for kids , parents , and anybody who wants to laugh .
One of Farrah's best performances	I watched Small Sacrifices again just recently after many years . Farrah Fawcett should have got an Emmy for that portrayal of Diane Downs . Her performance in this mini-series is incredible and the fact that the mini-series follows the book closely . Ann Rule's book of this horrible crime leaves you wanting more . So much that I reread the book again . Farrah should be honored for such a fabulous performance . Just watch her in the Burning Bed as a battered wife . Farrah Fawcett headlines Small Sacrifices but everybody else in the film including John Shea who plays the District Attorney and her then real-life lover , Ryan O'Neal , plays Diane Down's married lover who does not want children and would help the police convict his former lover . Ryan , John , and even Gordon Clapp are all wonderful and memorable in their roles . They do not make television mini-series like they used to anymore with cable making the movies for television . If this film was released in the cinema , Farrah would have been nominated for an Oscar for this role . She probably would have won the award !
The Most Classic of All Soaps !	As a lifetime soap opera fan , I have watched a lot of soaps and most can't compare to the best soap on television . Screw the Emmys for not naming it the Best Daytime Drama of the year . Since it's debut in 1973 , The Young and the Restless revolutionized daytime by the master , William J . Bell and his wife Lee Phillip Bell . Together they created the Young and the Restless and Bold and the Beautiful , both the most watched soaps on daytime today . What's their secret ? They don't kill characters and return them back from the dead , rather they don't kill many characters . They stick to the old fashioned way of storytelling . They don't do things quickly which is why is may not be for everybody . What is their strength is the excellent cast of actors and crew members who don't just stay 3 years and leave . THey stay a lot longer and there are exceptions . I think they stay because the work is good and in Los ANgeles , you can do other things like film and television and even theater . Yes , the cast includes Jeanne Cooper , Eric Braeden , Peter Bergman , Melody Thomas Scott , Kate Linder , and so many others who have come and gone . It's not for everybody , it might be too slow for some people but the stories are good and somewhat crazy sometimes but worth watching . At least , they make an effort to focus on the older characters like Katherine and Jill , archenemies , friends , and rivals and even related . The show gets stronger in time . With head writer , Kay Alden in charge , things have not changed so much since the Beloved William J . Bell passed away a year ago . he was a legendary creative person entirely . He and Lee treat the cast and crew like their family which is why so many have stayed so long . Bill and Lee were a dynamic team together on screen and off-screen as well . I wished the Kennedy Center Honors would have honored him for his contributions to daytime television which are just incredible . He helped create daytime . He is still very much missed today .
A Great Mini-Series !	Joe McGuinness wrote about the McDonald case . First , I am skeptical about the doctor's role that night . Why did his beautiful pregnant wife and his beautiful two daughters get brutally murdered is still much a mystery to me much the Sam Sheppard case . Anyway the role of the doctor is played well by Gary Cole . The in-laws are played by Oscar winners , Karl Malden and Eva Marie Saint . To tell you the truth that I haven't read the book but I think the mini-series shows the tragedy carefully without being too gross . It does make you ask a lot of questions about why the doctor survived his wounds . Since McGuinness obviously is convinced by McDonald's guilt , you wonder too about it . There is still supporters like his second wife who appeared on Larry King Live once in a while trying to prove her husband's innocence . Unless he confesses , we will just never know but the mini-series provides a nice explanation anyway .
We need more shows like this now !	Newhart was indeed a funny and brilliant show without being crude or vulgar . It was fun watching the late wonderful Mary Frann and the amazing genius of Bob Newhart as innkeepers in Vermont . Newhart had a wonderful supporting cast of interesting characters played by Tom Poston , Julia Duffy , and Peter Scolari , and more . It should have won Emmys rather than being nominated but it was a great cast and legacy to sitcom television . Too bad , they don't make them like they used to . Newhart is better known for his dry wit and humor . He is not a slapstick comedian at all . He knows how to tell a story and his facial expressions while similar always is worth watching . Mary Frann was a great actress who was taken from us too young . Julia Duffy and Peter Scolari were great together as a couple and their humor helped enhance this classic show . Tom Poston was always a joy to see and who could forget backwoods Larry and his brothers , Daryl and Darrell who never spoke .
It's the best show on television	Paul Winfield can make any small town or city fascinating . He could sell ice to Eskimos or anything else . The language and description of towns like Skidmore , Missouri , Fairbanks , Alaska , Seattle , Boston , Hunt Country , Virginia , Philadelphia , St . Augustine , Florida , and Salem , Massachusetts can entice people to visit these places and buy the books about the famous crimes that have occurred there . He is a wonderful narrator of this show . He makes everything so trivial and mundane about these towns to be exotic and captivating . Winfield died and they replaced him with a narrator just as wonderful as Paul was in the role . Still it makes you wonder about your own hometown , what makes it special , unique and it's character to the other ones depicted on City Confidential . My favorite episode was Salem known for more than the witches . If you listen to his voice , it's like listening to poetry sometimes . He points out the irony and how a town will recover from it's crimes .
Unforgettable !	D . W . Griffith whether you like him or not is one of the pioneer film directors of all time . Watching Intolerance , you can witness his genius . The filming is extraordinary . The visuals are phenomenal . THe acting is equally impressive since the voice couldn't be heard . It was not until 10 years later that we heard sound in the films . The casting is large . This film would have won Best Picture Academy Award for that year if there was an Academy . No wonder people went to the picture shows repeatedly because it would take more than once to see and grasp the magnitude of that is wonderful brilliant film in it's early stages . Film directors like D . W . Griffiths had his problems and I don't condone the racism in Birth of A Nation but I can forgive him because it was almost 100 years and life was much different then for him and this country . Anyway , Intolerance is a brilliant film overall . When they say a picture says a thousand words , this film says a million words . It can now be viewed as art and should be appreciated .
Oh how sweet it isn't ! The Best Film of 1997 !	The Sweet Hereafter is my choice for the best film of 1997 . I consider it a five star film . Acting , writing , and directing are all Oscar winning caliber . 1997 was a terrific year for film compared to 1998 dismal films . If there is any justice , one day this film will inherit its triumph over the shallow Titanic . I have read the book by Russell Banks . The film is about a school bus disaster which effects a small town . The film director of this film is worth watching again and again . Sir Ian Holm is definitely one of the finest actors that we never heard about who is better known for his small role in the Lord of the Rings trilogy . Canadian actress Sarah Polley is one to watch out for . She has a promising career ahead of her . The film will leave you speechless because this tragedy could happen . I think nothing is more tragic than the scene of the empty bus and the school bus driver who carries a burden . We never really know what caused the tragic accident that took so many lives of young children . This film is truly a disaster for mature adults . The film is close to real life with everyday and ordinary people in it . Please see it if you haven't already !
A long overdue review of one of the best new shows of the season	David Kelley had a brilliant idea in allowing James Spader's Allan Shore in his own show , Boston Legal . With cast mates like the great William Shatner and Candice Bergen , you can't go wrong . It is entertaining , fresh , and fun to watch than The Practice . The spin off is actually better than the original series . I like The Practice but it was too serious . It lacked fun ! I like watching guest stars like the great Shelley Long who should win an Emmy for her guest appearance as a nymphomaniac divorce . I like watching Betty White return as Shore's nemesis from his Dedham days when he defended Patrick Dempsey's character for murder . Boston Legal is a lot more entertaining and reminds me of the L . A . Law days of television .
A Princeton State of Mind !	The cost of brilliance might be madness . You don't need to look further than the brilliant math genius John Nash played here by Oscar Winner Russell Crowe . He should have won another Academy Award for Best Actor in this role . It's not easy at Princeton University . They probably didn't flinch an eyeball in their ivy digs over the Oscars . It's the kind of university where it takes a whole lot to impress those ivy geniuses . After all , they have Nobel Laureate Toni Morrison , author Joyce Carol Oates , and Nobel prize winners on their faculty as well . Ron Howard said he loved filming in Princeton , New Jersey which doesn't seem to fit in the rest of stereotypical New Jersey . It's like another world of it's own where geniuses discuss politics , history , economics , math , and literature . It's hardly believable that some of them probably don't own television sets because they think it's waste of time and a distraction but they probably have computers instead . Princeton is a state of mind and a place where the mind is valued more than the body . With brilliance comes madness for John Nash . Ron Howard creates a beautiful film based on John Nash's story of suffering and demons that battles his mind for control . I like the casting of Judd Hirsch and Jennifer Connolly as the loving , devoted wife . John Nash will be remembered for this film more than his brilliance but that he was human just like the rest of us .
The Show you should be watching !	The Office regardless of the British version is probably one of the best comedies out there . Steve Carrell is a comic genius and I remember him from his days at the Daily Show on Comedy Central . The other cast members are really unknown . They look like office workers that you and I work beside five days a week . His character of Michael Scott is purely genius . This guy is somebody we all know who thinks he's all that and a bag of chips but he's not . The characters in the Office do need to be more clear . They are all rather vague so far to me . Sometimes , I don't know who is which but I can tell you something . This show makes me want to watch it again because I work in an office and I have colleagues like them too . When they were standing outside during a fire , it was interesting to see that a simple fire like a toaster burning because the new temp and business school college student left something there in the wrong spot . They made the experience watchable and interesting to see who would do who on a desert island much like Lost and what movies they would see . I bet there are people who have the same movies on their list too . Long live the Office .
Hollywood , Please Pay Attention !	The Blue Collar Comedy Tour came out of nowhere and has blown the comedy world wide open . Between New York City and Los Angeles , there lies America . Maybe the real America , I was born and raised in New Jersey where I still live . It was there that I grew up watching Hee Haw and Mama's Family with great affection . Most Americans live in a Blue Collar World . I think I got tired of shows like Seinfeld , Mad About You , Will and Grace , etc . who never worried about the basic problems that most of us face . Okay , most of us live cutting coupons and scrape by somehow . Hollywood and New York don't realize how expensive it is . Most of us don't have the money to spend on a Broadway show because we don't make six figures . Hollywood is clueless as to understanding American humor . I say that I have a white collar mind but a blue collar job and it's true . I have advanced college degrees . I don't care what your background is neither because even though the men are white , they appeal to the masses and it shows when you see them entertaining crowds from the urban center to city arenas . Larry the Cable Guy still lives in his hometown in Nebraska . Jeff has been under-appreciated by mainstream audiences . See , who's laughing now ? Ron White is quite hysterical . Then there is one another guy who I can't recall right now . It's still funny to see David Alan Grier and Heidi Klum in guest roles . People see them because they are not going to be preached at but entertained and leave feeling better about themselves . That's what good comedy it about . Comedy Central is wise repeating these movies . 60 Minutes did a special on Larry the Cable Guy and the Blue Collar Tour . The journal , Peter Simon , seemed puzzled by the appeal . Okay , it's not Seinfeld , thank God . I wouldn't mind these guys coming over to my house for dinner . They're welcome anytime . These guys are not politically correct or savvy and that's fine with me . Who wants politically correctness anyway ? It can ruin a perfectly good evening .
The Best Morning Show on Television !	First , I am a fan of Don Imus . Second , I don't care what your opinion of him is nowadays because of all the Rutgers Controversy . I am a Rutgers Alum and not ashamed to say it here . Yes , Don said something stupid and he has apologized . I think when the air settles down around them . His rating will go up on radio and on MSNBC . Let's face it , there is no such thing as a bad publicity . Don and his wife , Deirdre , have made substantial contributions and services to children who suffer from autism , have cancer , and siblings of SIDS babies . Don and Deirdre don't expect to earn any money from their services . They raise the money to help ordinary people . They spend their free time in New Mexico at their cattle ranch getting it ready for kids with cancer for that one week where they can forget their illness and act like kids working on a cattle ranch . For me , I watch Imus in the morning because I can't stand those saccharine , pretentious morning shows that dumb down the brain . Imus ' guest roster is the who's who of political journalism . Don doesn't spend time talking about the Hilton sisters , Britney Spears , or Anna Nicole Smith . He focuses on Iraq , Iran , sports , White House , politics , etc . Yes , he made a mistake but nobody's perfect . After all , he's almost 67 years old . If MSNBC and CBS radio dumps him , he could always go on Sirrius radio and not worry about the censorship . For now , he's getting a lot of negative attention . Calls for his termination are outrageous since I hear a lot worse on FM radio . As a woman , Don Imus does not effect my life . I still make less than most men with the same amount of education and experience . Most of all , I respect Imus because of his honesty overall . Not many people in this business are truly honest with his audience . Fortunately , most people don't know much about his audience . Well , we are educated , intelligent , cerebral , and well-read and we know better . We know not to take Imus seriously all the time because that would drive us crazy .
Left Wanting More !	An attractive woman walks down the street alone . She is being followed by an attractive man . Of course as a woman , I sympathize with her about being followed whether innocent or not of anything . There is not much language between the characters but the tension is built and sent on screen . It's quite a chilling experience to walk a two minute movie . I think Daniel McCormack and the film company do an excellent job bringing to this small slice of life to the screen . Nightwalking is a chilling , realistic tale of what could happen to this woman as well as this man . You ask yourself a hundred questions about what happens next in the film . Do they ever get together ? This film despite it's shortness is quite entertaining and chilling at the same time . I wished there was more of it .
Spectacular !	When I first saw Citizen Kane , I did not know what the hype was all about . Since I heard about it on Happy Days , I wanted to see it . After the first few times , it was nothing spectacular . But there is something perfect about this film . I also fell to sympathize Citizen Kane in my last viewing . It is also a purely addictive film . The writing , the casting , the directing , and film-making was absolutely perfect . Nobody in their right mind would change an aspect . Citizen Kane remains today perhaps the most important film of all time to film-makers . They look to see what they can do . Until Citizen Kane , every previous film looked the same . When Citizen Kane came , it changed the film world forever . Not even Titanic would appear as an inferior and insufficient comparison . Titanic is nowhere in the realms of Orson Welles . Kane will forever be challenged . It is truly the best film ever made . One word is simply perfect ! Perfect , Mr . Welles .
An early French classic !	Marie Epstein was an amazing person . Her collaboration on this film with Jean Benoit Levy is important to understand her contributions to French cinema . Their classic film , " La Maternelle , " is one of the earliest French films to use speech . But what makes this film special is that it reminds me of what films can accomplish . They don't have to be complicated . Simplicity can sometimes be best if used properly . The actresses are quite simply unforgettable . The realism is worth watching about a young girl who is abandoned by her prostitute mother and the loving teacher who cares for her like the daughter . I don't like films today because they seem to forget their origins . Sometimes a gaze can say so much more than anything else . The film was shown to our class by Dr . Sandra Flitterman-Lewis who wrote her dissertation on this film and published it in " To Desire Differently . " This film says so much more than most films today . It depicts poverty , depression , suicide , prostitution , and abandoning one child so carefully . You forget that it's black and white and 70 years old . It's worth watching .
Great Cast and writing makes for a wonderful true film about injustice !	It is no surprise that Peter Postlewaite O . B . E . was rated as one of Steven Spielberg's favorite actors . He gives an understated and well deserved academy award nomination for his performance as the father of Daniel Day-Lewis's character . You learn to easily accept them as father and son in this film . They work very well together . Emma Thompson also get a supporting role as the British lawyer who helps Gerry get out of prison and exonerated for the crimes . The film pulls no punches about the violent persuasion into making a false confession . It breaks your heart to see lies , propaganda , and innocent people going to prison for crimes they didn't commit in the first place but it does happen all the time which is why I am against capital punishment in my country for that reason . The film earned several academy award nominations including for best actor in which Daniel Day Lewis also became a naturalized Irish citizen . He would seem an unlikely candidate for British knighthood like his grandfather now . The film is more relevant today than when it was released . Terrorism has returned with a vengeance . People seem willing to put innocent people behind bars because of their ethnicity . We must learn a valuable lesson in not judging a book by its cover . In the meantime , prison life was not enjoyable but neither torturous . Both Gerry and Giuseppe Conlon are in prison together which makes the situation bearable . In fact the other prisoners are more decent and hospitable than the men who put the innocent men there in the first place . Gerry does honor his father's memory by clearing his injustice .
I just love this movie !	Problem Child may get hammered by critics for being too infantile but I can watch it over and over without getting tired . I can't say that about most Oscar winning movies . Problem Child introduced the excellent John Ritter to Amy Yasbeck . This movie brought them together in real life . I love John Ritter and now that he is gone , the movie is more sentimental to remind us what is lost forever . Of course , Problem Child has a great cast besides Ritter and Yasbeck , like Jack Warden as Ritter's father and of course the devilish Michael Oliver as Junior getting into all sorts of trouble . Not to mention Gilbert Gottfried as the adoption agent and Seinfeld's Michael Richards before he became known as Kramer as the serial killer pen pal of Junior's . I mean it is silly but I appreciate it at the end of a long day . Of course , it's funny and it reminds us what John Ritter meant to the world of comedy .
A Brilliant , Perfect Documentary of Forgotten Children !	This documentary is about the children of the Calcutta Red Light district whose mothers and fathers are sex workers . The mothers are prostitutes and the fathers are usually pimps . The women are in a line where they are chosen from their clients to perform sex acts . The director is a New York City based photographer who first came to Calcutta to photograph the women of the red light district . She started to bond with their children and introduced to them the world of photography . Not only did she do that but she tried to assist the kids into getting to schools particularly boarding schools to escape the life of the red light district which is often filthy living conditions . The documentary is worth an Academy Award because it has a purpose well beyond any statue . The kids are worth saving and they need a better life .
Breathtaking , horrifying , and yet probably the best film of the year !	In Hollywood , they should just look outside their walls and gates for a good story . They don't have to travel very far . The story of Crash is complicated to describe but it is an ensemble piece with an excellent cast like Matt Dillon who plays the racist cop with sick father at home fighting with an African American HMO representative for coverage . He takes his anger out on a successful African American couple . Thandie Newton is unrecognizable and believable as the light skinned wife of a successful television director who gets felt up by Dillon's character and humiliated but in the end , there is something called redemption that these characters seek and need to prove that they are not the cruel , heartless , caricatures of society . Matt Dillon's character is a veteran Los Angeles Police Detective but a racist filled with anger and hatred . I hope he is not overlooked for his performance in this film . By the end of it , I wanted more and I saw this film on an airplane screen but I was glued to every word and scene . Brendan Fraser is miscast as the Los Angeles District Attorney . He is just too young . I love William Fichtner who has been around for years and finally getting noticed . Sandra Bullock is wonderfully complicated as Brendan's wife . They both survive a carjacking and are distrustful . The Persian man who loses his place of business because of a break-in and vandalism is also heartbreaking but you end up liking him and feeling sorry for him in the end but who suddenly has hope for the future despite losing everything to hatred . This film is a lot about hatred , prejudice , racism , sexism , and it is also about redemption of the characters . Don Cheadle is also wonderful in his role . I hope the Oscars don't forget about them one bit . It's the film that is worth watching again and again . You want more when it's over and you wonder why Hollywood doesn't make films about life in Los Angeles . Finally , the Oscars votes came in and Crash won . The controversy over the other film is ridiculous and the most absurd . This film was not meant to win an Oscar for best film . It was the little film that could . When Haggis directed it , he was not thinking about how many awards this would win for him but the message of optimism in a pessimistic society . I'm glad Crash won over the other film . Roger Ebert named this film of the year in his annual top ten . The other film came in 5 . In my opinion , I think the Academy was right in selecting this film . Yes , this film has just as much controversy as the other film does . I won't name it because it's not worth mentioning . It was the upset of the night and I would have loved to have watched it on television but I fell asleep and woke up to the news .
I didn't expect to like it so much !	Selena was the Spanish answer to Celine Dion . Unlike Celine , she was not a native Spanish speaker . The film is actually touching at times . There is a feeling of great sadness to what might have become of Selena . This film is a great tribute to somebody who died too young . Her father played by Edward James Olmos is superb . Lupe who plays Yolanda is also excellent . Constance Marie who plays Selena's mother is actually wonderful . I thought it was Olmos ' real life wife , Lorraine Bracco . They look so similar . Jackie Guerra is wonderful too as her sister . I wished that Hollywood would look at the fact that this is a Texas ' story . Selena was a Texas girl who also happened to be Spanish American . She loved and treated her fans with respect . My favorite scene is at the Los Angeles mall , the snobby salesperson almost refuses to try a dress " It's $800 . 00 . " Rather than make a fuss , Selena acts very classy about it . Then one Mexican sees her and the word spreads like a California wildfire around the mall , the store is mobbed with shoppers and store workers . The snobby saleswoman can't believe her eyes . " Who's Selena ? " she asked . She's surprised to know that the Spanish customer is a huge star in Mexico but not in Los Angeles . She's overcome with embarrassment . After all Selena is only in Los Angeles for the Grammys .
A Brilliant Movie	Brilliant Lies is truly a brilliant movie . There is terrific acting among the Carides sisters , Zoe & Gia . Anthony LaPaglia is surprisingly like any other Australian actor around . Just imagine that he and Gia are married to each other . But I was very surprised by Zoe's performance as the lesbian feminist sister . It is not patronizing or preachy but rather touching . This story has layers of depth for the above average movie . While it takes something like sexual harassment to a story worth telling , neither Gary nor Susy are truly innocent of each other . Maybe the depth of the story is truly worth brilliant and terrific Australian film . I still can't believe that Anthony is actually Australian than an American Italian New Yorker or from Jersey .
Canada's Saturday Night Live !	I have been a Saturday Night Live fan since I first saw it as a child . So it doesn't surprise me that it's originator Lorne Michaels who is also a proud Canadian has contributed by producing a homespun all male revue featuring the hilarious , obviously homosexual Scott Thompson in the cast . Dave Foley is better here than on Newsradio because he can expand his comedy styles . There are others here are who equally important but there are no women . Instead of kids in the hall , it should be called boys in the hall . They don't mind getting dressed up as women . It's hilarious with Mark McKinney as the chicken lady , Kevin MacDonald , and Bruce McCullogh in the cast . I love Thompson playing Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth addressing Canada . I love Canada and I love seeing snow outside . God Bless Canada and this wonderful troupe of entertainers .
A Hollywood Classic Thriller Just in Time for Halloween !	Poltergeist became famous because it had a stellar star cast featuring Craig T . Nelson and Jobeth Williams as parents in a California suburban home in a new development . Their children are played by Dominique Dunne and Heather O'Rourke who both sadly died before their time . Anyway the cast also features Oscar Winner Beatrice Straight as a parapsychologist and Zelda Rubenstein as the psychic . The story begins with little strange occurrences in the house . It isn't until O'Rourke's character , Carol Ann , gets trapped in the bedroom closet that we don't get to understand that she is being held hostage by a poltergeist and how to get her back . As a student of the paranormal , it is highly unlikely that this event would ever occur but you can't be too sure . Anyway , O'Rourke will always be Carol Ann Freeling to us . She died tragically during the making of Poltergeist III from an illness . If she had lived , she would have been a beautiful woman but she is timeless and trapped in our image as the blonde child . Her older sister Dana Freeling played by Dominique Dunne was murdered by her boyfriend . They are both buried in the same cemetery . While the other cast members have moved on , their loss is still felt now watching the film . It's a good entertaining film . When I was a kid , we all pretended that we were Carol Ann in the closet .
Only Artists Would Understand Pollock	Only artists like myself would understand Pollock's inner turmoil and insecurities . He was a brilliant artist but a tortured soul and an alcoholic . His relationship with Lee Krasner was one of the rare relationships in true life . She understood him and his art . Too bad , they did not have any children . I think it would have done them good to be parents . Marcia Gay Harden deserved her Oscar for this role , not question about it . Watching the film and seeing his piece at the Tate Modern in London , England over this past summer , you can't help but notice his unique eye and vision . It's the same with Lee's work which is also at the Tate Modern . They looked for something that many of us don't see on a blank sheet of paper . You have to see Pollock at least once to appreciate Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden's performances as Lee and Pollock . It's not to be missed .
Still on Top after Almost 40 years !	60 Minutes does something that the other shows like Primetime Live and Dateline try to capture . 60 Minutes is the top show if you're a serious journalist . If you're not , go elsewhere . On this show , ratings are always high and it was higher during the years before it led to Murder , She Wrote on Sunday nights . 60 Minutes has the best journalists around . They take their jobs seriously and treat every story as if it was the most important around . Some stories like Iraq , Afghanistan , Washington D . C . , etc . deserve the attention and most of them do the best job around with research and they get the job done . They also do lighter stories like real estate , celebrity profiles , and other light-hearted stories like Netflix and Starbucks . Of course , you can't forget Andy Rooney who always gives us what he's thinking as it is . They don't talk down to the audience but they treat us with respect and intellect . They enlighten , inform , and educate us about certain issues . Lesley Stahl , the late Ed Bradley , Morley Safer , Peter Simon , and others are top notch journalists at the top of their peak . Don't forget the occasional story by Anderson Cooper , Katie Couric , and Christiane Amanpour . Once you made 60 Minutes as a journalist , you're on top of the world .
A Masterpiece !	Jean Paul Belmondo plays a dual role that should have garnered him awards for his performance as both Valjean and as Henri Fortin who takes in a Jewish girl during World War II . Her parents have been taken by the German Nazis . The girl reads to Henri from Victor Hugo's classic novel , Les Miserables , since I believe Henri himself can't read . Well , he imagines himself in the role as Valjean . The film is dually impressive relating the past to the present day life of France during the French Revolution and World War II during the German occupation of France . The girl is safe in a French convent . Her parents including her French non-Jewish mother who married a French Jew succumbs to becoming prisoner . Her husband survives a shooting and is taken in by French farmers who have their own agenda . Regardless , the ending is not to be missed . It's both about the joy of living during the worst of times and how fortunate we are .
Packs a punch !	I am big fan of Tennessee Williams ' A Streetcar Named Desire . Finally , I watched a video film of this yesterday and it still packs a punch . Imagine all the events take place in one day . Dame Elizabeth Taylor and Dame Judith Anderson playing southern wives and belles but they're not weak just desperate . Madeleine Sherwood deserved a Best SUpporting Actress nomination for her performance . I think she proved that she can handle the heat in the kitchen with those dames and of course , Paul Newman and Burl Ives . I felt sorry for this family who had lived the American dream . It's quite a tragedy . Brick and Maggie are trapped in a marriage which make neither one of them happy . HIs brother Goober and his wife , Mae , have provided plenty of heirs for the family fortune to a grandfather who does everything to avoid the children or Maggie puts it " little monsters . " I kind of felt sorry for Goober and Mae being treated like second class citizens for the favorite , Brick and Maggie . Of course , Mae isn't attractive but she breeds like a rabbit . Goober went to law school and has done everything to please his father , Big Daddy , but nothing does . Even his wife , Big Mama is trapped in a marriage . Nobody is really happy here . The casting of Larry Gates and Madeleine Sherwood is excellent and all the actors do a fantastic job especially creating SOuthern accents like Dame Judith and Dame Liz . I don't think you can remake this film to create the kind of magic and chemistry that this cast has already established . Burl Ives gives the best performance of the bunch here . It really is his movie . He created the role of Big Daddy on Broadway before bringing it to film . This is his WIlly Loman role that Lee J . Cobb made famous . I wouldn't want to see a live stage production after this of this play . This film is colorful , brilliant , tragic , and yet so human the entire time .
Must be seen to appreciated !	I remember when I first heard and saw this film . It was June 1996 and I was flying Air France to spend seven weeks in the Loire Valley of France and a week in Paris which was a lifelong dream . I still yearn to go back there . On the flight back then we did not have personal screens like we do now , we had one screen and one film , not like today where we have many to choose from . Anyway , this film was on route from Newark to Paris . It was glorious memory and uplifting every step of the way . I just loved the music , the sound , the language , the costumes , and you just felt wonderful after watching it . Going to France fulfills the dream . My last day in Paris , I visited Pere Lachase Cemetery not for Jim Morrison but I paid my respects to Beaumarchais ' family plot as well .
One of the greatest films of the 1980s	I work with teenagers . I remember when I saw the Breakfast Club . It was on television , cable or regular , maybe both . I grew up in the 1980s and I can relate to this group of teens . This film was serious and funny , dark and light comedy all at the same time . John Hughes is one of my favorite directors of all time . Maybe it's because to the kids of the 1980s , we grew up knowing his films and the lines and the characters and everything in between . I lived in the suburbs . The characters here in this film are casted excellently . Molly Ringwald owes her career to John Hughes ' films , so does Anthony Michael Hall , Judd Nelson , Ally Sheedy , and Emilio Estevez . We can't forget Paul Gleason and John Kapelos who play the principal and the janitor who worked a Saturday to remember . We all grew up with the lines from the film especially Johnny's . THe film touches a lot of issues like teen suicide , depression , child abuse , emotional and psychological abuse , and running away . We love the music and we remember the ending . We will always wonder what happened on Monday morning after their detention . What a school library , they make some public libraries to shame .
Why can't all nannies be like Mary Poppins ?	Dame Julie Andrews won an Academy Award for her performance in this film as Mary Poppins , the nanny ever child and adults loves . In this film , the supporting cast includes the wonderfully talented and big television star , Dick Van Dyke ( he deserves to get America's honors such as the Kennedy Center Honors for example ) , as her friend with a 100 jobs , Bert which includes chimney sweeper and sidewalk artist . The wonderful Glynis Johns ( who should also be honored with Damehood like Julie ) is fantastic as Mrs . Banks . The children , Michael and Jane , are also great performers . I can't forget Elsa Lancaster as the last nanny before Mary Poppins . The film is a timeless classic for children and adults . I remember as a child watching it on television before the popularity of DVDs and VHS cassettes . This was a time when we used our memories to remember the brilliant animation , costumes , art direction , and cinematography of the movies as well as the acting and writing and in this movie as well as the singing .
Simply an Extraordinary Film	First , Ordinary People should have made AFI top 100 hundreds films of the last century . This film has excellent performances by Timothy Hutton , Mary Tyler Moore , Donald Sutherland , Judd Hirsch , Elizabeth McGovern and Dinah Manoff . The story could have been another movie of the week but it stands out from the rest with subtle brilliant heartwarming performances during a family's difficult time . Timothy Hutton plays the role of the son with such depth and brilliance . Besides the tragedy , the film is about a family who are just ordinary people . Ordinary People who are just as complicated and troubled by life's hand . The fact that Robert Redford directed this film makes it even more worth watching . He does a fabulous job with the actors and actresses in this film . You will forget Judd from his Taxi role and Mary Tyler Moore from her television days . This film is worth watching even on WE .
An Excellent Summary of the DaVinci Code !	Host Patrick Macnee ( who should be knighted by now but that's another forum ) provides a clear , concise history of Leonardo Da Vinci , the famous artist created the Last Supper and Mona Lisa . In this documentary which was probably inspired by the craze regarding Dan Brown's book about the Da Vinci Code , the documentary goes into detail about how the ideas formed from the Knights Templars to the Gnostic Gospels which were priceless in itself . For those of us who are interested in biblical scholar , this documentary is quite effective without being so overwrought with details and information . The experts are quite excellent in explaining the information about the theories and the life of the time .
A Classic Film by even today's standards !	Martin Scorsese , Joe Pesci , and Robert DeNiro : When these guys get together , you know something big is going to happen and this film is a perfect example of great quality . Raging Bull is Jake LaMotta's rise and fall as an athlete to a nightclub performer . I think this is the film that Joe Pesci shows that even little guys can cause the most harm . When DeNiro and Pesci play the La Motta brothers , you believe it because they have such great chemistry with each other . I don't think Pesci was ever intimidated by Scorsese or DeNiro . This film earned DeNiro his second Academy Award and you can see why . Not only is the transformation , physical but emotional and psychological as well . These characters are flawed , human , and believable with great cast of actors . Don't forget Cathy Moriarty who was discovered to play Jake's young second wife . Even at 18 , she can play younger and older and believable . His second wife can be beautiful and smart but trapped in a fractured marriage . She deserved her Academy Award Nomination for Best SUpporting Actress because she can handle herself against DeNiro and we see how he fell in love with her . Don't forget Pesci's wife is played Theresa Saldana who does hold her own . This film shows that black and white can still be beautiful film work . Nicholas Colasanto from Cheers is also in the film as well in a small role . Scorsese's best films are with DeNiro and Pesci at least in my opinion . At the end of the film , I wanted to know more about these characters .
Shine ! Shine !	It's hard to be an artist , both talented and in turmoil by inner demons like David Helfgott . Geoffrey Rush deserved his Oscar for this role . He truly brings the character alive and well to the audiences . Lynn Redgrave deserved a supporting actress nomination for her performance as the woman who would turn out to be the love of David's life . Googie Withers , one of Australia's best known actresses , played beloved Catherine , his mentor and financier in David's younger years . John Gielgud has a brief but memorable performance . I like the fact that they filmed this film in both Australia and England . This film really examines mental illness and how David triumphs over the odds . He was down and out and forgotten . Somehow when you hear his music , you remember how much he triumphed over the odds . Despite his mental breakdown at what would have been the beginning of an extraordinary career , he was down but not out . He had to recover and slowly work his way back to the living . When David plays music , he becomes alive and genius to us . Many people have been where David has been and are still going through the pains of life . This movie is an inspiration for all of us , artists-writer , performers , painters to get up and rise again . When he returns to play live in a small Perth bar , you get chills down your spine . It's a great kind of film and you wish to be in Perth , Australia .
There will be only one Dallas !	I can't believe that Dallas is being made into a film starring John Travolta as J . R . Ewing . There will only be one J . R . Ewing and that's Larry Hagman . I don't care if he is too ill to play him but I can't imagine another J . R . Ewing . I remember watching Dallas on Friday nights after another southern show , Dukes of Hazzard . I always thought Dallas was great show always entertaining with a stellar cast besides Larry Hagman , Linda Gray , Victoria Principal , Barbara Bel Geddes , George Kennedy , Ken Kercheval , Patrick Duffy , Priscilla Presley , Charlene Tilton , etc . This was one show that was quite entertaining to watch on Friday nights . Sure , it was silly sometimes but you can't beat Dallas not with the original cast . It was quite a show of the 1980s .
I wished I'd live on Coronation Street	In America , we get the depressing and unattractive grim EastEnders rather than the funny and tragic Coronation Street . I was watching the first five episodes of Coronation Street on DVD yesterday . It was worth it . I love watching the original episodes and I followed it by the documentary of its 40 year celebration . I love watching the great Violet Carson as Ena Sharples and Doris Speed as Annie Walker . I was born in the seventies . Sadly , early Coronation Street is very much like the early days of American soaps like As The World Turns and Guiding Light . Coronation Street should run another 40 years ! It is well written , conceived , and thought about . I was wondering why they only get MBEs like Betty Driver , Doris Speed , Tony Warren , Julie Goodyear , William Roache , Elizabeth Dawn , Jack Howarth , etc . It is because the working class recipients are often awarded the MBEs too . I think people like Tony Warren would have gotten Knighthood for giving Coronation Street to the world . When it comes to the British honors system , they lump the soap stars into MBE's only . While Coronation Street outnumbers EastEnders Wendy Richard and Barbara Windsor with MBE recipients , there are more that should be honored for their contributions . Emmerdale has no recipients that I know of and that is a shame . When the prime ministers award them , they should get the royal treatment like everybody else . So Judi Dench is given damehood for playing Shakespearan roles , what about the marvelous Elizabeth Dawn who has done so much charitable work in Leeds and Manchester ? There is even the class system of actors in America , soap stars are on the bottom of the awards ladder much like Coronation Street and EastEnders . They rarely get the recognition that they richly deserve . It would be nice to see someone to get a higher than an MBE which is a tremendous honor in itself anyway . But come on , William Roache has been on 45 years and he has only an MBE ? Besides I think the British public would support them anyway and love them anyway . I think the entire cast should all get MBEs , anybody who has lived long enough on Coronation Street deserves recognition from their peers and from the community . So I wish Coronation Street and EastEnders and Emmerdale to receive the same honors that their alumni actors and actresses have received . Come on it's time to reward them .
Save As The World Turns ! An American Triumph ! Just Watch It !	As the World Turns is a piece of Americana culture . Cast members like Helen Wagner , Bob Hastings , Eileen Fulton , Kathryn Hays , Colleen Zenk Pinter , Marie Masters , Elizabeth Hubbard , Larry Bryggman etc . have really helped make my days sometimes . The show was created Irna Phillips , the creator of daytime television . From her ideas , she created the world of Oakdale , Illinois . Helen Wagner should be given many honors besides a Lifetime Emmy Award . Next year , she will be celebrating 50 years of playing the same character on daytime television . Where are the accolades that go with such an achievement ? She deserves a Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and even to be an honoree at the John Fitzgerald Kennedy Center Honors . Don't stop there ! She should be inducted into the television hall of fame for her contributions to television . I think CBS is the best , most supportive network of the three . While Guiding Light needs ever viewer , this year will determine both Guiding Light and As The World Turns future . If you want to know where Desperate Housewives ' ideas came from , this is the place and it has been there for most of our lives . I just wish more people would appreciate the fine quality of work that these cast of brilliant actors do for daytime . I would like to see prime time players do the hectic schedules of any daytime player . It goes unappreciated . The story lines have not been the same since Douglas Marland's death but his legacy is his creative contributions to the show like the Snyder family . I will never forget the Angel incest storyline as the most shocking entertaining informing and brilliant portrayal ever anywhere else . Marland weaved stories like his predecessors Irna Phillips , Agnes Nixon , Bill Bell , etc . He is sorely missed even now . I hope As the World Turns and Guiding Light live on television forever so please give daytime a try . You might like it better than prime time , I usually do and I have watched it for 20 years .
Not All the President's Men ! It's funnier !	I bet Richard Nixon would love this film anyway . It's not so much about Watergate than it is about two girls played perfectly by Kirsten Dunst and unrecognizable Michelle Williams , who stumble upon the Watergate burglary . I love the set up and it's clear that they filmed this movie in Washington D . C . Of course , the cast is just impeccable . Let me just tell you who else is in it . Teri Garr as Arlene's mom , Ted McGinley as Arlene's mother's boyfriend , Dan Hedaya who plays Nixon is superb in the title role , Ana Gasteyer as Dick's secretary , Rosemary , Bruce McCulloch as the Watergate journalist Bernstein and the amazing Will Ferrell as Carl Woodward . This movie would be a good way to introduce high school kids to Watergate . I caught the film on Comedy Central and have watched it a couple of times . Of course , it's edited and there are probably more scenes that I didn't see . Also Dave Foley is in it from Newsradio as Alderman . Of course I think the film plays great seventies music and show the culture of what life was life in the early 1970s and how gullible the American public was in relation to politics . The Watergate scandal opened a lot of eyes and brought down a President . Dan Hedaya made Dick likable and flawed . A better title would have been Deep Throat but the man who really is Deep Throat is out and living in Santa Rosa , California .
Farrah should have got an Emmy !	Farrah Fawcett might be a troubled person personally but don't take that into her acting ability . She is simply one of the most under-rated actresses in America today . She gets older , better , and more beautiful . This film proved that she can act beyond Charlie's Angels . In fact , she plays the lead character , a woman who becomes a victim in an abusive marriage with three children . Her story is tragic but not uncommon . We never really heard of the battered wife syndrome until this film debuted on television . If it was released in the cinemas instead , I bet Farrah would have earned an Academy Award nomination and maybe the Oscar for her performance . It's that good . She breathes life into that role . You feel sorry for a woman like her character . Even prison seems a welcome change from the horrors of an abusive marriage , there are excellent supporting performances by Richard Masur , Grace Zabriskie , and others who participated in this classic television film . Like I said , it could have won awards . Anyway , it aired on television and I think it proved Farrah's talent exists in her . She might be beautiful but she's talented and smart .
Not Everybody's Cup of Tea but I love it !	Now I have something to watch from 8-9 on Comedy Central . This show and it's brother show , the Daily Show , proves to be the funniest hour on television . We love Stephen Colbert as Comedy Central's answer to Bill O'Reilly . He's not to be taken seriously but he is always funny but it's not a slapstick , vulgar kind of funny . He takes potshots at us liberals and I love it . He's the kind of guy that you wouldn't mind listening to or giving a high-five . I am so glad that the Emmys have recognized this show's humor and entertainment much like his lead-in show , The Daily Show . There are definite differences between the two shows . Stephen Colbert is the American loving conservative right handed guy that provides a voice for those people who are . Remember when we watched All In the Family and it was about politics too , there were a discourse in the voices on the show which made it interesting to watch . Colbert has a way with guests and he interviews congressmen and congresswomen who represent districts across the country . He makes them look silly and yet human too . You can't take this show too seriously . Maybe that's the point , yes we are at war and New Jersey is in a budget crisis but we can turn to the Colbert Report and get a laugh about it or two . I love the skit where he pretends to be the Chief Press Secretary and Helen Thomas is chasing him down at every turn . You can't stop laughing at that .
Red , White , and Blue All Over ! !	I watched a video of the Ed Sullivan show . It was entitled " Red , White , and Blue . " It was a patriotic compiled tape which everybody in America should own . I was born after the show's cancellation so I never saw the original . But I can tell you after watching this tape , it was probably one of the best television shows of all time . In this tape , they have the great Henry Fonda doing the first Lincoln address . Dame Judith Anderson reciting the Gettysburg Address . Carl Sandburg offers the Lincoln Birthday address and the great Charlton Heston gives the second Lincoln inauguration speech . There are great musical numbers with Dale Evans , the West Point crew , and Kate Smith singing " God Bless America . " They also have Joel Grey singing " Yankee Doodle Dandy . " Grey's not James Cagney but it's worth seeing . This short video tape is only an hour long from Sofa Entertainment . Now if you are a history teacher , an American patriot , American lover , or just patriotic , this tape is worth the money . I bought 2 copies and gave it to history teachers that I know of . It's also worth buying for your home .
way ahead of its time	In 1988 , ABC aired this sitcom about social climbing New Yorkers , the Thorns , and their highly dysfunctional family . I taped all 7 aired episodes on one tape . The Thorns were way ahead of its time in 1988 . They exposed seedy life of Upper East Side New Yorkers with wealth to buy their reputations . The Thorns had such guest stars like Christine Baranski before her Cybill fame , Maureen Stapleton , and the late William Roerick . Kelly and TOny were exquisite in their roles as parents and unfaithful spouses . It was well-written and directed but too intelligent for the audience then and probably now . The pilot plot featured around fundraising party at the Thorns Upper East Side townhouse . The Thorns put the family dog to sleep to avoid it disturbing the party . Their youngest son begins to act like a dog as a reaction to his death . Then their paternal grandmother arrives from Brooklyn , her apartment building burns down . Ginger Thorn replies " It's probably an improvement . " The Thorns are forced to put Grandma THorn in the dog's room . Yes , the dog had his own room . Grandma THorn now deals with her youngest grandson's dilemma . She comes down in her nightgown during the party to fetch her grandson . This show had so much potential but not enough viewers at the time . Kelly Bishop and TOny Roberts headed this cast for 7 episodes until it became cancelled by network politics and not enough interest . Maybe the ABC network felt the show was too similar to their own lives and decided to shelve it to avoid criticism . The Thorns made New York City to be equally shallow and depth as a puddle on the street . Sorry it didn't last longer or nobody else picked it up at the time . It was well worth taping all of it .
I'll Be Rooting for Melissa Leo on Oscar night , win or lose !	I have been a fan of Melissa Leo since I saw her performance on Homicide as a police detective . In this film , Melissa Leo bares the rough , tough life of Ray Eddy whose husband Troy has left her and their two sons , T . J . and Ricky right before Christmas . Ray's life takes turn when she gets together with a Mohawk Lila played very well by Misty Upham as a widowed mother whose infant son was taken from her by her mother-in-law . Both Ray and Lila have rough lives . All Ray wants is a double wide trailer for Christmas and Lila would like to have her son back . In the Mohawk community , Lila is a pariah and untrustworthy because she was caught smuggling before . All she needs is a car and Ray needs money since her dead end job at a dollar store isn't going anywhere . Regardless , I am rooting for Melissa Leo to win and I know it's a long shot but her performance is unforgettable , complicated , and compelling to understand what drives Ray and Lila . The film is a silent gem of a treasure and has gotten noticed with plenty of awards . To me , Melissa Leo deserves all the accolades . She reminds me of every woman and you can relate to her desperation to keep her family together when her life is falling apart . Good Luck , Melissa , win or lose , you deserve it as does the rest of the cast .
Classic Canadian Drama !	I loved this series back in the days when syndicated programming ruled my weekend schedule . Now , it's all infomercials . This program was one of my favorites . It was about an antique store and the curses and supernatural that they would uncover along the way . I have to say it was well-written and acted by a great cast . It was filmed in Toronto . I don't think they ever meant to set it anywhere in particular . I just only saw the drama for the seasons it was on the air in New Jersey . It was a series that probably inspired X-Files . Even though it's title says Friday the 13th , it was about mystery , supernatural , hauntings , and paranormal activities . The drama was always worth watching . I hope they bring out on DVD .
Orson and H . G . Wells would be proud !	I loved this series when it was on the air in New Jersey . Back in the 1980s when syndicated or independent programming ruled television on the weekends , now it's all infomercials . Anyway , I loved Ann Robinson who reprised her film role as Sylvia Van Buren . She appeared to be the only person who knew how to deal with the aliens . My favorite moment is when her stepson visited her at the nursing home ( it's too nice to be a sanitarium ) , the old guy approached him and said " It's not safe in here " and he replied " It's not safe out there . " The show was really well-written with characters like Van Buren who provided a connection to the original program . I think Orson Welles and H . G . Wells would be proud of this show . It paved the way for shows like the X-Files . I only wished that they made more syndicated programs today .
One of the best , moving , memorable films of the 1990s !	When I hear the music , I think of how wonderful the world can truly be if there were more Forrest Gumps out there . When the film came out , it was truly breathtaking . It showed that the great and talented Tom Hanks can perform anything . Had this film been released a year before ? He would have probably have gotten his first Academy Award for Best Actor . Truthfully , his role in Philadelphia was good but not Forrest Gump . We don't really remember much of the role in the previous film except that he played a Philadelphia attorney dying of AIDS and suing for justice for his termination . While the film , Philadelphia is good . It's not Forrest Gump . What separates Forrest Gump from Philadelphia is that there is so much more going on around the character . I think it's a shame that Sally Field did not get an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress for playing his mother and Robin Wright also did not get a nomination for Best Supporting ACtress for playing the love of FOrrest's life . They were some of the best female performances of that year alone . When you hear the music or the soundtrack , you are reminded of the some of the most memorable moments in movie history of a truly remarkable character named Forrest Gump . Gary Sinise was also worth mentioning because he was nominated for BEst Supporting Actor as the man's Vietnam comrade who he saved . That touching moment of when Forrest realizes his gratitude for saving his life is still chilling and touching and remarkable like the film .
Excellent Cast ! But not enough time !	Dame Judi Dench is arguably one of the greatest mature actresses of our time period . She is playing another dame , Iris Murdoch . I would have loved if they focused the film somewhat on Iris ' success . She won the Booker Prize for the Sea , the Sea . She was awarded Commander of the British Empire and a Dame in 1987 , a year before Judi's honor . Judi Dench really pours her heart and soul in this role and it shows . Jim Broadbent who declined a Queen's honor in reality is brilliant in his role as the older John Bayley . Their relationship is quite enduring . They focus too much on Iris ' early sexuality as a way to maybe attract attention of film goers to go and see this film . If they did withhold it , it would have been seen on Masterpiece Theatre . I read two of Iris ' books , The Bell and The Sea , The Sea . They are both philosophical , intelligent products of fiction . John is absolutely right when he says that Iris lives for words and they are her life . The scenes with the older Iris and John are more important than the younger versions of themselves . I think there was a creative difference in depicting Iris as free-thinking , smoking , young lady rather than the mature , intelligent , private woman of her day . The film is a 10 because of Dench and Broadbent's performances . I liked seeing Penelope Wilton play the older Janet Stone , her longtime friend . One of the subjects that I wished they would explore would have been Iris and John's decision not to have any children . The film also withholds Iris ' platonic relationship with Jean-Paul Sartre . Iris and John loved swimming and that was evident in this film . I would have liked to have seen their wedding ceremony . I am not much of a Kate Winslet fan so I never really cared to see her playing younger Iris as a silly , manipulative schoolgirl . I found her Iris to be too selfish . Dench's Iris was much more caring and loving toward John and Janet . Somebody wrote that we can learn a lot about relationships by being more like John and Iris . That is so true . They were really soul mates from the beginning of their relationship and in the end too . John and Iris worked because they allowed the other live and do with absolute trust . Most people are unaware that they lived in squalid conditions in Oxford and that they did not have a television until Iris ' illness . They listened to the Archers ' radio program on BBC . They lived quietly . Iris donated much of her income from books to charities . When this film came out , I learned about Dame Iris Murdoch and read about her . I am still fascinated by her even watching Judi play as she declined away . Iris said about losing your mind when you live in your mind . If we all lived in our minds , it would be a much happier world . Rest in peace , Dame Iris Murdoch , you are not forgotten . If this film does anything , it is promote interests in your novels and open our minds .
Absolutely Divine !	What makes Shakespeare such a classic production is the talented actors like Paul Scofield C . B . E . , C . H . and Irene Worth Honorary C . B . E . in their roles as King Lear and Goneril . I saw Irene Worth on Broadway in Lost in Yonkers but that was nothing compared to her role as Goneril . You forget the other actresses who play Cordelia and Regan . Her role of Goneril is chilling , complicated , icy , yet divine to watch . She really packs punches into this supporting role . Why Paul Scofield and Irene Worth were not nominated for Academy Awards is a shame because this film really works with the both of them in these roles . I can't imagine a better Goneril or a King Lear . The film was edited for the obvious reasons that all of Shakespeare's language cannot be used effectively but Peter Brook is a genius in knowing what Shakespeare would have wanted in this film . Peter Book C . B . E . , C . H . is a Shakespeare expert and well-respected and beloved British director . He has done a remarkable job in bringing King Lear to life with a master such as Paul Scofield and Irene Worth's Goneril is absolutely divine ! You can't take your eyes off her in this role .
Whoever said the suburbs are dull and boring are probably from New York City	The Ice Storm is perhaps one of my favorite movies of all time . It's a beautiful film set in 1970s New Canaan , Connecticut with two Waspy families . The setting is breathtaking and the ice makes it look so much better . The cast is filled with Oscar caliber performances by Sigourney Weaver , Kevin Kline , Joan Allen , Tobey Maguire , and Cristina Ricci . This film was overlooked by Titanic mania . It should have been nominated for Best Picture , best actor , Kevin Kline , and best director , Ang Lee . Even with the wealth and the beauty of New Canaan , Connecticut , there can lie so much tragedy and drama . Who said the suburbs are dulling and boring are from New York City ?
He's Back now as Prime Minister !	James Hacker MP didn't expect that he would be the next prime minister . Unlike in America , the party is elected in Britain while we , Americans , vote for candidates regardless of their party . Despite the differences , Paul Eddington CBE's performance as minister turned prime minister almost overnight is helped by his senior adviser , Sir Humphrey , played by another knight , Sir Nigel Hawthorne , and veteran actor Derek Fowlds also returns to the scene as well . Now instead of pleasing some people , he has to please the nation rather than his constituency . Now , he has a hard job to do even more difficult than before . Now , he must approve the honors list and work with Her Majesty as well on a regular basis . Hacker is not the hacking type . He is rather than the every man who we like and don't want to dislike and turn into a villain of sorts or a vicious dictator . Now , we see the prime minister's point of view and all the pleasing that must go on as well as handle strikes .
Now these were Celebrities !	Dean Martin was one of America's greatest legends in the entertainment industry . He is sorely missed even to this day . He honors or roasts his beloved friend and American icon , Frank Sinatra , in one of his many roasts . In my opinion , even the half-hour infomercial is far more entertaining than anything on television today . I miss people like Dean Martin , Frank Sinatra , and so many others . There are more people who are gone than living with us like Don Rickles , Peter Falk , and Ruth Buzzi . Frank Sinatra's roast is pretty relaxed from what we know . We're glad to see celebrities cut loose and be themselves and poke fun at this man . Nobody will ever have the roasts that Dean ever put together in Las Vegas . Of course , people were smoking cigarettes ( God forbid that you display any smoking on television anymore ) and drinking liquor and being human anymore . Those days are gone forever and now you have a bit of history with these episodes . Even though they drank and smoke , they always appear to be having fun at themselves .
I watched it from the beginning to the end !	I love " Married with Children " for a lot of reasons . I remember when it first aired on the new Fox station . " Married with Children " and " The Tracey Ullman Show " were the first two shows to air on Sunday nights and the first night , it was aired twice . There has not been another show like it and it's still missed very much . When " Friends " became successful , you hoped that they would create the anti-Friends version of the show just like Married with Children Bundys was inspired by the 80's Cosby Show and the almost too real Huxtable clan . The Bundys were every family . The teens like Peg and Al who got married with no college education ended up struggling with two undesirable children like Bud and Kelly . The Bundys never had the luck like any of our other television families . Ed O'Neil deserved an Emmy . He liked Al so much that he is still fond of the role . Katey Sagal was unforgettable as Peggy with her red bouncy air and laugh . They were the unlikeliest pairing but it worked . Christina Applegate will always be remembered as the definitive dumb blonde Kelly Bundy . Her character like Peggy and Al never changed and we wouldn't want them too . Remember when they change the characters by improving them on television , the characters lose their original , natural appeal . Even David Faustino's Bud was still the pervert from beginning to end of the show . The neighbors began with Steve and Marcy Rhodes , both trained in New York City theater . Steve played by David Garrison was the typical boring father type on the show and his wife played by Amanda Bearse really became more than just a modern woman . As Marcy Rhodes Darcy , she became her own character without having too rely too much on her husband . When Garrison left the show to return to Broadway , Marcy was alone but not for long until Ted McGinley's Jefferson Darcy came into the picture . Finally Al met his match , a good-looking gigolo who avoided work . Jefferson too had a spotty history . Al and Marcy's battles were always fun to watch . In fact , Bearse also directed several of the show's episodes when she was not in front of the camera and has become one of television's comedic directors since the show ended by Fox abruptly . I loved AL's male friends like Griff , Ike , Bob Rooney , and officer Dan . The show may have made jokes at the expense of a lot of overweight even obese actresses but that gave them exposure and work so I don't think Married with Children should get too much negative criticism . I don't see other shows using plus sized women at all . This was a fun show to watch and I still miss it .
Makes me proud to be from New Jersey !	Let's face it , New Jersey has been the butt of jokes since it's inception even more so because of the corruption and abuse of power at government levels . The Sopranos are a family who has ties to the mafia but are more believable . Tony Soprano is played by New Jersey native , James Gandolfini , and his wife is played by veteran actress Edie Falco and Long Island native . His psychiatrist is played by Lorraine Bracco who is also Italian American . I don't support all the violence on this television show or it's need to kill off characters . The fact that the creator David Chase , another New Jersey native , has paid great homage to his state by creating a series which is family based as well as about the mob stereotypes . The series is well-written , intriguing , and definitely one of the groundbreaking series of our time . It's not for everybody but it make me proud to be from New Jersey where we are as tough as you can believe .
What the Simpsons have done that no other show can do ?	Let's face it , the Simpsons popularity has grown over the last twenty years ever since it made it's debut on the Tracey Ullman Show . Unfortunately that show ended but this show has thrived with some of the cast mates like Julie Kavner and Dan Castellnata as Marge and Homer Simpson . Being an animated show has it's advantages though , gone are those silly actors and actresses because you only need voices . The show works because of the powers behind the show's success . Maggie is still a baby , Bart is still a brat , and Lisa is well the middle child who is smart . The fact that the producers decided to maintain the characters in the same age for 20 years is an achievement in itself . In live sitcoms , the children age and stories change and attention shifts from one character to another . There are episodes that are good and plentiful . They have done everything from Shakespeare to Edgar Allen Poe . I don't know how long this show will run but as long as the audience wants more . They'll be happy to comply .
Poor Fredo ! We still miss John Cazale !	The Godfather Part II has excellent writing , plotting , editing is even brilliant , acting , and overall quality to watch over again and again . You can never get sick of watching this film . I miss John Cazale . He was truly a gifted actor and I miss him . He played my favorite Corleone brother . Sure Alfredo was never brilliant or vicious but he was sweet , gentle , and warm most of the time . He had a conscience and I despise Michael for killing his own brother . I think he killed him out of jealousy . Alfredo spent more time with Michael's son , Anthony , than he did and he resented him for it . Alfredo could have been spared . Four years after Godfather Part II , John Cazale died of cancer after filming the Deer Hunter . He never won an Oscar or made too many films but he made every role memorable . Rest in Peace , John . I miss you .
Savannah Sizzles and Smiles with Delight ! ! !	After watching this documentary , I found myself wanting to visit Savannah , Georgia probably like many others . Characters like Lady Chablis who was born Frank but has become a woman in ever possible way but not the reproductive way was quite an amazing transformation . Then there is the wonderful Emma Kelly nicknamed the Lady of Six Thousand Songs by Johnny Mercer , a fellow Savannah legend . Of course , the documentary actually shows us the city , the tour bus that refers to references in the book by the author , John Berendt , also shown here about his love and fascination for this garden mecca . Makes you want to go and visit to see for yourself but then you feel like an outsider because you are in their world . Savannah is as close-knit and tight and hospitable to tourists , visitors , and newcomers but don't start telling them how to change their city or their ways , they'll politely nod and walk away shaking their heads .
Funny , Oh I my God , it's so funny !	This film should be considered a comedy classic . It's star , Steve Martin , is an aspiring film producer and director . He just has one problem . Nobody notices him . He decides on an absurd script about aliens written by an Indian accountant . He casts aspiring actress played by Christine Baranski in a supporting role and a young aspiring ingenue just off the bus from the Midwest played none other than by Heather Graham . The problem is that in order to get this movie noticed by Robert Downey Jr's character , he has to get Eddie Murphy's character to play the lead role . After all , he is the hottest star in Hollywood at the moment . He belongs to strange religious organization led by Terence Stamp . Anyway , the film is funny from beginning to end . All Bowfinger wants is the same chance that every other idiot in Hollywood gets to do and that is wheel and deal . He is smarter than most because Eddie's character won't even think of doing this role so he doesn't know that he is being followed and filmed . He thinks he is going crazy . They hire a look alike person who is also played by Eddie Murphy as the slower brother . Anyway , the film is just worth watching despite the silly plot . The cast makes you believe it .
Simply Divine !	I will always remember this film not for " I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore " but for the performances of a first rate cast including the late Peter Finch , the wonderful Faye Dunaway , William Holden , and Beatrice Straight's Oscar winning role as the cheated wife . The story of Network still reigns true today with networks . Everybody wants high ratings and it becomes a brutal , tortured world . Peter Finch's Oscar winning role will be his most famous and one of the last . He died before getting his Academy Award . Faye Dunaway is one of the most talented actresses around and I hear she can be a bit difficult but this role is really a good role but not one of my favorites of hers . I liked her better in Bonnie and Clyde , Chinatown , and later as Joan Crawford in Mommy Dearest . I believe the Oscar was overdue . Dunaway proves that you can be both beautiful , talented , and intelligent as she does in her roles . She always leaves a lasting impression . THe film's two hours smoothly goes by . Actress Beatrice Straight won an Oscar playing William Holden's wife . I was kind of surprised as the supporting because she is in there enough but she does give an excellent performance . With the exception of Dunaway , I believe most of the cast including Straight , Holden , and Finch are gone .
Breathtaking ! Stunning ! Worthy of Every Award !	There are few films out there even today that can match Amadeus ' incomparable genius . For starters , the two leading actors played by Oscar and Golden Globe Winner F . Murray Abraham and Oscar Nominee Tom Hulce play Antonio Salieri and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart , two rival composers . When Abraham speaks , you can't take your eyes off him whether he is elderly or young and promising and gifted as well . He saves his envy for the spoiled musical prodigy Mozart who is also goofy and childish as well . It's Salieri who begins to despise his rival without telling him the truth of how much he resented Mozart's musical genius and that God chose Mozart over Salieri . Anyway , the backdrop which includes the lavish costumes and art direction are unforgettable . The movie takes you to another place and time where the same occurrences of rivalries , jealousies , and envy can be a powerful weapon of hatred . Mozart naively believes in Salieri's friendship and support . I don't care for the casting of American actors like Jeffrey Jones playing the Austrian emperor . Cynthia Nixon playing the maid hired by Salieri to spy on the Mozart family . I thought Elizabeth Berridge was adequate as well as Christine Ebersole . British actors like Roy Dotrice ( when will be honored ) and Simon Callow CBE are equally the same . It really is Salieri's film overall told from his point of view . You can't forget Mozart's unique laugh and his desire for his father's love who wants him back in Salzburg than in Vienna . Salieri's father died while he was young . We don't see much of the women in the film but that is expected since you expect that women were still second class citizens . Salieri envied Mozart's genius as well as zest for life outside music . He loved parties and people while Salieri preferred music . Oh what a film for the ages !
Brilliant , Tragic , and yet an American Classic !	Flint's Michael Moore began his documentary film career by digging his claws into the closing of General Motors in his beloved hometown of Flint , Michigan which has become a ghost town and looks more like Hurricane Katrina had struck it than the closing of it's largest employer . Economic and social depression has brought Flint into great despair . Michael MOore doesn't forget Flint in any of his films . I watched Bowling for Columbine on television and I was blown away . Michael Moore's editing skills and film techniques acts to show the effects of his message . In a country of guns , he shows the inner cities of Detroit , Los ANgeles , and New York CIty . He also shows us how the tragic events on that April day in 1999 at Columbine High School in Littleton , Colorado made us wake up even if only for a little while . I think it's poignant that Marilyn Manson said " I would just listen " regarding Erik Harris and Dylan Klebold . Maybe that's what we're not doing in a country where guns are more prolific than health care for individuals , our priorities appear insane . While some people I know might call Michael MOore as anti-American . He is doing these documentaries because he loves his country . SOmetimes constructive criticism helps us make better writers and we shouldn't dismay Moore's stance against the proliferation of guns . When Flint is hit with the youngest shooter killing a six year old girl , Kayla , Moore visits the school , comforts the principal , watches the local news coverage , and digs into the boy's background . His mother is on a welfare work force employed by Dick Clark at one of his themed restaurants in wealthy Auburn Hills , Michigan where she has to take a bus to and from . She and her children were evicted and living with her brother in the meantime where the six year old boy found his uncle's handgun and brought it to school for what show and tell . The mother was working two jobs because the welfare forced her too to pay back the government . Dick Clark pulls away from Moore's questioning . Oscar Winner and NRA spokesman Charlton Heston also walks away from Moore in the end when he wants an apology to the girl's family in Flint . Moore leaves a picture of her behind to remind him . The film is unforgettable and a classic .
A Terrific Horror Film !	The Omen is one of my favorite films of all time . You cannot have a better cast than Lee Remick , Gregory Peck , Billie Whitelaw CBE in her best role as the hellish nanny , and David Warner . Harvey Stephens gives a terrifying performance as the young boy , Damien . IT's worth viewing , it's a must see for anybody who believes in the paranormal like myself . Although the story behind the film offers quite a fascinating look at the possibility that it may have been cursed in the first . You know the saying that art replicates life . Now that they have remade it with Liev Schrieber and Julia Stiles for the 30th anniversary of the first film , nothing comes close or better to the original . It's still one of my favorite horror films of all time . They replaced Whitelaw's Mrs . Baylock with Mia Farrow which is kind of a genius casting call since she was Rosemary in Rosemary's Baby , another classic thriller . The original beats any remake because the cast is just excellent , Lee Remick and Gregory Peck are truly believable as an older couple in love and wanting a family . Harvey Stephens is just perfect as Damien . And of course , the other cast members , the wonder Billie Whitelaw best known for her performances in Samuel Beckett plays , David Warner as the photographer , and Rumpole's own Leo McKern as the archaeologist in Israel . I just wished that I saw what the original mother looked like even toward the end of the film .
Ang Lee's Best Film to Date as of 2006	First , I don't think it matters that there are subtitles and the language is Chinese . The story is strong and moves along smoothly . The fighting scenes are worth watching alone . The actors are choreographed to dance and fight with you just wanting to see who defeats . The story is also told with great costumes , art direction , and scenery . The stars of this film are Asian actors and actresses who don't get enough work in this business . While the subtitles might throw you off , it's not hard to understand what's going on by studying their actions , movements , and facial expressions . If Ang Lee had the actors talk in English throughout the film , I don't think it would have lost much value to me since I'm not Asian or Chinese or the audience . I believe that this is one of the best foreign language films of the last decade and it was awarded an Oscar for Foreign Language Film . Although I don't think Ang Lee cared about awards in making this film , this film has female characters who are both strong and equal to the male characters in the film . The females sometimes steal the scenes from the men . It's nice to see women portrayed as strong , equals than emotional inferior characters . They are equally adept at the fighting scenes and they give their all to those scenes . When you think of Ang Lee's other films , nothing could really master the beauty and uniqueness of Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon .
An Excellent Television Still Relevant for Today's Audiences !	An Early Frost was by far superior . It was done gently without insulting or preaching to the audience . It was one of those movies that helped explain homosexuality and AIDS to the audience without being angry . Of course , Aidan Quinn does a beautiful job in his role as the young homosexual . It is heartbreaking movie . I love Gena Rowlands as the understanding mother . Movies like this made you think about the subject of homosexuality and AIDs in a time when we lost the legendary Rock Hudson who was openly gay in Hollywood but closeted to the rest of us who didn't know anything about . Movies like this were when television movies could have rivaled the cinema industry . They don't make many films with sensitivity . HOmosexuality has become a long running joke and AIDS has new victims like women and children . It's a shame that they don't make movies like this anymore . AIDS affects everybody not just family and friends .
Welcome to Britain ! Land of the Queen !	Little Britain really surprised me and entertained me at the same time with Lucas and WIlliams's talents to spoof famous British figures like Dame Barbara Cartland . Oh yes , the two men do other bits of British life like the guy and his apparently disabled friend who is wheelchair bound but not who picks the wrong things and chooses to not go to the bathroom . Oh yes , he can't read neither . Then there is Emily Howard , the badly dressed Southern British transvestite who considers herself to be a lady . We get nice shots of the British seaside . Then there is the only gay guy in a small English village who refuses to believe that there are other gays there too . They also have the wonderful Tom Baker from Doctor Who and Anthony Head from those coffee commercials with his wife for Taster's Choice playing prime minister . Baker is the show's narrator . The show is overall quite a great comedy of characters and fun to watch and re-watch about British life . Too bad , the film industry in Britain does not have the same ability to create the same momentum . That's because British television comedies appeal to a certain audience including Anglophiles like myself . My biggest complaint was that there are only 6-8 episodes per season on British television while American television has an average of 18-27 episodes for each show . Little Britain does a fantastic job of spoofing British life without being too cruel or too mean but remember that it's flattering to have your life spoofed for the public . I love the Kelsey Grammar School and Steven Spielberg Hospital as proof that American culture has invaded the country with Grammar's humor and Spielberg's movies .
You Must See This !	I just ordered the DVD edition of this extraordinary documentary about Jonestown and the People's Temple . It's probably one of the most under-written events of our times . We don't know enough to pass judgment or should we on the members of the People's Temple . They all had their reasons for joining and when they got in . It was very difficult to get out . Jim Jones Sr . was a very powerful man both in politics and in the church . He persuaded people to sign over their life savings , their children , their homes , and their lives to him . He sought power , domination , and ultimate control over his members who he feigned to love . He was maniac , madman , religious leader who sent hundreds to their deaths because his reign of terror was finally over after the Congressman's visit . He believed it was all over and in fact he was dying and so was Marcy , his long-suffering wife , who endured humiliation and his infidelities . In the end , Jim Jones was the ultimate coward , afraid of death , so he brought hundreds into his plan . The revolutionary suicide was practiced many times before during the white nights of horror . This time , it was real . It didn't have to be . Our government and the Guyanese should have been more involved . There was a warrant out for his arrest and the custody battle over John Victor Stoen should have been over and he should have been returned to his parents in America who were former members . It should have never happened but it did and we must learn from it or 900 died in vain .
Cosby's breakthrough	The Cosby Show was actually a breakthrough for African American families portrayed in a positive upper class Brooklyn family of professionals . Cosby used clean proper humor during the years it was on the air . Someone I know referred to him as a natural born storyteller . Yes , he is and one of the smartest intellectuals in the business . Bill Cosby provided a role model for those kids in the ghetto to succeed despite obstacles . Bill Cosby proved that you had to work and follow the rules of society to get ahead . He would be appalled at the rap music today with its lyrics of obscenities and vulgarity with degrading references to women , and others . The Cosby Show was one step forward for African Americans . I am sure that there are many African Americans who went and attend college today because they saw it could be done and was done on the Cosby show . If you aim high enough and work for it , you will succeed too . They showed how important family values really are now in a time of broken dysfunctional families . Bill Cosby , God Bless Him . He made me believe I could go to New York University like Theo . I was accepted but I could not afford it . However , Bill Cosby got me to believe in myself and he is wonderful and thoughtful about children . You can let your children watch Bill Cosby without worrying that they may pick up something bad from it . Bill COsby may be the best babysitter on television today . He tries to stay clean with his humor despite the ever-changing times .
Classic Hamlet !	With Lord Laurence Olivier in the title role of Hamlet , how can you go wrong . William Shakespeare would have been thrilled with such an actor in this role . He brings to life this character who is tortured , guilty , and conscious of his father's death . Laurence Olivier proves to be one of the finest Hamlets that I have ever seen perform this role . Jean Simmons O . B . E . ( it should have been a C . B . E . ) is brilliant as the poor lovesick Ophelia . Eileen Herlie was a bit young at only 28 years old to play mother to Lord Laurence Olivier's Hamlet who was probably older than she was at the time but you can't imagine a better actress to play Gertrude , Queen of Denmark . I wonder why she didn't get an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress like her co-star Jean Simmons . She was just as worthy of a nomination . I would like to see Eileen Herlie get a British honor such as an M . B . E . ( Member of the Order of the British Empire ) for her services to drama especially after spending 30 years on " All My Children " as the beloved Myrtle Fargate . I hope that she does get honored still even in her mid-eighties . She looks great and is still working occasionally on " All My Children . " So if you want a true classic Hamlet to show people , this film version is perfect despite that it is black and white . A classic is a classic . You wouldn't want Citizen Kane to become colorized because it would ruin it's quality . The same goes for this Hamlet .
The Best Film of the Century	There are very few films who can keep me watching over and over again . I just love this movie . I felt like a part of the story . It opened my mind and eyes to the obviousness of the crime . If you doubt the story , then you wouldn't enjoy it as much . It is so well executed with the film editing , the music sends chills down my spine , the acting ensemble i ncludes The finest American actors and actresses . Asner , Jack Lemmon , Costner , Spacek , Tommy Lee Jones , Pesci , Bacon , Laurie Metcalf , John Candy , Gary Oldman , and the list can go on and on . Do not forget Donald Sutherland's role as his main informant . The only problem is that the film is too short . It is still a brilliant piece of American Cinema . Never before did I feel like an American robbed of my King . Rest in Peace Jim Garrison and the others who sought the truth . We are still seeking the truth even now .
Stay in there , You get hooked after awhile !	After awhile of leaving it on between British comedies on American PBS , I grew to enjoy and like watching this television show . The characters like Compo and his relationship with Nora Batty is quite hysterical . It's great to watch Frank Thornton back in comedy again as Truelove . Of course , Thora Hird is my favorite British acting dame . At almost ninety years old , she is still beautiful , sweet , and brilliant in her role as Edie . The show is more like comedic serial than a sitcom . There is the ongoing secret courtship between married Howard and single attractive golden girl , Marina . Then there is the annoying happy marriage between Glenda and Barry . It's almost nauseating to hear Glenda speak so highly of her Barry to her mother and their friends over tea as they discuss husbands with the suspicious Pearl , the widowed Nora and Ivy . Of course , it's wonderful to watch Auntie Wainwright as an antique seller in the small town . It's a delight to watch Jean Alexander thrive in this role . In fact everybody thrives in their roles on this long running British comedy . In fact , I don't mind growing old . The show gives me something to look forward too now . I am sad about Bill Owen's death but the show still manages to go on with his son . I just wish he would chase after Nora Batty now who left . Even though the characters come and go , there are now new refreshing characters . When I go to England next time , I will definitely stop in Holmfirth , England , outside of Manchester to visit this charming little Yorkshire town .
Who doesn't like Bonnie Hunt ?	Bonnie Hunt's childhood dream has come true with her talk show of the same name . She is better known for playing the sister in Jerry Maguire and the mother in Cheaper by the Dozen and other films . In this show , she showcases her talents of allowing celebrities be themselves . She can be quirky sometimes but she is one of the best beloved American actresses even in her forties who can hold her own against Renee Zellweger and Steve Martin . Bonnie is fiercely loyal to her friends like Holly who was on Life with Bonnie . Their friendship is real and authentic without the pretenses of others . Bonnie tries not to inflict her political or personal views but she is happy and proud of her hometown Chicago and her relationship with her mother who makes occasional appearances on her show and her fifteen nieces and nephews . Bonnie is not without her personal problems as she is separated from her long-time husband after 20 years of marriage but she manages to always smile and be cheerful .
Remembering the Paris of another time !	This DVD made me long for Paris of another era and time . It was great to hear Janet Flanner's voice and see her in person . She was an amazing writer and human being . Of course , there was Gertrude Stein and her wife Alice B . Toklas in early home videos . The director and executive producer are also partners personally and professionally . This documentary only shows just a part of their lives in Paris , France during the era of expatriates . It was nice to see Sylvia Beach and hear Adrienne Monniere's voice as well as Stein and Toklas . Of course , Natalie Clifford Barney's housekeeper who was not gay recalls her husband killing partridges and giving them to Toklas . Of course , the map idea helped show the locations . Of course , it was not always as great as it appears to be . There were problems of course not mentioned , Janet lived with Solita Solano but had a lover in the country , Noel Haskings Murphy , and when she was in New York City during the War years took another lover , Natalia Danesi Murphy . After Gertrude's death , Alice was left destitute by the Steins . Before her death , she became a Catholic and was cared for by nuns who showed no judgment regarding her sexual orientation . One of the deleted scenes is worth watching believe me especially the fact that Ernest Hemingway lived with Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas in their Paris home and was Stein's gopher . I wish there was more of Janet Flanner . I do now believe that Solita was the love of her life and constant domestic partner until she could no longer care for either herself or Janet . Djuna Barnes pronounced Juna also ended as a recluse in New York's Greenwich Village . Somehow , the documentary only shows a positive part of the Parisian life and the complicated relationships between these women and others . Of course , Janet's true love was Paris itself . Sadly , she died in New York City . I am impressed that the documentary does not focus so much on their relationships but the strive to achieve in a new foreign land where they were allowed to grow and prosper as artists .
Just heartbreaking !	I remember the first time that I saw this film . It still is worth watching . Alex : the life of a child is one of those films that you can't watch without some feeling . The daughter , Alexandra , suffers from cystic fibrosis . During her short life , her father played beautifully and touching by Craig T . Nelson is sports writer and sports commentator Frank DeFord . He chronicles her short life . He and his wife had it all by the time she was born . They had a beautiful home in the suburbs and a healthy son named CHristopher . When Alex came into their lives , she was the first girl in a long time . The young actress who played Alex deserves credit for bringing to life this child . The actress is Gemma James and she deserved an Emmy for a heartbreaking performance . I also have to admire Bonnie Bedelia's performance as the mother . Her role does not go without saying . How can somebody grieve over the loss of a child ? Nobody expects to outlive their child . Since I don't have any children , I can say that I have watched this film and cried a little each time . I keep thinking of what might have been for Alex . Her life was just too short .
A great effort !	I have to say that this movie recently aired on Comedy Central and it was addictive to watch couples with their dogs at this Westminster style dog show in Philadelphia . It is great cast with Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara paired again in another Christopher Guest film . Levy and O'Hara were wonderful and sweet as the small town odd couple with their dog . Parker Posey was wonderful as the yuppy wife . Jennifer Coolidge and Jane Lynch provided some laughs . Even Chris Guest played a part as well as directed and co-wrote with Levy the script . There are very few quality films especially something satirical and wonderful as this film . It's worth watching ! I loved Ed Begley Jr . as the hotel manager .
A Year in the Life of An Amazing Park !	Rittenhouse Square is more than just a park to Philadelphia . In it's creation , it was initial purpose was for residents and visitors to the city to enjoy the trees . A century ago , the neighborhood was surrounded by lavish townhouses and the wealthiest of Americans like John Wanamakerlived nearby . The park was used as it is today for people to relax and enjoy a life a little more . Rittenhouse Square is a lot smaller than New York's Central Park or Philly's Fairmount Park but it is still one of the city's finest parks for couples to meet and fall in love , to hear music , to dance at the annual ball , to meet friends , to have lunch , to paint , etc . Rittenhouse Square reminds you of the parks in London neighborhoods if you been there . Maybe that's why it's so special . Size doesn't always matter in park size and Rittenhouse Square has survived and thrived and changed it's image from prams and nannies to alternative lifestyles , seniors , adults , college students , residents , visitors , and they enjoy the scene of nature in the city surroundings . The park is just as enjoyable in winter as it is in spring , summer , and fall . This documentary is a tribute to the legacy of Rittenhouse Square .
Opening Pandora's Box !	I have to say that Louise Brooks is one of those unforgettable actresses from a generation where actresses were trained to be actors . This film is probably the most famous film including Louise Brooks in collaboration with German director Pabst . Anyway , this film is done at a time in Germany before Hitler's rise to power and the second World War . The film itself is always worth viewing because the story of Pandora's Box is about Louise Brooks ' character and the fate that awaits her . I saw this film in college for a Women and film class over ten years ago and I still would love to see it again . Louise Brooks should have been an Academy Award nominee for her performance .
On Golden Pond is a golden treasure from another era !	Can you imagine a better group of actors ? Among the cast , there are 7 Academy awards between them . The greatest of American actresses , Katharine Hepburn won 4 including one for this film . Henry Fonda won his only academy award even though he was one of America's greatest living actors . You can't imagine any other actor or actress playing Norman and Ethel Thayer . Jane Fonda has always been a great actress of her own . Even though winning 2 Oscars was never as thrilling as accepting on the behalf of her dying father . This film was his last chance at an Oscar and he won the award . Ernest Thompson's script just allows the cast to flow . I can't forget Dabney Coleman playing their daughter's boyfriend and Doug McKeon as the grandson that Henry's character , Norman Thayer , never had . I bet Katharine Hepburn performed her own dive in the water . It's still one of the best films of the last century which did not get in the top 100 films of all time . I can't imagine why . The cast is excellent . Believe it or not ! Jane Fonda fought to get this produced because she knew her father was dying and the studios didn't want to take a chance on Henry Fonda . There are several great moments in the film . Sometimes the film is heartbreaking like when Norman talks back to the teens on the dock . I love the way that Fonda and Hepburn really act and appear like an old couple . I thought they were together in real life . You can't imagine a finer couple on screen . I'm glad Jane did this film as well . Who else can play Henry Fonda's daughter ? You have to believe that they weren't acting between father and daughter .
A First Class Documentary !	Who says you have to spend so much money to make a good quality film , well you don't . John Borowski's documentary on the notorious Dr . H . H . Holmes born as Herman Mudgett is a perfect example . It's creepy and reminds you of the golden days of good thriller films where it didn't take much to scare the life out of you . The story of Dr . Holmes should not be forgotten . The reenactments are not that graphic or bloody . I like the fact that Tony Jay narrated the documentary . He was wonderful . John Borowski is an up and coming director from Chicago where the house of horrors and part of Dr . Holmes ' crimes took place . Nobody could imagine the horror not even by reading Harold Schechter's book , Depraved , about his crimes . Schechter gives great commentary but I think he could have been used more regarding his knowledge of information . The forensics specialist came off kind of too detailed for the average person . The criminal profiler reminded me of Chris Parnell with blonde hair . He kind of had a good sense of humor despite the horror . I recommend watching the behind the scenes the making of the documentary . It's well documented and looks 100 percent professional .
Robin Williams deserved an Oscar nomination at least for this one !	Robin Williams is a comedic genius . While I am not entertained by most family comedies , Mrs . Doubtfire is a winner . It can make you laugh easily . Robin's role as a divorced father who wants to spend more time with his children is actually truly believable . Even his role as Mrs . Doubtfire is performed superbly . Too bad , there is no sequel to this film . And the fact that San Francisco plays a big role in the movie is another reason to see it . Like New York City , San Francisco plays a character in this film . It is America's most beautiful city to be compared with the likes of Paris and London . Don't miss this movie ! It really is a family oriented film . There are great performances by a superb cast including Sally Field , Pierce Brosnan , Harvey Fierstein , and Anne Haney . Robin was sure robbed of an Academy Award nomination . It could not have been easy to put on so much makeup and transform himself into Mrs . Doubtfire . My favorite scene is the transformation with Harvey Fierstein where Robin uses his great voice to experiment with a Cuban Doubtfire , a Yiddish Doubtfire , and singing Matchmaker with Fierstein is the best part of the film .
Brilliant Remick and cast !	I just purchased the book by Shana Alexander . The television film version which includes Lee Remick as Frances Bradshaw Schreuder and Inga Swenson as her older sister Marilyn Reagan . They are both not only memorable . But I kept thinking about them while I was reading this book . This is one of the most bizarre murder cases in American history . When you learn that Frances ' sons prefer prison to living at home with mom , I think you have to wonder what is wrong with this situation . Lee Remick earth-shattering performance as Frances is very reminiscent of Meredith Baxter playing Betty Broderick in " A Woman Scorned . " Unlike that movie which only lasted two hours , this story was an intriguing mini-series which television has all but abandoned like the sitcom genre . The story of Frances Schreuder is compelling , chilling , and even frightening in the book and less on the screen but it is still worth watching . I don't think anybody would believe a woman was capable of such harm and was not stopped sooner . In fact , her family rejected that she needed the psychiatric problems in the book earlier in her life like in college which may suggest a lesson to be learned . Take care of the problem early before it accelerates . Frances is definitely a narcissist who used her children to gain acceptance and money to gain power and acceptance in a society which really had no interest in her . Sadly , her children suffered . If she was not stopped , Ariadne would have suffered in her hands .
A Great Film Overall !	Perhaps , a movie about two mature parents played by Oscar Winner Sissy Spacek and Oscar nominee Tom Wilkinson , losing their adult child is not for everybody . Nick Stahl is very believable in playing their young adult son who falls in love with a separated mother of two sons . The boys ' father is an abusive and jealous husband who just won't let go of a bad marriage . The son , Frank Fowler , falls in love with Marisa Tomei's character Natalie . Another Oscar Winner in the cast and she is perfect as the grief-stricken girlfriend left behind . The on screen chemistry between Stahl and Tomei is believable . Frank has a chance to go to college and become an architect or engineer but it's too late . He is too busy spending the summer months being a working man in Maine as a lobster man and playing daddy to Natalie's sons who love him in the end . Anyway , Frank's death is a horrible one . He was shot in the head by Richard , the angry boyfriend , who could get away with doing 5-15 years in prison . Of course , the parents are outraged that there is great injustice . Sissy and Tom are truly great together as a couple . You can see their years of acting experience behind them . They both earned Oscar nominations for leading roles . Even Tomei deserves her nomination in the supporting character , especially after watching her in this one . You can rest assured that her Academy Award earlier in her career was well worth it . Even though , I think she should have gotten for a role like this .
This is film of the highest quality !	If it was shown in the movie theaters , this film would have easily earned an Academy Award for Cicely Tyson who is one of America's finest actresses period . She portrays Miss Jane Pittman as a 110 year old survivor and a former slave . Her performance is Tour-De-Force that it would bring tears to anybody's eyes . This film should be shown in acting classes for all aspiring actresses to see Miss Tyson's performance as brilliant . The movie is based on the Ernest Gaines novel of the same name and it's quality reminds us of the greatness that existed in network films of the past . Only a few years before Roots , this film earned 9 Emmy Awards and rightfully so including two for Tyson alone . It's heartbreaking at times as well as inspiring . I can't speak enough of this film and it should be shown again and again in classrooms and schools because it offers so much history as it is historical fiction . I can't forget the supporting cast of players including the wonderful Richard Dysart and Katherine Helmond and others who have made this film are all award winning .
Go Home Everybody !	I love Tracey Ullman and I don't know why the Queen hasn't honored her yet with some kind of British Honor . I remember when I first saw her in the video of They Don't Know About Us with Paul McCartney MBE before he was knighted many years ago . The network brought Tracey Ullman who is a great talent to create a sketch show which she played everything from a teenager to an old woman . She did everything without being vulgar , difficult , or cruel . I loved it when she and Dan Castellnata played a yuppie married couple who discover that their young son is normal and not a genius at school . Tracey also introduced the Simpsons to the world . Of course , it was 30 minute show and I felt that it wasn't enough time to get everything in . I think the show would have fared better if it was expanded to an hour . Still , I remember that show fondly as one of Fox's early efforts .
Excellent All Around Film	When Anne Bancroft died this past year , I remembered this film because of her performance . I can't forget Jane Fonda and Meg Tilly's as well . The three actresses really provided some of their finest performances for the camera . We are left with more questions than answers . But as we go through watching this film , we love Anne's role as the Mother Superior with a few secrets of her own and Jane Fonda as the psychiatrist assigned to Sister Agnes . I love the interaction between Fonda and Bancroft . They're professionals and they're good in this film . That's why the three earned Academy Award nominations . Finally a film about nuns that's not so demeaning or patronizing . Mother Superior joins the convent for her reasons or because she felt chosen to do God's work . Sister Agnes and Mother Superior's relationship is not so obvious to the viewer . YOu have to take into account every word of what is said between these three characters . You feel sorry for Fonda's childless lonely character as well . In the end , we have more questions than answers that are never really resolved but it's a great film and one of Anne's best work .
Marlene the Magnificent !	Marlena Dietrich was truly one of the finest actresses around of her generation . Her performance in this film especially when she kisses a woman as if she was a man is unforgettable and controversial in a time of German decadence and liberty before Hitler's rise and World War II . This film depicts the loves and lives of the people who visit the Berlin club . It shows how cruel love can be to each other and how destructive people are to themselves and others . That kiss may have started a controversy but the real one is the poor treatment of ourselves and others . Love can be the cruelest gift and the most wonderful gift if we know how to do it properly . So Marlene kisses a woman in the film while wearing a masculine costume , it's not the end of the world . In real life , Marlene pretty much died alone in her Paris apartment . She too have experienced the cruelty and heartache of love and the joy of being a mother and grandmother too .
This show might offend some Catholics but not me , I loved It	I have to say that I was surprised at my amazement of enjoying this Irish comedy . Sadly , the actor played Father Ted died in 1998 . But he left us with lots of laughter and unforgettable scenes . It used to be shown on WLIW and they began putting warnings before the show . Then , it may have gotten a little too offensive for a New York Catholic audience . But despite everything , it is a classic comedic series . You'll laugh more than be offended . Maybe a few people in the television audience might answer their true callings of priesthood and sisterhood . We need more religious people . Maybe in a way , Father Ted shows a fun side of priest life without the stuffiness associated with it . Priests can and do have fun . They're even hysterical to watch over and over again . You can't forget the wonderful Mrs . Doyle as the bit crazed housekeeper to the priests . Don't miss the Lent episode and Father Stone episode . They are just too funny to miss up this show's offer .
Every Girl Should See This Film at Least Once !	This mini-series is an excellent example of how television should be . The acting is first rate starring Canadian Actress Megan Follows in the role of Anne Shirley which displays great acting range for an actress so young . If this was released in the cinemas , this film would have garnered Oscar nominations for Megan Follows as Anne and of course , the wonderful Colleen Dewhurst as Marilla Cuthbert as well Richard Farnsworth as Matthew Cuthbert , a pair of siblings who adopt Anne reluctantly to care for on the farm on Prince Edward Island . Of course , the story doesn't end there . By the time we finish watching this extraordinary piece of film , we want more because these characters and the actors who portray them become very dear to us . We love Anne for all her faults and her amazing sense of humor and adventure . A person like Anne brings out the best in everyone and Megan Follows performance certainly displays a loyalty to the author's intentions . Apart , the direction , cinematography , acting , writing , and art direction is first rate and would have garnered Oscar nominations easily .
A Classic !	William Faulkner was one of the American writers to win the Nobel Prize in literature . Faulkner mostly wrote about life in the South particularly during the depression years . Many of his stories have been adapted to screen . Short stories like Two Soldiers is an endearing tale of two brothers in December 1941 after the attack on Pearl Harbor . The older brother , Pete Greer , goes to Memphis , Tennessee to enlist like hundreds of thousands of young men , some who would never come home . His younger brother doesn't take his departure well . He manages to get a bus ticket to Memphis without any money to find his brother . He surprisingly becomes a soldier of another kind since he wants to enlist also at 10 years old . Ron Perlman does a surprising performance as the military leader who manages to take care and bond with the boy . This short film won an Oscar for Best Short-Live Action film which is well-deserved . If it was longer , it could compete with the longer films . Everything else like costumes , art direction , and recreating the era of America in 1941 is perfect . The film also shows the heartbreaking war at home as most Americans were surviving the great depression . The actors and actresses are not known but they do a first rate performances . If Hollywood would make more quality films , I would probably go to the cinema more . If Broadway had more quality shows , I would go to the theater more .
One of the best comedies about NYC ever !	They don't make comedies like Taxi anymore . A couple of years ago , a local television station aired a two hours worth of shows like Taxi , Welcome Back Kotter , The Jeffersons , and the Odd Couple on Saturday nights . For those of us who didn't have plans , I stayed in to watch shows that I never got to watch like on prime time because I was too young . Anyway , it ended in less than a year after it started . Sadly , those four shows were superior to our contemporary sitcoms like Will and Grace and Friends . These shows were all set in New York City and they didn't have the attractive group that today's producers need to look at when you want an audience to laugh . Sorry folks at Friends and Will and Grace , the truth is that these four shows were multi-cultural thirty years before Friends and Will and Grace . No , they weren't always attractive to the audience but who casts somebody because of their looks . It's about talent and comic genius . Taxi had a great theme music which I'm listening to right now . It also had an excellent cast of characters played by great talents like Oscar nominee Judd Hirsch , Danny DeVito , Marilu Henner , Jeff Conway , Tony Danza , Andrew Kaufman ( we miss you the most ) and Christopher Lloyd . Rhea Perlman also appeared and so many wonderful others . What separates this show from today's ideals about live in New York City is the gritty and struggling of the characters trying to make ends meet . IT still goes on today in the New York City area . You know I find this show believable now more than I ever did .
The Queen of Talk Shows ! ! !	Let's face it , England has Queen Elizabeth II and America has Oprah Winfrey . While she might be only a talk show hostess , she already commands a billion dollar empire which includes her show , magazine , radio station , television channel , etc . She is the first African American woman to be a billionaire but also represents those of us who strive to achieve as well . Oprah's show is expected to run it's course in 2011 and please say it isn't show . Can we imagine life without her show ? Probably not , it wouldn't be same . I knew she was going to be big but as a success story when I first saw her after Color Purple and her academy award nomination . I never imagined her to be so successful beyond her wildest dreams . Oprah's show is always first rate most of the time . You may like her or dislike her but you can't avoid her show's influence and hers as well . Too bad , her film version of Beloved didn't win her an Academy Award because she deserved it . Oprah's book choices become best-sellers even though I disagree with some of her choices as too feminine and emotional . She chooses books that will make us better people . Enjoy her now while you still can because when she retires from her show , television would never be the same .
Why not Sir Rowan ?	I love Rowan Atkinson . I think he's the best contemporary British comedian around . Rowan has a great talent especially playing Edmund Black Adder . Edmund , the Black Adder , begins the series in the Black Plague or Black Death . The second series is a lot better with Queen Elizabeth I played by the wonderful Miranda Richardson ( I wondered what happened to her ) . This role was before her Oscar nominating role in Damage . She is hysterical as the Virgin Queen which I bet is the funniest Queen Elizabeth I in history . I love the costumes , the language . The series got better as it went along . I loved Hugh Laurie as the dumb prince . Tony Robinson as Baldrick always made me laugh . The Black Adder kept moving on until World War II . Don't you think it's time that Rowan Atkinson became knighted .
Continues where it left off and as brilliant as ever !	Anne of Avonlea is another wonderful addition . Not much in casting has changed . Megan Follows will forever be recognized and known as the Anne Shirley of my generation and those generations that follows but it's a commanding role that is enduring and wonderful too . Colleen Dewhurst returns to her role as Marilla Cuthbert and Dame Wendy Hiller even has a supporting role . I love Anne and Gilbert's relationship as it evolves from childhood through puberty and adulthood . Anne's coming of age story here is beautifully crafted to display the same brilliance as it was in the original Anne of Green Gables . The cast , the crew , the writers who adapted the novel to the screen , the cinematographer who was faithful to the Canadian history and literary contributions that Lucy Maud Montgomery developed in this novel . The costumes and set direction are faithful to the time period . Watching Anne of Green Gables , you want to visit and perhaps move your family to Prince Edward Island in Canada .
Simply a Classic film !	Of all of Stephen King's stories , Dolores Claiborne is one of favorite movies with an excellent cast , writing , and directing . For starters , I am shocked that nobody received Oscar nominations especially Kathy Bates , the excellent Judy Parfitt , Christopher Plummer , Jennifer Jason Leigh , John C . Reilly , Ellen Muth , David Straitharn just to name a few all provide excellent support in telling a story of a lifelong Maine woman Dolores Claiborne St . George who has an abusive husband played well by David Straitharn and a daughter Selena equally played well by Jennifer Jason Leigh and Ellen Muth . The death of Vera Donovan opens the movie to reveal flashbacks to the past . The unlikely bond of two very different women like Dolores and Vera is fascinating to watch over time . Vera is a difficult woman who expects everything to go her way . She is one of the most difficult employers too but somehow Dolores understands her ways . Despite their backgrounds , they become the closest of female friends . Vera says " Sometimes being a bitch is the only thing a woman has " is a classic line from the film . I love Kathy Bates and Judy Parfitt in this film . The director Taylor Hackford does an excellent job in depicting Maine's beauty in the fall . The solar eclipse is also inviting to see and the drama that occurs during it . King keeps getting better with his work . Bates ' narrating over the action allows us to understand the character's harsh working conditions bestowed by Donovan . Plummer plays a district attorney bent on proving Claiborne's murderous ways in this film . The film allows the audience to determine how we view Dolores Claiborne , a simple Maine woman with a complicated life who made fateful decisions in a male dominated world . We leave asking ourselves what we would have done in that situation and that is what is makes it a great film . Not only that , we enjoy watching these actors and characters over and over again .
An Excellent Condition !	So far , the film version of Tony Richardson's adaptation has been more than satisfactory . This is a must for Shakespeare fans . Nicol Williamson who should have been knighted by now which bothers me more than anything else that he has not been quite rewarded is brilliant in his role as Hamlet . He even outshines Sir Anthony Hopkins C . B . E . who plays his uncle , Claudius . I know Nicol has some personal problems which makes him a very difficult actor to work aside but he is brilliant and talented actor . Maybe he has stayed away from acting rather than go insane or mad . The scenes where his Hamlet is going mad is better than Lord Laurence Olivier . You really believe it . Some people have preferred his Hamlet to other actors who have played the role in the past . I am sure Nicol Williamson deserves to be there somewhere in the top ten list of great Hamlets . Being an artist like an actor without going crazy , mad or insane is an amazing accomplishment . For Nicol , I think he was blessed and cursed with talent and yet with difficulty . I am not excusing his difficult behavior but he is one of the most talented actors and should be rewarded with knighthood like his peers who have taken on the role of Hamlet like Sir Ian McKellen , Sir Derek Jacobi , Sir John Gielgud , Lord Laurence Olivier , Kenneth Branagh ( C . B . E . refused honor in 1996 ) , and others . I hope people will also recognize Judy Parfitt as Queen Gertrude who is quite wonderful in the role . Marianne Faithful plays Ophelia but it is really Nicol's film and worth watching again .
I've watched this film about 7 times and I'm no dummy !	Better Off Dead is a spoof takeoff of the John Hughes ' eighties films about teen angst . John Cusack plays wonderfully as Lane Myer who had an obsessive relationship with his ex girlfriend , Beth , who breaks up the relationship for somebody better . Miserable , he tries to kill himself several times without failure . As his friend played brilliantly by Curtis Armstrong tells him " Suicide is not the answer " and lines like " I've been going to high school for 7 years , I'm no dummy . " While Lane depresses over his adolescence existence in a small northern California town , the laughs just keep getting better . His mother is obsessed with cooking . The father sets him up with a date when he worries his son is going insane . On top of all that , Lane is being hunted down by an unpaid paper boy who will stop at nothing to get his $2 . 00 and surprisingly , he finds love under his nose . I have to say this movie will leave you wanting more and more .
Get out your tissue box !	It wasn't supposed to happen . Their initial intention was to follow a fireman from the fire academy through the 9 month probationary period . Tony was chosen from the fire academy and he was stationed at firehouse number one in New York City only a couple blocks from the World Trade Center . Watching the documentary , you can't help but be moved by it . They didn't know what was going to happen and on September 10 , 2001 , they filmed the twin towers from their firehouse . The Twin Towers was considered not to be attractive but I never thought so . I thought they completed the skyline of New York City . Even from 30 miles away , you could have seen them in my area whether up on a hill or somewhere else . I miss those buildings and mourn the devastating loss of the people inside even though I didn't know anybody personally lost . You take for granted that you see a certain building or landmark . Imagine if the French lost the Eiffel Tower or Rome lost the Vatican , it's a horrible thought because we didn't think something like the events on September 11 could ever happen and so fast . Think about the Titanic , nobody thought she could sink and when she hit the iceberg , she sank faster . The Titanic and the Twin Towers were a lot alike . We thought they would be invincible and last forever . I can't remember when I last saw the Twin Towers . I think it was when I got my new car the week before and saw the New York City skyline wishing I was there . Like Titanic , the Twin Towers was destructible only by man's destruction . Watching this documentary , you get to know what was going on with the firemen . They are never the same again after this day . I resisted watching this tape because I didn't need to see any more footage but this tape is different , it's worth watching at least once . You get to know these firemen , their brotherhood , their closeness to death , and surviving the horrific day and watching it on television . We weren't prepared then but maybe we are now that we are not invincible . This documentary is worth the awards and accolades although I think the film directors would tell you that they would preferred it to be something boring and no lives lost . Watching the brothers reunite after thinking that one might have been lost is one of the most touching scenes ever .
A Timeless Classic !	The Sound of Music is one of those films that you can probably recall the words to the songs and memorable lines . Dame Julie Andrews is brilliant as the postulate aspiring nun , Sister Maria , who is sent to help a local military man , Captain Von Trap , played by the brilliant Christopher Plummer to raise his seven children . At first , the children are resistant to Maria's unconventional ways . She makes an attempt to become the friend despite the oldest daughter who doesn't need a mother but does after all . Maria eases her way with the Von Trap children by teaching them how to sing and be children again . She gives them the play clothes made out of curtains or drapes from her bedroom quarters . They sing , play , and have picnics in the beautiful Salzburg mountains . Of course , Maria causes discourse in the Von Trapp family household but she manages to stay on and wins over the Captain Von Trap who was seeing a very beautiful Fraulein Schraeder from Vienna who is not crazy about children . Of course , this story takes place before the rise of Hitler and World War II . When Maria and the Captain come back from their honeymoon , they must face separation with Captain being ordered to serve the Third Reich despite his obvious disdain . The scenes at the Convent are also memorable especially with the late and wonderful Anna Lee MBE as one of the nuns . Again , the scenery , the art direction , the costumes , the music , the writing , and acting are all first rate .
A Classic Satire	This remake could not have had a finer cast led the magnificent Mel Brooks and his wife Anne Bancroft . I remembered him saying once that he loved singing and dancing Polish with his wife and now I can see why . They begin the show singing and dancing in Polish . I was surprised by how much they spoke Polish in the beginning . Unlike most Polish depictions , they are not considered to be taken as jokes in this film . They are in Warsaw with their theater troupe . In actuality , Warsaw was destroyed 90 % by the war's end so it was probably very unlikely that they could outsmart the Germans but it's not a true story . The Jews wear the yellow Star of Davids and the homosexuals wear the pink triangle . Now the film could have ignored that part of the war but they did not . They wisely incorporated it into the storyline . They remind us of the concentration camps and the certain death that they would have faced . While the stars of the film and the fictional theater troupe , Anne and Frederick Bronski played by Bancroft and Brooks are forced out of their own home to live with their homosexual cast member played memorably by David Haacke in this small one room apartment . The rest of the cast is superb with Charles Durning , Tim Matheson as the young military man in love with Anna , Estelle Reiner , George Gaines , George Wyner , etc . Anne Bancroft is positively beautiful and glowing in her performance . She is truly a star and we know Mel loved her to death and she loved him in life as well . I don't get into the plot because I don't want to spoil it . It's worth watching again and again . Rest in peace , Anne .
One of the best family comedies of all time !	There was nothing like All in the Family before it debuted in 1971 on television and honestly nothing like it has been able to duplicate the excellent casting , writing , and directing . This show was a phenomenon in the 1970s and it's affect on popular culture is still with us today . We all know about " All in the Family " with the beloved Carroll O'Connor as bigoted Archie Bunker , his dingbat wife Edith played by the wonderful Jean Stapleton , his daughter played by Sally Struthers , and his son-in-law played by actor turned director Rob Reiner . The show had guest appearances by Oscar winning actress Estelle Parsons , Betty Garrett , Philip Carey , Isabel Sanford , Sherman Helmsley , Beatrice Arthur , etc . This show spawned off " The Jeffersons " which was equally famous in it's own right and lasted just as long . Beatrice Arthur's character Maude became her own show and her maid played by the beloved Esther Rolle would star in her own sitcom , Good Times , which was famous as Maude as well . All in the Family had it's problems but I think the cast and characters truly loved and respected each other . Norman Lear gave birth to a phenomenon which remains untouched to this day . Archie Bunker may have had his prejudices at least in language and attitude but not so much in behavior . No different than most men of his time . In some ways , he reminds us a little of our fathers . Archie Bunker was an American original who was not Father knows Best . He was a real character with a very narrow point of view which I don't really believe he was every that prejudiced . He did allow the Jeffersons into his home and family life . He allowed Edith to work and have a transsexual friends . He also showed that despite the obvious character flaws that ARchie was truly human . He was still a good father , a loving husband , and grandfather . He may have argued and called his son-in-law " a Pinky Meathead , " but he did it with love . I think the show should have ended when Jean Stapleton left because I didn't like them killing her off .
Germany's Best Film to Date !	Let's face Germany has a dangerous past . This story is about men aboard a submarine during World War II . I saw it dubbed in English . I would have preferred subtitles and listened to the original German language being spoken . This film is completely German made with German actors . Of course , the story is not lost in translation . These men have to fight for their country regardless of whether they support their government . It's really about young men who could be any one of us in their position . You have to ask yourself what are you to do if you have no choice . I was a little disturbed when one of them stated that he was molested by six of the other guys like a ritual hazing ceremony to another officer . It was as if an unofficial initiation ceremony and disturbing as well . In war , you could see young men killing and dying and you wonder what it was all for anyway . It's still Germany's best film to date .
Excellent Program for fans of all ages !	I remember watching this show both in reruns and on Sunday evening television . This show was pretty much geared for families or anybody who wanted a combination of good drama and comedic moments . Of course , Michael Landon developed and produced a fantastic show from the Laura Ingalls Wilder novels about life in the American West . Who could forget Melissa Gilbert as Laura and Karen Grassle as the matriarch . We all remember evil Nelly who none of us liked as well as the other cast members . Seeing that family on the prairie made us want to read more and be part of the family . I read the books and enjoyed watching the show . Maybe I'll catch it on TV Land in reruns , there were almost 200 episodes which is quite an accomplishment in television history . Little House on the Prairie is for fans of all ages and all kinds of families .
Brilliant ! One of Woody's Best Work to Date !	Look we all know Woody Allen is a neurotic Jewish New Yorker . In this film , he plays an unsuccessful Jewish New York film director of documentaries . He finally gets a job working for Alan Alda's character who has an enormous ego and thinks the world of his own comedy . The cast is first rate with Woody Allen writing and directing this superior work , Mia Farrow who was his life partner , the divine Claire Bloom who should have been made Dame by now , Martin Landau who plays the guilt stricken husband , Angelica Huston as his unstable mistress , Jerry Orbach who was Mr . New York as Landau's brother in the film , Joanna Gleason who plays the unhappy wife with Woody Allen in this film while he pursues Mia's character Hally Reed . There is also Caroline Aaron who plays Woody's sister . She is a remarkable character actress who goes unnoticed . There are so many wonderful characters who are real but self-centered in some way . They are all with problems but not financially . You wonder how Woody's character who barely worked in years survives a Manhattan rent ? Of course , you can't forget that it's really about Jewish American life in New York City as well . Woody has not forgotten his Jewish roots in his films . Regardless , this film is always worth watching for the first rate cast , writing , and directing . When Woody shoots a film about New York , it's done in New York City and you feel the difference . Of course , Woody is a genius with lots of problems but I think that's the price you pay with being brilliant and gifted . I think he uses his films to sort out his problem .
Vive Les Miserables !	I thought this was an excellent early version of Victor Hugo's classic . The actor who plays Valjean does an excellent job as does British actor Charles Laughton who plays Javert who chases him for years . I love the film even though it might be dated but it's still faithful to the classic novel . The actresses who play Cosette and Fantine do an excellent job even though they are supporting parts . The film's quality is still excellent even though it was done over seventy years ago in the early stages of talking movies . I still think it's a classic movie and of the novel's best . This film version does not have the music but it still contains the same message of Victor Hugo's novel . Valjean is beautifully played as is Javert in this film .
What more could you ask for !	I have to say that Shirley Maclaine gives her Oscar winning performance as Aurora Greenway , a mother that we come to love and hate at the same time . Shirley brings a complexity about the character and her relationship with her daughter , Emma , played by Oscar nominee Debra Winger . I have to say that picking one of these two actresses for Best Actress would have been difficult because they are equally good . Jack Nicholson picked up his second Oscar for Best Supporting Actor as the aging astronaut neighbor of Aurora who fall in love with each other . Jeff Daniels and John Lithgow also earned Best Supporting Actor nominations as well . When Emma and her husband Flap move to Iowa and later Nebraska , the relationship develops between Aurora and Jack next door . When Emma is diagnosed with cancer , well , it just breaks her heart in the final minutes of the film . You still want to cry for people that you come to know , love , and understand why it won Best Picture Oscar too .
Beats most cop shows of today !	Hill Street Blues is perhaps the best cop drama in television history . It was groundbreaking then and now ! It is well-casted with a diverse ensemble . The writing is unbelievably brilliant enough to stand two decades . This is what classic shows are about . It is now seen frequently on Bravo with a fantastic theme song . The cast like Daniel J . Travanti , Veronica Hamel , Barbara Bosson , Betty Thomas , Dennis Franz , Ed Marinaro , and so many others perform brilliantly to make this show likable . The characters are real , candid , rather than just stereotypes . Watching most shows today , I miss the golden age of eighties television where the best shows like Hill Street Blues completed the NBC lineup . It was never a ratings winner but the network kept a quality show like this on to win countless awards including Emmys and Golden Globes . NBC in their Golden Age allowed Hill Street Blues and shows like St . Elsewhere and L . A . Law to flourish without worrying about ratings . Too bad , they still do not exist anymore . While the shows are now produced by networks who do a terrible show , a show like Hill Street Blues would never be approved or foreseen as a brilliant show .
Now for your moment of Zen !	The Daily Show has evolved into a cult status and it's popular especially since Jon Stewart took over the helm some years ago . I remember Jon Stewart and Lisa Edelstein ( Dr . Cuddy of House ) being the video jockeys on MTV in the Morning which only seems like yesterday . Anyway the Daily Show has evolved into an exciting half-hour of fun , entertainment , and even enlightenment . You can't help but notice that Jon's guests are no longer celebrities but mostly authors , educators , and politicians . He seems to be at ease with them than at the Oscars . How many times can you interview somebody about a movie or television show ? As Stephen Colbert would say , Stewart has the balls and makes this show a success but he doesn't maintain that standard fare that would make us tune out . The short features from his correspondents are always worth watching as well . I love Samantha Bee and the ever changing titles of his correspondents as well . I remember Nancy Walls and Steve Carrell ( now of " The Office ) doing their reports . Lewis Black is always welcome on the show . Chris Rock doing the Republican conventions is always a scream .
Best Friends , Partners and Actresses !	Cagney and Lacey was the drama series of two female cops , Mary Beth Lacey , married with three children to Carl , and Christine Cagney , the single or divorced partner . They were played to the hilt by perennial Emmy Winners , Tyne Daly and Sharon Gless . You just couldn't imagine one without the other . It was the Laverne and Shirley in the New York City Police Department . Of course , the show was much better written than most police dramas today . Neither Cagney or Lacey were attractive in the conventional terms but Cagney had a blonde hair . These were mature women playing mature women . There was never anything unusual about their relationship . After all they were working in a man's field , networks wouldn't raise questions if it was two men instead of two women . I can't recall when Gless or Daly dissed one another personally or professionally . They were magic on screen with their dynamic personalities . The New York City Police Department hired two women who were smart and pleased to be police officers doing their job and nobody male or female did it as well or better than Cagney and Lacey in the toughest neighborhoods in the city . Cagney and Lacey was brought back by popular demand for a reason .
The Dynasty of Wine Country !	I loved this drama . I thought this was better than Dynasty . I loved Jane Wyman playing the role of matriarch . The casting was first rate and the writing was stellar if not better than Dynasty and Dallas combined . The cast included Kim Novak , Ana Alicia , Lana Turner , Lorenzo Lamas , and so many others not to mention who graced this show at some point . The show always carried itself more like a drama than a soap opera . I always felt that Falcon Crest was treated unfairly in favor of the more outrageous Dynasty or Dallas . There were no cat fights or explicit or outrageous behavior . They always appeared with class , style , dignity , and grace . That is why I think it was superior to it's other shows . Falcon Crest came on and stayed with us for nine years . We're waiting for DVD .
The Scariest Movie in Years !	We have a health crisis in this country . About 50 million Americans are uninsured but it's not about them . It's about the insured like myself . After leaving my previous position in a public school district because they refused my request for an unpaid leave of absence as a clerk-typist ( the only way I could get a leave of absence is if somebody is ill or I'm pregnant ) . My reason for leaving a steady job was to do student teaching coordinated by my college . Kind of ironic that a school district wouldn't have approved such a request . The motive was the monthly payment to the insurance companies . Anyway , I'm paying COBRA which costs almost 600 dollars for one person . The documentary is not about the uninsured but about insured patients who aren't getting their coverage . Like the man who wanted his daughter to have both cochlear implants in both right and left ears , the insurance company only wanted to approve for one ear of this very young child . Anyway , the man decided to take action by contacting Moore with information and documents concerning his daughter . Luckily , the insurance company changed their minds . I think the most heartbreaking story was the Kansas City woman whose husband , Tracy , had kidney cancer and his only hope was to have a bone marrow transplant with his younger brother . The woman's employer and the board at the hospital declined the procedure which resulted in the man's death . Moore goes to Canada , France , and England . Too bad , he didn't go to India where many American pay cheaply for good health care . I got dual citizenship with Poland because I feared that health care in this country was deteriorating in 2000 . In France , the French citizens or denizens are given free health care , university schooling ( only if you pass tests ) , 5 weeks vacation , 35 hours per week workload , pensions , government assistance , family care , government nannies , etc . It makes you want to pack up and move to Paris . Although Moore does leave out that France does have problems of their own . I didn't like any Americans at the caf who boasting about their lives in Paris , France maybe it's because I envy them . I know Michael Moore says that America is the best country around but not in health care for it's citizens . In fact , most Americans are overworked , exhausted , tired , stressed , and strained from being American because they worry about health care , pensions , and the fewer options . Look at the couple who became bankrupt because of having health insurance or the woman who would marry a Canadian for health care . The insurance company didn't believe that she had cervical cancer at only 22 years old so they declined her care . She headed north to Canada for health care . The politicians and the health care industry are milking the profits for themselves . Look at Los Angeles where hospital dumping of homeless and mentally ill patients are routine at the mission without warning or care . I bet most drug addicts suffer from depression and illegal drugs are cheaper than the legal drugs . When the 09-11 volunteer , Reggie , learned that the same breathing inhaler in Havana , Cuba costs about nickel when in America , it costs about $120 . 00 . Moore's genius is getting people's attention to see , learn , and experience what most Americans are going through . It's not a non-partisan issue that Americans aren't getting health care and suffering for it . Just realize that 18 , 000 patients die yearly because they can't afford or receive their proper treatment . Think about the 79 year old supermarket worker who is working for his prescription plan .
The movie is not impossible to understand !	Granted , I heard terrible things about this film before I saw it on video . After watching this film several times , I got the plot but I also get a little more each time . I love watching Dame Vanessa Redgrave as a female criminal mastermind in this role . I also enjoyed a bit known actor , Rolf Saxon , an American expatriate living in London , as William Donloe . Remember he's the poor sucker that gets the blame for a breaking an entry that caught him off guard . I like Rolf Saxon as the gullible American in this film . He's the best part of the film in my opinion and the surprise to me since I became a fan of his in 1994 after watching old Capital City episodes . I believe did his job extremely well and deserved to be listed in both beginning and ending credits of the film . I love John Voight and can't imagine why Angelina Jolie doesn't want much to do with him . I felt Tom Cruise was adequate . I like Vingt Rhames and Henry Czerny in the their roles . I forget the French actress who was Voight's wife . That's too crazy to believe . I thought that Kristin Scott-Thomas and Emilio Estevez deserved more time on screen but that's the movie for you . I loved the Prague setting , Virginia countryside , and London as well .
Chilling , frightening and yet a must see !	Rosemary's Baby is one of the most controversial films of our time . I can't stop thinking about how sweet and nice Ruth Gordon was in her Academy award winning role . I loved her as Minnie even though she proved that even appearances can be truly deceiving . Who would ever thought that you lived next door to Satanists in New YOrk City . I felt sorry for Mia Farrow's character , Rosemary , but she does give the performance of her career . The haircut by Vidal Sassoon has been etched in my memory since I saw it on television . THe conception of her baby was hard to swallow and not for the squeamish like myself . John Cassavetes also gives a memorable , unforgettable performance as her husband willing to sell his wife out for a successful acting career . You never really like the character because of his immoral actions . As Rosemary comes closer to the truth , we are equally horrified by her discovery of her husband's new allegiance and the satanists who look so ordinary like Aunt Bee from the Andy Griffith Show . You never see them as anything but ordinary and that proves that the nicest , kindest neighbors can fool you . Ruth Gordon's performance as Minnie is well chilling . I won't give away the ending but I bet everybody knows it . A Satanist was consulted on the film and he was connected to Charles Manson whose gang murdered the director's wife . It's more horrifying than the film itself . While I get goosebumps about this story , it won't just leave you . You will always wondered what happened to that baby . Polanski who survived the holocaust as a child always knows how to remind you that people even the sweetest looking people in the world can be evil too .
A Brilliant Classic Love Story !	Of all the films of the last 100 years , Casablanca is still regarded as the ultimate love story up there with Gone with the Wind but it's different . Casablanca didn't have the same expectations as Gone with the Wind . It was filmed in Hollywood during World War II and nowhere near the danger in Northern Africa or Europe at the time . Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart are two star-crossed former lovers who reunite again . The film has Ingrid's character , Elsa , married to Claude Rains's character on the way out of Casablanca to safe . Bogart plays the American club owner with the famous line of " Play it again , Sam . " Music and love brings the two lovers together . We can't forget the ultimate supporting cast that includes Peter Lorre , Sydney Greenstreet , and others in this classic film . The writing , acting , and film is all together first rate .
Another Brilliant Episode !	The more I watch Dame Helen Mirren , the more I want to see her reprise the role of DCI Jane Tennison , the no nonsense British detective , who rose the ranks in a man's world by working hard , sacrificing a personal life , etc . In this episode , Jane is determined to solve the crime of two Bosnian Muslim female immigrants and sisters in London . At first , it all seems locked up by the actual murderer . Tennison's hunches are often key in understanding that there is more than meets the eye . The murderer was a soldier and was taking orders but from whom and why ? It's a suspenseful episode with great supporting performances by Clare HOlman , Frank Finlay , and Phoebe Nicholls . Finlay's performance as Jane's father is poignant as he recalls liberating a death camp during World War II .
My Favorite Philly Film of All Time !	I love this movie and I have to watch it from beginning to end . I love the beginning shots of Philadelphia , a great American city , in the autumn . They only filmed a couple of weeks in Philadelphia and the rest in New York City where Eddie Murphy was on Saturday Night Live . Still he admits it was his favorite working experience on the verge of stardom , Dan Ackroyd plays the WASPY guy who gets to trade places with Eddie Murphy's homeless character . They are unwilling participants in the billionaires , Randolph and Mortimer Duke played by Hollywood royalty , Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy . They bet their usual bet that nature versus nurture . Don's character believes that nature controls who will succeed while his brother argues that nurture is what causes success . They build a great film by starting it slowly . The shots in Philadelphia are always worth watching . Once the trade is succeeded , Louis played by Ackroyd is devastated . His fianc leaves him and his butler played by the wonderful Denholm Elliott takes the Duke brothers orders . Eddie's character is brought in to the townhouse . When the two men learn of the Dukes ' deception , they plan revenge with help from the wonderful Ophelia played by Jamie Lee Curtis and Paul Gleason in a supporting role . Look for others like Al Franken , Tom Davis , Jim Belushi , Arlene Sorkin , Kelly Curtis ( Jamie Lee's sister ) , and the fianc played by Kristen .
A film that will move you to tears !	This film was perhaps memorable because it was an odd story . An old man played by Richard Farnsworth travels to visit his sick estranged brother played by Harry Dean Stanton in rural America . Sissy Spacek has a small supporting role as Farnsworth's daughter who worries about him . The film is not action but character driven . You won't find vulgarity or sexual activity here . it's a family movie with a story about Alvin Straight based on his life . He is old , stubborn , but quite a remarkable determined man . Richard Farnsworth earned an Academy Award nomination for his performance as Best Actor . I wish he won because he deserved that award perhaps more than any other actor . His film credits alone are too numerous to mention . The story moves along at a slow pace enough to catch up with the character of Alvin Straight . I was kind of heartbroken by the ending and a bit confused . I'm like is that it for his story . Only time could have told for two brothers who grew apart . We don't know why they were estranged . But you have to think it's remarkable for a man to drive his lawnmower across the country just to reunite with his brother .
Still a wonderful film !	I loved the soundtrack to this film and I was glad to watch it on Oscar Sunday . It is worthy of its ' Oscars and is based on a true story . The music can be haunting and beautiful at the same time . Vangelis is a musical genius . The cast is stellar with some new faces of actors and actresses like Alice Krige and even Ruby Wax if you look closely . The 1924 Olympics is the climax of the film . It's still a beautiful and wonderfully entertaining and educational film to be seen . I loved the cast including Sir Ian Holm , Sir John Gielgud , and the young aspiring Olympic athletes including Brad Davis , Ian Charleson , and Ben Cross . The story is beautifully told in writing and the direction is brilliant to convey the beauty of the story . This is a feel good classic film from 1981 .
This Episode is A Winner !	This episode should be submitted for the Emmys and Golden Globe Awards . It is truly one of the best episodes that I have seen of this show and reminds me why I love this show so much . We learn more about Sean's past and we understand him better as to why he wants his son to look normal so much . Dylan Walsh's scenes in this episode are brilliantly portrayed with complex of emotions . Julian McMahon also gives a brilliant performance without showing any of his flesh . If you watch this show regularly , you know that's rare and refreshing . His relationship with one of his patients , Hedda Grubman , is touching and sincere . Hedda is a wealthy widow who cares more about her appearance than anything else who was willing to sacrifice relationships in order to save her vanity . I don't know if it was Burt Bacharach in the show but I wouldn't be surprised . This season has been filled with A list guest stars like Brooke Shields , Larry Hagman , Catherine Denueve , Jacqueline Bissett , Richard Chamberlain , etc . The actress who played Hedda Grubman deserves an Emmy for guest performance in a drama . She was excellent and so was Joely Richardson as the concerned Julia .
Dame Helen's Oscar Finally !	Dame Helen Mirren is one of the world's foremost talented actresses that she has won countless awards . Her casting of Queen Elizabeth II is quite stunning considering that she already played her namesake and won an Emmy for it . She really becomes the Queen that we all know and love because she blends into the role so well that it's nearly impossible to think of her as the same person who played Jane Tennison , a Titanic Survivor in the S . O . S . Titanic . I admired Sylvia Syms and think she should become a Dame herself . James Cromwell is great as Prince Phillip and should get a Best Supporting Actor nomination as well . I can't forget Sylvia and think she deserves a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nomination as well . Stephen Frears really deserves nominations for recreating a week that was well unforgettable because it was so painful . I always knew that the Royals were real decent people with flaws and problems of their own . It's hard to imagine them as anything other than the caricatures that the British tabloid press make them out to be . The Royals have lived in a fishbowl their entire lives and will do so . It's not easy being Royal , I'm sure the Queen has her days as well .
One of the best Columbo !	George C . Scott's wife Trish Van Devere gives an excellent and memorable performance as a woman scorned by her secret boyfriend and network executive . I can't blame her character for being so upset . Her longtime secret male companion treats her like leftover meat . He plans to go to New YOrk City and take a top network job while she is treated with no indifference since she is the backbone and force behind the network . She makes few bad decisions but she knows too much and she feels used time and time again . I love her discussions with Columbo . They get along pretty well . Lainie Kazan has a supporting role playing a celebrity with a lot of personal and emotional problems . Too bad , there a not a lot of top television female executives around . The killing of her boss and lover shows that you don't mess with a strong , smart woman and expect to buy her love off with a car .
It's truly worth watching	I have to say that I feel sorry for all three characters in this classic tragedy by August Strindberg , one of Scandinavia's greatest playwrights . Jean and Kristin are trapped by their roles as servant . At a time when you are born into your class and will never rise above it , Jean takes advantage of Miss Julie's vulnerability and I felt the cruel song by the servants mocking their mistress was a bit overdone . Saffron Burrows delivers an exquisite painful performance as Miss Julie that was overlooked by awards shows . This film should have considered for some awards including Best Actress , Best Actor , and Best Supporting Actress . The three together really brought the tragedy of their lives on screen .
It is worth the time !	After watching Silkwood , I became fascinated and mesmerized by the true story behind it . I read the book , bought A & E biography video , and the History Channel's video : Contaminated , the Karen Silkwood Story . Despite reading other comments , I totally disagree about Karen Silkwood who probably saved more lives and lost her own to protect her colleagues and neighbors in Crescent , Oklahoma . If she had not spoke up in the seventies , Kerr-McGhee would still have a nuclear reactor plant in Crescent , Oklahoma . What most people do not know is that Karen's mysterious death haunted a huge ENronlike company . The plant closed in the following year . The shocking discoveries such as missing plutonium and horrible working conditions for its employees . Two showers for the entire company ! Karen Silkwood's life was tragically cut short but she did more in 28 years than most people can do in their entire lifetime . Meryl Streep played her wonderfully . Kurt Russell and Cher played their roles quite admirably . This film was showed to high school students who became equally fascinated by the story after viewing the history channel's video . After the film , they even wanted to watch the biography video . Now anything that can keep teenagers interested in plutonium and nuclear energy is worth all the trouble . THis film's only criticism from the students was that there was too much smoking in this film . Granted , all the main characters smoked in the seventies . After all , I think lung cancer from smoking was far less riskier than working in a nuclear plant .
Harry Would Be Proud !	I am not surprised that this film earned it's star , James Whitmore , an Academy Award nomination . I would think that it would be better aired on television . He would have easily earned an Emmy Award for Best Actor in a Television Film . It is better to get an Academy Award nomination than an Emmy Award but I still think it's one of the best performances that I have seen by an actor in years . James Whitmore really captures the essence and presence of President Harry Truman . In his brilliant performance , staged and film , he is alive in a role that has consumed him . You really believe that he is Harry Truman after awhile . I still think it would have been seen more by people on television than in the cinemas because this little film has that kind of power . I am sure that many more people would have seen it and that is the key to ensuring it's legacy . I am glad that they released it in cinemas but they probably made little or no money on it . It would have been better to have aired it on television . One man performance even with James Whitmore's talent and genius could not hinge the fact that he is the only person on stage . While brilliant to watch , today's standards would never allow somebody in a one person show unless it's a comedian . As for Truman's power , this film is an excellent tool that can be used in the history classrooms to show this former President . I love how he talks about his wife Bess , his mother-in-law Mother Wallace , FDR , and others . Truman also talks about the klan , racism , and others in this performance that he will be best remembered for .
Simply Breathtaking !	Jozef Von Sternberg was one of those legendary directors . Marlena Dietrich who is better known for other roles is one of the leading roles in this film . They are all on a train going to Shanghai , China in a time when it was fashionable to take the train on overnight trips . Anyway , she is the " femme fatale " of all time even now . Marlena along with many other travelers that are quite forgettable . I think there was a lady with a dog but I can't be sure since I haven't seen the film in years . This film is an early classic from a time when film-making was new , fresh , and exciting . Now , it's all violence , sex , and vulgarity . Can you imagine somebody like Marlena being an actress today without losing that unforgettable mystique about her ? No , you can't because they don't have actresses today who have managed to maintain any sense of mystery without being penalized by the Hollywood system . It's a shame that most of old Hollywood is gone .
The Alternative to the View !	Lately the View has become tiresome and nauseating with Rosie O'Donnell at the helm . But at least there is Jerry Springer . I first watched this show when it aired in the beginning . It never intended to become a down right outrageous talk shows with guests that are equally outrageous . Of course , they are considered white trash , usually the bottom of the barrel regarding class and status in life . Of course , I think Jerry Springer would be our next President if he wasn't born in London , England . He is charming , intelligent , and deserves better but he is doing a service to those people who tell their outrageous stories . Do they go to the show for free trip to Chicago to air their dirty laundry ? What are their motives ? Maybe it's because they can't get the help needed anywhere else . Jerry doesn't even admit to watching his own show . But the View has gone into cat fights and a subtle viciousness of dislike among it's hostesses that even Jerry wouldn't dare handle . Jerry's guests are not nice , formal , educated , attractive , or suitable but they are part of an America most of us don't see or choose not too . They are the disenfranchised . They more likely to be poor and work as exotic dancers or strippers . Oh well , as long Rosie doesn't come and ruin his show , it will succeed because Jerry is a nice guy . People are now beginning to see his appeal from his appearances on Dancing with the Stars . Finally , the audiences are beginning to see that with Jerry is what you see is what you get .
A Wonderful film with almost Greek tragedy sentiment	The Entertainer is one of those great films that makes you stop and think about the has been entertainers like Archie after their heyday . I could see the relationship between Joan Plowright and Laurence Olivier evolve from the screen into a love affair . Joan is quite brilliant playing his daughter and Larry is well one of Britain's greatest treasures from the theater . I also enjoyed Dame Thora Hird's role as the mother of a contest winner . The story is rather complicated but it is richly interpreteted onto the film . We feel sorry and love Archie despite his obvious flaws and faults . We support him in the end and know why he did it ? After all the show must go on . Morecambe , Lancashire is also Dame Thora's birthplace and hometown . It's great to see legends like Dame Thora Hird , Dame Joan Plowright and Lord Laurence Olivier .
Simply Perfect !	It's A Wonderful Life is about George Bailey played beautifully by the late great actor , Jimmy Stewart . It's directed by Frank Capra and it's an impressive film overall . Donna Reed plays his loving wife and the mother of his children . Who could forget his guardian angel , Clarence ? and the wonderful people who make Bedford Falls , New York . The film is long but it's worth watching . Before NBC bought it , it used to be shown repeatedly around the holiday season . There was never a day without It's A Wonderful Life ! Still almost every show from Married with Children to Saturday Night Live has used the story line of what it would be like if George was never born . He learns at the end that he had a wonderful life and it sends chills down your spine and tears to your eyes . It's the kind of film that you don't forget or want too . It makes us all feel important .
life is beautiful	This is a a great film and a beautiful love story between man and woman forgotten over recent film-making . Bellini shows a difficult story with humor and grace that even most people can relate too . When Guido finally gets his princess , their happiness is disturbed by the concentration camps and the Holocaust . Even Bellini brings necessary humor to comfort his only son from the evil of war . It's a heart-breaking film with Roberto playing the main character , his real-life wife plays his wife on screen in this film and often in others as his love interest . The little boy who plays his son is also wonderful . The film itself is a visual beauty to watch at first . It makes you want to pack up and head to Rome .
Definitely a movie about war !	In the end , it does not matter that you disagreed with the Vietnam War and America's involvement . This film is about the American men who went to Vietnam leaving in their relatives and friends behind to wonder what was happening over there . They went over there to serve their country because it asked them too or ordered them to go . Whatever the reason , the movie is full of fabulous performances by Meryl Streep , John Cazale , Robert De Niro , Christopher Walken , George Dzundza , and John Savage . I think the cast is well-ensembled and brilliantly acted . The small town in Pennsylvania is quite important to know the significant impact that the war had on small towns in America . Everybody was affected by their absence . Not knowing their fates is often worse than knowing it . After the war , three of the men must face their lives back home . They are never the same again . The game of Russian Roulette is used effectively and frighteningly . We must remember that the Vietnam vets suffer enormously from being taken hostage by Vietcong . It does not matter but they suffer psychologically . Walken definitely deserved his Oscar . I just keep thinking about John Cazale in his last performance . He is dying of bone cancer in reality and dies after filming is over . The Deer Hunter is truly a powerful theme . The deer is a representation of humanity . Humans hunting and killing in the jungles of Vietnam is not much different than hunting and killing harmless deer in the mountains .
A Must See for Any Political Aficionado !	I was taking a course in American Government at Rutgers when I saw this film . I fell in love with George Stephanopoulos right away . James Carville is always a delight to watch with his Cajun tongue and enthusiasm . This film documentary chronicles the Clinton election in 1992 . I can't believe I miss that period now . Of course , the War Room is not for those who don't care anything about politics . The boy from Hope gave us hope and a promise that was fulfilled . Sure there was the sex scandals , at least they were interesting , the economy was headed in the right direction and we had surplus budget . Now , we're in two wars with no end in sight . Still , the War Room reminds us of the promises and the hope around election day .
Television Classic !	The Band of Brothers is not just any ordinary World War II mini-series . It is a masterpiece of sorts . It's hard to focus in on such a broad topic like World War II but they manage focus on a group of American soldiers . I watched the liberation of the concentration camp scene which was touching and devastating . Their discussion of what they knew when or where was frank and realistic . Did they know about Auschwitz or Treblinka ? Maybe not there at the moment , the horror of the war was revealed by American liberators at that concentration camp scene . Of course , the Nazis had several kinds of camps as well . They go on to Hitler's winter chalet in the mountains where there was plenty of wealth to feed the country itself . The American soldiers ponder about life after the war and the casualties . War has never been easy now or during World War II or ever . Lives are lost and those who survive must come terms to deal with their life afterwords . I have to say that Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg has done a wonderful job in producing this film which would have won a hand-load of Oscars .
Probably the Best of the Titanic movies !	In 1979 , this Titanic film did not have the grand special effects like any other movie . But this movie was shown on cable before National Geographic's premiere airing of Titanic when it was discovered by Bob Ballard . Well , this is my favorite Titanic film anyway . No , it is really an average movie but I always connect to that Sunday night memory when I first witnessed Titanic underwater and before most people were aware of it . I was thirteen and with my new vcr . I taped and saved the movie and the Titanic special . The special effects were nothing special . Strong acting from Susan St . James , Cloris Leachman , and Helen Mirren with a very small role . Helen's May Sloane says to Thomas Andrews , the ship's builder , " there will be many questions ? " That scene in the smoking lounge is also a poignant since she is the last to see the man who built her and die with her . In the last moments of the ship , men knelt in prayer . What I will always take from this film is the ending . An ending which signified the true meaning of the disaster . The end of the film takes place in the following Monday morning on the Carpathia with all the survivors and the silence . Watching Susan St . James with her male companion was riveting . They were two second class passengers who lost no loved one from the disaster . At the last scene , Mrs . Astor is greeted by a Carpathian passenger who offers " it was God's will . You must move on . Coffee ? " Mrs . AStor replies " No coffee , no God either . God went down with the Titanic . " That was the last line of the movie . The last shot is over the water and the chairs with Titanic floating . There are other pieces of Titanic debris . But the debris represented the people which is enough for most squeamish viewers . The last film of Titanic filmed before the discovery . No , it's not Cameron . But it's a resolution . Something missing in the Cameron version .
Always Striving for Perfection !	Jay Leno may not have had the natural presence of Johnny Carson but he does have something else that matters . Leno is completely devoted to his show so much that he has declined hosting the Oscars . He is often the first person to come in the mornings and the last to leave at night . Leno doesn't take vacations because he prefers to work doing his stand-up . I often joke that he's the Judi Dench of stand-up comics because he could have comfortable life with just the Tonight Show salary but he still works about 150 shows a year on the club circuit . The show is always a thrill to watch for his humorous monologues and occasional sketches he does . No , he's not Johnny Carson who barely handled three shows a week and often used replacement hosts like Jay Leno and Joan Rivers . Thank God , Leno doesn't do that . He gets us caught up on episodes we may have missed and he's not gone too long . Leno strives for perfection with humor and it's never-ending !
Definitely one of the best films ever made	The Godfather is truly an excellent film with a sensational cast , genius writing , and direction . Without leaders like Coppola or Puzo , the book to film could have been a disaster . The story is well-told in length and detail . Characters are built up and explained well . After Godfather , it must be hard for Coppola to make any follow up movie . This movie has stood almost 30 years and it is still one of the most entertaining addictive movies to watch . You just can't leave it yet until its done . People know the Godfather backwards and forwards . I love the scenes shot in Italy with Pacino and the cast . While they use subtitles to relay the Italian language , the movie leaves you breathless . Pacino , DeNiro , Duvall , Caan , Shire , Keaton , were unknown until this movie was released . We all remember Marlon Brando as Stanley Kowalski . His performance in this film is equally brilliant and incredible . You can't help but watching this film over and over again .
