So old you can smell the mothballs	Not to be disrespectful of the early days of talkies , but if you see this one listed on TCM , skip it . It absolutely creaks with age . Set in Quebec , " The Right of Way " is a melodrama about a rather mean attorney nicknamed " Beauty " ( don't ask me why ) who gets involved in a bar fight when he goes to see his thieving brother-in-law in a bad part of town . As a result of the beating he takes , he develops amnesia and is brought to a rural area by a man he defended . When he regains consciousness , he remembers nothing , and takes the name Charles Mallard . He falls in love with the lovely daughter of the postmaster , played by Loretta Young . Young , radiant and beautiful , was about 18 when she did this film . Except for a naturalistic Young , the acting is outrageously bad , intensely melodramatic , with many lines said with tremulous voices . As is often the case in the early days of sound , the actors weren't used to the medium yet so their timing is off . And the French Canadian accents - horrific . I can't agree with one of the posters about Conrad Nagel - yes , he was over the top , but so was his atrocious dialogue . He at least didn't drag the pace . Not good .
beyond bad	A big disappointment for what was touted as an incredible film . Incredibly bad . Very pretentious . It would be nice if just once someone would create a high profile role for a young woman that was not a prostitute . We don't really learn anything about this character , except that he seems to be a hopeless alcoholic . We don't know why . Nicholas Cage turns in an excellent performance as usual , but I feel that this role and this script let him down . And how , after not being able to perform for the whole film , can he have an erection on his deathbed ? Really terrible and I felt like I needed a bath .
an atrocity played out before my eyes	Thinking I would be entertained , I mistakenly watched this film - and I use the term " film " loosely . It's not a film . It's a bad music video filled with obvious and cheap process shots , lots of blue screen stuff , slow motion signifying nothing , no plot , no background as to the characters or their relationship or who any of them are , no characterizations , no acting , not even a discernible era . Cameron Diaz wakes up after dreaming about doing a disco number - and that's as close to getting a time period on this film as it gets . All , of course , set to music ! I can't believe this cost $92 million to make because it looks incredibly cheap . Lucy Liu needs to stop having plastic surgery - her face is nearly paralyzed . The only people who showed personality ( though neither had any character definition in the script ) were Bill Murray and Drew Barrymore . I'm still in shock . This is not even good camp like " Valley of the Dolls " . After this and that disaster TV show " Titans , " I think Aaron Spelling needs to hang it up .
a complete rip off	This movie was falsely advertised as being about Elvis impersonators ripping off a Vegas casino . That is what it was about - for the first ten minutes . The rest of the time it was about gratuitous violence and vicious characters . I really resent the use of Kurt Russell , one of the great Elvis impersonators , doing Elvis in all the ads , when in reality that whole section was a throwaway part of this revolting film .
awful Elvis movie	Poor Elvis . This is one rotten movie . By 1964 , Colonel Parker had figured out that , if he and Elvis were getting a percent of the movie , the lower the budget , the better . I wonder how Elvis was able to get up in the morning and put on that blond wig . And we ask ourselves why this man was a substance abuser . Elvis plays twins . One of his characters is in the army and sent on a mission to secure a lease for a missile base on a mountain top owned by his relatives - one of whom is the blond cousin . It may sound strange , but neither character seems to have much to do , and the result is a strange lack of an Elvis presence . Hard to explain . You'd have to see the movie , which I don't recommend you do . One of the last scenes is an outdoor party , and it is only there that the film picks up and the lamentable soundtrack improves . There is some terrific dancing and good energy . Pity we have to wait till the end , by which time , most people are no longer watching . Sarcasm aside , this film tears at the heart - Elvis so wanted to be in good films and have an opportunity as a serious actor . But the Colonel was all about money . I blame both of them - Elvis for not standing up to the Colonel and the Colonel for being the greedy guts that he was . He didn't do Elvis any favors .
Dated , very early Bogart	This film was originally called " Midnight . " In a noir set that I have , it's titled " Call it Murder " and Humphrey Bogart is top-billed . Originally he was listed as 8th in the cast , as he really doesn't have that much to do . It's of interest because of his presence - he plays a criminal , but he's a young leading man here - but otherwise , there isn't much to recommend it . Why this is in a film noir set is beyond me . It's a melodrama ( based on a play ) that moves like an iceberg . The acting is stilted , as is the dialogue . The plot centers around a jury foreman ( O . P . Heggie ) whose jury has sent a young woman to the electric chair , and she is due to die that evening . People are begging him to stop the execution . This is my first problem . What can he do other than say there was a miscount ? Anyway , he stands by his decision . When his own daughter ( Sidney Fox ) lands in the same predicament , claiming she killed her lover , Gar Boni ( Bogart ) , one wonders how resolute he will be then . Pretty resolute . Ready to send her up the river , which I think is totally unrealistic behavior . All this doesn't add up to much , but it's always a treat to see Bogart , and especially interesting at such an early point in his magnificent career . He's quite good . In fact , he's the only one who doesn't have huge pauses between his sentences and speaks in a decent rhythm . The director really didn't pace this movie too well . It's early days for talkies , and many actors were still adjusting their technique from stage to film . An oldie , but unfortunately , not a goodie .
were they kidding ?	If Hugh Jackman wants a film career , he's going to have to do better than this . While Colin Firth and Hugh Grant were making the superior " Bridget Jones ' Diary , " Jackman was toiling in this discarded USA Network TV movie . For me the acid test is always , " If this film hadn't starred ( insert names ) , could this have been a TV movie ? " If the answer is yes , it's a flop . This is a flop . Without going into spoilers , one of my biggest problems with the film is its failure to explain one of the relationships which , on its face , seemed somewhat implausible . If I pay $10 for a movie , I don't like to have to sit there and fill in script holes with my imagination . It would be nice instead if the writers did it for me . This should have gone straight to video . Hollywood has no business questioning a failing box office while putting out dreck like this .
A journalist tries to find out the truth behind an old murder	Alison Lohman is a young journalist trying to find out " Where the Truth Lies " in this 2005 film starring Kevin Bacon , Colin Firth and Maury Chaykin . Bacon and Firth are a kind of Dean Martin-Jerry Lewis team , and a dead girl is found in one of their hotel suites . Karen ( Lohman ) is to assist part of the act , Vince ( Firth ) in writing his memoirs years later . She has a hidden agenda , which is to learn how Maureen Flaherty , a maid in a Las Vegas hotel , was found dead in a New Jersey hotel suite all those years ago . As a film , this left me pretty cold ; indeed , everything about it is cold , including some very good performances from Bacon and Firth . Nothing warmed up the camera , though . Alison Lohman was so bad she was laughable . I had very little interest in whodunit or why because I didn't care about anyone . There's lots of sex , nudity and drug-taking , and I frankly didn't realize this was a controversial part of the film . I agree that an R rating would have been fine . I'm sure the guys loved it . I'm always amazed that when a film is this bad , how people go out of their way to declare it a master of film-making . Where the Truth Lies reminded me of Leaving Las Vegas - terrible .
on the dull side	This entry into Hallmark's rotating mystery series is fairly dull . One wonders where that extremely high rating - and no comments - comes from . Mystery Woman lacks the colorfulness of the McBride series . Kellie Martin is darling , but this show dragged . It's always great to see old-timer Clarence Williams III . However , he is so laid back in this , he makes the late Perry Como seem manic . The lack of energy is probably due to the poor direction . One more establishing shot of the " Mystery Woman Bookstore " and I was ready to do an Elvis and shoot the television . The whole thing was done in a very pedantic style .
astrology vs . astronomy	Maybe I just wasn't in the mood for this trite comedy , but it seemed to me to be all over the place . Hedy Lamarr plays a silly woman , who , neglected by her astronomer husband , William Powell , believes an astrologer who tells her that she will meet another man at a certain time . She does , and it turns out to be the neighborhood air raid warden , James Craig . She then announces she's leaving her husband , to his consternation . The heavenly body refers to Lamarr , of course , who is absolutely gorgeous in this movie as usual , if not much of an actress , also as usual . She did have one of the most exquisite faces of all time , though . The heavenly body also refers to Whitley's comet , a comet to be named after her husband . Powell handles the comedy well . It's a good cast , mildly enjoyable , but in the end , there's not much to it .
dumb and dumber	This movie is a pathetic attempt , apparently , to justify the actions of Mary Ann Letourneau . In order to do this , they cast a 19-year-old - well , probably not " in order to do this . " There was no way they could have cast a 12 or 13 year old as the boy because the love scenes would have grossed everyone out ( if they had even been allowed to do them ) - as they should . Mary Ann's boyfriend was my nephew's age , making her a pedophile . Sixth grade , people . The definition of pedophile doesn't have to include many children - all you need is one . I really don't care about her upbringing or her unhappy marriage . She had a responsibility to her students that she did not live up to . The reason given is that she is bipolar , rejected the diagnosis , and refused to take her medication . It's understandable , then , that she was not thinking rationally . One hopes that she now understands her actions . Now that she and Vili are married and have two children together , I pray that she is on her medication and thinking clearly . All that aside , Penelope Ann Miller was totally convincing and perfect casting for the role .
just okay entry into The Falcon series	This is the tenth of the Falcon series , starring Tom Conway who took the role over from his brother , George Sanders . Both men are debonair and have similar speaking voices , but I've always found Sanders the smoother of the two and enjoyed his Falcon more . In this one , the Falcon goes on vacation in Hollywood and gets embroiled in a murder in a movie studio . Veda Ann Borg is the Falcon's self-assigned partner and is one of those stereotypical , wise-cracking ' 40s dames . She livens things up , though . Barbara Hale , who later became the Della Street of my youth , plays an actress . It's all pretty routine , with a mini-von Sternberg type director , a producer who keeps quoting Shakespeare and is superstitious , and a mysterious " Indian " character who may or may not be involved with a ruby ring found on the dead man . A pleasant enough way to pass the time .
Inaccurate , boring , done on the cheap documentary	" Hollywood Sex Symbols " is a thrown together mess featuring some - certainly not all - of Hollywood sex symbols from the 1920s through the 1970s - in about 42 minutes . The footage is of poor quality and of little interest . In the beginning , as the commentator talks about Hollywood glamor and the beautiful people , there is a clip of three men standing outside of the Oscars - all unrecognizable , and one of them looks like Dwight D . Eisenhower . The commentator then announces the name of the program as " Hollywood'S Sex Symbols " while the chiron says " Hollywood Sex Symbols . " Right away you know you're in trouble . Most stars get between 30 seconds and 1 minute , with the majority of time spent on Sophia Loren and Marilyn Monroe , although there is one long , dull segment of Bridget Bardot posing for photographers . There are no clips from movies . Everything shown is from press conferences or premiers , or events where the press was present , and the film quality is uniformly bad . The rest of the material is photographs . Jayne Mansfield is included ; Jean Harlow is not . Rita Hayworth is included ; Ava Gardner is not . Clark Gable is included ( along with some interesting news - he won an Oscar for Gone With the Wind ) ; Gary Cooper is not . The commentator talks about Rita Cansino and how different she looked before becoming Rita Hayworth , but we only get to see photos of Rita Hayworth in her prime . The cast list on the IMDb page lists Charlie Chaplin - must have missed him , but doesn't list Tyrone Power and Errol Flynn , both of whom were included . Since the program was done in 1988 , Rock Hudson is omitted . Very poor and easily skipped .
unintentionally hilarious	Why no one changed their name after appearing in " Tell Your Children , " aka " Reefer Madness , " I'll never know . Perhaps some of them did - I only checked a few names . This is possibly the worst acted , campiest , most absurd movie ever made , a laugh riot from beginning to end . A cautionary tale is told to parents of high-schoolers ( who must have all married late - they looked really past it ) about the dangers of marijuana use among the young . Marijuana here is spelled marihuana and is described as worse than heroin or cocaine - one puff and you're hooked . The description of the symptoms is that first you break into uncontrollable laughter , then you become frenetic , and then , your mind altered , you do insane things . In this story , there was a hit and run where this kid just mowed down somebody in the street as if he wasn't there , a near-rape , and an accidental shooting blamed on an innocent young man who is brought to trial . Well , I'm from the ' 60s , so right away , you know I'm howling at this thing . This marihuana must have been laced with amphetamine , because one thing you never see in stoned people is frenetic behavior unless it's toward food . It's mind-altering , all right - you totally zone out . These kids were dancing like maniacs . Also , there were no deep intakes of the weed which is then held a bit before expelling the smoke - no , these people were smoking this stuff like cigarettes except they weren't inhaling . At all . You never saw so much smoke . Now to the performances . Let's start with handsome Dave O'Brien as Ralph , one of the older procurers of the young , who then introduced kids to this powerful substance . O'Brien is one who DID change his name when he turned to comedy writing . I would have done it right after this film . He had the uncontrollable laughter down pat - he did it constantly . And the film was made so cheaply , every time he took a puff , the exact same clip of him laughing was shown again . It was a totally unbelievable laugh , too . By the end of the movie his eye makeup was smeared so he looked like a raccoon . I'm not sure what that look was supposed to represent . I was actually going to write more about the performances . I'll just leave it that they were horrible and amateurish . I gave this a 4 for camp value ONLY . It is a ridiculous movie . I am not a believer in smoking marijuana , I am not a believer in substance abuse , and our kids have enough trouble living their lives without getting into problems with marijuana , drugs , or alcohol . However , did people really believe this to be the truth in 1936 ? Or was this movie deliberately done as a gross exaggeration ? If so , it is unconscionable , not to mention misleading , particularly to tell people that marihuana is worse than cocaine and heroin . Give me a break . I can only hope that when this film was released , people laughed as hard as I did .
abysmal	This is a nearly unwatchable Elvis Presley movie . . . and I thought I could watch Elvis in just about anything . I met my match with this one . Elvis sings a lot in this movie , using very little energy . He puts even less into the acting . The whole cast sounds like they're reading from the script . " Hey Little Girl " was cute , and Elvis looks great , if somewhat expressionless . Movie stardom had started going real stale for him by this time . I understand that Colonel Parker negotiated a share of the film's profits , etc . , but couldn't he have done that with better movies ? Why was this magnificently talented man put through these films ? At the tail end of Elvis ' film career , there was an attempt to appeal to his maturing audience , and the scripts were better . But Harum Scarum , as if you can't figure out from the title , was in the middle . I like Viva Las Vegas , Girls , Girls , Girls , Change of Habit , Live a Little , Love A Little , Blue Hawaii , GI Blues , and of course King Creole and Jailhouse Rock . As the years went on , it seems like everyone cared less and less . You can't blame them with dreck like this . I'll leave you with this - Mary Ann Mobley as a Mideast princess .
A deeply disturbed mother tries to stop her daughter from having a life	The leggy eldest daughter on " The Nanny , " Nicholle Tom , is all grown up now and " Her Only Child " in this 2008 film also starring Cameron Daddo and Gwynyth Walsh . Tom plays Lily Stanler , unlucky in love , who lives with her suffocating wreck of a mother ( Walsh ) who is terrified of bugs and of her daughter leaving her . She's the type of mom who makes cookies when her daughter is on a diet and wants to see a movie on Saturday night when she knows her daughter has a date that evening . When Lily meets the handsome Larry ( Daddo ) , mom has a knife injury requiring stitches in the middle of one date , and during Lily's romantic weekend with Larry , her dog gets into the garbage back home and is possibly poisoned ( I was nervous about Binky all during the movie ) . Add to that the fact that Lily's past relationships have ended somewhat suddenly , Mom always being there to pick up the pieces takes on new meaning - mom's the one creating the breakage to begin with . Does Lily need a sledgehammer over her head before she figures this out ? Or does Binky or her new beau have to die before she gets a clue ? Tune in and find out ! Walsh is so obviously a whacko that it's impossible to believe her daughter would think she was even semi-normal . Still you can't help but feel sorry for the manipulated Lily character - the beautiful Tom has a sweet presence , and you just want to throttle her to get a life . Daddo , of " F / X " fame is hunky as ever . Very ordinary , very typical Lifetime movie . Lifetime rotates the same three or four plots and changes the cast - and we keep watching . Now who's crazy ?
odd little film	" Seven Sweethearts " is about a journalist who travels to Holland , Michigan to do a story about tulip time there and falls in love . The owner of the hotel has seven young , lovely daughters , all with men's names , who live in an isolated little world of clogs and tulips . One of them is pretty Billie ( Kathryn Grayson ) with whom the jaded reporter falls in love . All the girls , with the exception of the ambitious , cold Reggie ( Marsha Hunt ) have boyfriends and are aching to get married . But tradition states that the oldest girl must marry first . This movie seemed very long to me , strange , and somewhat boring . It's filled with B actors , with the exception of Heflin , Grayson , and character actor S . K . Sakall , who hands in one of the best acting scenes toward the end of the film when he has a confrontation with Billie . Grayson had a thin , fluttery coloratura soprano that nevertheless possessed some beautiful high notes and pianissimos , and she entertains throughout with songs and arias such as " Je suis Titania . " She's good in her role . Heflin seems out of place but is quite likable . For those who don't know , the oldest girl marrying first was and perhaps still is a tradition in many cultures . The ending is cute , but this is still a cloying film , and it's hard to believe that this family had no relatives in Holland that they were concerned about during wartime . I suppose the idea was to take everyone out of the war for a while .
Looks like something you'd see on European TV	David Janssen is an ex-U . S . treasury agent who finds himself involved in " The Swiss Conspiracy , " a 1976 film that boasts a large array of old stars and actors : John Ireland , Ray Milland , Elke Sommer , John Saxon and Curt Lowens , plus the beautiful Senta Berger and a European cast . Janssen is David Christopher , who is asked to help a Swiss bank whose clients are being blackmailed with exposure of their numbered accounts . The stakes get higher when two of the victims are killed . Words fail me but I'll go on anyway . First of all , this movie looks like it was transferred to DVD illegally - it even skips at one point with Janssen mouthing non-existent dialogue . The quality of the film is very grainy , and it looks like the movie was cut , too . The film was made 5 years before David Janssen died , and he looks like he's going to succumb either during the film or the day after it wraps . If there was ever a tired , worn out actor , he's it . Ray Milland also looks to be at death's door . Did Bela Lugosi's makeup man do the makeup for this , or did they just go straight to a mortician ? John Saxon turns in one of the worst performances I've ever seen , and that's saying something - I've seen Sonny Tufts in movies . An embarrassment of a New York accent to go with an awful performance . The story isn't bad but by the time the movie is over , you're past caring . The scenery is gorgeous , however . There is one hilarious moment . One of the characters falls off of a huge cliff . Well , obviously , they used a dummy . When it hit the ground it bounced into the air - WAY into the air before landing someplace else . What I like best is that they left it in the movie . It made it almost worth watching . Possibly this was made for television though for what country , I don't know . Maybe they dubbed it and it was shown in Europe . It really looks made on the cheap and like these actors worked for lunch and a cot .
Mignon Eberhardt mystery on the screen	" Mystery House " is a short B film based on a story by mystery writer Mignon Eberhardt . The only recognizable person for me was Ann Sheridan as a nurse caring for an elderly woman , and since I knew William Hopper was in it , I looked for him . I never would have realized it was Paul Drake of " Perry Mason " fame , he looked so young and had no gray hair ! The plot concerns a board of directors on retreat at the house of the president of the company . He announces to them that one of the board members is an embezzler . Later he is found murdered , but it is judged a suicide . His daughter hires a detective ( Dick Purcell ) , recommended by the nurse , to investigate . Another murder assumed a suicide takes place . It's getting to be an epidemic . Can the detective solve the case before everybody is dead ? There's not a tremendous amount of action in this film , which seemed a little rushed . Also , not knowing most of the actors , it was hard to differentiate the men - they seemed to be all tall with dark hair . This is obviously a very early role for Ann Sheridan , who would move into A films .
not great	Ann Sothern is " Panama Hattie " in this 1942 film based on the Broadway musical starring Ethel Merman . Also starring are Dan Dailey , Red Skelton , Rags Ragland , Ben Blue , Virginia O'Brien ( as Flo , originated on Broadway by Betty Hutton ) , Marsha Hunt , Lena Horne and the Berry Brothers . The story concerns a vivacious nightclub singer ( Sothern ) who falls in love with a man ( Dailey ) who has a young daughter , but she has competition from a socially prominent woman who warns Hattie that she's not of his class and won't make a good wife . There is a subplot concerning spies who are uncovered by three sailors ( Skelton , Ragland and Blue ) . This a very old-fashioned musical comedy plot with pleasant music , the highlight being " Just One of Those Things " as sung by the beautiful Lena Horne . The singing from Sothern and O'Brien is very good , and Sothern does well as the insecure , vulnerable and sometimes overdressed singer . The problem for me are the Three Stooges-like sailors - a little bit of that goes a long way . Watch it for the singing and the patriotic " Good Neighbors " finale - it was wartime .
B heist film directed by Phil Karlson	Phil Karlson directed a lot of B movies and this one , " Five Against the House " is another one , released in 1955 . It's notable for having Kim Novak in it just before she hit real stardom , and she's gorgeous . The other stars are Guy Madison , Brian Keith , Kerwin Mathews , and Alvy Moore . The story concerns Korea War vets in college on the GI bill who become involved in the heist of a Reno casino . It's supposed to be a lark by one of the men , Ronnie ( Mathews ) . just to see if it could be done ; he plans on returning the money . Lark or not , Al ( Madison ) opts out , but travels to Reno with his girlfriend Kay ( Novak ) and the rest of the guys as he and Kay are planning to be married there . However , the psychologically unstable Brick ( Keith ) decides to do the heist for real and forces his buddy Al to go along with it . Brick saved Al's life in Korea , and Al doesn't feel he can refuse him , even though the plan now involves Kay . Though the end of the film had some excitement , the rest of it drags . The acting is adequate . Though the guys had served in Korea and entered college late , as far as I know , the Korean war lasted three years and not ten . With the exception of 29-year-old Mathews , the rest of the actors are in the 33-35 year-old range . Madison's career started out promisingly , but he became best known as Wild Bill Hickok on television and eventually made many Italian westerns ; physical ailments kept him from working often past 1975 - his last credit is 8 years before his death in 1996 . The other actors worked mainly in television except for the handsome Kerwin Mathews , who found career success in another type of film genre before his retirement circa 1978 . What the film has going for it is a really neat atmosphere . It was filmed on location in Lake Tahoe and Reno , and that part of it really pays off . Of mild interest .
Unusual casting in a strange comedy	1958 was before Ross Hunter embarked Doris Day on the fabulous career she had in the ' 60s , in which she would become a top box office draw - in fact , THE box office drawer for years . In " The Tunnel of Love , " she plays a sweet , vivacious woman who is desperate to have a baby and can't , so she and her husband , played by Richard Widmark , plan to adopt one . When the adopted baby bears a strong resemblance to Widmark , he becomes sure that the child is the result of an evening he can't remember with the investigative social worker ( Gia Scala ) . Based on a play , this kind of light , subtly sexual comedy became very popular on the dinner theater circuit in the ' 60s and ' 70s , joining the ranks of " Mary , Mary " , " The Marriage Go Round , " " Boeing Boeing , " etc . It is not particularly well directed by Gene Kelly and sports the very strange casting of Richard Widmark as Day's confused husband . I can't agree with the comments here . Though an actor known for playing tough roles and cruel men , he does a credible job here mainly because he knows enough not to play for laughs . He creates a full character , that of a caring if foolish man who adores his wife but screws up occasionally . Gig Young plays the philandering husband next door . He's fine , but the character is very unlikable . There's not really much to recommend here . I suppose at the time it was considered somewhat suggestive , but it doesn't play well today .
pretty sad	Though an interesting premise , Bittersweet Love is kind of a mess . Lana Turner was a very beautiful woman , and certainly in her younger years had an undeniable charm and lightness , as in " Strictly Dangerous . " By 1976 , that girl is gone . Lana's name is used strictly as a gimmick to get people to watch - she doesn't do much except overact and wear that babushka she often wore with a fur coat . I can't remember if she wore sunglasses , but she usually did in that getup . The story is intriguing if the stuff that soaps are made of . Without realizing it , a half-brother and sister fall in love , get married , and the woman ( Meredith Baxter-Birney ) becomes pregnant . It turns out that Birney was the product of a fling that Turner had with Scott Hylands ' father . Once this is revealed , some tough choices need to be made . Incest is very repulsive to females , so sayeth one of the pundits in the story ; Hylands , however , wants to have the baby and continue the relationship . Celeste Holm and Robert Lansing are also in the cast , playing husband and wife . Bad mismatch . And , alas , not the only thing bad about " Bittersweet Love . "
Nice to see everyone , but disappointing	Fran Drescher wants to move on from " The Nanny , " so she made a deal with Lifetime that , in exchange for doing this reunion show , she could direct an episode of " Strong Medicine . " The reunion took place at Drescher's Malibu home , which is amazing . Seeing the cast again was great . But no Daniel Davis , who was doing a show in New York City at the time . This was not mentioned , leaving the impression that Davis didn't want to do the special . My question is , why not wait until he was available ? Instead , Fran said , " Danny's late " and when she announced " Danny's here , " it was Danny Bonnaduce . Not a great addition or a good idea . The clips were fun but there was a scripted quality to the special that made it less spontaneous . Bottom line : I wanted more . So far , the best of these Lifetime reunion shows has been the one for " Designing Women . " I would put this second , and " The Golden Girls " reunion , which should have been the best , third .
Bizarre B musical	I just saw this film in NYC at the Film Forum , where it was introduced by a nephew of Billy Gilbert , who has a small part in the film . It was one wild ride . The audience enjoyed the film thoroughly for what it is , a B movie musical starring Olsen & Johnson that is insane . The comedy duo has to break into Universal in order to make a film there , since no one wants them - in fact , a secretary , on learning who they are , jumps into her desk - we got to see that bit twice because the film broke . If you want to call the plot a plot , O & J run into difficulties getting financing for their film and , faced with huge debts , decide to auction it to the highest bidder . The film they make is awfully short . Some of O & J's bits are quite funny and others are of the groan variety . There are many familiar faces in the film - Patric Knowles , Percy Kilbride , Hans Conried , Thomas Gomez , Franklin Pangborn , Shemp Howard , and some funny cameos by Universal stars in the beginning of the movie when they realize Olsen & Johnson are in the building - Basil Rathbone as Sherlock Holmes , Nigel Bruce , Alan Curtis , Leo Carrillo . Allan Jones sings " The Donkey Serenade , " the De Marcos dance , and the end of the film within a film is a huge musical number done by The Glenn Miller Singers , Count Basie's Orchestra , the Delta Rhythm Boys , Leighton Noble's orchestra , and Chandra Kaly's Dancers . " Crazy House " has a great deal of energy and is a real oddity . It was fun to watch , but I don't think I'd want to watch it again .
Kind of lame	Robert Stack , Joan Crawford , Susan Oliver , Herbert Marshall , Constance Ford , Van Williams and Diane McBain are " The Caretakers , " a 1963 film also starring Polly Bergen , Janis Paige , Barbara Barrie , Ellen Corby and Sharon Hugueny who are the cared for . Robert Vaughn plays Bergen's husband . The setting is a mental institution where Polly Bergen is brought after she goes insane at a theater showing West Side Story . She wasn't the first . The focus is on her case as the director of nurses ( Crawford ) and the doctor in charge of an experimental program ( Stack ) duke it out - naturally Crawford favors things like discipline and confinement ( she would ) and Stack wants to treat the patients as people and give them therapy . I don't know where the drugs were , unless they didn't have them in 1963 . I'm pretty sure they had Librium , though Polly didn't seem to be on it . This film has TV written all over it , including in its choice of the actors , most of whom did major work on television . It's not strong enough for a feature film , though it looks for all intents and purposes like a B movie which it perhaps was . Robert Stack is pretty one-note . Crawford in 1963 still looked good in a leotard but the rest of her is plenty scary . I'm not sure the portrayal of the conflict was correct in its dynamics - nurses have a certain amount of power but riding roughshod over a doctor's orders . . . I suppose with Crawford heading up the staff , it's more than possible but not realistic . Janis Paige gives a lively performance as a man-hater , and there is the ubiquitous non-speaker ( Barrie ) , the nice one ( Corby ) , the delusional one ( Hugueny ) , and the one who will probably recover ( Bergen ) . Herbert Marshall plays the head of the institute - by 1963 , he was 73 and had enjoyed 50 years on stage and in films . After a distinguished career , " The Caretakers " is thankfully not his last credit . Constance Ford played a nurse from hell who is not a credit to her profession . There were two hunks with the last name of Williams back in the day - Van and Grant - this one's Van . Nice eye candy but he didn't have much to do . All in all , pretty badly directed and executed .
Precode Kay in Paris	Young Kay Francis commits a " Transgression " in this 1931 film also starring Paul Cavanagh and Ricardo Cortez . Kay is Elsie , the wife of a wealthy British businessman . The two share a huge , beautiful home in England . A business trip calls the husband , Robert , away to India for nearly a year , and wives are not allowed . So she will be less isolated , Elsie heads for Paris . There she becomes glamorous , sophisticated and worldly . She meets a rich , handsome Spainiard , Arturo ( Cortez ) who escorts her around and wants a lot more . He finagles a way to get her alone in his mansion ; tragedy occurs . This is an old-fashioned melodrama ; few people could suffer like Kay Francis , even early on . Everything about her was so distinctive - her look , her voice , her clothes - it's hard to take your eyes off of her . Cortez is smooth and caddish as her pursuer ; Paul Cavanagh as Elsie's husband is difficult to read . He never lets you know how he's going to react until the situation is upon him - then he might surprise you . Mildly entertaining , of interest for the early Francis .
Early Warners talkie starring Walter Huston	When a family witnesses a murder , and some of them can identify the killer , their lives become terrifying in " Star Witness , " a 1931 Warner Brothers film starring the great Walter Huston , Sally Blane , Dickie Hugent and Chic Sale . It will be hard for a 21st century audience to believe this movie was nominated for an Oscar for original story , since we've seen it dozens of times since . Also , with a film like this , it's hard to envision it the way a 1931 audience did . Unfortunately for " Star Witness , " it's just not one of those movies that has stood the test of time . Nevertheless , this 76-year-old film is interesting in that it tells us a lot about America , families , movie-making , and writing in the early ' 30s . Huston plays the DA in charge of the case . This role bears no resemblance to Dodsworth , but the way the part is written is worth noting . Even in books in the 1930s , including the original Perry Mason books , characters were given to big , declamatory speeches , as Huston's character is in this film . Apparently this was part of the writing style in fashion - and that style dates any movie faster than the sight of an old car in one of the scenes . The family unit consists of two little boys , plus an adult , working daughter who still lives at home , and an adult son ( Frank Nugent ) who is , for all intents and purposes , a bum . Of interest - the beautiful , marriage-age daughter ( Sally Blane , Loretta Young's sister ) doesn't have her own place . It wasn't done back then - what would that say about her ; also , she needed to contribute to the family income . And the gap in the children's ages ? Not unusual . As in my own family , women back then often had many pregnancies and either miscarried or the babies died . Chic Sale , all of 57 at the time of filming , plays what has to be the world's oldest man , Grandpa , a very annoying character who talks about his love of America , standing up to foreigners and not letting them take over the country . Sounds kind of familiar , doesn't it ? Seventy-six years later , there are still people saying that . A big shootout scene toward the end of the film was reminiscent of many other film shootouts in the early days - people shot guns without taking any particular aim . The effect they went for back then seems to be just making as much smoke as possible . Shooters keep the guns close to their waists and just shoot like blind men . So despite what seems like a routine crime drama with some over the top characters and bratty kids , " Star Witness " still has a few things to offer , if only to show us that while lots has changed , a few things haven't , and that what was original in 1931 seems like it's by the numbers in 2007 . To paraphrase Addison DeWitt : " Watch it . The minutes will fly like hours . "
Dr . G , miracle man	Lionel Barrymore is the omniscient Dr . Gillespie in this episodic entry into the popular Dr . Kildare / Dr . Gillespie series . The overworked doc has two ambitious men working under him , cute Van Johnson and charming Keye Luke , and they both want to be his top man . Donna Reed is a beautiful young woman who comes to Gillespie for advice as the film begins - she wants to get married , but she's worried about a crazy man , crazy about her , who is now in jail for murder . Gillespie endeavors to get the man institutionalized . He helps give a young man who lost his legs during the war have the will to continue ; he saves four little girls in the children's ' ward ; wrecks Van Johnson's love life - it's all just business as usual for Dr . Gillespie of Blair General . The cast is charming but this film is just too sweet for words , and Dr . Gillespie is a real fantasy character even for 1943 . I suppose with the war on , this is what America wanted to see . It's interesting that like our President at the time , Gillespie is also in a wheelchair , in a position of power , and larger than life .
More Warner Bros substandard garbage for Kay Francis	Kay Francis is a " Comet Over Broadway " in this 1938 sudser also starring Ian Hunter , Minna Gombell , John Litel , Donald Crisp , Sybil Jason . These melodramas Warners threw at Kay to try to force her and her $200 , 000 + salary out of there always seem like they were made 7 or 8 years earlier . In this one , Kay is Eve Appleton , an aspiring actress in a small town , looked on disapprovingly by her mother-in-law but loved by her bumpkin husband Bill ( Litel ) . When a Barrymore-like ( read washed up drunk ) actor from New York hits town , he takes an interest in Kay's " talent . " When he's through auditioning her , he's dead , Bill has life imprisonment for murder and she and her baby are on their way to New York so she can make money to free him . Yeah , it gets better . Eve does the burlesque and vaudeville route , along the way meeting Tim ( Gombell ) who offers to take daughter Jackie until Eve gets established . Once in New York , she meets and falls in love with a producer , Bert Balin ( Keith ) , and he with her . He casts her in a play , but his girlfriend , the star , orders her fired . So Eve goes to London in order to get away from the temptation of Bert . There she becomes a huge star and reunites with Jackie , who calls Tim ' Mommy . ' She also reconnects with Bert , who offers her a play in New York . Since Bill's attorney needs money to free Bill ( apparently by bribing public officials , it's not clear ) , Eve takes an advance on her salary . WIth Bill soon to be free , what does she do about her career and Balin ? This absolutely preposterous dreck was directed by Busy Berkeley until he was hospitalized , and then John Farrow took over . All it needed was a big dance number . Eve doesn't want her husband ever to learn about this enormous career - how is that supposed to be accomplished ? Didn't the town know ? This film was made in 1938 , not 2008 , and stage stars like Katherine Cornell and Eve LaGalliene were well known to people even in small towns because they toured with their plays . And how did this guy end up in jail for murder 1 to begin with ? There was a fight and the actor landed in a pond with a fatal head injury . No manslaughter ? But the judge gave him a break and didn't impose the death penalty . He thought this guy was coming onto his wife ! I won't even go into Tim never bothering to mention that Eve was her mother . The acting by Kay Francis and one of my favorites , Ian Keith , is excellent , and they do the best they can to raise up the level of this film . Unfortunately they're fighting a losing battle . Minna Gombell is pretty good , if stagy , as Tim , and John Litel is appropriately simpleton . As for how this film truly ends , I wouldn't DREAM of giving it away , but if you listen carefully , there's a line that promises us that the end we see is not the true end . Not that it matters . Oh , of mild interest for one line spoken by future star Susan Hayward during the amateur theatrics scene .
A true , true camp classic , right up there with Valley of the Dolls	Stephen Boyd is a ruthless actor vying for " The Oscar " in this 1966 film also starring Tony Bennett , Elke Sommer , Eleanor Parker , Milton Berle , Jill St . John , Ernest Borgnine , Edie Adams and a cast of thousands . This is the kind of film one watches with friends and just howls at . Here's the complete tipoff that this movie is going to be awful : Tony Bennett , who has the map of Italy on his face , plays a character named Hymie Kelly . Now I ask you - the fact that he's even acting in a film is scary enough - no singing required - but this name on top of it , and you know it's over before it begins . The story is about a man , Frankie Fane , who rises from the ranks of introducing a strip show to becoming a big star in Hollywood . On his way to the top , he uses and abuses everyone he meets . And they take it . And they love taking it . The film begins at the Oscar ceremonies . He's been nominated , and his friend , Hymie Kelly , reminisces about Frankie's rise to the top in a voice-over . " You finally made it , Frankie ! Oscar night ! And here you sit , on top of a glass mountain called " success . " You're one of the chosen five , and the whole town's holding its breath to see who won it . It's been quite a climb , hasn't it , Frankie ? Down at the bottom , scuffling for dimes in those smokers , all the way to the top . Magic Hollywood ! Ever think about it ? I do , friend Frankie , I do . . . " Fade to a strip joint . Now , the most recent review of " The Oscar " on IMDb said it best when he or she referenced Tyrone Power and wrote : " He could be a full blooded hero or he was a hero / heel , a likable sort of guy , but one who was ruthless in getting what he wanted . You need someone of Power's ability and charm to play such a part . " I'm not sure it was Stephen Boyd's fault that he was hateful . I sort of blame the script . I have to blame something . Why anyone would have hung around this guy for 5 minutes is beyond me . No charm . Bad manners . Terrible to women . Violent . Stephen Boyd badly overacts , or is it just that the actors around him the most went to an acting school advertised on the back of a matchbook . Jill St . John was more horrific than I could ever have imagined . Beautiful , sexy , but I've heard better line readings from high schoolers . The woman the studio has Frankie escort around town so that he can be seen - when he dumps her Green Goddess salad in her lap , it was a high point . Then there's Tony Bennett's Hymie , a weasel who follows Frankie around like a lap dog and takes orders from him . The big reveal at the end is one of the funniest scenes on record . How Elke Sommer kept a straight face is beyond me . Well , she looked thunderstruck - certainly an appropriate emotion . Milton Berle plays Frankie's agent , Kappy Kapstetter , who takes Frankie on at the request of the delusional Sophie Cantaro ( Eleanor Parker - where are they getting these character names ) . I loved how each sex scene ended with a woman lying on her stomach wrapped in a sheet and sobbing as Frankie walked out the door . The good actors are all wasted , but kudos to the lovely Elke Sommer for quietly holding her own . The ones who did this movie like Merle Oberon and Bob Hope probably did it as a favor to someone - they cheapened themselves . I am sure that the Oscar scene in " In and Out " parodied that scene of Oberon reading those ridiculous movie titles for the nominated actors . Too good to pass up . Naturally with Joseph E . Levine as producer , the production values are top-notch and the gowns are beautiful . Unfortunately there aren't enough big parties so that one can look at the gowns . I can't blame Hollywood for not inviting Frankie Fane to many events .
a very quick look at the history of Hollywood	This documentary covers the history of Hollywood in something like 51 minutes , focusing mainly on the achievements of MGM , beginning with the forming of the company . Lots of classic scenes which have been seen countless times are intertwined with an auction of the " Showboat " boat , Judy's red shoes , and the Bounty ship , all at lowball prices since it's 1972 . The problem with watching " Hollywood : The Dream Factory " today is that everything covered is very familiar now , and movie buffs have seen the footage dozens of times . However , if you want a quick and dirty look at the problems with the way over budget Ben Hur , the discovery of Greta Garbo , how no one but Gable could do Gone With the Wind , and a look at that big MGM luncheon , this is for you .
A little stolen Valentino	Restored at UCLA , " Stolen Moments " is an 85-year-old film featuring Rudolph Valentino in one of the villainous roles he played before stardom hit . Here , he has a mustache and looks a bit fuller in the face as he plays a smooth , oily , amoral writer who wants to trade sex for some passionate letters he received from a now married woman ( Marguerite Namara ) . Not much of this movie remains . When Valentino became a star , the film was recut to enhance his role , as it originally was a showcase for Namara , an opera singer . All that remained after that was the re-cut version , and it has not survived in its entirety . What does remain is in remarkable shape . Valentino is very good , and although some of the old silent film acting like the widening of the eyes is disconcerting , it's certainly forgivable . We're fortunate to be able to see him this early in his career . I will reiterate something I said about other films of this era : I don't know how much Lasik surgery one has to have before being able to read all the notes that were received by characters in these silent films . It's obvious that ' 20s eyes were a lot sharper .
I have a feeling the British version is better . . . much better	I probably should give this show more of a chance , but I was so incredibly uncomfortable during it , I probably won't watch it again . Most of the time , British comedies , when taken over by Americans , don't seem to make it . " Fawlty Towers , " which lasted all of five minutes , comes to mind . This appears to be one of them . There were some very funny moments , and I suspect they were taken right out of the British version . The boss , plain and simple , is a complete moron . Totally out of it , he thinks he's a role model and hilariously funny , when all the while he's a sexual harasser who makes racist remarks , does Three Stooges impressions , and is emotionally abusive ( firing his secretary for stealing as a practical joke and bringing her to tears ) . It's a great setup for a fabulous character , but I found him only annoying . I'm afraid my attitude is closest to that of the temp's : embarrassed , appalled , and not finding much funny .
more amoral teens	There have been many , many TV movies about amoral , angry teenagers who lash out and kill their boyfriend's girlfriend , their parents , whatever . Unfortunately , these films are usually based on true stories . Twisted Desire is one of them . I'm not sure of the actual facts of the case , but in the way this story is told , the Melissa Joan Hart character is being totally suffocated by a too-strict father . She's interested in one guy but makes another guy ( an ex-con ) think she's interested in him and then gets him to kill her parents . Melissa Joan Hart is a very good actress , and she portrays the manipulative teen very well . The sad part about this is , the boy who committed the crime , 17 years old at the time of the murders , was executed for this . The Hart character spent some time in prison and was released when she was 21 , though she instigated the murders . There's something really wrong there , including having a 17-year-old boy on death row . Pathetic .
The Beave's father in a B crime drama	Hugh Beaumont , known to millions as Mr . Cleaver , stars with John Ireland in " Railroaded , " a second feature that also features Sheila Ryan , Jane Randolph , and Ed Kelly . This is a fairly routine story of a young man framed for a murder / robbery he had nothing to do with . The robbery was an inside job , and the insider ( Randolph ) deliberately leads the police astray with her I . D . Poor Ed Kelly , who plays the wrongly accused man , is interrogated harshly with no lawyer present . Meanwhile , the police can't find the gun that killed the policeman on the scene or the stolen money . The accused's sister ( Ryan ) gets involved in trying to find out who did it . And of course , that would be the sinister John Ireland , a mean , violent man who's easy with his gun and fists . The thing that's unusual about this movie ( for me anyway ) is seeing women shot . Not only that , but Ryan and Randolph have an amazing catfight . The violence shown against the character played by Randolph is disturbing - but we've seen that before . I know some of the other comments mentioned that this is film noir and a real treasure - well , the print was pretty dark , but calling this a film noir is a stretch . Although well directed by Anthony Mann , this is a run of the mill B . As they say in the antiques world , " Just because it's old doesn't mean it's valuable " - well , just because this is old doesn't make it a classic .
a somewhat more sprightly entry into the series	Kellie Martin directed this " Mystery Woman " episode , in which she and her friend Cassie go to a spa , the Martin character to take photos for a brochure and Cassie to be the customer photographed . While there , they encounter a psychic , who leads them to a dead body . And we're off , with Mystery Woman in the middle of murder once again . Charles Shaughnessy , best known from " The Nanny , " was one of the guest stars , but he didn't have a tremendous amount to do . The show had a little more energy than usual under Martin's direction , though Clarence Williams III as Philby is as introverted as ever . I just wish the Mystery Woman Bookshop had some customers . In this episode , they had none .
silly but fun fantasy	Sandra Bullock has the type of looks that can go either way , i . e . , plain Jane or knockout . She does this very successfully in Love Potion No . 9 , a cute film based on the song of the same name . The film sports a cameo by Anne Bancroft . Bullock and Tate Donovan play scientists who fool around with a love potion ( number 8 ) which Bancroft gives Donovan to try . He doesn't try it ; his cat does . After being overrun by horny cats , Donovan and Bullock move on to Bullock's chimps and then themselves . This all eventually leads to a return visit to Bancroft , this time for love potion number 9 and a very madcap finale . Entertaining . Bullock is always a delight .
Not a very nice neighbor	This is a TV movie based on a true story . Angie Harmon and Dale Midkiff star as parents of two children who move into a new neighborhood and find that one of the neighbors is on the strange side . At first , he's a little annoying . Then he becomes really annoying . Then he becomes inappropriate , like when he lets himself into their house when his power allegedly goes out . At no time does anyone tell him to get lost or that he's crossed a few boundaries . After that , he starts dropping hints that make him seem like he's either a mind-reader or has some inside knowledge of their home . That's when they find out that he's run a wire into their house and is videotaping them . I think I saw this woman on Oprah , and the story is indeed shocking . It's because of this family's experience that there are now laws against this type of thing - - originally , there were none , if you can believe it . This was an okay movie , very average , with Sheridan being friendly but slimy underneath . Angie Harmon is an attractive and sympathetic as the mother . There's just nothing really special about any of it .
The dance teacher and the agent	Larry Parks is a fast-talking , streetwise agent who falls for a Connecticut dance teacher against his will in " Love is Better Than Ever , " directed by Stanley Donen . Parks and Taylor have a whirlwind romance in New York while she's there attending a dance teacher convention . She falls in love , only to learn at the end of their week together that he's only interested in a good time . Heartbroken , she returns to Connecticut , where her father helps her hatch a plot that will bring him running to New Haven and into her arms . This is a very slight comedy , but Taylor is exquisitely beautiful and in excellent shape . It's no wonder that cynical Larry Parks can't forget her , though he claims that he wants to . In one scene , they stand and talk in profile for several minutes , and all one can think about is how perfect Taylor's profile is . Larry Parks is another story - a very strange choice for a leading man . Had he not been blacklisted , it's likely he would have gone on to character roles fairly quickly . For a studio that boasted the likes of Clark Gable and Robert Taylor , it's curious that he was cast in leads . He is , however , a very good actor , though it's hard to see why Taylor would have been attracted to him . Sadly , he only made two films after this one . There are some nice dance sequences with the children , including some dancing fruits . " Love is Better Than Ever " has some nice moments and a dazzling 20-year-old Taylor , and that's about it .
Derivative drama	A single woman and her two children become a " Family in Hiding " in this 2006 film , done in Canada . Brenda Strong of " Desperate Housewives " fame plays the mother , Carol Peterson . After witnessing a murder , the entire family is put into the Witness Protection Program until Carol can testify . All I've got to say is , if you ever witness a high profile murder , run the other way . The Witness Protection Program is run by the Marx Brothers and is strictly from hunger , at least in this film . The family relocates and gets to live in a dump with no security and is given barely enough money to live on . The people in charge haven't created a job history for Carol , so she can't supplement the money they've given her . The best part is that one of the thugs after the family infiltrates the Protection office and , after hitting a few buttons on the boss ' computer , finds out where the Petersons are living . Now , don't you think they'd be a little more careful than that ? Anyone ever heard of your computer being frozen when you're away from your desk ? Or getting into your computer via a password ? Or how about putting fake info on the computer and putting the real location , using a code , in a wall safe ? MORONS . To protect and serve - forget about it . Carol figures out there's a leak immediately , and when she tells the man in charge of her relocation about it , he continues to give the new person in his office all kinds of information so he can call it in to the defendant . Only a good cast can save this movie , and it does , even if the film isn't terribly exciting . Strong , a likable actress , and the rest of the cast are very good , and you really can believe they're a family . The end of the movie has a chiron that tells how many people the Witness Protection Program has relocated and that they have an 89 % conviction rate as a result . With the way they are depicted in " Family in Hiding , " this is bound to bring gasps of disbelief from the audience .
more high camp than good	Originally , Emma Samms was to play Elizabeth Taylor in a biography based on the tell-all by Kitty Kelly . This fell through for some reason . This particular version , done some years later starring Sherilynn Fenn , uses public domain information . Therefore , it's like watching a series of headlines . All well and good , but in this day and age , there really isn't a reason for inaccuracies . Just to mention one , the highly publicized accident of Montgomery Clift . This has been recounted many times by eminent biographers such as Patricia Bosworth , who wrote " Montgomery Clift , " and the story of that night has been told by the various people who attended a gathering at Ms . Taylor's house that night . It was not - - as shown in this film - - a huge outdoor barbecue . It was instead a small group of friends who sat through a very quiet , almost melancholy evening , with Elizabeth Taylor playing the same song over and over again on the record player ( for those who remember them ) and her husband lying on the couch with intractable back pain . The party broke up , Monty drove down the hill , and the rest is history . While this may not be the rousing good drama of a barbecue , the accuracy of this story would have at least told the viewer that the writers and producers ATTEMPTED to be somewhat accurate where they could be . Evidently that was too difficult . The only other thing I'll mention is the calling of Elizabeth Taylor Liz which any even remote fan knows , she is never called in real life . She is Elizabeth . Just like Lucille Ball was Lucille and not Lucy . Sherilynn Fenn is a beautiful woman , but she deserved better . William McNamara , as Clift , took the time to go to friends of Clift to research his role . Clift's friends looked at the script and told him that basically , he had to follow the script he had . So we know where to place the blame .
Too much and yet too little	I have no idea what anyone was thinking when this film was done . I am a huge fan of Tyrone Power but I can't say he was very good in this . I honestly don't think it was his fault . The script was rotten . First of all , the beginning scenes , showing the romance between Katie and Paul , seemed totally like they were from another film and just slapped on at the beginning . Incredibly disjointed . I could never figure Katie out , nor did I want to . People compare the role to Scarlett O'Hara , and I guess there were similarities . I think one of the problems is that we didn't see enough of their characters before they hit South Africa so the love story could really develop for the audience . He kissed her on the staircase . Okay , so what then ? " Was I just some girl you kiss and leave ? " she asks . Is that all he did ? Or did he have sex with her and leave ? Hello , it makes a big difference . It seemed to me that all she did was throw herself at him , and I never got the impression that he loved her . Good case in point was the scene where her neck and shoulders were sore and she was stretching , etc . It took him about an hour to take the hint . Her abuse of the Richard Egan character was ridiculous . One ends up losing respect for both of them . Henry King usually does a great job , and of course , the action scenes are very stirring , but the characters all seemed remote . It's possible Fox did this movie to use blocked funds in Africa . I can't think of any other reason . I read on this board that Victor Mature was supposed to play Kurt . Well , Robert Mitchum was supposed to play Paul , but he wisely never showed up and the studio got Power , who was in a hurry to finish up his contract with that place . Filming had already started . Mitchum would have seemed even less interested in Katie , and Victor Mature would have come off as even more of a fool , so it probably worked out for the best . Well , it did for those actors , anyway .
not terribly enjoyable	A great cast can't help this dated look at " Finishing School , " from 1934 . I decided to watch it based on the presence of Frances Dee and Ginger Rogers , both of whom are always delightful . They are here , too . Francis Dee plays a young woman , Virginia , who is sent to finishing school at the behest of her shallow mother ( Billie Burke ) . She is turned over to the head of the school ( Beulah Bondi ) and given a set of rules . When she meets her roommate ( Rogers ) and her roommate's wild crowd , she discovers that the only one paying attention to rules is her . She agrees to go away for a weekend with Rogers , friends , and Rogers ' aunt ( an actress playing a role ) . Then it's a wild time in the city , especially when Virginia meets Dr . Ralph McFarland , who works as a waiter ( read : unacceptable job ) while doing his internship . They fall in love , but the upper crust at the school , only interested in appearances , attempt to break them up . Alas , it's a little too late for that . And you really have to be sharp to figure out why ! I'd like to think this sort of thing has gone out of style , but I have a nagging feeling that it hasn't . Can there really still be places that teach one the difference between a tea and a reception , and how many calling cards to leave when people are not at home ? Well , they still do have dbutante balls , so maybe there are - but let's face it , " coming out " parties have a new meaning today . We do know that there is still a lot of shallowness in the world , so perhaps " Finishing School " isn't so dated after all . Bruce Cabot is enjoyable and good-looking as Virginia's suitor , and there is a nice performance from Anne Shirley , who wants to fit in with the older set . Rogers stands out as usual in her supporting role and keeps the pace going . Dee was so pretty and natural , it's a shame she left movies , but hey , I would have done that - and more - for Joel McCrea . Interesting for the cast and as a look at an upper class woman's responsibilities back in the ' 30s .
Alas , I'm in the minority here	After reading some of the comments , I understand the importance of " He Walked by Night , " but I'm afraid I was bored by it . It was done documentary-style and certainly has some interesting aspects to it : it has a noir feel to it , it shows 1948 routine police work , it's based on a true story , it shows what's under Los Angeles , there are glass milk bottles , and before he started playing bald and paunchy policemen , Scott Brady was a hunk . The film's star is a very young Richard Basehart as a diabolical burglar who thinks nothing of murdering one cop and paralyzing another . The fascinating thing is that one of his escape routes is underneath the L . A . streets , where there are a system of tunnels to keep the city from flooding during the rains . These are captured beautifully in the movie . Jack Webb has a small role in this , and according to one of the other posters , this film gave him the idea for Dragnet . I'm afraid I wasn't a big fan of Dragnet's either . I have to go along with Bette Davis on this one . Realism is fine , but good drama is larger than life . This was too real and too dull for me , but if you're a fan of crime drama , this is for you .
I wasn't impressed	John Bromfield is Joe in " Crime Aganst Joe " a 1956 B film also featuring Julie London , Patricia Blair , Joyce Jameson , Alika Louis , Rhodes Reason and Henry Calvin . Bromfield plays an artist who lives off of his mother ( Frances Morris ) and laments not being able to find the perfect woman . When a bar singer ( Louis ) winds up dead , his high school pin next to her body after he's left the place dead drunk , he becomes a person of interest to the police . Joe has an alibi - he actually ran into a sleepwalker ( Blair ) and returned her to her home , but her father lies to the police . Joe is then arrested . Joe's waitress friend Slacks ( London ) lies to the police about seeing the singer with someone else , and Joe is released . He's determined to find out the identity of the killer - someone from his high school class . Supposedly the story was by Decla Dunning and the script was by Robert C . Dennis . I'd love to know which one was responsible for the sleepwalker bit and that whole subplot of the overly possessive father who discourages his daughter's dates - it's a riot . That plot line just sort of died out and wasn't fully resolved . And that business of the high school pin . . . well , this is a pretty flimsy film , and I figured it out fairly quickly . It's made very cheaply , too - the sound in all the interiors has an echo . Julie London is slightly miscast as the waitress friend - if the singer hadn't gotten killed after just one song and a few lines , London would have been perfect for that role , and it would have given her a chance to be her usual glamorous self . The murdered singer , Alika Louis , is very attractive and a great type , and Blair as the poor repressed sleepwalker is very pretty , walking the street wearing a nightgown and with perfectly coiffed hair and full makeup . Bromfield's acting is loud and not very good or believable , but I liked Frances Morris , who played his mother . Nice of her to support him , but from the looks of those canvasses , he wasn't going to be making much of a living painting . Not very good .
One of my favorite plays	" The Importance of Being Earnest , " one of my favorite plays , receives the heavy hand of Anthony Asquith in this film adaptation which stars Michael Redgrave , Michael Denison , Edith Evans , Joan Greenwood , Dorothy Tutin and Margaret Rutherford . Based on the Oscar Wilde play , it's the story of a man , Jack Cardew ( Redgrave ) , who leads a double life of sorts - he leaves his country house for the city to take care of his sick cousin Ernest , who doesn't exist . Intrigued , his friend Algernon ( Denison ) pops down to the country house as Ernest and meets Jack's ward Cecily ( Tutin ) . The two declare their love for one another and become engaged . When Jack's fiance Gwendolen ( Greenwood ) who only knows him as Ernest arrives , Cecily cheerfully announces that she is engaged to Ernest . Chaos ensues . Anyone who has seen " The Importance of Being Earnest " on stage knows that it is fast-moving and contains one big laugh after another . Despite the wonderful cast , this film manages to squeeze every bit of life out of the play so that it becomes very ponderous and nowhere near as funny as it should be . I was extremely disappointed , as this play even reads better than it is performed here . The only part that should really get a big laugh in this film is Jack / Ernest's statement that he was found in a handbag as a baby 28 years ago . Since Redgrave was in his forties when he made this film and looks every bit of it and more , this statement is absurd . Alas , what should have been a lightning-paced , charming movie is beautiful to look at and little else .
Somewhat annoying entry into the series	I like Tom Conway as The Falcon , and this was a very good mystery . What was annoying was the presence of The Falcon's southern fiance , who never shut up through the whole picture , even during crucial moments . Hard to believe that such a sophisticated character as the Falcon would have put up with her for more than five minutes . The rest of the movie is actually quite good and a neat mystery about money and people disappearing out of a flying plane . There's a very funny roller-skating scene , funny because of the way it was filmed . The Falcon on roller skates ? Who would have believed it ? Despite its shortcomings , it's an entertaining movie if you can ignore that fianc .
familiar story with the Irish struggle as background	William Powell is Bill , a British officer who finds an old love in Ireland in " The Key , " a 1934 film also starring Edna Best ( Norah ) and Colin Clive ( Andy ) . A very young Donald Crisp , though his voice identifies him immediately , plays a Sein Fein leader whom the British army seeks to capture . When Bill arrives on the scene , he finds himself living below Andy , a fellow officer and friend , but he doesn't know that the woman he once loved is married to him - and Andy never knew that Bill and Norah were involved . Realizing that their breakup was a mistake , Bill seeks to rekindle the relationship . Norah has continued to love him , and it's stood between her and her husband throughout their marriage . Full of dry ice and night scenes , this old movie was hard to see at times . The story is very familiar , the film is short ; it doesn't have a lot to recommend it . It's atmospheric , although this viewer was not drawn into the story . Powell brings it lots of energy - he's the best thing in it ; Best and Clive don't project much and look unhappy throughout .
World War I melodrama - - Joan involved with two men	And hubba hubba , one of those men is tall , gorgeous Gary Cooper . End of discussion ! This is a very melodramatic film with a lot of World War I action scenes . Apparently the role that Joan plays , Diana , Ronnie's sister , was added to the script and does not appear in the Faulkner novel . Ronnie is Franchot Tone , and he and Crawford met and fell in love during this film . Diana is engaged to Claude ( Robert Young ) and in fact , one of the major moments of the film is when they decide to sleep together though they're not yet married . Diana , however , soon falls in love with the man who took over her family home , Richard ( Cooper ) who is also a soldier and winds up in the same division as Ronnie and Claude . For a time , he is presumed dead , but when he reappears , problems arise for Diana , especially when Claude is badly injured and Richard realizes that she is living with him . The film is very dated . The acting is pretty good except that all these people are supposed to be British . Apparently in order to give a clipped British sound to the dialogue , it goes something like this throughout the film : " Bad thing . Told him . Going away . " Cooper is handsome and likable , Young is fine , Crawford is pretty good , and Tone is excellent . There are many rainy action scenes and a very dark atmosphere throughout . All right . Franchot and Crawford . In love .
One face is plenty , thanks	This unintentionally hilarious 1965 sudser stars Lana Turner as Kit , a wealthy woman trying to hold onto her purchased husband Pete ( Cliff Robertson ) when one of her ex-beaus is found dead on the beach , a probable suicide . His girlfriend ( Stefanie Powers ) arrives to find out what went on , and she and Pete fall for one another , to the dismay of Kit , who spends a lot of time drinking , changing clothes and throwing parties . Watching the situation unfold and hoping to get in once Pete is out is a gigolo ( Hugh O'Brian ) who is currently romancing a tourist of a certain age ( Ruth Roman ) while his partner romances her friend ( Virginia Grey ) . At 45 or thereabouts , Lana Turner is deeply tanned , expensively wardrobed and beautiful , though a bit hard-looking . It's sad to remember her in films like " These Glamor Girls " and " Slightly Dangerous " where she was so fresh , energetic and lovely . It's more than age - it's drink , it's cigarettes , it's bad men and it's the Stompanato scandal . The story starts out one way - the dead man on the beach and an investigation into his death , and then keeps changing , first to a volatile marriage , then to adultery and finally bullfighting , which is used as an allegory for what goes on between a man and a woman . Another fifteen more minutes of film , who knows where we would have ended up . However many faces love has , this film doesn't move through them very quickly . It doesn't have the pizazz to be the campy film " Portrait in Black " is . As over the top as the story is , the acting isn't over the top enough . See it once for Lana's wardrobe , how unbelievably young Stefanie Powers is and Hugh O'Brian in swimming trunks , and then forget it . You'll be able to .
Disappointing reteaming of a glamorous film couple	Tyrone Power made light comedies in the mid to late 1930s when he was first establishing himself at Twentieth Century Fox . In fact , he made this exact light comedy in 1937 , then called " Love is News . " The story concerns an heiress who , to get back at a reporter and show him what it's like to be the subject of headlines , claims they're married . This tired romp was fresher back then and much , much more entertaining in the hands of Power , Loretta Young , and Don Ameche . What a blow this must have been for Power , to make " The Razor's Edge , " his personal favorite , " Nightmare Alley , " and " Captain from Castile , " and then be forced into this by the studio . It's no wonder he turned to the stage and then formed his own film production company . Power is paired with his leading lady from happier productions , the luminous Gene Tierney ( " Son of Fury " and " The Razor's Edge " ) . Unfortunately , she plays the role of the heiress in such a coy and put-on manner that it's hard to tell when the character is being sincere , as she delivers her lines in the same way on both occasions , and always with an icy smile . Power does his best - he plays the role realistically , with no mugging or attempts at forced humor , but alas , the material isn't very good . These two wonderful stars can be seen to better advantage in earlier and later films .
It's no wonder poor Elvis went over to the dark side	If you were Elvis and had to make this sort of film time and time again , you'd have been on drugs too . " Paradise , Hawaiian Style " can easily be confused with " Blue Hawaii " - both take place in Hawaii , both are about the travel business , both have women in them . But there are differences . Elvis was drop-dead gorgeous in " Blue Hawaii , " there were some great songs , and it had Angela Lansbury in the cast . By the time this movie was made , Elvis looked out of it and he was stuffed into a tapered shirt . Back in the old days , they used to teach actors to pull their stomachs in when standing in profile . No one told Elvis . In some scenes , he looks as if he doesn't know where he is . There is no plot , just dazzling scenery . The songs are rotten . Donna Butterworth as the daughter of James Shigeta is excellent - what a voice . James Shigeta is good as well . There are a few good scenes - the one in the helicopter with the dogs is one . I'm sure I can think of more . . . The excuses for Elvis to burst into song are tragic . It's amazing how such an important career was peppered with so many unimportant films , thanks to his management , i . e . , Colonel Parker . Elvis could have dumped him and gone to anyone in the world , but he was a hillbilly with enormous gifts , belief in his own power not being one of them . He was confident with his music , but he was superstitious and felt he couldn't make without Colonel Parker . It's a shame - as brilliant a career as Elvis had , it could have been so much more . He could have toured Europe and Japan , for instance - if only Colonel Tom wasn't in the country illegally . And he could have made better movies . The offers were there , but Colonel Tom was afraid of losing control . So Colonel Tom held a tight rein on Elvis . " Paradise , Hawaiian Style " is one example of his brilliant management of one of the greatest talents that ever existed . Proceed at the risk of being hulaed to death .
odd Crawford vehicle	Watching this film , the lead role of Susan seemed to call out " Norma Shearer " to me , and sure enough , reading up on it , the rights to the play were purchased by MGM with Shearer in mind . Norma Shearer and Joan Crawford were both fabulous movie stars but with different gifts . You could not call either one of them great , visceral actresses so it was always best to lead with their strengths . Crawford's was drama . Shearer's was comedy . This is just my opinion . " Susan and God " is the story of a ditsy woman , unhappily married to drunken Frederic March , who takes a trip and comes back with religious fervor gained from a new group that emphasizes God , his guidance , and telling the truth . She then proceeds to wreak havoc on her entire social set and manages to break up one marriage and one near-marriage . March agrees to stay sober if she'll give their relationship a chance , and with their somewhat neglected daughter , Blossom , they spend the summer together . Ruth Hussey is a friend who is in love with March . Crawford is an absolute disaster in this role , speaking very fast in a high-pitched voice that is supposed to represent her dizziness . She mugs , she poses , she wears absurd outfits ( with the exception of the gorgeous one she wears to go to the train ) . It's a completely mannered , external performance . Shearer would have been much more natural in the role . Crawford is annoying . When it comes down to doing the more dramatic scenes in the film , she does much better . The rest of the cast is very good , including March , Hussey , Rita Quigley , and a young , lovely Rita Hayworth . Due to Crawford , this comes off as rather strange , and it took me a while to realize it was supposed to be a comedy .
A little less conversation , a little more singing would have been nice	Live a Little , Love a Little was a departure from the normal Elvis Presley travelogues , and this off-the-beaten-track trend continued for the rest of his film career ( four films ) . It's sexy with a more adult theme than usual . Even more unusual , it only has a few songs , including " A Little Less Conversation . " I say , if you're going to sing four , sing a few more . It's a movie , it's Elvis , it's not a drama . Elvis plays a photographer who meets a strange young woman of uncertain name on the beach . His life then takes a series of bizarre turns . Michele Carey is the woman , and she's not only beautiful but very funny as well . The film is mildly entertaining . Elvis ' real life pooch Brutus has a supporting role . He was a superb actor !
portrait of a flaming lunatic	Kate Jackson plays a nurse from hell who , determined to hold onto her detestable boyfriend Frank , and after months faking pregnancy with a pillow , steals another woman's baby . Since Frank ( who's married , by the way , and lives with his wife ) wanted a boy , and the stolen baby is a girl , she sets her sights on another mother . This leads to a gruesome murder . That part of the story foreshadows a real-life incident that took place just recently , when a woman was murdered and her fetus torn from her body . The main focus of the story , though , is on the bereft mother of the girl baby , played by Lori Loughlin , who knows darn well her baby wasn't stillborn and also knows that the assertion of the hospital ( thanks to a little computer touch-up by Jackson ) that she was on drugs isn't true either . Loughlin risks her marriage and takes a lot of criticism in an attempt to find out what happened to her baby . This isn't an unusual story - in TV movies , women have been stealing other women's babies for years . This is still an interesting film where one truly empathizes with Loughlin , wants to see her vindicated , and can't get over how completely nuts Jackson is . Kate Jackson has always been a good actress , and she won't disappoint you in this . Loughlin is poignant as the determined mother . Look for Eriq LaSalle before ER as a police detective .
Interesting for the cast	" The Girl in the Black Stockings " is a B movie , and I don't give it the tremendous historical significance one of the other reviewers did . It's obviously made cheaply , and the story is awkward . Directed by Howard Koch , it has a surprising lack of pace . The stars are Lex Barker , Anne Bancroft , John Dehner , Ron Randell , Marie Windsor and Mamie Van Doren . The plot concerns murders at a resort - in fact , the film begins with the discovery of a dead body , and several more follow . Dehner plays the sheriff . The resort is owned by a man with hysterical paralysis ( Randell ) and his sister ( Windsor ) , who takes care of him . There's a Barrymore-type actor preparing for a comeback with the help of a va-va-va-voom blonde ( Van Doren ) , and several guests , including Barker and Bancroft , who apparently have some sort of history together . The acting is okay with the exception of a very young Bancroft , who smartly underplays what could have been an extremely over the top character . Barker was very handsome and fit , but after reading that Lana Turner threw him out when she learned he was abusing her daughter Cheryl , it's hard to watch him . Most of the characters really aren't fleshed out enough to give the actors something to work with . Stuart Whitman has a small part , as does Dan Blocker , who plays a bartender . Not great .
an inauspicious comeback	One would have thought that a talent such as Michael Keaton could have chosen something a little better for his re-entry into film . This film has an interesting premise , some scary scenes , and more holes in the plot than a swiss cheese . Keaton's choice of films in the past few years has been bad bordering on pathetic , the ridiculous " Jack Frost " being an example . It seems a shame that an attractive man who can do comedy and drama with equal facility can't find a role worthy of his ability . This film was long on driving scenes and staring at the computer and short on action . Also , I was disappointed in the ending on a number of levels . Still , a fascinating premise which could have been done tons better . Don't spend a lot of money on it . Rent it .
Slow moving entry in the Mystery Woman series	Hallmark Channel is targeting the baby boomers and older crowd with its Mystery Movie series . Mystery Woman , one of the shows included in the series , is about a bookstore owner ( Kellie Martin ) who is constantly being embroiled in real-life murders . Sing Me a Murder concerned a ' 60s and ' 70s folk song trio on the comeback trail . You can't get more baby boomer than that . Mystery Woman is mildly entertaining but doesn't have much pep to it . The pace is slow and the directing pedantic . Clarence Williams III's character comes off as dull . Kellie Martin , who is a very good actress , really doesn't have much to do . We hear about all the exciting events that Mystery Woman has at her store , but in this episode , we didn't get to see any of them . We don't see many customers either . David Naughton , one of the guest stars in Sing Me a Murder , is a long way from " I'm a Pepper " - can it really be that many years since I've seen him ? I didn't recognize him at first . It is certainly fun to see Williams , Martin , and various old-timers . I just wish they had a little more energy .
Too much fishing	Edward G . Robinson is Mike , a Portugese immigrant who makes his living as a fisherman in " Tiger Shark , " a 1932 movie also starring Richard Arlen and Zita Johann . Mike loses his hand while trying to save Quita's ( Johann's ) father from a shark , but he does manage to save his buddy Pipes . He falls in love with Quita when they meet , and , seeing that she is alone , he eventually proposes . She accepts but says that she does not love him . He apparently doesn't notice that one of his mates , Pipes , ( Richard Arlen ) has a crush on Quita , so Pipes is around a lot . This is a very dated and movie with stiff performances from everyone but Robinson . The character of Mike is very stereotypical now , but probably wasn't back then - the paunchy immigrant , kind of dumb , with false bravado , and don't forget about the hook for a hand . Very similar to " They Knew What They Wanted . " There are endless scenes of fishing , which these men did with poles and harpoons , not nets . It looked dangerous , and I guess if Quita's father died and Mike lost his hand , it was . The pretty Roumanian actress Zita Johann , who was married to John Houseman , is effective as Mike's shy , young and grateful bride - but after she spots handsome Pipes , she realizes gratitude can only take one so far . Here she's dressed plainly with little makeup - but one can see that with the Dorothy Lamour treatment , she probably looked very exotic . Arlen , of " Wings " fame , is pretty hunky . He died in 1978 and worked practically until his last breath , giving him a career span of 57 years . His heyday , however , was in the silent era . Edward G . Robinson is excellent as always , but the film just doesn't hold up today . Robinson proved early on that he could do just about anything , though in the ' 30s , he was most often cast as a thug . When you see Mike in action toward the end of the movie , you'll realize this role isn't that far from what he did as Little Caesar . I can't really recommend this unless you're interested in fishing circa 1932 .
' 30s-themed Warners programmer	" Taxi ! " is a 1932 film starring James Cagney and Loretta Young , made after Cagney's big success in " Public Enemy . " The ' 30s were a time when much of what was seen in theater and film reflected the plight of the blue-collar worker . Sophisticated drawing room comedies and rich folk were replaced by " Waiting for Lefty , " " Golden Boy , " " Awake and Sing " and the like . The theme of taxi companies fighting the independent cabbies was used other films , " Born Reckless " in 1937 and " Big City " in 1937 being two . In " Taxi ! " Sue ( Loretta Young ) sees her father ( Guy Kibbee ) go to prison for killing a driver sent by a thug named Gerard who deliberately smashes his taxi . He dies in prison ; later on , Gerard stabs the younger brother of Matt ( Cagney ) and kills him . Matt and Sue fall in love , despite being on opposite sides of the fence - she's against violence , he's all for it - and get married . Matt can't let go of wanting revenge against Gerard . The film is dated not only because of its theme but also the depiction of acceptable spousal abuse . However , it's notable for evoking a New York atmosphere and for the fact that Cagney speaks Yiddish at the beginning of the film . This was added to the movie when it was found out that Cagney knew Yiddish . Young is incredibly beautiful but maybe a little too classy , and Cagney does what will be a familiar role for him well . One poster here thought that Leila Bennett as Ruby was hilarious ; to me she was totally annoying . Four years later , she made her last film . " Taxi ! " is interesting for the cast , but you'll be turned off when Matt let's Sue have it . Look for George Raft as a competitor in a dance contest .
too weird	A nearly crippled FBI agent , played by none other than Mel Gibson , arrives at a flop house for uninsured alcoholics , drug users and the mentally challenged to investigate the murder ( or was it suicide ) of a rich man's son . He meets , among others , an Indian named Geronimo , a man who claims to have been an uncredited member of The Beatles , an alcoholic whose toupee is on askew , a strange young woman and the even stranger young man who loves her . This film has some great things in it but overall , was too long , slow and bizarre for my taste . Part of the problem for me was that some of the dialogue was totally unintelligible . There were some good acting , lines , situations and moments but ultimately it was too left of strange for me - kind of like a Twin Peaks episode that veered off the charts .
these people were lucky they got to make another movie	Well , I didn't have as violent a response as the first post I read , but " Another Dawn " is from another era and didn't survive it , trust me . It's all pip-pip , jolly good , and honor is all in this dated film starring the handsome Errol Flynn and the lovely Kay Francis . She's a widow who marries Flynn's commander , though she still mourns her late husband . When she meets Flynn , guess what , she finds she can love again . Yeah , like who couldn't . They're both too honorable to do much about it , though . Most of the film takes place post-World War I in a Sahara outpost so there is lots of sand and some battles . Flynn is subdued in this , and Francis is radiant . Some of the dialogue is actually quite poetic - probably because they're quoting poems - and if it were in , say , The Rains Came , it would have worked very well - but it only adds to the melodrama in this film . Films such as " Another Dawn " are interesting as artifacts of a lost time when , I suppose , people had stronger values and lived for the greater good . When it's a stronger script and production , of course , these marvelous qualities are worth revisiting , admiring , and feeling guilty about . Alas , however , nobility is not well served by " Another Dawn . "
Disappointing entry into the series	Dr . K , Dr . Gillespie , and nurse Mary are all involved in " Dr . Kildare's Crisis , " a 1940 " Dr . Kildare " film which stars regulars Lew Ayres as Kildare , Laraine Day as Mary , Lionel Barrymore as Dr . Gillepsie , Alma Kruger as the nursing supervisor . Robert Young appears as Mary's brother Doug . Kildare and Mary are planning their wedding when Douglas comes to visit . He has a plan to help unskilled labor become skilled , and needs the support of one of Kildare's grateful ex-patients . Unfortunately it's downhill from there , due to a very weak script . Kildare , without examining Mary's brother , decides he has epilepsy on the basis that Douglas sometimes seems to hear noises no one else hears . This makes Mary afraid to marry him for fear of having him end up with a sick wife or epileptic children . She becomes hysterical and wants to return home with her brother . Well , this plot line is so pathetic that the New York Medical Society wrote a letter in protest about the way epilepsy is treated in the film - that it's curable , that it can be inherited , and that it can lead to insanity . Also , how could Mary , a trained nurse , go so crazy and insist on dumping Kildare , whom she's been chasing for years ? Really preposterous behavior on the part of the characters . The audience knows them by now and it's pretty bewildering . The series would be over in 1942 and become the " Dr . Gillespie " series , which retained Barrymore and Alma Kruger . Lew Ayres was persona non grata for being a conscientious objector in World War II , though he did work on the front lines as a medic . MGM didn't care , they just wanted to be rid of him . When he returned from the war , the handsome Ayres did some of his best work , receiving an Oscar nomination for " Johnny Belinda , " and continuing his career until 1994 . Laraine Day , though MGM never seemed to know what to do with her , ( happily , she was loaned out a lot ) is lovely as Mary , and of course , due to her involvement with Kildare , Mary becomes a casualty in this series . Dr . Gillespie , starring in his own movie series , would mellow . Both the Kildare and Gillespie series were very popular . It's a shame that this film seems so out of place .
Barrymore , Johnson , and Luke still at Blair General	This is a rather annoying entry into the series . With Dr . Kildare persona non grata at MGM after Lew Ayres became a conscientious objector , the franchise now belongs to irascible Dr . Gillespie ( Lionel Barrymore ) . Barrymore was a wonderful actor , but these were B movies slapped together probably in days , and it shows . This particular film had Barrymore overplaying to the balcony at the top of his lungs . Van Johnson and Keye Luke are cute as the energetic interns vying to be his assistant ( again ) and each taking on a difficult case . Johnson , of course , also has to deal with a woman . This time , it's pretty Marilyn Maxwell . The chief interest in seeing this film is for an early appearance by Ava Gardner as Jean Brown . She is flawlessly beautiful as a young woman caring for her arthritis-stricken mother . I liked the Dr . Kildare series with Lew Ayres and Laraine Day much more , I have to confess .
Sudser in a girls ' school	A young Simone Simon falls for her teacher ( Herbert Marshall ) in " Girls ' Dormitory , " a 1936 film set in a European girls ' school where the teachers are Herr and Fraulein . When Herbert Marshall is the object of a girl's affections , you know this is an old one . Like the previous poster , this film made me feel old , too , but for a different reason - I didn't like seeing Ruth Chatterton thrown over for this babe ! Simon plays a 19-year-old , but like " Ladies in Love " from the same time period , she looks like she's about 15 . She's a total dazzler with those pouty lips , exotic eyes , sexy voice , and kittenish presence . She was a natural for " Cat People , " that's for sure . And in real life , she was no less of a man magnet - even at an advanced age , she had plenty of male attention . Herbert Marshall plays the world's most absent-minded professor , failing to see that his colleague , Ruth Chatterton , has been in love with him for years and waiting for a marriage proposal . Similarly , he never catches on that Simon is in love with him either . In the story , Chatterton comes to Simon's defense when a love letter is found by one of the sterner teachers , and a move is afoot to expel her . Chatterton is a lovely actress , in her forties in this film . She only made a few other movies after this one , returning to her theatrical roots for the most of the rest of her career . Tyrone Power , then billed as Tyrone Power , Jr . , as his son is today , has a small role toward the end of the movie . He's gorgeous . Girls ' Dormitory is dated as all get-out , but worth seeing for Chatterton , Simon , and Power when he was beginning to find his place at 20th Century Fox .
a little slice , a little dice , a little Basic Instinct , a little Terror Train	I'm no expert - - nor fan - - of this genre but rented it because the plot intrigued me . I found it uneven in performances and plot and confusing in parts . In fact , there was one scene in the film that seemed totally unrelated to it so I must have missed something somewhere . I'm still not sure if it was a scene from a student movie or if it actually happened to someone - if so , I didn't recognize the character . And so it went . Jennifer Morrison , a very likable actress , did a credible job as did the always divine Loretta Divine and it is always great to see Hart Bochner . Matthew Davis came off as comatose . There was one wonderful bit using prop guns and some good scenes of student film set-ups and effects done on the cheap . But overall , it was a not very long film that seemed longer than it should have ; also , part of the plot resolution was more or less given away because of the casting ( a common problem , but one more often observed on primetime TV ) .
a great cast in a film about the gambling bug	Gregory Peck , Ava Gardner , Walter Huston , Melvyn Douglas , Ethel Barrymore , and Frank Morgan star in " The Great Sinner " about a writer who gets the gambling bug big-time . Set in the 1860s , the story concerns a writer ( Peck ) who falls for a woman ( Gardner ) whose life , and that of her father's ( Huston ) , is dedicated to gambling . They're waiting for the matriarch of the family ( Barrymore ) to die so that they will no longer be beholden to the owner of a casino ( Douglas ) . He has 200 , 000 ( francs , I think ) of the father's notes , and in return , he wants Gardner . One can hardly blame him - she's so gorgeous in this movie , and her costumes so stunning , she nearly burns up the celluloid . The writer tries his hand at gambling and soon becomes a complete addict . The gambling scenes in this film are quite exciting , as anyone who has tasted the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat a slot machine will attest . Unfortunately , other than that , it's a rather talk-heavy movie without much action and seems to go on too long . Nevertheless , there are some good performances . Was Walter Huston ever anything but great ? Peck is handsome and convincing as the fallen man . Agnes Moorhead has a small part , but she's excellent , as the nasty owner of a pawnshop . Frank Morgan also makes an appearance as an unlucky gambler . Worth seeing for Gardner's looks and gowns alone .
not quite twisted enough	I'm not sure why this movie was made . I found it slow moving , derivative , and without great acting roles for a very good cast , which included Ashley Judd , Samuel L . Jackson , and Andy Garcia . Ashley Judd was hard-bodied and policewoman-like ; Samuel L . Jackson was wasted . For me , this was a TV movie with movie stars . The plot was contrived and somewhat obvious . It probably could have been a lot better , but as it was , it just dragged along without really capturing my interest . There wasn't a lot of insight into any of the characters , most especially Judd and Jackson's . Why , for instance , in this day and age , was she so promiscuous ? The whole thing could have been fleshed out a little more . Anyway , I was disappointed .
Post-war Maisie	This is Maisie's second to last film in the series starring Ann Sothern that ran from 1939 to 1947 . Some of them were better than others . This one is in the category of okay . During the war , Maisie was a riveter ( Swing Shift Maisie and Maisie Goes to Reno , when she was burnt out and needed a vacation ) . Now post-war , she needs a new job , something steady . After graduating from business school , she eventually gets a job with an inventor ( George Murphy ) who is building a helicopter using his own secret invention . Little does he know , someone on his team ( who is so obvious it's ridiculous ) is trying to steal the drawings from him . Stephen McNally , Ray Collins and Hillary Brooke are featured . The Maisie movies are , of course , very dated today , but the premise is good - Maisie is a performer who occasionally gets work - usually she's stranded on the way to a job and ends up somewhere else , like in the Congo or on a farm . Ann Sothern is delightful as the street-smart , flashily dressed man magnet . These were B movies churned out probably in days , and the scripts vary from good to lousy along with Sothern's costars , which included James Craig , John Hodiak , Lee Bowman , John Carroll , Lew Ayres and Red Skelton - how's that for variety of up and comings and down and goings ? Mildly entertaining .
sexual addiction explored in a good TV movie	This is actually a pretty good TV movie , based on a true story , starring real life husband and wife , Harry Hamlin and Lisa Rinna . Hamlin plays a sex addict who gets caught cheating by his wife . It turns out to be a little more than cheating , and Hamlin's chronic problem is ultimately exposed . He basically destroys his marriage , as well as his relationship with his children . The indication that this film is realistic and based on a true story is the fact that Hamlin's wife keeps taking him back despite his many transgressions . The movie doesn't pull any punches - it explores treatment options , 12 step programs , problems that Hamlin's own father had , and the difficulty that husband , wife , and family have coming to terms with their difficulties . It also shows the gritty situations that the man gets into , making one realize that only a compulsive personality would put himself through such horror . Hamlin and Rinna do a very good job .
Uneven dramatization of a true story	Lifetime Television's " The Two Mr . Kissels , " based on the true story of two murdered brothers , stars John Stamos as Andrew Kissel , Anson Mount as Robert Kissel , and Robin Tunney as Robert's wife , Nancy . Somehow , a fascinating story was rendered fairly uninteresting by the script . With better writing , this might have been a compelling , old-fashioned two-parter , as there is certainly enough material out there . The Kissel brothers were wealthy and seemingly successful young men - Robert was a brilliant businessman whose career had an upward trajectory . Unfortunately , he married a narcissistic money-grubber ( Tunney ) who falls for a cable guy ( in real life a stereo repairman ) and decides she's better off with all of the cash and no husband . Andrew could have been a successful entrepreneur , but he needed to come up to par with his brother and make a big splash . He becomes a cocaine-addicted , womanizing con artist , married to a successful woman who truly loves him and turns a blind eye to his shady deals and late nights . The murders of both men are handled well , but one never gets a strong sense of the relationship between the two brothers or any handle on the character of Robert . John Stamos does a good job with the material , but the best role in the film belongs to Robin Tunney as Nancy . She's excellent . It's really the only fleshed out part in the film . There was a good deal more that went on in this real-life saga , including in court . In the end , I felt that the script let down what should have been a fascinating story .
Nature versus nurture	In " Jane Doe : The Ties That Bind , " Cathy's son is doing a piece for school on " nature versus nurture . " In Jane Doe's case ( that's Cathy's alias when she works for the government ) the question of nature versus nurture is an underlying theme . She embarks on a case with Frank Darnell ( Joe Penny ) involving a man being in two places at the same time . We know what's coming . When that comes , and there's still 45 minutes to go , we know what's coming next . Lea Thompson stars as Jane Doe . This particular story is preposterous , though I've spent my time doing worse . Thompson is likable . The best thing in the series is Joe Penny by a mile . The worst thing about this series , by a mile , are scenes depicting Cathy's home life , which are great if you're trying to go to sleep . The family part is the major problem with this series and drags the rest of it down to an even lower level . The episode this week dealt with the older daughter getting permission to stay out all night . The script for these scenes was a total mess . Cathy ( Jane Doe ) tells her husband ( Billy Moses ) to have the daughter text every half hour . This is never mentioned again , but before the daughter leaves , she begs her father not to call her every half hour . He doesn't tell her to text . Later on we learn he's calling her every half hour . Then Jane Doe is concerned back in her office because her daughter hasn't called . No mention was ever made of her daughter calling her . Nobody in the show can get their cell phone to work - they're always conveniently out of range whenever the plot needs them to be . At the end of the show , the son gives his speech on nature versus nurture - which is not the speech he was practicing in his room . The " Jane Doe " series has some action to it - and it has Penny - and a pleasant , if not fiery actress in Thompson . With some attention to the scripts , this show could be much better . The family is too perfect , the scenes are too ordinary , and they move too slowly . The music is horrific . The rest of the show is always more interesting , and some of the mysteries have been pretty good . Mildly entertaining .
totally ridiculous	This movie is fun and has some exciting moments but is basically absurd . Leaving the plot out , which would involve a spoiler , almost as absurd as the plot is the sight of this elderly man bungie jumping out of windows and running through the woods at Olympic-qualifying speed . I'm sorry but Clint Eastwood looks like Father Time in this one . A 45 year old woman can't do a clinch with a man her own age in most films because she's considered too old but this guy's allowed to act like a 20 year old and get away with it . I love Clint Eastwood , he has a wonderful quality but he needs a reality check .
If it doesn't fit , you must acquit	Norma Shearer is " A Free Soul " in this 1931 film also starring Lionel Barrymore , Clark Gable , Leslie Howard , and James Gleason . Though this is an early talkie , the actors handle the dialogue well , and there are not the awkward rhythms , pauses , or echoes one often hears during these first years . Shearer plays Jan Ashe , the daughter of an alcoholic attorney , Stephen Ashe . Ashe successfully defends a mobster named Ace Wilfong against murder charges by showing that the hat bearing his initials , found next to the body , doesn't fit him . Shades of O . J . Wonder if Johnny Cochran saw this film . The minute Jan meets Ace , there is an instant attraction , although she's engaged to Dwight ( Howard ) . Soon she is sleeping with Ace . Her father finds this unacceptable . Desperate to get him to stop drinking , Jan agrees to stop seeing Ace if he will lay off the booze . They leave the city with Stephen's friend ( Gleason ) and rough it for three months . Just before they're due to return to the city , Jan catches Stephen drunk . He disappears on a passing train , and she returns to Ace . This time , however , she realizes he's a cruel brute and no longer wants him . It is then that the film takes an unexpected turn . The themes in " A Free Soul " are dated today , having to do with the class system and a woman being a tramp if she sleeps with someone outside of marriage . Norma Shearer gives a very good performance as the flapper Jan , conveying a daughter's devotion and a determination to remain independent and not follow the norm . Not a great beauty , Shearer was a hard-working actress who had glamor , sophistication , and was ultra-feminine . The latter is especially evident in newsreels where she's only playing Norma Shearer . Lionel Barrymore is not yet in a wheelchair due to arthritis here . He does a great job as a man who is a shadow of what he was but still retains elements of greatness . It's certainly interesting to see Rhett and Ashley with a woman between them 8 years before " Gone With the Wind . " This was one of Gable's breakthrough performances . Unmustached and looking very young , his persona is fitting into place - when he slaps Jan , he packs a wallop , and he kisses a woman like he means it . Leslie Howard is an elegant , gentle , and romantic Dwight . I happen to like his Ashley - his idealism , impracticality and mixed signals are what make him attractive to Scarlett . Here , he's as honorable as Ashley , with his protection of Jan being the only thing that matters to him . " A Free Soul " is a turgid melodrama , and some of the acting may seem a little over the top today , but it's still recommended for the performances and especially for the young Gable , who would be packing a wallop and kissing like he meant for another 30 years .
Pre-code melodrama about the tabloids	The exploitativeness of tabloids is always a good subject , even back in 1931 . " Five Star Final " is about a ruthless editor ( Edward G . Robinson ) who hounds a woman involved in a 20-year-old murder with tragic results . The film sports a good cast , including Boris Karloff , Mae Marsh , Ona Munson , Aline McMahon , and H . B . Warner . Robinson , as the editor , decides to do a series on an old murder and track down one of the people involved , Nancy Vorhees . She is now married with a daughter about to get married . The film looks at the effect it has on the lives of everyone in the family . I am not as enthusiastic about this film as some of the posters here , though I imagine it was very hard-hitting for 1931 . The acting is very melodramatic , and while I appreciated the devastating effects of the story , I really thought a bad situation was made much worse by the behavior of the girl's parents . It wasn't until the mid-thirties that the class system in America began to disintegrate , so it's still quite evident here , with the way the young woman's future in-laws react to the scandal and Robinson's analysis of black readers . At the time the film was made , any publicity was looked down upon - today it's considered a great thing , though I don't suppose involvement in a murder would be . You might get a book deal out of it , though , and a TV movie . Nancy Voorhees today could have given the paper an exclusive interview and become a sympathetic character . But it was such a disgrace , and people seemed to have no understanding or compassion . It's hard to judge the performances because the acting style and the dialogue are so different from even a few years later . Of all of them , Aline McMahon , as the cynical secretary , comes off the best . Definitely worth seeing .
North by Dangerous Ground	The most vivid thing about this film is its score by Bernard Hermann , which sounds very much like his sweeping , exciting music in " North by Northwest . " It's fitting , too , because in one of the scenes , Robert Ryan and Ward Bond are climbing a rocky , difficult hill , the music comes in - and brings to mind the Mount Rushmore scene . This is a strange , moody movie that , thanks to Nicholas Ray's research , captures the grittiness of police work . Robert Ryan plays an out of control cop who is the poster child for police brutality . Ryan is always good , but the glint in his eyes as he goes after a suspect is really something , as is the loneliness and separateness that seem to permeate his portrayal . To keep any more civil suits being brought , his boss , Ed Begley , sends him into a rural area to help capture the killer of a young girl . It is there that he meets the blind Lupino , whose brother is a suspect in the murder . It's a short film , so certain elements happen a bit too quickly , i . e , Ryan seems to find empathy as soon as he leaves the city . But you can't help feeling for both him and Lupino . Both these actors are always worth seeing .
Early talkie with some up and coming stars	Constance Bennett is a woman who gets a sugar daddy in " The Easiest Way , " also starring Adolphe Menjou , Robert Montgomery , Anita Page , and Clark Gable . Made in 1931 , it's directed by Jack Conway , and it's very well done . Bennett plays Laura , who lives in a crowded tenement with her large family , which includes her father who manages not to work . She gets an opportunity to model for an advertising agency . While there , she catches the eye of the boss ( Menjou ) who offers her a life of luxury . She takes it . Her mother shuns her , and her brother-in-law , Clark Gable , has no use for her . While she and Menjou are in Colorado , she meets a reporter , Robert Montgomery , and they fall in love . She promises to be faithful to him while he's in South America for three months . But it's pretty hard to make it on her own . This is an interesting film . Because the actors were getting used to sound , the rhythm is occasionally off , i . e . , there are sometimes awkward pauses between lines . Everyone's acting is good , with the exception of Marjorie Rambeau , who has a very melodramatic role and does the tremulous voice thing in her big monologue . Rambeau , however , had been a Broadway star , where her theatrics were more appropriate , and it took actors time to learn the art of film acting . She was a fantastic actress , and I particularly remember her as Joan Crawford's mother in " Torch Song . " Constance Bennett , as usual , was very beautiful . She is excellent in the part of a torn , vulnerable woman . Gable is a tough guy sans mustache . He hadn't yet developed his screen persona , but the gorgeous smile was there . Robert Montgomery is wonderful as a young reporter . There was a neat shot where the camera travels up a building , zeroes in on a window , and then zooms in . It was dizzying and exciting , and it's the kind of detail that makes " The Easiest Way " a good watch . There are real outdoor scenes , too , no painted backdrops , and opulent sets . If they weren't opulent , they were realistic , for instance , the crummy apartment where Laura's family lives . There was another ending to this film that the Hays office vetoed . Apparently it was shown in some theaters but is no longer available . I'm a sap , so I liked the ending that's in the movie .
Uneasy mix of comedy and drama	" Once Upon a Honeymoon " is a 1942 film directed by Leo McCarey with a script by Sheridan Gibney and McCarey . Despite its stars , Cary Grant and Ginger Rogers and McCarey as director , the uneven script ultimately topples this film . Part of the problem is that as an audience member , you're not sure what to do - is it serious or funny ? In a way , the audience is set up for comedy - they see it's a McCarey film with Rogers and Grant - and then they don't really get it when parts of it aren't funny . When it's Europe in World War II and you're mistaken for Jews , it's no joke . Nevertheless , this is a film with some very good scenes , particularly at the beginning when Rogers feigns a fake British / upper class accent and then takes a call from her mother ; she then sounds like a fishwife as she announces her marriage to one Baron von Luber ( Walter Slezak ) . Grant plays an American war correspondent investigating the Baron , who is suspected of being a top - but secret - ally of Hitler's . It does seem that wherever he goes , that country falls soon after . When Grant takes Rogers to lunch , he tells her vodka is Polish water - she takes hers with some brandy . She eventually escapes from von Luber but is forced to re-connect with him to get information . " Once Upon a Honeymoon " has its moments , including its serious ones , but it seems like two films , neither belonging with the other . A real McCarey comedy with Grant and Rogers tripping up the Nazis would have been great ; and of course , both actors could have pulled over a serious war film as well . In trying to make them do both , the movie's statement is confused .
Some interesting elements	If you can buy petite , beautiful Yvette Mimieux as a loser , this is the film for you . It's also a fun watch if you're a fan of makeovers and soap operas . The story concerns a whack job , Mimieux , who is obsessed with a soap star , portrayed by Simon McCorkindale . In fact , she lives her life as if they're together . By this I mean , she talks to him even though he's not there . You get the idea . Finally , she leaves her dreary job and existence and sets out to make her fantasy a reality . In true TV movie style , she has herself completely made over , even dumping her glasses , and insinuates herself into his life by posing as a reporter . The fun starts there . A good watch .
pleasant enough	" The Peterville Diamond " from 1942 is a pretty good British film with people not terribly well known on this side of the pond but nevertheless quite good . I would have liked to have seen this with spiffier production values and stars a la MGM . It's the kind of story that needs some gloss . The plot concerns a bored , wealthy woman who feels ignored by her husband . To spice things up , she has a woman friend call her , and in the presence of her butler , she arranges a tryst at a jewelry store . The butler dutifully tells the husband . While everyone is at the store , it's robbed by one of those gentleman robbers they used to have in the ' 30s , a Raffles type . He later shows up at a dinner party hosted by the woman and her husband , and now he's a baron . It takes off from there , with confusion over a case containing either jewels or papers and car chases . I'm sure it's not a long film but due to the thinness of the plot , it felt like it went on too long . Nevertheless , parts of it are fun .
Paul Lukas as Philo	Philo Vance has been played by a number of actors over the years , everyone from Wilfred Hyde-White to William Powell , who portrayed the detective the most . In " The Casino Murder Case , " it's Paul Lukas ' turn to have a go at it . This is a light mystery concerning some murders within a family . Rosalind Russell is the young woman here , and she does a fine job . I'm not familiar with Philo Vance in the books so I can't comment on Lukas ' portrayal in comparison . However , I suspect that normally , the role is approached with a lighter touch . Lukas is a wonderful and very likable actor , but I think that in the hands of someone like William Powell , the humor would have been mined a little bit more . Lukas isn't heavy-handed in any way , it's just that this type of role isn't a perfect fit for him . All in all , entertaining .
Marlene Dietrich in a comedy	Marlene Dietrich is the lady in " The Lady is Willing , " a 1942 film also starring Fred MacMurray and Arline Judge . The beautiful Dietrich plays a musical star , Liza Madden , who walks off with an abandoned baby and takes him home . Though Liza lives well , she owes a fortune to the IRS and gives all of her money away , and she won't be able to adopt the child unless she's either married or solvent . She convinces a pediatrician ( MacMurray ) to marry her . He does , and they adopt the baby , now called Corey . The marriage is supposed to be in name only , but you know how those things go . " The Lady is Willing " is not much of a story or a movie , but Dietrich is just stunning , and her acting is charming . She creates a very lovable character . MacMurray , as the doctor who falls in love with her , turns in a good performance . He's part of a dumb subplot involving rabbits that is dropped along the way . Dietrich's assistant is played by Arline Judge and her maid by Marietta Canty and they are both excellent in their roles . It's just too bad all of these good people had to be in this particular story . Obviously , the baby in question ( David James ) is unaware that the story is weak ; he laughs and plays with telephone cords , Dietrich's hats and smiles at everyone . Just adorable . Definitely worth it for Dietrich and her fashions , and if you like kids , little Corey . Interestingly , one of Dietrich's famous legs was in a cast for part of the film , though it's not noticeable .
another WWI love triangle	Douglas Fairbanks Jr . and Anthony Bushell are the Prescott brothers in 1931's " Chances , " and both are in love with the same woman ( Rose Hobart ) who plays Molly . The two brothers go off to war while Molly does her part in the effort , Tom ( Bushell ) believing that Rose is waiting for him , while in fact , she loves Jack ( Fairbanks Jr . ) and only turned to Tom on the rebound . Jack and Molly meet while he is on leave , and when he returns to battle , he doesn't know how to handle the situation with his brother . This is a very dated film done in that weird time that was the transition between silent and sound . This makes the dialogue pacing off and the film seem mannered and stagy . It's by no means a heavy look at war as some of the films made around the same time were , but rather focuses on the brothers ' relationship and their mutual love for one woman . Fairbanks Jr . emerges as the best actor , giving a solid performance . Hobart is very serious and kind of boring , and Bushell is good-looking but callow . It's all very stiff upper lip and pip-pip . " Chances " is a dark-looking film with some well-done battle scenes . One interesting bit of trivia about the cast is that all three leads lived to be 90 and above . One wonders if in later years , they even remembered this early effort .
Noir based on the radio show	" Mr . District Attorney " is a 1947 film starring Dennis O'Keefe , Michael O'Shea , Marguerite Chapman and Adolphe Menjou . It has a solid B cast that includes Jeff Donnell and George Coulouris . O'Keefe plays Steve Bennett , a defense attorney who is offered a job in the DA's office by Craig Warren ( Menjou ) and accepts . Unfortunately he's being played by the Chapman character , Marcia Manning , who's trying to get information from him that will help the case of her boyfriend , James Randolph ( Coulouris ) . By listening in on a phone conversation , she finds out about a witness , who suddenly disappears . Warren suspects Manning , who has a police record , so he sends Steve to Italy to find a witness and convinces Marcia to get out of his life . She does so , by marrying Randolph . When Steve returns and finds his girlfriend married , he blames Warren and quits the DA's office , making him ripe for exploitation by Randolph yet again . This is an okay film , brightened by the performance of Michael O'Shea as an investigator who works in the DA's office . Menjou is very good as the DA . O'Keefe is a likable and attractive actor who doesn't register much here . Chapman is effective . I mainly know who she is from the ' 80s , where she was selling her own memorabilia and always had an ad in " Hollywood Studio Magazine . " The movie felt a little dragged out .
engrossing but heavy going pre-code melodrama	Constant Bennett is a beautiful Red Cross nurse and Joel McCrea her lover in " Born to Love . " The story held my interest but it is truly a turgid melodrama with some very old-fashioned , over the top acting from Bennett . Bennett and McCrea meet during World War I in London , fall in love , have sex ; he leaves for battle and is later presumed dead . Pregnant , she marries Paul Cavanagh , Sir Wilfred Drake , who comes off like a nice guy at first . When McCrea turns up again , Bennett is determined to be loyal to her husband . But when he realizes she's seen McCrea and is still in love with him , the jig is up . In the divorce , Sir Wilfred gets full custody of the child . And here's where the going gets rough for the viewer , not to mention the characters ! McCrea is adorable ; Cavanagh is the type of leading man one doesn't see anymore . He comes off as very unattractive in this , though in his 32-year career , this often wasn't the case . As for Bennett , one has seen her to much better advantage . This is one of those creaky movies that's interesting from a precode and artifact point of view , but you can see these two stars in better films .
Love that title !	You gotta love the title " Two Weeks in Another Town . " It's fabulous . As for the movie . . . it's a big budget , sprawling color extravaganza that's either a sequel or a prequel to " The Bad and the Beautiful " depending upon whom you speak to . Kirk Douglas stars as Jack , a has-been , alcoholic actor who , fresh from the asylum , is summoned to Rome by his guru , the director Maurice Kruger ( Edward G . Robinson ) . Also in Rome is the wife that drove Jack into an alcoholic stupor , the seductive Carlotta ( Cyd Charisse ) . Initially all Jack is to do is direct the dubbing of Kruger's film so he can finish on time and satisfy the Italian producer - but things become more involved . I can't agree with one comment that this is the veiled story of Tyrone Power , Linda Christian , and Darryl F . Zanuck , with circumstances changed to protect the guilty . Certainly the promiscuity aspects are similar ; Ty took up with Anita Ekberg , magazine editor Mary Roblee , etc . , and Linda , well-known for her exploits like the Cyd Charisse character , had an affair with Edmund Purdom . And Power was certainly tied to Zanuck . However , the story is pretty Hollywood generic ; one could probably make the case for other actors ' marriages and connection to directors and / or producers . " Two Weeks " is also way over the top , which is what Minnelli intended : old Roman gluttony . It's a feast of scenery , big acting , and a wild , dramatic story , which peaks with Douglas and Charisse in a fast car careening through Rome . Kirk Douglas is great as an actor returning to his past , only to find there's nothing there of use . Robinson turns in a excellent performance as a tough yet insecure director who cheats on his emotionally abusive and abused wife yet depends on her like a child its mother . Trevor as the wife is appropriately hurt , angry , and downright vicious . George Hamilton plays an up and coming actor - as one comment noted , this is a stretch ; he doesn't really register . Charisse gets costar billing but doesn't have much to do but laugh evilly , wear glamorous clothes , and look seductive . She succeeds . " Two Weeks in Another Town " is certainly worth a look , though it was hard for this viewer to connect with any of the characters . I think it stands alone as neither a prequel or sequel to " The Bad and the Beautiful " as a story of what it's like to make films in another time - and in another town .
Disappointing	Robert Mitchum and Jane Russell teamed up for producer Howard Hughes for the first time in " His Kind of Woman , " which also stars Raymond Burr , Vincent Price , and Marjorie Reynolds . In order to get back into the country , deported mobster Nick Ferraro ( Burr ) hires gambler Dan Milner ( Mitchum ) to come to Mexico . Ferraro intends to have a plastic surgeon make his face close to Dan's , get rid of Dan , and then come back to the U . S . as Dan . Milner , of course , doesn't know who's hired him and what for . When he reaches the resort where he is to wait for his transportation , he starts getting suspicious that this is not the type of job he wants . Lenore ( Russell ) is on hand as the girlfriend of actor Mark Cardigan ( Vincent Price ) whose wife unexpectedly arrives . Thinking Cardigan was divorced , Lenore is none too happy - plus , no surprise , she's falling for Dan . Mitchum and Russell are a wonderful team . He smolders and she sizzles . They both look fantastic , with Russell wearing a fabulous wardrobe that shows off her assets . She also sings a couple of unmemorable songs , but she sings them well . Raymond Burr was appropriately sinister in the days before he was good guy Perry Mason . His elegant clothing belie his mean expression and sinister , callous actions . The problem for me was that the plot just did not hold my interest . The film seemed overly long and somewhat plodding . That being said , the highlight of the movie is Vincent Price , a swashbuckling actor on the way down who decides to turn reel life into real life . He is truly fabulous , and his role gives the movie a specialness it would not otherwise have . Mitchum and Russell made better films , together and separately . Worth seeing for the actors , especially Price . " His Kind of Woman " has a good plot that is not particularly well executed .
She'll do anything to ward off the object of her affections	Norma Shearer , in her last film , is a wealthy woman desperate to stay away from her on-again / off-again boyfriend ( George Sanders ) in " Her Cardboard Lover . " To do this , she has Robert Taylor , a songwriter who's crazy about her , work off his gambling debt by pretending to be her boyfriend . A nice dramatic role would have been better for Shearer's final performance . But like Garbo , she went out with a comedy , and one that bombed at that , also like Garbo . One wonders what MGM was thinking . The dilemma seems to have been finding vehicles for these older stars as the world - and they - were changing . The film was made in 1942 , and though it is a delightful comedy , it really has the look and feel of the ' 30s to it . There are some wonderful scenes - one where Taylor threatens to jump over a balcony and a dandy fight scene at the end . But in spots , it seems a little tired . Norma Shearer wears gorgeous clothes and is over-dramatic , which is what the part called for . Robert Taylor does a fine job , and George Sanders was wasted . One of the comments said that Shearer was too old for the role - yet the actors seem properly matched and this writer , anyway , had no idea of Shearer's age . In the end , though , it wasn't a fitting way for her to go out . The role hearkens back to a much earlier time . Perhaps , in the end , that's what she wanted .
Light ' 50s comedy	Loretta Young is a " Half Angel " in this 1951 comedy starring Joseph Cotten , Cecil Kellaway , Jim Backus and Irene Ryan . The beautiful Miss Young plays Nora , who by day is a very professional-looking nurse and by night a glamorous seductress . Apparently she has a split personality , and when her conscious mind goes to sleep , Nora's other personality wakes up and drops in on an old school chum who is now an important attorney ( Cotten ) . Her mystique , her allure , her seductiveness make him crazy . Every time he spots the daytime starched nurse Nora , he happily approaches her and throws his arms around her - only to get slapped in the face . Nora is engaged to be married to someone else and besides , she has no memory of these nighttime escapades . One of the reviewers on this site complained about the holes in the plot . This is the kind of film that doesn't hold up well under much - or any - scrutiny . It's a fantasy and has to be enjoyed as such . Nitpicking about how fast a trial is docketed and why someone receives a subpoena is like saying that tapping red rhinestone shoes together will never take you back home . At 38 , Loretta Young is absolutely gorgeous , as she always was and remained for the rest of her life . Huge eyes , a face the shape of a cameo , beautiful hair , slim figure - as if any of it is really hidden by a nurse's cap and uniform . For Nora the wild one , she wears her hair down and a flashy seafoam-colored dress . Which brings me to the film's color . It's very reminiscent of a Better Homes and Garden book from the ' 50s that I used to look at as a child - very bright colors and lots of them . I found the use of color in the film quite unusual . A light comedy is strange casting for Joseph Cotten , but for my money , he pulls it off . This isn't a wildly funny movie , but it is an amusing one , and the psychiatric plot is in line with the post-war interest in the subconscious so prevalent in films of that era . This film takes the fluff approach , which movies like " The Snake Pit , " " The Dark Past " and " Spellbound " did not . Loretta fans will love it .
pleasant programmer	When a movie star accepts delivery of gown materials , she finds out that " The Corpse Came C . O . D . , " a B film with an above average cast : George Brent , Joan Blondell , and Adele Jergens . Brent plays Joe Medford , a newspaper reporter in hot competition with Rosemary Durant ( Blondell ) to get the best stories . When star Mona Harrison ( Jergens ) discovers the body of a studio costume designer in a box of material , she calls Medford instead of the cops and begs for help . She and the designer didn't get along , and it looks as if she's being set up to take the fall . This is fairly routine stuff brightened by the always delightful and energetic Blondell , whose character follows Medford everywhere , often getting caught . Brent conveys a light comic touch rarely seen in his leading man days of the ' 30s . By 1947 , at the age of 48 , Brent was moving into character parts and television . Ditto 41-year-old Blondell . I suppose B movies were a good way to have them use up their contractual obligations . Jergens is appropriately glamorous . We actually learn more of the background story toward the end of the film rather than at the beginning , so the plot has a little twist that otherwise might not have been there . Otherwise , it's a lot of running , chasing , and hiding , but Blondell's many fans will enjoy it .
youth , thou glittering bauble	The Man of Steel is back , this time in the body and face of Brandon Routh , with Lois played by Kate Boswell . The rest of the cast includes Frank Langella , Kevin Spacey , and Parker Posey . In this version , the Man of Steel has been away from earth and returns after five years to find Lois with a boyfriend and a child and Lex Luthor still making trouble . Lex has been hanging out at the Fortress of Solitude and fooling around with those knowledge crystals . His master plan now , using one of the crystals , is to make his own private planet , sending a lot of other land under water and killing about a billion people . Since he's planning to wrap the crystal in kryptonite , and kryptonite will be absorbed by the new continent , Superman doesn't have a chance . Watching Brandon Routh and Kate Boswell , I realized that the Superman torch had passed to yet another generation . Yes , folks , I've been around for three of them - that bartender was a kid when I first saw him . I realize some people have commented that they're too young . If you're my age , it's natural to feel that way since it can be hard to relate to something obviously targeted to another audience . My problem isn't so much that they're too young . My problem is that they're not very good . Both actors are too bland for their roles , Boswell not nearly tough enough and Routh is unexciting . Neither one of them are playing these parts ; instead , they give us generics . Clark Kent isn't just a guy with hair in his face and glasses . He's an enthusiastic , ambitious straight arrow with a certain amount of naivete . Lois isn't just an intelligent , pretty newswoman . She's a very tough woman who has an adversarial relationship with Clark , as well as being a cutthroat reporter . The effects in this film are mesmerizing with a real wow factor and that alone makes it worth seeing on a big screen . Langella makes a great Perry White , no surprise there . Parker Posey is a standout as Kitty . As Lex Luthor , Kevin Spacey is interesting but his Lex is more cerebral and less vicious . A great touch is the addition of two Superman oldies but goodies from the TV series - Noel Neill as a dying widow who is one of Lex's cons , and Jack Larson as the aforementioned bartender . Part of the problem with the lead performances is in the script and the direction . The people involved with the film had no understanding of this franchise , thinking that if they found someone who sort of resembles Chris Reeve and slapped an S on his chest that they had it made . They didn't .
Sonja skates	1942's Iceland is a wartime film about a playboy marine , James Murfin ( John Payne ) stationed in Iceland . There he meets Katina ( Henie ) , a lovely young woman in a hurry to get married so that her sister can marry a man who will bring some much-needed cash into the family . As in many cultures , the older girl must marry first . Katina , however , isn't crazy about the man who has proposed something like 36 times ( Sterling Holloway ) , so when she meets Murfin , she says they met a few years earlier and are in love . Before Murfin knows it , he's engaged , the marriage license has been registered , and at one point , the family believes that he's Katina's husband . There's not much of a story here , but some of the music is pleasant enough and well sung by Joan Merrill . Sonja has some great skating sequences . Figure skating was different in those days - much more dance oriented with no big jumps - barrel rolls and singles were about it . Sonja was a dazzling performer who had great speed and a thrilling signature spin that started slowly and went faster and faster , until she resembled a whirling dervish . Her contribution to the world of figure skating is invaluable : She popularized figure skating , invented the skating show , and made white skating boots the thing to wear ! John Payne is handsome and does a good job as Murfin , but he doesn't get to really sing . He had such a nice voice , it's a shame . Felix Bressart plays Katina's father and is a joy as always . Jack Oakie is Murfin's comic buddy , and he's good as well . However , when you're watching a Sonja Henie movie , it's Sonja's skating that's the true star . This isn't her best film , but it's still entertaining .
Light entertainment starring Dunne and Fairbanks Jr .	Irene Dunne is glamorous Maggie Garret , famous Broadway star , who is supporting her family in " Joy of Living , " a 1938 comedy also starring Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . , Alice Brady , Jean Dixon , Guy Kibbee , Lucille Ball , and Eric Blore . When Dunne meets the wealthy , carefree Dan Webster , he tries to show her what it's like to have fun and also to convince her that her family is freeloading off of her . This film is so lightweight it practically drifts upward . Dunne sings the same song at least 40 times ( or it felt like it ) , " Just Let Me Look at You . " It was okay the first time ; after that , you longed for another number . Dunne was adept at both comedy and drama , and she sang well . In comedy , she had the knack of appearing to have a good time and of improvising ( which in " The Awful Truth , " she was ) . I loved her scene in the courtroom when the judge says a respected person can be the parole officer / civilian guardian for Dan Webster , whom she has accused of stalking her . " You must know lots of important people , " she says . Webster shakes his head . " The only one I know is you . " Dunne purses her lips and , frustrated , says under her breath , " What a pity , " while it never occurs to her that she's being set up . The roller skating sequence is very funny ; the scene in the bar goes on a little too long . Fairbanks , a very versatile and charming actor , is lively and attractive as Dan . Lucille Ball has a small role as Maggie's whiny sister / understudy . As Maggie's mother , Alice Brady is quite dramatic and overblown , as she tended to be , having come from the stage . However , Brady was an excellent actress , and her acting was appropriate for the role . Nothing special , and I would submit that in order to enjoy it , you have to be a fan of Irene Dunne's .
B movie from an A director	Van Heflin is a forensics man trying to solve a couple of murders in " Kid Glove Killer , " a 1942 MGM film also starring Marsha Hunt and Lee Bowman . As in " The Grand Central Murder , " it's Heflin's performance that puts this film across , though this time he is aided by the lovely Marsha Hunt as his assistant , whom he calls " Mitchell . " Lee Bowman plays a crooked politician pretending to be a good guy , and as a result , he's eager to see an innocent man put away for murder . He also is after the aforementioned Mitchell , who is waiting around for Heflin to make a move . Hunt's role is somewhat dated ( or maybe not ) - she's on her way to becoming a good forensics person , but says that the job is not for a woman and she wants to get married . Evidently that will put an end to her career . Heflin was an interesting actor who could do character roles and leads . This film was made around the time of his breakthrough role in " Johnny Eager , " after which he hung up his B movie mantle and moved on to bigger things . He always brought wry humor and subtle characterizations to his roles as well as excellent timing . Lee Bowman was a mustached actor who looked like he came from the Warren William era . He's solid but not terribly exciting . Hunt brings warmth and sparkle to her role . There was , in my opinion , a major problem with the plot having to do with Heflin testing to find particles in the hair of various suspects some time after the crime - wouldn't the particles have come out when they washed their hair ? You really end up thinking no one ever took a shower . Nice beginning for Zinnemann , who would go on to direct some big features such as " High Noon . "
One big long concert	" Carnegie Hall " was made in 1947 and actually filmed in the newly refurbished Carnegie Hall . It's the story of a cleaner at the Hall named Nora ( Marsha Hunt ) who marries a pianist . He dies some time after they're married , and she's left to raise their son . She exposes him , by taking him to Carnegie Hall , to all of the great music and musicians , and he studies piano . The plan is for him to grow up to be a concert pianist . But he has other plans , and some of them include the pretty Ruth ( Martha O'Driscoll ) , who sings with Vaughn Monroe . William Prince plays the adult son , and Frank McHugh plays an employee of the Hall who is a friend of Nora's . This is one long movie with tons of beautiful music done by some of the great artists of the time : Leopold Stokowski conducting Tchaikovsky's " Symphony in E Minor , " Artur Rubenstein ( whom I saw play in concert while I was in high school ) doing Chopin's " Polonaise " and " The Ritual Fire Dance " at the piano keyboard , Jascha Heifetz and his nimble fingers on the violin for Tchaikovsky's " Concerto for Violin " - to name only a few . Singers include Ezio Pinza singing parts of Don Giovanni , Rise Stevens singing " Pres des Ramparts de Sevilla " from Carmen , and Lily Pons , in an exquisite gown , doing the Bell Song from Lakme , her signature piece . Jan Peerce sings " O Solo Mio . " It's all wonderful , and a real feast for classic music lovers , but it isn't very cinematic , and the script is non-existent . It is great to have the musical performances preserved , however . Marsha Hunt is still with us as of this writing , and she was a lovely actress , physically a cross between Jennifer Jones and Barbara Rush . She gets the usual Hollywood aging of gray hair , white powder and half a line on her face . I suggest putting this on your DVR and fast-forwarding to the performances .
The Emperor's wearing no clothes in this one	Joseph Cotten plays an American armaments engineer on the run from the Nazis in " Journey into Fear , " a 1943 film with a script by Cotten ( from a story by Eric Ambler ) and costarring Orson Welles and Delores del Rio . Cotten is working on a deal to supply Turkey with weapons to fight the Axis . The Nazis don't want the deal made and are trying to stop Cotten from getting back to the U . S . There are some very exciting scenes in this extremely atmospheric film , in particular on the ledge of a building between Cotten and the terrifying assassin . Most of the film takes place on board a dingy ship where Cotten is taken , thus beginning his Kafka-esquire nightmare . This is an entertaining film for sure , but I've always been troubled by it . First of all , it seems like there are scenes missing . Second , it's on the confusing side since there are irrelevant characters thrown in . Third , you can drive a truck through some of the plot holes . Fourth , the ending to me has always felt abrupt . Suspenseful ? Yes . Intriguing ? Yes . Ultimately disappointing ? Yes . Cotten is good as a man blundering through something he can't quite figure out - the problem is , the audience can't quite figure it out either . Welles has a small but effective role as Dr . Haki . Strong on style , weak on substance .
Propaganda movie with a love triangle thrown in	Fantastic special effects highlight this World War II submarine drama starring Tyrone Power , Dana Andrews , and Anne Baxter - Power's last before going into the Marines . Power is charming as a man who captures the heart of Anne Baxter , who though he doesn't know it , just happens to be the girl of Dana Andrews , Power's new commanding officer . Out on the submarine , there's some exciting action as the sub searches for a secret base set up by the Nazis . One interesting subplot is the friendship of Oliver , a black soldier , with Mac , portrayed by James Gleason . Ben Carter , who played Oliver , does a great job , and his role as a concerned friend and brave soldier is not the usual stereotypical one blacks were often forced to play . The ending , of course , is pure propaganda as Power , supposedly talking to his uncle , talks about the fighting men , subs , PT boats , and the like all doing their job . I'm in no way trying to denigrate it - propaganda is a fascinating part of film history and at that time was deemed important to the war movement . It's all very interesting to view today . And Power is gorgeous .
movie by the numbers	Despite my summary comment , I did enjoy this film , most especially the performances of the young men , Gosling and Pitt . I also was not familiar with the work of Ben Chaplin . He was very good and reminiscent facially of Montgomery Clift with his somewhat haunted look . This is a Leopold Loeb / Rope type murder which Sandra Bullock sets out to solve . I'm read some negative comments about Bullock in this movie . She plays a woman not as strong as she pretends , a woman haunted by a disturbing past and , because of that , has a strong identification with her victims . If some of this sounds familiar , it's not Bullock's fault ; she does a very good job of portraying this detective . I've seen better ; I've seen worse . It's a derivative story . I did think the scene between Bullock and Gosling was unrealistic bordering on ridiculous . She was , after all , a police detective , and while Gosling may have been arrogant , how stupid can one person be ? And he's supposed to be smart ! Also , for such a narcissistic jerk , how is it that he pegged her emotional problems so easily ? Not a necessary scene .
Not a very good vehicle for anyone	Certainly Anatole Litvak was no slouch as a director , but he missed the mark here in " Five Miles to Midnight , " a 1962 film starring Sophia Loren , Tony Perkins and Gig Young . Lisa Macklin ( Sophia Loren ) married to an American , believes that her husband ( Tony Perkins ) has been killed in an airplane crash . Actually , he was a survivor and wants to collect $120 , 000 in insurance he took out before the flight by pretending to be dead . Of course , his wife has to collect it . The two don't exactly get along , and the only way to be rid of him is for Lisa to collect the money for him . She is falling for a newspaperman ( Young ) , who is suspicious as to what is going on . Her husband promises he will let her go once he has the money . This is a very unsatisfactory film , in part because of the miscasting of Tony Perkins as Loren's husband . Not only that , but the acting just isn't very good even from pros like Loren , Perkins and Young . Litvak only made two more films after this - it appears he lost his touch after making some marvelous films : This Above All , All This and Heaven Too , Tovarich , City for Conquest . Either that or he had to make too many concessions . At any rate , he didn't pay too much attention to what the actors were doing . The story just meanders along . Not very good .
Based on Durrell collection	In 1938 Alexandria , a British schoolmaster ( Michael York ) befriends the wife of a banker named Justine ( Anouk Aimee ) , a mysterious woman whom he meets through a British officer ( Dirk Bogarde ) . She's actually a prostitute and political activist . Darley , the York character , finds out that Justine is heavily involved with an anti-British plot to give arms to the Jewish underground in Palestine . This uneven film is based on Lawrence Durrell's collection , " The Alexandria Quartet . " The film is pretty unsuccessful , though there are still signs of director Cukor's hands - he took over from the original director . The film seems like it starts in the middle . Nice photography , good music , but it doesn't hang together . Michael York , Dirk Bogarde , and John Vernon are all good ; Aimee does okay . Apparently she and Cukor didn't get along . She gives a somewhat confusing performance . Can't really recommend it .
good cast in cold war drama	Gregory Peck plays a U . S . Army Provost caught up in exchanging a married couple wanted by Russians for a captured American soldier in " Night People , " set in post-war Berlin . By today's standards , this film is on the talky side , with not much action . Although the script was nominated for an Oscar , it's problematic - the denouement was much too simple , for one thing . Broderick Crawford is the father of the captured soldier , and he does an excellent job . Rita Gam is Ricky , Peck's beautiful and feisty secretary . There are several TV faces as well : Buddy Ebsen , Walter Abel , and Max Showalter . Anita Bjork is " Hoffy , " a woman who works for Peck yet may be playing both ends . But the film is really Peck's , who does a fantastic job creating an interesting , tough , passionate , decisive , and funny character . He's instantly both likable and admirable .
' 30s melodrama	This is a precode movie starring Norma Shearer , who looks gorgeous in all the gowns ( and is that the way people dressed for a football game in the ' 30s ? ) . Shearer plays a free spirit who doesn't believe in marriage and instead cavorts and travels with a reporter . Of course , she's kidding herself , and she wanted the wedding ring all along - when he announces he's been married the whole time and then breaks up with her , she takes up with every man she meets . This is never actually stated , which makes it kind of fun . Robert Montgomery says , " Boy , what I heard about you in Paris . " Shearer : " You didn't believe it , did you ? " Montgomery : " Not the first 6 or 700 times . " Montgomery easily steals the movie as her funny , charming , ever-drunk good friend . It's the best role and holds up today . The other roles don't - the story is too melodramatic , acted in an old-fashioned , hand on the forehead style that dates it . Added to that , the reporter character of Alan , played by Neil Hamilton , is despicable , making the film a frustrating experience for the viewer . As an artifact and for the clothes and sets , you can't beat it , though .
Four brothers and one woman on an international search	Richard Greene , David Niven , George Sanders and William Henry are the four men part of " Four Men and a Prayer , " a 1938 John Ford film also starring Loretta Young . Frankly I felt as if I came in at the middle of this film , though I saw the whole thing - but I never actually did figure out the plot . The boys ' father ( C . Aubrey Smith ) has been dishonorably discharged from the army and telegraphs each son that he wants to meet them at the family manse . The discharge was unfair - he was set up - now , I'm guessing here but it had something to do with illegal arms . His sons want to help him , but moments later , he is murdered in his study and his papers stolen . Taking what info they have , they split up and travel to India , South America and Egypt to find the people their father mentioned who can help clear his name . Loretta Young , who plays Greene's madcap girlfriend , chases him shamelessly in a variety of outfits . I still can't decide if there was too little or too much fooling around by the brothers . For me the comic stuff never does come off , Niven being the exception . The acting , however , is good . Richard Greene might have been Tyrone Power's only rival at 20th Century Fox , except that he returned to England in 1940 to enter the service . This was his first film under contract to Fox . He was very handsome with a nice screen persona ; baby boomers may remember him as television's " Robin Hood . " Loretta Young is dazzlingly beautiful - I actually didn't find her annoying as she seemed to fit right into the frenetic energy of the film . Sanders and Niven turned in their usual fine performances . There's a nice turn by Lina Basquette , too , as a foreign woman with information . For those who don't know Lina , well , she was a silent screen star and half-sister of dancer Marge Champion . She was married to Sam Warner ; after his death , the Warners took her child from her and made sure she never worked again . She eventually went to the dogs - literally - by becoming a breeder and judge at the Westminster Dog Show . In a New Yorker Profile done in the 1990s , she claimed to have been propositioned by Hitler and said she had done work as a spy during World War II . She also declared Eric Braeden of " The Young and the Restless " her favorite actor and ended up meeting him . She appeared at Cinecom when she was in her late 80s , and the audience , used to seeing elderly actresses in wheelchairs , was shocked at the end of " The Younger Generation , " one of her early films , when she didn't walk - but ran onto the stage , looking incredible , to answer questions . For me , Lina's appearance as Ahnee is actually the high point of " Four Men and a Prayer , " featuring some very attractive people in a half-comedy / half-drama and a confusing plot . Thankfully , Ford didn't stick with this genre .
Silly screwball	Errol Flynn , Rosalind Russell , Olivia de Havilland and Patric Knowles prove that " Four's a Crowd " in this 1938 comedy directed by Michael Curtiz . With such a great cast , one would think this is a classic gem . Alas , no . In fact , due to a confusing script , it's in shambles . Fun shambles , but shambles . Walter Connolly plays millionaire John Dillingwell , Olivia de Havilland is his beautiful albeit dizzy daughter , Rosalind Russell is a reporter , and Patric Knowles , who is dating de Havilland , is Russell's boss . Dillingwell is a private person with no interest in public relations . Russell's boyfriend ( Flynn ) runs a PR firm and wants to land the Dillingwell account . With some help from the paper , Flynn manages to make Dillingwell the most hated man in America - a man desperately in need of having his image cleaned up . Not that he agrees to it right away . The inspiration for this story is John D . Rockefeller , the most hated man in America at one time , known for his ruthless business tactics . He hired a publicist and , with the publicist's urging , began to give away his vast fortune consisting of property and money to various charities . For screwball comedy , " Four's a Crowd " had a lot of competition , which is probably why the powers that be threw everything at it but the kitchen sink . Heiresses - " It Happened One Night , " " Love is News , " " Libeled Lady , " etc . abounded . So did the movies - and they were all better than this one . There certainly are some fun scenes and some good performances . Flynn had a good flair for comedy , as did de Havilland , though they weren't often cast that way . de Havilland's early career was in fact doing airhead ingnues , such as in " It's Love I'm After " and this one . Russell is terrific as usual , and Knowles acquits himself well . If only the script had been stronger . . . it's still fun , though .
Loneliness and the power of forgiveness	Montgomery Clift is a writer hired to be " Miss Lonelyhearts " for a newspaper in " Lonelyhearts , " a 1958 film also starring Robert Ryan , Myrna Loy , Delores Hart , and Maureen Stapleton in her film debut . About 30 years ago - yes , 30 - I saw the play " Miss Lonelyhearts " with none other than Kelsey Grammar , who had not yet gone to Hollywood . The play , as well as the book , are quite different from what ended up on the screen . In the film , the ending was changed to a more upbeat one . This is a great film if you're contemplating suicide because this will take you right over the edge . It is relentlessly depressing with some pathetic characters and some unlikeable ones . Adam ( Clift ) is a man with a hidden past that he keeps even from his girlfriend ( Delores Hart ) . All the viewer really knows at first is that he was raised in an orphanage and has a father in prison . The paper on which Adam works is owned by William Shrike , an abusive , cynical man ( Ryan ) who is horrible not only to his employees but to his wife ( Myrna Loy ) because of her infidelity 10 years before . This is a man who carries a grudge . When he meets Adam , he thinks his sincerity is fake and becomes determined to wear him down . His first step is to hire him as Miss Lonelyhearts . Adam becomes very bothered by the problems his readers send to him , especially because he can't help anyone . When Shrike dares him to meet one of the letter-writers , he does so . It's Maureen Stapleton , a needy woman with a crippled husband who can't make love to her . The performances in this film are very good , but the film isn't . Clift apparently was very disappointed in it because it lacked none of the bite of the novel and none of the symbolism of Adam as a Christlike figure bearing the sins of others . Robert Ryan is very convincing as the hateful Shrike , and Myrna Loy is beautiful and sad as his wife . Stapleton received an Oscar nomination for her effective performance . An accomplished stage actress , Stapleton evokes the desperation of this lonely woman . Montgomery Clift by this time was almost at a point where he was dependent upon the kindness of strangers . He was too much of a risk for Hollywood to be interested . Like so many people who are victims of horrible accidents , he had become addicted to painkillers and alcohol . If not for Elizabeth Taylor making a case for him , he would not have been cast in " Suddenly , Last Summer . " As it was , Mankiewicz almost stopped shooting on the film . He is fragile and glassy-eyed here , in obvious pain , and his voice slurs . The fragility works well in this role as does the sensitivity he brings to the part . He still had a beautiful smile , which unfortunately he doesn't get to use much here . It's always wonderful to see Montgomery Clift perform , even toward the end of his career . That interesting voice of his , the intelligence and sensitivity of his work , and the tenderness with which he approached a love scene were unmatched . His film career was relatively short , but he left a powerful legacy . " Lonelyhearts " is not a great film , but it stars Montgomery Clift , so it's worth seeing .
Odd . I find it odd .	I was confused from the beginning of " The 4th Floor " because , fool that I am , it never once occurred to me that this young woman talking with William Hurt ( who is my age ) was actually his girlfriend . She looked like his daughter and in fact , with the 23 year difference in their ages , could have been . Once that was out of the way , I started to concentrate . This is a pretty scary movie if you like the genre , but it doesn't make any sense . I can understand Jane moving into her late aunt's apartment - it's New York City , after all , reasonably priced apartments are hard to come by , and she doesn't want to move in with her boyfriend . But no matter how reasonable the rent , no one would have stayed in that building . The neighbors are all totally bizarre and someone - she thinks it's her neighbor on the 4th floor - - is tormenting her . Aggressively . There are sometimes one can put these problems in a film aside and sometimes that one can't . This would be one of the times that one can't . It really stretched all reason . If it was the type of film where one just had to suspend belief , that would have been another story , but it wasn't . I figured the plot out long before the denouement , although the ending is ambiguous in a way . The acting was mixed . Lewis sounded like she was imitating Jennifer Elise Cox's character on Lovespring , and Hurt's role was beneath him . The supporting players were the marvelous Austin Pendleton and Shelley Duvall who gave wonderful and interesting performances . All in all , scary stuff , good atmosphere , an okay rental .
not of my generation but okay	I had some trouble getting into the teens in " Hackers " because for me , even the 1995 types seem like they're from another planet . A cast of now familiar faces ( Fisher Stevens , Angelina Jolie , Lorraine Bracco , Jonny Lee Miller , Jesse Bradford , Laurence Mason ) tell the story of a bunch of hackers who are about to be framed for a fraud put together by the computer security person in a corporation ( Stevens ) and his girlfriend , also inside the corporation ( Bracco ) . The beginning is especially good - an district attorney ( Felicity Huffman ) speaks of the dastardly deeds of the defendant , a destructive criminal - and the camera pans to an 11-year-old boy , Dade Murphy , who is Johnny Lee Miller's character as a child . The boy is forbidden by the court to have a touch tone phone or a computer until he turns 18 . The story continues 7 years later when Dade is up to his old tricks and joins a group of hackers with handles like Acid Burn and Cereal Killer . As mentioned in several comments , a lot of " Hackers " is dated now - like the 28 . 8 modem - but it's still fun , with very colorful computer screens , many of which will take old-timers back to the psychedelic days . Though I enjoyed the movie , I don't think I was the target demographic .
Jackie's back and Aunt Bea's got him	Good , atmospheric story of Jack the Ripper , in the person of a Mr . Slade , renting a sitting room and an attic room in a London home . Jack Palance , with his unusual looks and soft voice , is perfectly cast as the man who falls under suspicion of being the Ripper . He finds himself to attracted to the flirtatious , beautiful , and kind-hearted niece of the owner of the home , Lily , played by Constance Smith . Smith was an Irish actress who was under contract to Fox for a time , after which she made films in Italy , retiring apparently in 1959 . As a risqu entertainer and beauty , Lily has also attracted the attentions of a Scotland Yard inspector . It proves an odd triangle . Frances Bavier of Andy Griffith Show fame plays Lily's aunt . Very interesting , small film that manages to have a British feel despite the variety of accents and non-accents of the major actors .
why so hard on this movie ?	I was surprised at the strong negative comments toward this film in the " comments " section . It certainly doesn't deserve the skewering . When I first saw this movie , I thought it should have been a feature film . I was interested to read in one of the comments that that's exactly what it was , in a much darker version . " In the Eyes of a Stranger " has some excellent elements , including the plot . The problem , of course , is just as one of the posters wrote , it was watered down for television and cast as such . The main character should be compelling , complicated and seductive . Justine Bateman has none of these adjectives in her repertoire . But remembering that despite its potential , it is a TV movie after all , it comes off very well . I don't agree that the Bateman character would have been less calm in the first hour after the subway incident - look at her history , also look at what information she received . I think one of the problems with the previous posts is that people got this film at their local video store instead of seeing it on Lifetime . As a video rental I don't think I'd have been too thrilled either . But why did you rent a movie starring Justine Bateman ?
okay look at some sad Hollywood deaths	Hollywood Heaven purports to be a documentary about the untimely and tragic deaths of Hollywood stars - but doesn't really give the topic a documentary treatment . It depends on clips and photos of a variety of stars - James Dean , George Reeves , Rock Hudson , W . C . Fields , Marilyn Monroe , Tyrone Power , Alan Ladd and Rudolph Valentino , and is done on the cheap . Much of the footage is familiar - Monroe singing " Happy Birthday " to the President , for instance , and it also contains a few mistakes . Despite what has been said , George Reeves ' footage in " From Here to Eternity " was not cut because someone in the audience said , " Look , there's Superman . " It's an urban legend ; it simply isn't true . If you're not familiar with this material , you'll find this documentary , which I believe went straight to video , of some interest .
possession obsession , CODA style	As TV movies go , this is a pretty good one , dealing with codependency . Connie Selleca , who co-wrote the scrpit , is very good as a newswoman who suspects her husband of infidelity , despite his protests ( and some evidence to the contrary ) . Kevin Dobson plays the husband . This is a good study of an adult child of an alcoholic , with the attendant denial , the people pleasing , and the compulsivity . The Selleca character , as she puts it herself , grew up being told that her feelings were wrong , that black was white and white was black . As a result , she can't trust her instincts . It's an emotional and painful journey for this character and portrayed somewhat realistically . I don't really agree with one of the posters , who claims that the woman would have left her husband right away . It doesn't happen that way when you're dealing with such damaged feelings and the fear of abandonment . A strong supporting cast includes Grace Zabriskie and Georgeann Johnson .
Loretta goes postal	Loretta Young was 38 when she made " Cause for Alarm " and the actress , who started in silent films , was a couple of years away from beginning her highly successful television series . Because Hollywood back in the golden era didn't have much use for actresses over 30 , and no use for actresses over 35 , Young , like many of her counterparts , had descended into B films by the time the ' 50s hit . This is one . Her costar is Barry Sullivan , who plays her bedridden husband . Ill with a heart condition , the troubled man has given into his paranoid instincts and become convinced that his best friend , a doctor , and Young , who was once his nurse , are trying to kill him . He writes a letter to the district attorney and gives it to his wife to mail . When he later tells her what's in the letter , she spends the rest of the film trying to get it back . Irving Bacon is quite funny and irritating as the talkative , whiny postman . The beautiful Young is over her head in this drama - she's totally hysterical and the character as essayed by her can't keep control over her panic for two seconds . It's an annoying performance rather than being a sympathetic one . You just want her to calm down . Loretta Young's greatest asset during her career was her great beauty , fashion sense , and the gentle , lovely quality she brought to many roles , such as in " The Bishop's Wife . " Playing a frantic , middle class housewife just wasn't her thing . Sullivan's role is not well drawn ; the story had more potential than was able to be explored even in the hands of a fine director like Tay Garnett . All in all , pretty routine .
a strange mixture	This film , with the usual excellent Renee Zwelleger performance , is a strange mixture of comedy and drama . It succeeds quite well at walking that line , too . The underlying plot - a woman driven to living out her dream in order to avoid a harsh reality - is played pretty much straight through as comedy , but with Zwelleger's help , we see it isn't funny at all . I really liked its quirkiness .
disappointing	Alan Ladd has an " Appointment with Danger " in this 1951 film also starring Phyllis Calvert , Jack Webb , Jan Sterling and Paul Stewart . Ladd is a postal inspector who goes undercover to stop a robbery after his partner is murdered and a nun ( Calvert ) can identify the man leaving the murder scene . It's up to Ladd and the police to see that she's protected while catching the robbers in the act . This is a routine drama , with the handsome Ladd playing a cynical inspector with his usual straightforward delivery . But he seems to walk through this role laconically . The minute I saw Jack Webb and his " Dragnet " partner Henry Morgan together in their pre-TV series days , I wasn't looking for a scintillating script , figuring that one of Webb's cronies had something to do with it . He did . Webb played the criminal in this the way he played Joe Friday , showing us that in Webb's hands anyway , there's no difference what side of the law you're on . Henry Morgan , however , made a sleazy criminal . The best performance comes from Phyllis Calvert , who is just right as the nun and contributes some spark to this film . Jan Sterling contributes some more spark , but her role is a throwaway . " Dragnet " never did a thing for me , and once I see Webb ( the exception being " Sunset Boulevard " ) I can't summon up much enthusiasm . If you're a " Dragnet " and / or Webb fan , you'll enjoy this a bit more than I did .
A new view of Marlowe	Philip Marlowe is on the case , and we see everything from his point of view as he is the camera . The only time we see Marlowe is when he looks in a mirror or fills us in on aspects of the story , which he does at the beginning , middle , and end . The plot actually has a neat twist to it , though I found the camera thing to be somewhat distracting . As far as characterizations , I also found them strange . Marlowe is a hardboiled detective . Apparently that's all he is , as Montgomery's voice is hardboiled for 99 % of the movie . His love interest is Audrey Totter , playing Adrienne Fromsett , a career woman . This of course means she's uptight , wears her hair up , and is in love with the big cheese of the firm - well , this was the ' 40s . Montgomery is nasty as all get-out to her , so it must be love , and sure enough , it is . Guess those insults were supposed to be flirtation . Jayne Meadows and Lloyd Nolan are both very good in supporting roles .
you can't kill it , it's already dead	I'm an enormous fan of Hugh Jackman's so I watched this movie . I'm a bit distressed that , besides X-Men , Hugh can't get a blockbuster film deserving of his talent and charisma - which I witnessed first-hand watching him on stage in " Boy From Oz . " I have to say up front I'm not a particular fan of the horror film genre and Hugh was my only reason to watch this . Having said that , I think this movie didn't know whether to be funny or serious so it didn't make it as either . It probably would have worked better had it been camped up a lot more . The movie looks gorgeous and it certainly had some interesting things in it , but I was bored by it . Hugh kissed the leading lady once . Should have been a lot more of that - maybe I would have been more interested .
young stars cut their teeth on this early drama	Barbara Stanwyck is a " Night Nurse " in this 1931 film also starring Joan Blondell , Ben Lyon and Clark Gable . Stanwyck and Blondell stumble on a murder for trust fund plot , and Stanwyck gets help from a bootlegger she helped when he was shot . I like what one of the IMDb reviewers said , that this was an " evil of the big city " film for those audiences who didn't live in one . Stanwyck faces down a crooked doctor and an evil chauffeur ( Gable ) to thwart this plot , though she's warned it's best not to make waves . Stanwyck is very good , showing her tough side with the criminals and her sweet side with the children . Gable , with no mustache , looks very handsome in his chauffeur outfit and acts menacing . He definitely always had a strong presence . Blondell is the wisecracking , streetwise nurse - her part is smaller than Stanwyck's . The young women do a lot of parading around in their underwear and there's lots of sexual talk between the lines - this is pre-Code . Worth seeing for work of these early stars , and pre-code films are usually interesting .
Okay Elvis fare	As someone else mentioned , 1963 is still early enough that Elvis Presley looks like he's enjoying himself in " It Happened at the World's Fair , " which also stars Gary Lockwood , Joan O'Brien and Vicky Tiu . Pilots Mike ( Elvis ) and Danny ( Lockwood ) find themselves without a plane after it's confiscated for debts due to Lockwood's addiction to gambling . They hitch a ride to Seattle with a man and his 7-year-old niece Sue-Lin ( Tiu ) , and Mike ends up taking the little girl to the 1962 World's Fair . When she eats too much junk , he takes her to the clinic , where he meets Diane Warren ( Joan O'Brien ) , a nurse . He comes on a little strong - so strong , I'm surprised she didn't call security . In order to see her again , he gives a little boy ( Kurt Russell ) a quarter to kick him in the shins . After he return Sue-Lin to her uncle , she finds Mike again when her uncle doesn't come home from making a delivery . Mike now has to cope with a not very helpful partner , trying to think of a way to get his plane back , romancing Diane and taking care of a 7-year-old girl . This is the usual Elvis travelogue , but more interesting than others because it's shot on the grounds of the Seattle World's Fair and has that iconic moment when future brilliant Elvis impersonator Russell lets him have it in the shins . Elvis looks great and as usual sings beautifully . The music is pretty good . This wasn't the film career Elvis wanted but unfortunately for his ambitions , these films made money . Enjoyable .
The background story is more interesting	Allegedly , Susan Hayward got this breakthrough role because every other Hollywood actress turned it down , due to the fact that it is the story of Bing Crosby's wife , Dixie Lee . Whatever , it got Susan an Oscar nomination and put her on the road to meatier parts . As other comments have pointed out , this was probably considered very hard-hitting back in the day . But while it's true that " The Lost Weekend " tackled alcoholism , this is the story of a woman alcoholic , and that carries a lot of baggage with it - baggage Hollywood probably wasn't ready to face in 1947 . One of the stereotypes of female alcoholism is promiscuity , a subject not broached here . Also , rather than a slovenly , bedraggled appearance , Hayward looks gorgeous throughout . Had this subject been handled more brutally , it would have been groundbreaking . In 1947 , alcoholics like Gail Russell hid out at home , leading miserable , lonely lives . Here , Hayward gives up her own successful singing career to be the stay at home wife of Lee Bowman , whose career takes off . ( In Bowman's dubbing , they even give him those mellow , rounded Crosby-like tones . ) Boredom , feeling left out , and jealousy lead her to consume more and more alcohol , although it's clear from the beginning of the film that she drinks for courage before performing . Her downward cycle and the ending of the movie are all a little too pat , but Hayward does a good job with the material she's given . Lee Bowman is miscast as her successful husband - he lacks the charisma , breezy manner , and flirtatiousness one would associate with a successful pop singer of the era and displays none of the ambition one would suspect Crosby and Sinatra , for instance , possessed . He also lacks the self-involvement one would associate with a star of that magnitude , which would in turn drive his wife out of his life . This is more the fault of the script and the direction , however . Eddie Albert is charming and gives an honest performance as partner and concerned friend . Recommended if you want to see a young Susan Hayward in a meaty role .
Fun and a good mystery	I am really enjoying the Hallmark Mystery Series . This entry , Murder Weekend , I felt was superior to the first " Mystery Woman " entry I saw . First of all , it had the stunningly beautiful , creamy-voiced Beth Broderick as a diva mystery writer . The rest of the cast was perfect for this series , plus the actual mystery was intriguing . It makes me feel like I need a rocking chair when I see Kellie Martin very grown up now and Clarence Williams III so old ! He was an angry young man in my day , and Kellie has been a kid forever . No more . I am delighted to see her in this series and I hope the shows keep coming . I have one gripe - I think that store needs some more customers !
frothy ' 60s comedy	What a warm , wonderful actress Doris Day is , what a knockout , what a screen presence . And just think , at the age of 42 ( ancient by Hollywood standards in 1966 ) she was playing a desirable woman lusted after by several men . Glass Bottom Boat is a very ' 60s comedy in look and subject matter - the space age and spies . Taylor has invented a gizmo and when there's a leak from his project team , suspicion falls on Day , who works for the company and calls someone named Vladimir several times a day . Vladimir , however , is her dog , and she's calling him so he'll run around while the phone is ringing and get some exercise . The film is loaded with space-age gadgets . Taylor's computerized , motorized kitchen is great , complete with a floor-cleaning robot - wonder if the inventors of today's robot vacuum saw this movie . He also pilots his boat via a remote - but as he points out during a scene where the boat runs amok with Day inside , that needs further work . There's lots of slapstick and comedy support from Dom Deluise , Dick Martin , and Paul Lynde . Lynde , by the way , looked great in drag , and has some great delivery in his scenes . Some of the scenes , especially those of Deluise , had an improv feel . The late Eric Fleming , Clint Eastwood's boss on " Rawhide , " plays a CIA man . This was his last film ; he drowned shortly afterwards . Rod Taylor , who , by the way , is younger than Doris Day , is effective as Day's romantic interest . Of note , radio personality Arthur Godfrey plays Day's father . There's also an appearance by Robert Vaughan as an homage to his " Man from UNCLE " character . Frothy fun , and Doris Day is always a delight .
Star-making film despite miscasting	Jean Harlow is the " Platinum Blonde " a reporter falls for in this 1931 film , directed by Frank Capra and also starring Loretta Young and Robert Williams . The gorgeous 18-year-old Young plays a reporter who hangs with the guys - I think NOT , though she acquits herself well . The story concerns a reporter , Stew Smith ( Williams ) who goes out to the mansion of the prominent Schuyler family to get a story - the son in the family wrote letters to a chorus girl , and she wants $10 , 000 for them . Smith falls for the society daughter and they wind up eloping . I naturally thought Jean Harlow would be the chorus girl . Instead , she's the rich woman Stew Smith falls for , Anne Schuyler ! Harlow makes a couple of attempts at sounding sophisticated , something she did in her later films when she was making fun of someone . Doing it here , she can't keep it up . Nevertheless , she's good in this serious role and has wonderful chemistry with Williams . This film really launched both her and Capra . The supporting cast is wonderful . It's pre-code , and there's a very sexy scene between Williams and Harlow as they stand kissing behind glass as a water fountain flows over the glass . A beautiful shot . Like everyone else , I was impressed with Williams ' performance and wondered what happened to him . He died of appendicitis complications right after the film's release . He was tremendously talented and just wonderful as Stew . This is the typical class distinction story so common in theater and films back then . Except for the casting , there aren't really any surprises . If you have a chance to see it , do , for the stars and especially for Robert Williams .
Typical ' 40s unmarried woman with no room for romance	Major slapstick is the highlight of " A Woman of Distinction , " a 1950 film starring Rosalind Russell , Ray Milland , Edmund Gwenn and Janis Carter . Russell has one of her uptight , cold women roles so often depicted in the ' 40s . You know the one , no room or time for romance until a man melts her down . The melter here is Ray Milland . Russell is the dean of a girls ' school in New England ; Milland plays a visiting British astronomer . Will she succumb to his charms ? Sure , after she beats him with her handbag , and she's sprayed with water , smeared with mud , and falls out of chairs . Wouldn't you ? The laughs are all supposed to come from the slapstick ; in truth , there's not too much of a script , and what's there is predictable and derivative . The cast is likable , and Russell proves she can do just about anything . In the end , it's not much of a movie .
A little better than the other version	There are two versions of Carolyn Warmus ' story - this one and another 1992 version starring Jenny Robertson and Joe Penny . So Carolyn doesn't beat out Amy Fisher , of whom it was said , " Jesus Christ didn't have that many movies made of his life . " This TV movie , starring Virginia Madsen and Chris Sarandon , is superior to the other , which isn't saying too awfully much . The cast is definitely better . Though I am a fan of Joe Penny's , I never considered Robertson much of an actress ; however , in recent years , now that she is more in the leading lady stage of her career , she is much better . Both films portray Carolyn as a man magnet with a great body and loads of sex appeal . In both versions , much is made of her grand , electric entrance into the courtroom on the first day of her trial . This film has one thing the other lacked - the real-life character of Vincent Parco , the detective who sold Carolyn the murder weapon ( with a silencer ) . For an important figure in the case , it's strange that he isn't a character in the Robertson-Penny movie . I actually have spoken with Vincent Parco , so I admit to finding this version more interesting . Without going into enormous detail , Warmus is the woman suspected of killing her boyfriend's wife , Betty Jean Solomon . At first , her boyfriend is the chief suspect . Eventually the focus falls on Carolyn . I thought Madsen was great showing how unstable and obsessive Carolyn was , trashing a room and stalking Carlin and his wife in Puerto Rico ( in flashback ) . Chris Sarandon , as Michael Carlin , the guilt-ridden , overwrought , cheating husband , is very good . Peter Haskell , another favorite of mine , plays Carolyn's father in flashback . He's uncredited . Ned Eisenberg , another favorite and a good actor is the detective assigned to the case . So for me , the dice are loaded in favor of this version . Both are routine , and as we know , the beautiful and talented Madsen has gone on to much better .
A producer tries to get a doctor on television	Paul Muni is " The Last Angry Man " in this 1959 film directed by Daniel Mann and also starring Luther Adler , David Wayne , Betsy Palmer and Billy Dee Williams . This has the look and feel of a TV show , and evidently it may have been on Playhouse 90 before being done as a feature film . The movie is interesting for a few reasons . First of all , it concerns reality television , which is very timely . A producer ( David Wayne ) takes an interest in an old doctor ( Muni ) working in a depressed neighborhood and wants to feature him on television . He's a little hard to pin down because he's always running off to take care of one of his patients . Of special concern is a black man ( Williams ) who has a brain tumor . The other reason it was interesting to me is that the producer says that 30 million people would see the TV show . He's right - back then , 30 million people could tune in to a television show . A top TV show today can garner 8-10 million viewers . Paul Muni was an interesting actor - in the 1930s , he basically hid himself in disguises , heavy makeup and costumes in order to create a role ; as he proved in films like Scarface and I Was a Fugitive from a Chain Gang , he didn't need to resort to all of that . He was , however , like Luther Adler , a stage actor from another time , and also like Adler , a graduate of the Yiddish theatre , and some of the acting here by the two of them is bigger than what we're used to seeing today , so it comes off as hammy . In one of her classes , Stella Adler said , " You don't know any great actors . " That was probably a quote from the 1970s . If we didn't know any great actors in the 1970s , we sure wouldn't know any today if they whacked us over the head . What is great changes ; television was one of the big reasons that acting styles changed . Also , many of the characters are overtly Jewish in a way that today may seem stereotypical . It's also fascinating to see a very young Billy Dee Williams in an early role , along with Godfrey Cambridge and Cecily Tyson in smaller parts . Again , some of the depictions here of urban problems come off as overwrought . This is the kind of movie one needs to see in light of the time it was made and not by today's standards to be better appreciated .
Dated but entertaining TV show from the ' 50s	" Promenade " seems to be a special produced by Max Liebman for TV in 1955 . It does not appear to have been a series . In the ' 50s and the ' 60s especially , variety shows were all the rage , led by that Sunday night staple , Ed Sullivan , as well as Perry Como and many others . It seems like every singer and comedian had a variety show back then . They were like the reality shows are today - everywhere . " Promenade " is mostly made up of music , but there were also skits , one of which was especially funny , featuring the incomparable Judy Holliday . It concerns a couple who is being held by an escaped convict while he hides in their house , and a clueless neighbor ( Holliday ) who blunders in and still doesn't comprehend the situation . " It's just me , the neighbors , and that escaped dentist , " she tells her husband on the phone . There are also big musical numbers featuring Kay Starr , Holliday , and Janet Blair . Barbara Baxley was present for the acting skits . Other guests were Herb Shriner and George S . Irving . " Promenade " was hosted by Tyrone Power , who looked very handsome . At the end of the show , he joined Holliday , Starr , Blair , and the backup singers and dancers for " Chattanooga Choo-Choo . " It was fun to see him , and sad to realize that both he and Judy Holliday died at the age of 44 , Power only three years later . A nice example of a ' 50s TV variety show .
enjoyable , light film for Teri Garr fans	There are very few TV movies that are comedies . This is one , and , while trite , it was enjoyable and good , distracting entertainment . Teri Garr fans will especially like it , as she is at the top of her form here as a young mom who overhears some strange doings on the baby monitor and sets out to investigate . The late Robert Urich is her husband and Alex Rocco is the hapless police detective . Garr gets good support from Susan Ruttan and Jeffrey Tambor as well . For some reason , networks are loathe to produce comedies as TV movies . Once in a while , it's nice to see something that isn't a true life crime story or a gory murder . Although this TV movie is rather silly , it was still fun .
disappointing	1937's " This is My Affair " could have been better but as it is , barely gets by . Robert Taylor stars as a Navy lieutenant who is asked by President McKinley to get the name of the men robbing banks all over the country , and his mission is to be kept secret between the two of them . Taylor infiltrates the gang by becoming a criminal himself . He meets the dumb , big practical joker ( Victor McLaglen ) and the brains ( Brian Donlevy ) - but there's a head name , whose name he can't get . McLaglen has it bad for Donlevy's half-sister , a saloon singer ( Stanwyck ) with whom Taylor falls in love . By the way , this film was made before Taylor and Stanwyck were married . Of course , who cares , now they've been outed as gay along with the rest of Hollywood . The premise isn't bad if you can suspend your imagination , and the end is fairly tense , but " This is My Affair " just isn't a well-made or well-thought out film . First of all , Stanwyck was one of the most versatile and multi-talented actresses in Hollywood , but singing wasn't her greatest talent . In fact , she couldn't sing , with the exception of " Take it Off the E String ( Play it on the G String ) in " Lady of Burlesque " and a little number in " Banjo on my Knee " that can't count as singing . Her outfits were from the Mae West School of Design and overpowered her tiny frame . Then there is the awful scene with Theodore Roosevelt where he invents the phrase , " Speak softly but carry a big stick " - embarrassing . Taylor slugs through it professionally , but why did makeup people always slather so much pancake and eye shadow on him ? This is a 20th Century Fox film , by the way , not MGM , Taylor's usual studio , but MGM did it too . Fox never made Tyrone Power up like that with the exception of " Lloyds of London . " Taylor was a handsome , rugged man . I guess they couldn't leave his face alone . Victor McLaglen isn't very good , but Donlevy , in a usual-type role for him , does a good job . As far as Stanwyck and Taylor being married in real life , let me just state a few things : Stanwyck was totally devastated when Taylor left her for Ursula Theiss . When he tried to divorce her for Lana Turner , Stanwyck never spoke to Turner again . In fact , they were once in the same hotel , and Lana called her , only to get the sound of a receiver crashing down in her ear . In 1950 , during the filming of Quo Vadis , she arrived in Italy to find Taylor cheating on her with one of the females involved in the film . She called a producer sobbing , " My marriage is over . " Now we find out they were both gay - not bisexual , mind you , but gay , their marriage nothing but an arrangement . My advice : Take that info from whence it comes and remember this - once you're dead , anybody can write anything they want about you without fear of a lawsuit .
Another British episode of " The Saint "	When a man is killed on his doorstep , Simon Templar ( Hugh Sinclair ) tries to find out the reason in " The Saint Meets the Tiger , " a 1943 film also starring Gordon McLeod , Jean Gillie and Wylie Watson . In this episode , The Saint has a butler ( Wylie Watson ) who regrets not taking a job in Chicago so he could work with mobsters ; a death on the doorstep is what he's been waiting for . The man utters a few words before he dies , which lead Simon and his butler to a small town . There they meet a young woman , Pat ( Gille ) , who becomes part of the " team " trying to uncover the identity of " The Tiger " and reveal a scam involving gold and an old mine . The scenes on board ship were good , with the butler and Pat working together knocking people out and not realizing Simon was on board , too , and Simon not knowing they were on board . The two would run across a body and accuse the other of knocking him out . Inspector Teal shows up posing as a professor . This is pleasant enough , though Sanders brought a certain panache to the role of The Saint that is missed here . And why , when the series was imported to Britain , wasn't the Saint's whistle brought along with him ?
Bleh	Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughn are going through " The Break-Up " in this 2006 comedy-drama that also stars Judy Davis , Ann-Margret , Jason Bateman and Vincent D'Onofrio . Vaughn plays a funny guy who is in the Chicago city tour business with his brothers . Aniston is his girlfriend , who works in an art gallery . The two live together in a beautiful condo . We see them when he meets her for the first time at a ballgame ; the next time we see them , she is throwing a dinner party , and he isn't helping out . They break up not long after . I'll just cut to the chase on this one . I wasn't disappointed that it was advertised as a comedy and had dramatic moments . I thought the acting was fine . Vaughn has good delivery , and Jennifer Aniston is a likable actress . There were great performances in good roles by Vincent D'Onofrio , Judy Davis , and Jason Bateman . And there were some very funny scenes . At 1 : 47 minutes , fifteen minutes could have been cut . The movie dragged . Now for my real problem . I read a few reviews on this board , and only one person mentioned this . Why the hell would a bright , well-read , good-looking woman with no end of intelligent , well-read , attractive men asking her out allow herself to be in a relationship with the selfish , irresponsible , nearly Neandrathal slob Vince Vaughn played ? I can see that he was a funny guy , and they had good times together - but that's it . And that's not enough . I never got from the Aniston character that she had no self-esteem , but to stay with this guy , and lay out his clothes , and cook , make plans for get-togethers , and do whatever he wanted - she must not have had any . The abrupt change in Vaughn's character was unbelievable as well . In short , I thought she was too good for him , and why she hadn't figured that out is beyond me . Just not a good script as far as characterizations and believability . The comedy sections were good , but the rest of the script just didn't hang together .
Cary Grant was second-billed !	It's rare to see the iconic Cary Grant get second billing , but in 1937 , he did , under Edward Arnold in " The Toast of New York . " This is the purported story of financial schemer Jim Fisk ( Arnold ) , who , in the 1800s , tried to corner the gold market , oversold stock to his railroad company , and fled to New Jersey , continuing to print convertible bonds where no one could get him . The film takes a lot of liberties with the truth but it leaves no doubt that Fisk was a real character , beautifully portrayed by the talented , energetic Arnold . Grant plays his co-conspirator who also loves Fisk's discovery , Josie Mansfield ( Frances Farmer ) . Fisk is madly in love with her and wants to make her a big star . I have to say the movie dragged for me , and I didn't find it particularly interesting . The point of interest in it today , I guess , would be the presence of Frances Farmer , whose fascinating story was made into " Frances " starring Jessica Lange ( and wow , the resemblance is incredible ) . Farmer was very beautiful with a deep voice that didn't really match her looks . The fact that her life story made her better known than her film career ever could have shouldn't be confused with acting ability , which wasn't that great on film . She was probably much more effective on stage . She doesn't register much here - in fact , the only ones who do are Arnold and Donald Meek . Handsome Grant doesn't have much to do - seen today , that's disconcerting . Viewers are used to him being the whole show . Overall , a disappointment , though Arnold was a strong actor who usually did supporting roles . This is a rare lead for him , and he's more than up to the task .
Better than some	Let's face it : " Mystery Woman " " McBride " and " Jane Doe " are about as bad as you can get . They have no pacing and most of the time suffer from poor direction and bad scripts . What these series have going for them are attractive leads , sometimes okay mysteries , and if you have an elderly relative at home who is affronted by just about everything else on television , the Hallmark Channel is perfect for them . " Mystery Woman " stars Kellie Martin as the owner of a mystery bookstore with no customers . We know it's a mystery store because there's an establishing shot of it every two minutes . Obviously , these shows run short - there are lots of scenes where we see a car from way off driving down the street , into a driveway . . . endless . In this episode , Sam winds up taking care of a fugitive's wife and baby though at first , she thinks the woman is just a family friend . The woman's husband is sought in a murder that took place on a golf course - he was seen bending over the body . There are people after him and they're not all police . At one point , he's shot and his wife leaves Sam with the baby and goes to his motel to take care of him . Sam's investigation uncovers an FBI case and blackmail . It's hard not to like Kellie Martin as both an actress and an individual . I love her , and she's good as Samantha . She doesn't have a lot to work with , yet she always manages to give a charming performance . As her best friend and the DA , Nina Siemaszko does well with an impossible role . Clarence Williams III , as the mysterious Philby , is certainly mysterious - it's a mystery how he was cast . Dead man barely talking . Okay if there's nothing else on television .
' 30s newspaper story	Paul Muni has to get used to hearing " Hi , Nellie ! " when he's demoted to the Heartthrobs column in this 1934 film also starring Glenda Farrell and Ned Sparks . When bank official Canfield disappears at the same time as $500 , 000 and the bank has to close , all the other papers print that Canfield took the money . Managing editor Brad Bradshaw refuses to tie the two incidences together without proof - thus , the demotion . The current Heartthrobs ( Farrell ) gets a news beat . This is one of those fast-talking ' 30s films , probably in response to the MacArthur-Hecht " The Front Page " from 1931 . It's all pretty routine except that it stars Paul Muni who , as Brad / Nellie , is a wisecracking , sarcastic editor now mercilessly teased by his cronies . Muni , well known for his dramatic work , shows his expertise at comedy here . Also it's a rare chance to see how handsome he was as he wore so much character makeup and so many costumes throughout his career . He is very good as the determined managing editor turned lonelyhearts columnist . Farrell is her usual sharp-mouthed self ; this isn't much of a departure from other roles for her . Recommended if you want to see Muni in something approaching a comedy .
Torchy and Steve McBride go after a killer	This 1937 " Torchy Blane " film , " Smart Blonde " has Torchy Blane ( Glenda Farrell ) trying to find out who killed an entrepreneur who just purchased a night club and some gambling establishments . Torchy is a witness to the murder . Later on , one of the suspects , the dead man's bodyguard , is also found dead . Torchy and her some time boyfriend , Lt . McBride ( Barton MacLane ) , as usual , are at odds as far as who the killer is . There were quite a few of these films , this being the first , starring character actress Farrell , with MacLane as McBride . The two have great chemistry . These films were always lively and the real story always seemed to be about Torchy and McBride's relationship rather than any actual mystery , though the mysteries certainly were present . Fast-talking , smart Torchy is an independent woman along the lines of Hildy in " His Girl Friday " and the Torchy Blane series was the first ( I think ) to star a woman ; the Maisie series began in 1939 . Always entertaining .
In love and war	If you like battle scenes , " One Minute to Zero " is for you . Produced by Howard Hughes , it stars Robert Mitchum , Ann Blyth , Richard Egan , Charles McGraw and William Talman . Mitchum and the other men are fighting the Korean War and Ann Blyth , a war widow , is working for the United Nations . They fall in love , but she turns against him when she sees him give the order to kill refugees who are , he believes , probably guerrillas smuggling in weapons . Someone mentioned the score . Frankly , I thought if I heard the strains of " When I Fall in Love " one more time , I was going to throw something at the television . Mitchum does a fine job ; Talman and McGraw are in unusual roles for them , and they handle them well . Talman would go on to be Hamilton Burger on " Perry Mason . " Blyth is good , very pretty , and a far cry from that bratty Veda in Mildred Pierce . All in all , a pretty detached experience . It's filled with testosterone - the guys will love it .
disappointing attempt at an old-fashioned war film	A soldier is put into the position of accompanying his lover's husband on a dangerous mission in " Hanover Street , " starting Harrison Ford and Lesley-Anne Down . This film was done at the beginning of Harrison Ford's career as a star , and the results are disappointing . It plays more as a made-for-TV movie , especially with the casting of some actors mainly known for television work , including Down and Richard Masur . The object , it seems , was to recreate the ' 40s World War II film , and in this , it is partially successful . There are some exciting scenes , particularly toward the end . However , the film takes about an hour to get going , and in the slow first hour , we don't get much back story . What , for instance , is the problem with Down's marriage to Christopher Plummer ? I know there's a war on , but Down and Ford seem to fall for one another immediately , and we really don't get to see the love story develop . Before we know it , there are lines like " I don't know where you leave off and I begin . " Lesley-Anne Down , in my opinion , is one of the most beautiful women ever on TV or film - those eyes , her coloring - she's gorgeous . She's not particularly made up or photographed to advantage in this , but she's still amazing . Her acting is very good , particularly in scenes with her daughter . Christopher Plummer , as a man who feels he's not exciting enough for his wife , is its usual excellent self in a part that isn't really fleshed out . He and Ford do an excellent job in their scenes together . Harrison Ford is Harrison Ford , his star persona established early on - he's very natural , jaunty , and macho . His casting is perfection - a true movie star in the fashion of Hollywood's golden era in an old-fashioned romance . I just wish the movie had been better . And by the way , the last action scene in the film is ridiculous .
Depression escapism with beautiful people	" Second Honeymoon " is a fluffy comedy which probably had its genesis in " Private Lives . " It concerns a beautiful divorce ( Loretta Young ) who , upon marrying her second husband ( Lyle Talbot ) runs into her first ( Tyrone Power ) . Everyone is rich , magnificently dressed , and does a lot of traveling in the spirit of Hollywood escapism during the Depression . This movie is talky and doesn't have the energy or enough of the humor of " Cafe Metropole , " another early Power-Young film . Even with an 85 minute or thereabouts running time , it felt long . There are some very good performances . Stuart Erwin plays Power's valet , and he has an interesting characterization . Claire Trevor is delightful in a supporting role , and Marjorie Weaver brings liveliness to the part of Joy . Young is absolutely fabulous looking and is appropriately jealous and angry when the script calls for it . Power is absurdly handsome , just stunning , and alas , doesn't have too much to do . It's an extremely lightweight role . It's probably just as well . It was difficult to do anything but ogle when he was on screen in this one .
Early Van Heflin	" Saturday's Heroes " is a 1937 programmer starring a very young Van Heflin as a college football hero . And what better time for TCM to show this film than on Super Bowl weekend ? As others more knowledgeable than me have pointed out , the issues raised in the film exist today : college football is big business and filled with inequities for the players . In this film , Heflin and some other players scalp tickets so that they can make some money . They have scholarships , and the Heflin character complains that because of a heavy training schedule , they're not even getting the promised education . These programmers were used to groom future stars , and Heflin here is as excellent as he is in movies like " Johnny Eager . " He was not a standard hunky leading man , though he was attractive and could handle romantic leads such as in " Possessed " as well as character roles . We lost him too soon . Interesting for early Heflin and for the timeliness of the film .
Pleasant film that becomes more of an curiosity toward the end	Jean Harlow and Clark Gable teamed up for the last time in this light film , " Saratoga , " about a young woman , her wealthy fiance ( Walter Pidgeon ) , and the horse breeding farm deeded to a bookie ( Gable ) to pay off a gambling debt . Harlow wants to handicap horses and lay bets to pay off the marker , and Gable wants to take her boyfriend on a long ride to poverty by taking his bets . I can't imagine how disheartening it was for the actors , director , and crew to have to finish the film after Jean Harlow's untimely death . Unfortunately , the film for viewers soon becomes how they camouflaged the fact that her stand-in and a vocal imitator completed the picture . Most disconcerting is a large party scene , where the internal sections feature the stand-in , and the external ones on the terrace are with Harlow . All of the race track scenes were obviously done last , with the stand-in hiding her face with binoculars . And there is one scene where she is completely covered with a picture hat . The character's only appearances at the end of the film are at the race track and , back turned , in the race track office . The ending shot is actually from an earlier scene , or it was done at the same time the earlier scene was filmed . Despite being ill during the production , Harlow is wonderful in her final role and she and Gable have excellent chemistry . She truly was one of the great screen presences , just delightful in every way . Walter Pidgeon is young and handsome , and despite having to say " I love ya " dozens of times , Gable is likable , relaxed , and handsome . It just all seems very disjointed . And very sad .
I liked the original better	With a few changes , and for reasons known only to themselves , the powers that be remade 1956's " A Kiss Before Dying " in 1991 . Now the sisters are twins , and the plot is taken out further - rather than just getting engaged , Ellen now marries the killer . That's not a spoiler - we see him murder her sister in the first reel . The original of this film , with Robert Wagner , Joanne Woodward , Jeffrey Hunter , Virginia Leith and Mary Astor was much more entertaining . This update is boring and acted in a lazy manner by its stars , Sean Young I , Sean Young II , and Matt Dillon . Isn't one Sean Young bad enough , we had to have two of them ? Supporting players Diane Ladd and Max von Sydow have precious little to do . The only part I liked was the scene from " Vertigo " on TV - but I do hope the director wasn't trying to compare himself to Hitchcock . I don't understand Hollywood's obsession with remakes , except that I suppose they're cheaper because the studio already owns the property . But a fresh story line here and there wouldn't hurt . On top of which , it is a rare occasion when the remake is actually better . This is not one of those cases .
remake of " Out of the Past "	" Against all Odds " is a 1974 moody remake of the noir classic " Out of the Past " and ultimately less successful . This time around , it's not Robert Mitchum and Jane Greer ( though Greer appears in this films as the owner of a football team ) but Jeff Bridges and Rachel Ward . The film also stars James Woods , Alex Karras , Swoozie Kurtz and Richard Widmark . Ward plays Greer's daughter , who runs away from her boyfriend ( Woods ) . When Bridges is cut from the football team , bookie Wood hires him to find his girlfriend . Trouble follows . Somewhere post-Thornbirds , the beautiful Ward started playing bad girls . Here she's not so much bad , as Greer's character was in the original , but more of a brat and an ingrate . Totally unlikable . The cast is very good , but too much to type so that there were no surprises in the story . Ward usually plays a user , Woods someone snarky , Widmark bad guys , Greer cold as ice . So after meeting everyone , it wasn't hard to figure out that Bridges was asking for trouble . Oh , and did I mention that Saul Rubinek often plays slime and Pat Corley is usually a crooked politician ? It was almost paint by numbers . Despite some beautiful scenery , some good scenes and good acting , Against All Odds left me disappointed . The plot , as in Out of the Past , is a little convoluted , which would be okay if , at the end , you cared . I didn't .
A crook replaces a lookalike doctor	Paul Henried plays a double role in " Hollow Triumph , " a 1948 film also starring Joan Bennett . Henried is John Muller who , the minute he gets out of prison , hatches a robbery plot of a casino with his old gang . None of them want to go along with it , but Muller bullies them into it . It doesn't go as planned . The owner of the casino , Stansyck , is known for hunting people down who wrong him even if it takes years , so Muller is now a marked man . When he's stopped on the street by a dentist who believes him to be Dr . Victor Bartok , Muller begins to hatch an idea . They look exactly alike - except for a scar on Bartok's left cheek . " Hollow Triumph " or " The Scar " as it's also called is a very entertaining movie even with a preposterous plot . One small point is the casting of Eduard Franz as Muller's brother . Were they separated at birth , with Muller brought up in Germany and his brother raised in the U . S . ? Or did someone cast Eduard Franz thinking that because of his name , he had an accent ? Paul Henried does a good job in his dual role , though we really don't see a lot of Bartok's personality . Joan Bennett is good as an embittered woman who believes she's unlucky in love . Seeing " Hollow Triumph " in 2008 , one thing sticks out : a guy filled his gas tank for a dollar .
On the other side of Brokeback Mountain	Jean Arthur meets cowboy John Wayne in the 1943 comedy , " A Lady Takes a Chance . " Arthur is Molly , a woman with plenty of suitors , though none is a prize , who takes a cross-country bus tour - conducted by Phil Silvers . While watching a rodeo , one of the riders falls on top of her . Turns out it's a fella named Duke ( John Wayne ) . You can just see those pathetic guys at home flash before her eyes as she pulls Wayne toward her for a closer look . She misses her bus . Given the current talk and late-night comic jokes about " Brokeback Mountain , " this movie is extra fun . Wayne has no intention of marrying , though he loves to play the field , and accuses his rodeo partner Waco ( Charles Winninger ) of acting like " a wife . " When Waco advises Molly to go back where she came from and forget about Duke , he sounds like a wife trying to get rid of a mistress , though he really wants to keep her from being hurt . But though Duke does a lot of flirting , Molly learns during a night in the desert that her big competition is Sammy , Duke's horse . Jean Arthur is slightly miscast as Molly , though she was too wonderful an actress to ever come off as totally miscast . Someone like Betty Grable would have been more of a natural for the role than 40 + Arthur , but then , Arthur's talent helps her make the part her own and interesting besides . Her best scene is in the bar when she drinks cactus milk - hilarious . 27 years after his death , John Wayne is still considered one of the top 10 most popular stars , and with good reason . Tall , handsome , and rugged with a boyish smile , you can see why he'd make Arthur's heart go aflutter . He's usually not listed among favorite matine idols because he made so many westerns , but make no mistake , Wayne was a hunk in his heyday . This isn't your 21st century cowboy movie , but it makes for entertaining viewing just the same .
From a prolific novelist of teen books	Even though this apparently is not a movie produced by Lifetime , it has Lifetime written all over it . It's based on a Lurlene McDaniel story of two teenagers in love , but the young man has cancer . McDaniel has written many novels for teens , often with a spiritual theme . I can really see this film appealing to a young crowd , as it was intended . It's very sports-oriented - the boy , Luke , is the star quarterback at the high school . Beth Broderick plays the girl's mom , and she's always good , conveying an attorney's sophistication and later , compassion and support . Adrienne Barbeau is Luke's mom . The story is poignant and also predictable . There really isn't anything exceptional about it , except Barbeau's problems with her employer . Given all that , I cried like a baby and hated myself .
Another great Amy Irving performance	How many times have I watched something for a period of time before realizing that I'm looking at Amy Irving ? This film was no exception . The woman is a chameleon , and though she certainly has been recognized for her work , I think she's underrated . The plot of this film is mildly interesting - a man convicted of murdering his wife makes parole and looks up his daughter , who helped put him away . His daughter begins to doubt her testimony . It would have been more intriguing to keep the plot on that level , to have the audience unsure throughout the film . Unfortunately , the plot disintegrates past a certain point and becomes a chase film , albeit through some magnificent scenery . Donald Sutherland is very good in what has become a familiar role for him . But Amy makes the movie .
Not really up to par	The 2006 film " The Sentinel , " which stars Michael Douglas , Kiefer Sutherland and Kim Basinger is a fair movie that makes a good rental . It's the story of a Secret Service man who is framed for an assassination attempt on the President ( David Rasche ) and sets out to find out who's framing him while Sutherland is after him . Unfortunately , the casting gave away one of the subplots , and as to the framer of Douglas , that was apparent as well . What could have been a really excellent thriller is spoiled by a clumsy script that lets the viewer down at the end of the film . Eva Longoria has a supporting role which was basically thrown in there for no apparent reason . Kim Basinger makes a lovely first lady and Rasche , who has little to do , is effective as the President . Douglas and Sutherland are in familiar roles . I saw this around the same time that I saw " Inside Man " and there's no comparison . " The Sentinel " seems thrown together . I would have been upset had I seen this in the theater and paid full price .
Trite story and some good singing	" On the Avenue " was made in 1937 and starred Madeline Carroll , Dick Powell , Alice Faye and the Ritz Brothers . A musical revue does a send-up of a wealthy family , which outrages them . The writer , Gary Blake , accuses the young woman of the family , Mimi Caraway ( Carroll ) of being a bad sport . She invites him to dinner , and they fall in love . He promises to rewrite the skit . However , Mona Merrick ( Faye ) , the leading lady who is in love with Gary , performs the skit so that the family comes off as even worse . Mimi retaliates by buying the production and planning some big revenge on Gary . There are some good numbers and wonderful singing by Faye and Powell ; alas , the appeal of the Ritz Brothers has always been lost on me . They always do these incredibly long routines in films , and to me , anyway , they're annoying rather than funny . Madeline Carroll is stunningly beautiful ; it's a shame she wasn't in Hollywood longer ( in 1938 , she was the highest paid actress in Hollywood ) . She returned to England to work for the war effort and stayed on after the war . Dick Powell , in the course of a 30-year career , reinvented himself several times . Here he is in his first incarnation , that of a juvenile tenor . He's very good and as he evolved into a serious actor and then a director and producer , he only got better . Alice Faye looks great and sings in her beautiful , smooth contralto ; her stardom was just about to hit its peak . All in all , very pleasant . If you're like me , record this and fast forward through the Ritz Brothers .
early talkie shows its age	Basil Rathbone is a dashing , intense-looking Philo Vance in " The Bishop Murder Case , " an early talkie that shows signs of the painful transition from silents . I actually had quite a bit of trouble with the sound . I saw it on television and had difficulty understanding what was being said at times . The film , nevertheless , is very interesting , if only to see Rathbone , with those amazing eyes of his , in his pre-Sherlock Holmes days . His acting is excellent . It was also delightful to see Roland Young . Leila Hyams plays the professor's niece , and she was quite beautiful and effective . It has a good plot as well . Parts of this film came off like a stage play , probably because some of the actors were still adjusting to film technique . And the sound was darned strange . In one of the outdoor scenes , the actors sounded as if they were speaking through megaphones . Nevertheless , Philo Vance fans should certainly enjoy it , as will others from a historical perspective .
A TV movie based on " I , the Jury "	Kevin Dobson is Mike Hammer in this version of " I , the Jury " by Mickey Spillane - this one called " Margin for Murder , " directed by Daniel Haller in 1981 . It also stars Cindy Pickett , Donna Dixon , Charles Hallahan , Asher Brauner and John Considine . When a friend of Mike's is murdered in what appears to be a car accident , Mike refuses to accept and sets out to prove a ) it was murder ; b ) whodunit , and c ) why . Nothing will keep him from the case , including the murders of two people who knew too much . Many actors have played Mike Hammer . I for one was not enthusiastic about Stacy Keach's Hammer , but I loved Ralph Meeker's . Mickey Spillane as an actor just didn't make it . Dobson has the New York sensibility and the toughness that it takes to make a good Mike , and while he's not as sexy as Meeker , his performance works just fine in this story . Velda is played by Cindy Pickett in a very straightforward , un-bimbo-like manner . There's a nice little subplot involving some puppies marked for the pound that Mike takes to Velda's so they can find homes for them . All in all , a pretty good TV movie . Unfortunately , the version I saw on Fox Movie Channel obviously had a scene missing . I have absolutely no understanding of this - I can understand a cut on a normal station where they have less time now for a movie than they had in 1981 because of commercials , but FMC has no commercials . Seems rather ridiculous .
early Stanwyck	Barbara Stanwyck is young and a lovely as a woman whose fiance is killed by an angry husband just before their wedding . Embittered , she retreats to the mountains and finds healing in the affections of Frank Morgan , who plays a wealthy attorney who falls in love with her . Stanwyck marries him , though explains to poor Frank that she doesn't love him . Their bedrooms , therefore , are across the hall from one another . With money , social standing , beauty , and being married , which makes her unattainable , Stanwyck soon finds the men are crawling out of the woodwork , including a very young Lyle Talbot and Ricardo Cortz , who lands his plane on her lawn . Morgan and Stanwyck are excellent and give the story a very touching quality . One scene struck me as a little odd , censorship wise : At the beginning of the film , Morgan rescues Stanwyck from a fall . The next day , he walks by her house and pokes his head in her bedroom to see how she's doing . She's in bed , recovering . He's invited in . The maid leaves the bedroom and closes the door . Either I'm getting too old or my sensibility is too modern , but I found this scene peculiar for 1934 . I'd love to know how this got past the code since there was a big argument about " Frankly , my dear , I don't give a damn . " An unmarried woman , in her pajamas , entertaining a gentleman caller in her bedroom . Oh , well .
derivative but still good	A very good movie with fine performances by John Travolta , Vince Vaughn and the rest of the cast . Travolta's performing is the centerpiece and he brings warmth to the role of the father . The film offers us atmosphere and suspense aplenty . Not the most original plot in the world but very entertaining . There was one inevitable cop-out - you'll spot it immediately .
Delta on a roll	A revenge on all those who wronged me films , this one starring the wonderful Delta Burke . I doubt anyone involved took this movie very seriously . Delta is totally over the top , intentionally , I think , as a woman who goes nuts after a hysterectomy is performed to save her life . Her husband and best friend were part of the decision to do the surgery . Tracy , the main character , goes after everyone involved , her husband , the friend , the doctor , the doctor's husband , determined to destroy them . It's a long list . The phrase " I wouldn't want to run into her in a dark alley " does not apply here . You don't want to run into this woman while she's in a car , a field , a building , your office , her house , your house - no place . There is an especially funny scene where Tracy , eye makeup smeared , watches her doctor on television . You can just see the madness in her eyes . Delta Burke wears her own designs for plus-size women in the film , and she looks great . She has an Elizabeth Taylor face - to me , she always exudes beauty . She plays this role for all its worth . It's right on the edge of camp - actually , maybe it slid to the other side .
Entertaining	Hallmark Channel is big on recognizable stars and mediocre scripts that move like molasses . " Dear Prudence " had the stars and the mediocre script , but it actually moved a little faster than , say , " Mystery Woman . " Jane Seymour plays a household hints TV lady who goes on vacation at her boss ' mountain place in Montana . Once there , she becomes involved in a murder . Seymour is playing in essence a character role here , one you might see a younger version of Angela Lansbury doing . It's inspired against type casting - Seymour is beautiful and energetic , investing the role with a sense of enthusiasm that's refreshing on Hallmark . The downside is the plot ; the mystery was solved by this viewer in the first 10 minutes or so . However , the script had the household hints going for it , which are great , and the young man playing opposite Seymour was very good . Plus , Jamey Sheridan made a good romantic interest for Seymour . Hallmark is pushing the heck out of this ; Prudence has a special page on the Hallmark site , so I'm wondering if this is intended as a pilot . It would be a lovely series for the " Murder , She Wrote " crowd - I wasn't a member of that demographic when " Murder , She Wrote " started in 1984 ; I am now .
Bogie as a missionary in China	Humphrey Bogart experiences " The Left Hand of God " in this 1955 film also starring Gene Tierney , Lee J . Cobb , Agnes Moorhead and Lee J . Cobb . Bogart is Father O'Shea , who arrives at a mission in China to take over religious duties . The casting of Bogart should tell you something right away . While there , he wins the hearts of the people and that of a beautiful nurse ( Tierney ) who is a widow and , being a strong Catholic , finds her emotions unsettling . Father O has a relationship with a Chinese warlord , and now the village seems in danger . Can he save it ? There's not a tremendous amount of action in this film , but the wonderful cast keeps us interested . Always a surprising actor , Bogart has a way with touching moments , such as receiving a blessing from the oldest man in the village . In 1955 , Gene Tierney was still a young and beautiful woman , but for some reason , around 1950 , she adopted a short , matronly haircut that I for one never found flattering . She's lovely in this as a lonely widow . Moorhead and Marshall give strong performances as the doctor and his wife . Lee J . Cobb is good , but seen today , his Chinese makeup is distracting . Mildly interesting .
Watch , Yawn and Sleep	" Live , Love and Learn " is a 1937 MGM film starring Robert Montgomery , Rosalind Russell , Robert Benchley and Monte Wooley . Surprisingly , it's not very good . Russell is an heiress who marries poor artist Montgomery , only to see him become successful and interested in money - the very thing she was trying to escape . With better direction and a stronger script , this film might have had more of a " Holiday " feel to it , but it doesn't . It's part comedy , part drama , and because it doesn't know what it's supposed to be , neither does the audience . The two forms aren't integrated enough . One scene that shows the innocence of the times is one in which Montgomery hires a little boy to pose for him om a loincloth . A very discomfiting scene when watched today , yet then , it was supposed to be funny . However , this is toward the end of the movie , which had dragged on too long , so the scene wasn't terribly amusing . The acting was okay . Frankly , it's kind of a waste of time , despite the good cast .
Uneven story of fascinating people in a fascinating time	Jennifer Jason Leigh is Dorothy Parker in " Mrs . Parker and the Vicious Circle , " a 1994 film also starring Campbell Scott , Peter Gallagher , Stanley Tucci , Matthew Broderick , Gwenyth Paltrow , Jennifer Beals , Lili Taylor , Martha Plimpton , Wallace Shawn - a large , excellent cast which would be needed to tell the story of the glittering literary geniuses who were part of the Algonquin Roundtable . Oh , to have been an adult in those days ( ' 20s-'40s ) when wit and education and intelligence were so prized ! Parker , a unique talent who could write with pathos and humor , was surrounded by the likes of Robert Benchley , Edna Ferber , Charles Macarthur , Alexander Woolcott , Deems Taylor and Robert Sherwood . The sad thing is that if you're a young person and you happen to catch this film on the IFC channel , you won't have heard of any of these people . Nor will you be interested enough to look them up . People don't seem to have the intellectual curiosity they once did . I realize these are generalizations - just how general remains to be seen . The atmosphere is set wonderfully in this film , which tells something of Dorothy Parker's sad life as she finds and loses love . Unfortunately , with possibly the exception of Campbell Scott as Benchley and at times Ms . Leigh , everyone is PLAYING Woolcott , MacArthur , etc . It's all a kind of let's pretend instead us showing us real people - - as famous as they all were , they were human beings . The script is uneven ; the crazy , frenzied scenes at the Algonquin are the best ones , but we don't know these people well enough to be interested in smaller scenes . I had the great pleasure of seeing Jason Leigh on Broadway in " Proof " and she was excellent - she is a very fine actress with a broad range . But in her attempt to successfully have all of Dorothy Parker's externals , she's tripped herself up . I unfortunately only understood maybe 40 % of what she was saying . Not only do I doubt that was true of the real Dorothy , I also doubt going that far with the voice was necessary - very , very few people who would see this film ever heard Dorothy Parker speak . It's a little like doing Eliza Doolittle - if you actually spoke pure Cockney , the audience wouldn't understand a word . Parker's droll tones channeled through Leigh's mouth don't work . She does , however , create a very real and very sad person who lived in an interesting time , wrote about it and who loved and drank her way through it .
Bizarre story based on the writings of Chuck Barris	TV producer Chuck Barris has " Confessions of a Dangerous Mind " in this 2002 movie directed by George Clooney and starring Sam Rockwell , Drew Barrymore , Julia Roberts and George Clooney with appearances by Dick Clark , Jaye P . Morgan , Brad Pitt and others . In Barris ' writings , he claims that all the time he was developing and producing shows like " The Newlywed Game , " " The Dating Game , " and " The Gong Show , " he was moonlighting as a CIA hit man . He claims to have killed more than 100 people , though in the film he's credited with only 33 . Done partially as a documentary , Barris ' TV success is chronicled as is his love life with Penny ( Barrymore ) ; things get a little confusing when he gets drafted by the Clooney character and starts killing . Sometimes you're not sure if he's imagining an incident or if it really happened . Which is probably the point - no one knows whether or not these hit-man stories are really true . The film is rather coldly done and is about an unlikable character , and I have to admit I normally don't do well with this kind of film . Sam Rockwell is great as Barris , however , and Barrymore very effective and sweet as Penny . I haven't sufficiently researched this story , but there are some amusing things in it , and I would love to know whether or not they're true . One of the ways Barris claims to have been able to carry out these CIA hits is by sending the Dating Game and Newlywed Game winners to the location where the assassination is to take place - I mean , I would love to know if the show really sent people to West Berlin in winter ! Also , Penny appears to be a fictional character or his real first wife with a fictional name . I wondered about that . After you see " Confessions of a Dangerous Mind , " you'll be doing a lot of wondering .
Early talkie	" The Truth About Youth " is a 1930 film of special interest because of two of its young stars , Loretta Young and Myrna Loy . The story concerns a housekeeper's daughter Phyllis ( Young ) who is engaged to the young man of the house , " The Imp " ( David Manners ) . He has just turned 21 and has been raised by a triumvirate of guardians , chiefly Richard ( Conway Tearle ) . " The Imp " ( whose real name is Richard ) falls madly in lust with a man trap called Kara , who performs at a club and is known as " The Firefly . " He writes her a passionate letter and when Phyllis finds it , the elder Richard claims it's his . Because this is an early talkie , the film comes off as rather wooden . Both Loy and Young are gorgeous , Loy as a vamp and Young as a sweet young thing . Both had those short hairdos with the tight wave so popular back then . Loy has the better role as a money-grubber , and she's great . The gown she wears in performance is a knockout - an actress could wear it to the Oscars today . The men are just okay , with the exception of two of the guardians , J . Farrell McDonald and Harry Stubbs , who provide some humor . Before she became Nora Charles , Loy was cast as a vamp , usually an exotic one , until a producer who knew her personally decided to mine her humor . " The Truth About Youth " is an excellent chance to see her in an early role .
doesn't pass the acid test	The acid test is , if huge stars weren't in this film - could it have been a made for television movie ? Alas , the answer for this one is an unqualified yes . There is nothing original about this script and it is structurally poor . It could have been so much better with just a little attention paid to it , but as it is , it's fairly poor , full of red herrings and unnecessary characters and slower than molasses .
Gilda meets Notorious	Rita Hayworth and Glenn Ford re-team for " Affair in Trinidad , " a 1952 film also starring Alexander Scourby , Juanita Moore and Valerie Bettis . Hayworth plays Chris Emery , a nightclub performer whose husband Neil dies by apparent suicide that turns out to be murder . His brother Steve ( Ford ) shows up on the day of the inquest , having received a letter from Neil on the day he died . He assumes the worst about his widowed sister-in-law and her relationship with a wealthy man , Max Fabian ( Scourby ) . Either I dosed off or the actual mystery was never fully explained . It was explained sort of , but I was never clear what Rita , her husband , or the people in Max's house had to do with it . The story , as the subject line indicates , is a gemisch of " Gilda " and " Notorious " and not as good as either one . Interestingly , the plot predates the Cuban missile crisis by 10 years . Totally amazing . For that alone , it's worth seeing . Except for Ava Gardner , probably no actress defined the word " hot " like Rita Hayworth . For a woman who was painfully shy and didn't even want to be in show business , she sure could turn it on . And turn it on she does in two musical numbers , " I've Been Kissed Before " and " Trinidad Lady . " She wears some gorgeous gowns , too . Glenn Ford and Rita make a wonderful team , certainly one of Hollywood's sexiest film love matches . Juanita Moore is excellent as the all-knowing maid , Dominique , and Alexander Scourby is an elegant villain . " Affair in Trinidad " is well directed by Vincent Sherman with a nice , dark atmosphere , and one really believes it's Trinidad . Watching Rita Hayworth is never a waste of time ; this isn't the greatest movie ever made , but Rita creates a few sparks .
A mild-mannered professor comes up against the real world	John Barrymore is " Topaze " in this 1933 film based on a French play . The film also stars a young and beautiful Myrna Loy . Professor Topaze is a very morally grounded teacher who is always honest , and when a student does bad work , he's marked down for it . Unfortunately for Professor Topaze , the mother of one of the students manages to have him fired . Bloody but unbowed , Topaze has been recommended for a tutoring job and goes to an apartment to see about it . Little does he know , the father of the boy , Baron Philippe de la Tour , is the one who had him recommended and now no longer wants him . de la Tour is at the home of Coco , his mistress ( Loy ) which Topaze doesn't pick up on until much later . de la Tour is selling bottled water - except it's from a tap - and his main endorser has just walked out . Who can he get to endorse his water ? In walks Professor Topaze , who has a background in science . Without realizing what's going on , Topaze throws himself into the work of developing a fabulous water . The only thing about this film that's of any interest , to me anyway , is the performance of John Barrymore as a bearded , badly put together , innocent professor who lives in another world . In one scene , he's given some liquor ; not being a drinker ( now that's real acting ) he downs it in one swallow . To watch the liquor take its effect is very funny , as Topaze makes a joke and then laughs , his voice cracking . He crosses his legs . He starts staring at Myrna Loy . Loy is lovely , but she has what is strictly an ingnue role and not much to do . Jobyna Howland is the Baronness de la Tour , and she's a scream . Definitely worth seeing for the performances .
Thrown together Cold War drama	Dana Andrews has " Assignment : Paris " in this 1952 Cold War drama that also stars George Sanders and Marta Toren . Andrews is Jimmy Race , an ambitious reporter in the Paris office of the New York Herald Tribune ; his boss is George Sanders . Race is assigned the espionage trial of a captured American by the Hungarians . In Budapest , Race is captured , and it's up to Sanders to try to free him . Sanders gets help from a woman , played by Marta Toren , whose background is not explained . Audrey Totter plays a fashion editor . All the performances are good , but the revelation is Toren , whom I'd never seen before . She was remarkably beautiful and a fine actress . Unfortunately she died very young , which is a terrible tragedy . She never makes the list of most beautiful , and she should . I suppose because not that many people are familiar with her . Sanders carries the film in the workhorse role , and an unusual one for him as he's a good guy . The film is done in more of a documentary style with a dynamic conclusion , though some plot points are up in the air . Definitely worth seeing for the stunning Toren .
Fun watching	Of all the shows in the Hallmark mystery series , I have to say I like the " Jane Doe " entries the best so far . One of the things that makes it the most interesting of the three - which includes Mystery Woman and McBride - is the dichotomy between the family life of the main character and her life as an agent for the government . I also think this show has the strongest cast - Lea Thompson , Joe Penny , and William R . Moses . Thompson is energetic , believable , and adorable ; Moses is solid and likable as her husband ; and Joe Penny is Joe Penny - tough and sexy . In this particular plot line , a mob boss dies and then his body disappears . I have one objection , which I have to almost every show on TV - when you have someone like Anne DiSalvo playing the nurse , people knowledgeable about actors know that she had something to do with it . Whenever I see a familiar actor in what appears to be a small or inconsequential role , I know the character is involved somehow . But just about every show does it - the great " Law and Order " being one of the biggest offenders . Anyway , these Hallmark shows are delightful .
Flawed Previn-Comden-Green musical	Gene Kelly , Dan Dailey , and Michael Kidd are army buddies in " It's Always Fair Weather , " a 1955 musical film directed by Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly . The film also stars Cyd Charisse and Delores Gray . At the end of World War II , Ted Riley ( Kelly ) , Doug Hallerton ( Dailey ) , and Angie Valentine ( Kidd ) return to the states and make a bet with a bartender that they will be friends for life . They agree to meet on October 11 , 1955 , which is in ten years , at the same bar . When that day comes , they all show up , and have absolutely nothing to say to one another . Riley is a playboy and gambler who won a prize fighter in a game , Hallerton is an ulcer-ridden advertising man on the verge of divorce , and Angie is the happily married owner of a diner in upstate New York . Thanks to a talk show host ( Delores Gray ) who refuses to do her show as planned , and the show's beautiful consultant ( Charisse ) , the three are destined to be reunited again - on network television . This is a nice movie with some great dancing and singing , but given the cast , directors , writers and composer , one expects a little more than " nice " and " pleasant . " The music by Andre Previn is uninspired . The choreography fares better , with a delightful roller skating sequence by Gene Kelly , and a fun sequence in a boxing gym by Cyd Charisse . The glamorous Delores Gray sings the heck out of her numbers , but her acting , unlike in " Designing Woman , " is way over the top , more of a stage performance . Despite the spoofing of advertising and early television shows and the singing and dancing , the film has a strange edginess ; when it's dark , it's almost too dark , and the light moments aren't light enough . There's just something unhappy about it , which you don't find in the fabulous " Singin ' in the Rain . " But I suppose you can't ask lightning to strike twice . Dan Dailey has the strongest role and is more than up to it , giving the film's best performance . And of the three , he's the only one who bothered to age ten years . Disappointing , given the talent involved .
Low-budget thriller	1958's " Screaming Mimi " is based on a novel by Frederic Brown and stars Anita Ekberg , Philip Carey , Harry Townes and Gypsy Rose Lee . Ekberg is Virginia , aka Yolanda , a drop-dead gorgeous exotic dancer who is institutionalized after nearly being murdered at her stepbrother's house . The kindly psychiatrist ( Townes ) trying to help her takes the transference a bit too far - he fakes her death and takes off with her . Virginia changes her name to Yolanda and gets a job as an exotic dancer in a club run by Joann Masters ( Lee ) . A reporter named Sweeney ( Philip Carey ) gets onto a story about a slasher and crosses paths with Virginia / Yolanda and , like every other man , falls for her . In Yolanda's dressing room , Sweeney finds a statue - the same statue was found next to the last murder victim , also an exotic dancer . This is an interesting story for sure with sexual undertones ( or shall I say overtones ) galore - Ekberg's chained slave dance , the lesbian relationship Joann has with another dancer , the statue fetish , and Ekberg herself , sex on heels . Her first film was " Mississippi Gambler , " in which she was uncredited ; not surprisingly , she got the attention of the film's star , Tyrone Power , and had an affair with him that lasted into the mid-'50s . She even got to meet his relatives in Cincinnati - and he was still married at the time . Was she good in this ? I have no idea ; she's so stunning , it doesn't matter . Philip Carey , known today for his portrayal of Asa Buchanan in " One Life to Live " was a hunk in the ' 50s who was relegated to B films costarring many beautiful women - he's easy on the eyes too and does a decent job as Sweeney . Harry Townes had a huge career in television and underplays the role of Greene , the psychiatrist . He does a good job - if the character appeared sinister , it wouldn't have been believable . A story like this could easily have been given a big budget and big director and been much more effective . As it is , it keeps one's attention with its twists and turns and one of the great va-va-vooms , Ekberg .
Disappointing	I'm a fan of Hugh Jackman's , so I looked forward to seeing " Swordfish , " which also stars another actor I like , John Travolta . The film was not produced with an eye to my demographic , so I did not like it as much as some people may have . Travolta plays this incredibly ruthless man , someone committed to keeping the country safe from terrorists , who offers a hacker with child custody issues ( Jackman ) a chance to make a fortune , enabling him to hire a top attorney and get custody of his daughter . He needs the code cracked to a bank and account holding $9 billion in government money , and the money disseminated to various accounts . The beginning of the film is fascinating - it's Travolta discussing the film Dog Day Afternoon - but alas , it's downhill from there . I'm normally not the most technically observant person when I'm watching a movie , but even I could tell that computerized images and miniatures did a lot of the work . Hallie Berry gets to show off most of her beautiful body and there's plenty of action . Young men , I'm sure , love this film . Unfortunately I'm not a young man . And after seeing " Swordfish , " I was 1 hour and 39 minutes older .
I feel like one	Beautiful scenery is the highlight of " I Thank a Fool , " which stars Susan Hayward , Peter Finch and Diane Cilento . Finch plays a prosecutor who manages to get Hayward sentenced to prison for the mercy killing of her boyfriend . When she gets out , she has to change her name , but still , she can't get a job . Finch reappears and hires her to live in his home and take care of his unstable wife ( Cilento ) . When she winds up dead , suspicion falls on Hayward . This is a very uneven film that ends somewhat abruptly . It could have used a couple of scenes right before the last one . One of the posters here said the ending was no surprise . Well , it was to me . Maybe I just wasn't paying attention . The acting is good , with Hayward in a role that calls for her to be quite somber . Peter Finch is excellent . He's very compelling and deliberately keeps his character ambiguous . Diane Cilento has the role with all the histrionics . She's exquisitely beautiful and delicate , and one does feel great sympathy for the character . All in all , this was a rather blah experience .
Nice thriller	George Sanders experiences some " Action in Arabia " in this 1944 RKO film that also stars Virginia Bruce . Sanders is a reporter in Damascus who wants to find the killers of a fellow reporter . He uncovers a Nazi plot of the Germans attempting to turn the Arabs against the Allies . It's not much , but there's some great action , and if you're a fan of George Sanders , he's at his elegant best in this , beautifully dressed and very smooth . There are nice performances from an able supporting cast that includes Gene Lockhart , Alan Napier ( that's Alfred the Butler on Batman ) , and H . B . Warner . A small propaganda film , reminiscent in its way of Casablanca , but pleasant enough .
When one Ruby Keeler isn't enough . . . try Dr . Silver's Golden Elixir	" Dames " is a mindless Depression musical starring Dick Powell , Ruby Keeler , Joan Blondell , Zasu Pitts , Hugh Herbert and Guy Kibbee . Herbert plays Ezra Ounce , part of the moral right and president of the Ezra Ounce Foundation of American Morals who wants to stop filth , and one way to do this is to close those decadent Broadway shows . Guy Kibbee and Zasu Pitts are the Hemingways , his relatives , who are to be the recipients of $10 million of Ezra's money if they are deemed worthy . Unfortunately , their daughter Barbara ( Ruby Keeler ) is a dancer in love with a 13th cousin , Jimmy Higgens ( Dick Powell ) , the rotter of the family , who wants to put on a Broadway show and feature Barbara . Papa Hemingway is blackmailed into backing said show by Mabel ( Joan Blondell ) , who took over his train compartment en route to New York and threatens to tell the world something went on between them if he doesn't back the production . The film features Powell singing " I Only Have Eyes For You " in his pretty tenor and some amazing choreography by Busby Berkeley . Thanks to the triple strong version of his 79 % proof hiccup remedy , Dr . Silver's Golden Elixir , Uncle Ezra and the Hemingways watch the show thoroughly bombed . And that's really the only way to see " Dames . " Berkeley's choreography is like an acid trip , with those wild kaleidoscope patterns he does . For " I Only Have Eyes For You , " Powell sings it to Keeler , and then the entire female chorus hold photos of Ruby in front of them , later appearing as brunettes with her hairstyle and in the same white dress she wears . Keeler becomes the iris of an eye , and at the end of the number , a huge puzzle formation of her face appears . Why one Keeler isn't enough is anybody guess because one is nearly too many . A team of galloping horses doesn't make as much noise as she does when dancing . Not for nothing do they call it hoofing . She's pretty as a picture but her acting is strictly from a drama school found inside of a matchbook . I suspected in " 42nd Street " that her numbers were edited to hide the fact that she was behind the beat ( as she was every time a song began ) - in " Dames , " she is unable to even talk in a correct song rhythm , so that answers that . Dick Powell , who as a producer would help Sam Peckinpah and Aaron Spelling get their starts , was a perfect musical comedy juvenile . It wasn't until the 1940s when he escaped and completely turned his career around by becoming a film tough guy . Later , he went into directing and finally launched a highly profitable producing career as one of the founders of Four Star Productions . Joan Blondell brings great energy to her role , and she's adorable with her blond hair , blue eyes , and round face . She couldn't sing worth a darn but unfortunately is called upon to do so in " Dames . " At the time of the filming , she was supposedly 7 months pregnant with her son Norman ( by husband George Barnes ) , but it's not noticeable . Two years after the release of " Dames , " she married her costar Powell ; he adopted Norman in 1938 . One thing troubles me about " Dames " - Keeler is late to opening night , and Blondell has to do her first number . It's assumed she's not even coming . What would they have done with " I Only Have Eyes For You " and all those Rubys without the original ? I don't know . It's an interesting question to ponder , if you do any thinking at all while watching " Dames . "
Nice to think about young love	I admit not knowing much about the part of British history conveyed in " Fire over England . " The main interest for me was seeing the two young lovers , Vivien Leigh and Laurence Olivier , who began their affair during this film . What a beautiful couple , what a great love , and what a sad end to it . You'd never dream looking at these two what life had in store for them on the personal front . " Fire over England " is a 1937 Alexander Korda film that takes place in 1558 . Relations between Spain and England are terrible , with the British capturing Spanish gold from the New World . When a scheme to get her off the throne is uncovered , the Queen ( Flora Robson ) sends a young man , Michael Ingolby ( Olivier ) undercover to the court of Philip of Spain . Pretending to be a traitor , he is able to get the names of the actual Brits in the pay of the Spanish and learns they want to send the Armada against England . He goes to battle , leading an attack by night on the Armada ships . Meanwhile , he is in love with one of the Queen's ladies in waiting , Cynthia ( Leigh ) and has the affection of the Queen herself . " Fire over England " is an early acting film acting assignment from Laurence Olivier . He is super-handsome and an exuberant , energetic Michael Ingolby , perhaps a bit overdone in spots . This , however , can be forgiven because of the nature of the role . Leigh really doesn't have much to do . Though Selznick allegedly was introduced Vivien Leigh by his brother Myron when Atlanta was burning , a historian made something of the fact that he evidently saw this film beforehand . If he did , there's no way he would have a ) remembered Leigh and b ) thought of her for Scarlett . All in all , a very interesting film .
McBride will grow on you	I've seen several episodes of " McBride " and I like it a little better each time I see it . John LaRoquette is very good in everything . As McBride , I love how much he can communicate with just a wry glance . In this particular episode , McBride's client is double-crossed during a custody case by his psychiatrist . The client later confesses to McBride that he believes he accidentally shot the doctor when he confronted him in his home . When McBride goes to the murder scene , the doctor is , as the title says , out - as in gone ! A search for the body begins , with time of the essence . David Bowe has a nice comic turn as the panicked client . Former child star Sydney Penny plays one of the suspects , and she has grown up to be a very beautiful young woman . Soap star John Ingle is the confused head of the hospital . These Hallmark mystery movies are nice shows - decent mysteries , good acting , some familiar faces . As far as LaRoquette , I quote Blanche Dubois : " That one seems superior to the others . "
" The sun is shinin ' , I didn't expect the sun to be shinin ' "	So sayeth Barry Sullivan in " Queen Bee " referring to Joan Crawford , the ruler of a southern household in this 1955 drama , which also stars John Ireland , Barry Sullivan , Betsy Palmer and Fay Wray . Cousin Jennifer Stewart ( Lucy Marlow ) arrives for a visit and immediately senses there are a few problems in the home - at first , she feels these problems are unfairly blamed on Eva ( Crawford ) . She soon learns what the audience has known from Eva's first appearance . The lovely and somewhat shy Carol Lee Phillips ( Palmer ) , sister of Eva's husband ( Sullivan ) , is about to marry one of Eva's hand-me-downs , Judson Prentiss ( Ireland ) but doesn't realize that Eva hasn't quite decided to let him go . Complicating things , cousin Jennifer finds herself attracted to Eva's husband . In real life , Ireland and Crawford were having an affair , and Palmer screamed " WHAT ? ? " into the telephone when she was invited to Crawford's wedding to Alfred Steele . At the reception , she took Crawford aside and asked what was going on . " Oh , well , " Crawford said , " We were in our cups and Alfred asked me to marry him , and I said yes . " This is one of those southern dramas we saw a lot of in the ' 50s and early ' 60s - " The Long Hot Summer , " " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , " and " Desire in the Dust , " to name a few . " Queen Bee " is a little over the top . It's a tour de force for Crawford , who has some very biting lines which she delivers in her inimitable style , and her wardrobe is sensational , especially the last gown . She plays the kind of bitch we always imagine she was in real life , the woman depicted in " Mommie Dearest . " She couldn't have been - too many people , from Ann Blyth to Betsy Palmer , truly liked her . A little too much of a disciplinarian at home and with a voracious sexual appetite , she certainly brought those edges to many performances . Crawford also was one of the great screen presences with a face made for film . Highly enjoyable film particularly for Crawford fans , though everyone in it is very good .
Soapy hospital drama starring a lot of young Turks	1962's " The Interns " is sort of the " Valley of the Dolls " of the hospital set , with a lot of young actors starting their careers in movies : Michael Callan , Nick Adams , James MacArthur , Anne Helm , Stefanie Powers , and some veterans - Telly Savalas , Buddy Ebsen and Cliff Robertson . The gorgeous model Suzy Parker , who had been getting film roles since the ' 50s but wasn't much of an actress , plays Robertson's love interest . Since by 1962 there was no studio system to bring these actors along , most of them wound up having careers in television and were a big part of my growing up years . Very much a soap opera , " The Interns " today seems overdone and not particularly well acted . The plot deals with mercy killing , abortion , sexism and Dexedrine ; it focuses on three doctors : Michael Callan , a user who is romancing two women , one with money ( Anne Helm ) and one so he can get a residency with her old boss ; James MacArthur , a straight arrow who falls in love with a nurse with a yen for travel ( Stefanie Powers ) ; and Cliff Robertson , an older intern who tries to help his model girlfriend ( Parker ) terminate a pregnancy . Nick Adams plays a buffoon who falls in love with a terminally ill patient ( Ellen Davalos ) . It's hard to give an opinion on this film in 2008 , after such excellent TV shows as " Saint Elsewhere " and " ER " - in the beginning of the movie , a woman dies , and James MacArthur has to pry her hand from his arm . Anyone who's ever read or seen a mystery or watched a medical show knows rigor doesn't set in that fast . This makes me wonder if any of the blood pressure readings made sense , though the description and treatment for thalassemia seemed correct , since bone marrow transplantation was still in the experimental stages . All in all , pretty dated and routine when seen today .
Typical	" Mystery Woman : At First Sight " is another entry into the Hallmark series . Kudos to director Kellie Martin on this one - there wasn't an establishing shot of the bookstore every 30 seconds . In this episode , Samantha Kinsey finds her birth mother Hannah ( Kathryn Harrold ) - just as the woman is about to be arrested for murder . A man is dead in her living room . Without revealing to her half-sister ( Christine Lakin ) or Hannah's husband ( John Aprea ) who she is , Sam sets out to help clear Hannah of the murder charges . Meanwhile , back home , Philby ( Clarence Williams III ) is having his own problems . The comments on this site were interesting in that some people expressed disappointment in this episode . I'm not sure why - it was just as slow-moving and pedestrian as the rest of them . It was a kick to see Michael Cole and Clarence Williams III , two of the " Mod Squad " members reunited , but despite Philby telling Cole he looked good , he didn't . And that's the reason I watch " Mystery Woman " when I see it's on - sometimes it features some baby boomer stars , and I also like Kellie Martin . This series , like Jane Doe and McMartin , is okay , but that's about it .
slow but effective	This movie is great fun to see William Hurt , James Woods and Sigourney Weaver at the beginnings of their careers and when they were experiencing a good deal of success . The rest of the cast is top-notch . The story is very interesting and effective , though I found the film a bit uneven and slow .
truly frightening	This is the true story of Sante Kimes and her son , Kenny Kimes , focusing specifically on their murder of wealthy New Yorker Irene Silverman , whose body has never been found . I have seen other material done on this nut job team , and it is a fascinating study of complete psychopaths . Mary Tyler Moore is a wonderful actress , and she portrays Sante in a very over the top manner - much the way the real Sante probably is , I would imagine , to have charmed people ( men especially ) and pulled off the scams she did . She is , however , way too old for the part , only because she has to portray Sante as a younger woman . Sante at the time of the Silverman murder was 64 ; Mary Tyler Moore in this film was 67 , so big deal . The problem comes in with the earlier years . Other than that , I thought the performances were excellent from the three stars . Though Kimes & son were eventually captured for Silverman's murder , their saga did not end there . Once in prison , Kenny held a Court TV reporter hostage for several hours by holding a ballpoint pen to her throat . He wound up in permanent solitary confinement . Mother and son were extradited to Los Angeles for trial on another , older murder , and both were ultimately convicted .
Funny entry into the Skelton series	Released in 1943 , " Whistling in Brooklyn " is the last of the films which starred Red Skelton as radio detective Wally " The Fox " Benton who gets involved in real-life murders . All he wants to do is marry his girlfriend ( Ann Rutherford ) , but something always delays the wedding . Jean Rogers as a reporter and Rags Ragland appear in this " Whistling . " This film concerns a serial killer named ' Constant Reader ' who is killing people in Brooklyn . Wally falls under suspicion and tries to solve the crime and escape the police at the same time . In one sequence , Wally disguises himself as a ball player on a bearded team playing an exhibition with the Brooklyn Dodgers ; he has to go out and play a game , while trying to get a message to the police . Some of the Dodgers appeared - Leo Durocher , Arky Vaughn , Joe Medwick , etc . Fun for old-time baseball fans who remember these players . Skelton can be corny , and some of his humor in this is groan-worthy . But the pace is fast , there are some funny bits , and when Skelton is being serious , he's actually quite sweet and natural . Ann Rutherford is adorable as his girlfriend . Good fun .
intriguing and seductive	The center of this film is the interesting performance of Jon Bon Jovi as a somewhat mysterious actor who is portraying a hit man in a play written by Lambert Wilson . Bon Jovi is very effective and keeps you guessing throughout . Wilson is excellent as a confused playwright half in love with an ingenue but who finds , when the chips are down , that he's not quite ready to give up his wife . With such an attractive cast and wondering about the motives of Jon Bon Jovi , the movie is quite intriguing , though draggy in parts .
Dated early talkie	The chirons at the beginning of 1930's " Outward Bound " tell us in aching detail how Sutton Vane's play took the London stage by storm . It subsequently was done on Broadway not once but twice ( the second time was some years after this film ) , and the film uses three of the play's original cast : Leslie Howard , Beryl Mercer and Dudley Digges . The film was remade in 1944 as " Between Two Worlds " and the plot was changed slightly to reflect World War II . " Outward Bound " is the story of several people on board ship , but none of them knows the reason for being there or where they're going . Finally they figure out that they are all dead and face the judgment of The Examiner ( Digges ) who arrives to tell them their fate . Heaven and hell are really the same place , it turns out , and those going to the less desirable place merely have some things to work on before heading upward . Two people , however , will not be leaving the ship - that's the suicide couple ( Douglas Fairbanks Jr . and Helen Chandler ) who , like the purser , are " halfways " and must stay on the ship for eternity . The film is very bizarre looking , in a good way , very foggy , with an amorphous skyline when the outside of the ship ( a toy boat ) is shown . The atmosphere is appropriately dark and eerie . The problem with " Outward Bound " is two-fold . The acting is melodramatic and very stagy ; also , the actors don't have the talkie " rhythm " down yet , so they sound very stilted . Leslie Howard , who in the film takes the part played on stage by Alfred Lunt , gives no indication that he will become a great film star - his performance is for the stage and terribly hammy . Interestingly , both he and Fairbanks Jr . not long after this movie would give wonderful performances , Howard in " The Petrified Forest " and Fairbanks in " Love is a Racket . " Fairbanks in particular had a remarkably modern acting technique , but not in " Outward Bound . " Strangely enough , as with " Between Two Worlds , " there is something compelling and sympathetic about most of these characters . Perhaps it's a fascination we have with the afterlife , but the story does hold together , and we do care what happens to the " good guys " on the ship . I admit to liking " Between Two Worlds " better , especially the suicide couple plot , which is better handled in the latter film . " Outward Bound " today is an interesting artifact but worth seeing , especially if you can follow it up with " Between Two Worlds . "
Cute movie , but I was looking at the nerd	Obviously this film was intended for a young audience , which is why none of the posted comments mention the presence of Tyrone Power Jr . , who is the only reason I watched this movie . " California Casanova " doesn't pretend to be anything but what it is - light entertainment featuring attractive people with lots of hair , makeup , and great bodies . Ruth Landers produced this film for her daughter Audrey , who gives a sweet performance as a young woman being pressured by her thug boyfriend to stay with him . The plots are a little bit disjointed . There's the Landers plot , which ties in with the Jerry Orbach plot . Orbach brings his usual wonderful professionalism to an offbeat role for him , that of a fake count trying to give some class to a nerd - Tyrone Power Jr . Tyrone Power Jr . resembles his late father so much , particularly in the first shots of him , that I got goosebumps . Were he a stronger actor , his career might have at least approached that of his father's , but he's never really been able to rise above decent parts in independent films and bit roles in larger ones . He does a lot of indicating , i . e . , shaking his head , grimacing , etc . , as he did in " Cocoon . " However , circa 1991 , he was gorgeous , and his love scene with Landers was sheer perfection . His entrance as a polished , classy gentleman was very similar to his father's entrance in " The Razor's Edge , " though I suspect that was more of a coincidence than an actual choice on the part of the director . He also , at least when the film was made , did not have a good agent - his role in this film was as much of a lead as Landers ' , yet he is billed below the title . Landers gets to show off her singing voice in the film , and she's quite good . All in all , " California Casanova " is mindlessly diversionary and of definite interest for old film buffs who will be glad to see that the son also rises .
ruthless business types hit the screen again	Dana Andrews is an ambitious public relations man in " Madison Avenue , " a 1962 film that also stars Eleanor Parker , Jeanne Crain , Eddie Albert , Kathleen Freeman , Howard St . John and Henry Daniell . By 1962 , this was no longer an A cast , and this is a second tier film at best . Andrews romances reporter Peggy Shannon ( Crain ) and public relations firm owner Anne Tremaine ( Parker ) as he makes his way up the corporate ladder with the goal of landing a huge milk account away from his old boss . He becomes the puppet holding the strings of the head of the company ( Albert ) and , in a desperate attempt to keep the account , pimps out Anne to him in a not too subtle scene . Though a ' 62 film , it's made in black and white and feels like a ' 50s movie - possibly because corporate ambition was a ' 50s topic with films like " Executive Suite " and " Woman's World . " The acting is good but the story is slow in spots , and I felt at the end like the writer just decided to stop writing . The whole thing was kind of a shrug without enough bite or top level stars to make it really powerful . Is it worth seeing ? Yes , Andrews is solid , it's always worth it to see Parker and the always beautiful Crain , and a delight to see character actor Henry Daniell so late in his career . It's mildly entertaining , which is more than I can say about a lot of films made today .
young Loretta , young Cary , pre-code - who could ask for more ?	Well , a little LENGTH might have helped . This is a short film but a fascinating one - it's pre-Code and Loretta Young plays a tramp . It's also a pairing of two of the golden era's stars before they really hit the big time . I don't think Young was the best actress in the world but boy , was she beautiful . A face like a cameo , and she was early 20s in this . She plays an unwed mother who lives off of sugar daddies . She sees the mother lode when her brat son gets hit by a truck . Though the con doesn't work , Loretta's child is adopted by millionaire Cary Grant and his wife - or soon to be ex-wife if Young , hot on another scheme , has anything to say about it . In her TV show , Young experimented more with " against type " characters . This hard , street smart woman is a departure for her in film , and she does a good job . Grant in this has not yet matured into his incredible looks or his screen persona , but he is effective . This film is worth seeing for a glimpse of these stars as they were before they " made it . " And for Young's clothes and rare , radiant beauty .
Just okay	Claudette Colbert doesn't realize her husband is out to kill her in " Sleep , My Love , " a film directed by Douglas Sirk and also starring Don Ameche , Robert Cummings , and George Couloris . Sirk , later known for some big dramas in the ' 50s , was clearly out of his element here in this derivative story . The film begins like a Pat O'Brien film from the ' 40s , " Crack-Up " - on a train with another train coming in the other direction , its light shining in the face of the main character - and ends on a terrace like " Gaslight . " " Crack-up , " " Gaslight " and " Sleep , My Love " all have similar premises , give or take a few elements . Colbert awakens on a train she doesn't remember boarding ; it soon is revealed to the audience that her husband ( Ameche ) is trying to kill her , get her money , and live happily ever after with a babe ( Rita Johnson ) . His accomplice is a photographer who works with Rita ( Couloris ) . Bob Cummings , however , who is a little smitten with Colbert , starts smelling a rat . The pacing of this film is off - what should or could be exciting just isn't . It just kind of moseys along . Partly this is due to some dull performances . The only interesting role is that of Colbert's ; the rest of them just stand around being cardboard . I don't dislike Ameche or Cummings - they were both two very likable actors , Ameche being quite versatile , but they don't offer much in the way of oomph . Derivative films can still be fun and thrilling . Because I like this genre so much , I was disappointed .
Interesting , later Welles	One of my favorite people to read about and watch is Orson Welles . So I watched " Mr . Akadin , " or " Confidential Report , " as it is sometimes known , with great interest . By 1955 , Welles was a Hollywood outsider , the great years behind him . He made films on a shoestring and hired himself out to get money to complete them . The most heartbreaking part of one of his biographies is the story of Welles having dinner with Spielberg , hoping the dynamic director could help him get a distributor for his latest movie . But Spielberg only wanted to talk about the past , about the legendary Orson Welles . No one would help him , not Warren Beatty , no one . " Mr . Arkadin " is the story of a man , Guy Van Stratten , who runs around the world on the basis of a few words heard as a man is dying , words , the man assures him , that are worth millions . Just seek out Mr . Arkadin and mention Bracco and Sophie . Van Stratten , a hood , and a woman , Mily , do just that , and Van Stratten meets and later falls in love with Arkadin's daughter ( played by Welles ' third wife , Paola Mori ) and gets inside the man's home and life . Arkadin claims amnesia and hires Van Stratten to find out about his past for him . This is a good story in a problematic film . There are the Welles touches of the odd camera angles and special lighting , but the film is disconcerting because the dubbing is way off - I at first thought it had been made in another language . Also , some of the acting is just horrible , particularly from Patricia Medina ( Mily ) and Robert Arden ( Van Stratten ) . However , Welles assembled a brilliant group of foreign character actors for the other roles - Akim Tamirof , Gert Frobe , Michael Redgrave , Mischa Auer , Katina Paxinou - incredible , and they probably did their roles as favors for Welles for very little . Welles himself plays Arkadin , and it's a broad performance we're used to seeing when , frankly , he's phoning it in , which he did here as he was busy with everything else involved in the movie . " Mr . Arkadin " looks like a student film , but it has some wonderful moments , both frightening and funny . A Welles film is always worth seeing even if it doesn't always exactly hit the mark . And he hit the mark so many times - you never know when something he did is going to turn into a masterpiece .
Stars ' offspring in World War II drama	This film was on a DVD with another film , " The Swiss Conspiracy , " so comparisons are inevitable . I gave this a 6 because I thought it was better than " The Swiss Conspiracy . " Which isn't saying much . But I actually liked this film a little better than most of the other people who commented on this board . Its stars are Jason Connery , son of Sean , and Francesco Quinn , son of Anthony , along with Glenn Ford , Donald Pleasance , Jean Sorel and Jinny Stefan . One thing that made me deeply regret watching this film was that I had never seen Glenn Ford in anything he did after Superman - until this 1989 movie . Though I give him credit for not wearing a hairpiece or getting a face lift , his appearance was an unwelcome shock . The story concerns getting Churchill to Casablanca via train . I am not the World War II expert that some of the other reviewers here are , so I can't speak to the inaccuracies . I found the action sequences , especially those concerning the train , exciting , suspenseful , and well directed . One thing that was somewhat stupid - one of the Germans goes through the train , shooting anybody in his way - we're talking men , women , or children . Then he tells his commander that one man , whose dead body the commander sees , came after him and he had to shoot in self defense . " I told you not to kill any civilians , " the commander says . So much for following orders - there was hardly anyone left alive or not wounded on the entire train of civilians ! As for the rest of the movie , forget it . I didn't feel that Quinn or Connery had any charisma or acting ability , though I notice that both men continue to rack up jobs . However , they are very handsome . Connery and Tyrone Power Jr . ( who isn't in this ) seem to come from the same Star Children Acting Academy - when they don't know what to do , they shake their heads and tighten their lips as a reaction to some event . This normally means that the camera is on them when they have no dialogue , and they think they have to do something . They do , but on film , often an internal thought that expresses itself in the eyes is better . Sometimes less is more . Of course , less can be less , too . Connery did this grimace / head business constantly , never changing expression . The film had that grainy , cheap look to it and poor color . Possibly the people in this movie have moved up to better quality projects . I don't know whether that's a good or a bad thing .
George Sanders undercover	" They Came to Blow up America " looks to be a B movie . It stars the suave , always reliable George Sanders as Steelman , an American of German heritage who is recruited by the FBI to infiltrate the Nazis as a spy . Even his parents believe that he has joined the Nazi movement . He is given the identity of someone else and sent to Germany , eventually ending up on a saboteur mission . The film is told in flashback , with the FBI man who recruited Steelman ( Ward Bond ) explaining to an underling what really went on . Sanders is good . He played villains well , so during the war , he was often cast as a Nazi ! The supporting cast includes Anna Sten and Ludwig Stossel , who plays Steelman's father . Ward Bond was a best friend of Clark Gable , and I couldn't help but notice the similarity of their voices in this film . Even their speaking rhythm was similar . Close your eyes , and you'd swear it was Gable .
Burton reciting Shakespeare , how can one go wrong ?	Richard Burton plays Edwin Booth in " Prince of Players , " also starring Raymond Massey , John Derek , Maggie McNamara , and Charles Bickford . The story takes us through the young Edwin growing up , traveling with his famous actor father , and at times standing in for him . Eventually he himself becomes a great actor , and in fact , was known as the greatest Hamlet of his day . But personal tragedy strikes in his marriage and in his brother John's assassination of President Lincoln . John Derek makes a dashing John Wilkes Booth , handsome and charismatic . Massey , a man who played Lincoln on film and recording as well , is the elder Booth and is excellent as the flamboyant drunkard . And it's wonderful to hear him recite Shakespeare . " Prince of Players " was a showcase for Richard Burton . In 1955 , when this film was released , he was young , handsome , and extremely romantic looking . Classically trained , he possessed , as he always did , a magnificent voice and a great talent . To hear his Shakespearean recitation in this film is a real treat , and there is a lot of it , including Hamlet , Richard III , and Romeo & Juliet . Sadly , Burton came from a poor Welsh family and never got over it . In pursuing movie money , he took roles in mediocre films and did very little stage work , though he shined in " Camelot " and " Equus . " His last Broadway appearance , shortly before his death , was a disastrous " Private Lives " with his ex-wife Elizabeth Taylor . His fans , however , choose to remember this sweet and charming person as a glorious Prince Hal in Henry IV and as Hamlet . How wonderful that film audiences can hear his gifts forever in " Prince of Players . "
Yet another ' 60s spy caper , this one pre-global warming	James Coburn is " Our Man Flint " in this 1966 spy film . Flint is called in by our government to find and destroy the enemy's capability to control the weather . Given our current situation with global warming , it was actually quite interesting . The cool , perfect Flint is a derivative of James Bond , a gadget-ridden spy , unflappable in the face of certain death , totally brilliant , and a sex machine surrounded by gorgeous , buxom women . Played by the resonant-voiced , angular-faced James Coburn , Flint sails through his assignment , not only escaping death but faking death when it suits him . It's a fun movie , but it's amazing how many of this type of film and spy films in general were made in the ' 60s - not only the Bond films , but caper films like Topkapi , Gambit , the Harry Palmer films , Casino Royale ( where James bond was a character ) - these films and takeoffs of them , like The Glass-Bottomed Boat - abounded . It's always nice to reminisce about the ' 60s , and " Our Man Flint " has the music , the dancing , the gowns , the gadgets and the bustlines that will take you right back . A good time .
Donald Woods is this film's Perry Mason	Donald Woods stars as Perry Mason in " The Case of the Stuttering Bishop , " a 1937 film that also stars Ann Dvorak as a lively Della Street . Frank Faylen is also on hand to pep things up a bit . Both of them are needed , because Donald Woods isn't terribly exciting . Of the men who played Perry Mason in the films , he is perhaps the closest rendering to the actual character . But the book Perry Mason was just that - for books - and it would take Gardner himself to not only choose Raymond Burr ( the original Perry Mason was supposed to be Fred MacMurray until Gardner saw Mason at an audition for Hamilton Burger ) but oversee the scripts to make the translation to the moving image . The story concerns a mysterious bishop who asks Perry to help clear a woman accused of manslaughter many years earlier . From there , the story gets into mistaken identity - is a woman posing as an heiress or isn't she - and the solving of a murder . It's a very complicated plot , so pay attention . And Paul Drake is old . If you can sort it all out , you'll find it interesting . There's a little comedy to be had , which is helpful . I like watching the Perry Mason movies , if only to see the different interpretations of the various roles and the emphasis put into the stories , but in the end , it's best to forget who these characters are supposed to be - because after watching the TV show for years , none of them are . So don't expect much in that department , and you won't be disappointed .
cute if dated	This movie was the possible inspiration for the TV movie and series that followed , " The Snoop Sisters . " This cast is even more formidable than the Snoop Sisters - instead of two elderly ladies , this has four . And what a group ! Helen Hayes , Mildred Natwick , Sylvia Sidney , and Myrna Loy . Poor Vincent Edwards doesn't have a chance against them . The bored ladies decide to fill out a computer dating form , using an imaginary woman , of course , and wind up with a very eager Edwards . Computer dating has come a long way , but alas , it's still pretty easy to attract a character like Edwards . The four women are adorable and it's worth it just to have a chance to watch them in action . Hayes and Natwick went on to play elderly detectives in " The Snoop Sisters . "
If you wanna stump it , bump it with a trumpet	Boy , once Warner Brothers bought a property , they did everything but serve it for dinner . 1936's " Satan Met a Lady " is yet another version of " The Maltese Falcon , " which was finally given the classic touch by John Huston in 1941 . This particular version is out of control but manages to be a lot of fun at the same time . This time Sam Spade is named Shane , and he's played by ' 30s star Warren William . William was a tall , handsome man with sharp features and a refined speaking voice - by this time , he was the Warners version of William Powell , though he had started his career as an unsympathetic , precode villain . A more extroverted performer , he excelled at the William Powell-type vehicles . He even took over for Powell as Philo Vance . William was the movie Perry Mason , and if you think this is a wild " Maltese Falcon , " you should see what was done to Perry before the TV series . Put it this way - Della Street wore diamonds . In this version , the falcon is the Horn of Roland , a trumpet stuffed with jewels , and it's being sought by a young , pretty Bette Davis in the Bebe Daniels-Astor role , and now the Sydney Greenstreet character has had a sex change in the form of Madame Barrabas ( Alison Skipworth ) . Though there's no doubt Barrabas a ruthless character . and the usual people have been murdered by the usual people , this version is pretty much played for laughs . It moves faster than the Cortez version , and while Cortez played Spade as a delightful rogue , William has a ball , laughing at the whole thing as he collects money from everyone . In the Cortez version , Spade had some feeling for Ms . Wonderly ( Bebe Daniels ) ; here , William clearly enjoys playing the field and never takes the Davis character seriously . Shane's secretary in " Satan Met a Lady " is played by Marie Wilson , whose part is quite large . She's very funny . Davis is okay , but her sincerity isn't believable - at this point in her career , she's still a little stagey . The very tongue-in-cheek William runs this show , which is done in the style of " The Thin Man . " Though it was a bomb when it was released , today it's of interest for Davis , its handling of the material , and also as a chance to see William , who died in 1948 , in top form . After this film , he went into character roles . Recommended .
Routine cop drama . . . and which came first ?	Did , as some people think , " Scene of the Crime " invent the cop drama clichs that have been a mainstay of television and film for so long ? Or were they already established and just copied by this film ? Not being an expert in the genre , I don't know . I do know that despite attempts by some people to elevate this movie to film noir status , it's not that great . Dore Schary put this into production when he took over MGM . I guess he wanted MGM to be more like Warner Brothers . It stars Van Johnson , Arlene Dahl , John McIntyre , Leon Ames , and Gloria DeHaven . When a cop is killed with a roll of dough found on him , his fellow officers set out to investigate the crime and clear the man's name . " Scene of the Crime " is similar in its way to " Dragnet " - it shows the daily grind of detectives as they put together a case . There are a couple of very good scenes , including one in which Mike ( Van Johnson ) arrests a suspect , and shooting starts when they get outside of the apartment building . Still handcuffed to Mike , the perp jumps into a building stairwell . There's also a good car chase . For some reason , Van Johnson did these baby-faced tough guys well - perhaps it was his New York accent , but he pulls off the role of the dedicated Mike . He was set to be Elliot Ness in the TV " Untouchables " when his wife Evie called Desi Arnaz the night before and held him up for more money . Arnaz called Robert Stack and told him to report to the set the next day . A friend of mine who has lived in LA for over 50 years and socialized with many stars said that Arlene Dahl was the most beautiful woman of everyone he had met . Seeing her in this , you can believe it . She is a spectacular beauty if her acting in some spots isn't the best . Gloria DE Haven , usually a vibrant ingenue , plays against type as a tramp , which makes it interesting . " Scene of the Crime " is gritty-looking enough but suffers from being slow in spots and loaded with clichs . There isn't anything to make it truly special . That could be because by now , we've seen it all before . Perhaps in 1949 , it was fresh . But I have my doubts that even back then , it broke any new ground .
Hollywood showcase	" Hollywood Canteen " is the story of the actual organization that fed and entertained soldiers during World War II , started by Bette Davis and John Garfield , both of whom appear in the film . Actual female movie stars served as hostesses and danced with the lonely soldiers . In this story , Slim ( Robert Hutton ) meets his fantasy woman , Joan Leslie , at the Canteen , and when he later becomes the one millionth man to enter the Canteen , he's allowed to choose her as his date for the weekend . Dane Clark plays his buddy . If you were at Warner Brothers in the ' 40s , you were in this movie , with very few exceptions . There was some wonderful musical performing as well , tops in my book being Carmen Cavallaro and Jack Benny's duet on the violin with Joseph Szigeti . You can also hear the Andrews Sisters , Roy Rogers and Trigger , Eddie Cantor , Benny Goodman and many others . All of the women looked stunning , including Davis , Alexis Smith , Eleanor Parker , Jane Wyman , Joan Leslie , Barbara Stanwyck , Ida Lupino , Joan Crawford , and an unbelievably young and gorgeous Janis Paige . There were also appearances by Dennis Morgan , Jack Carson , Sidney Greenstreet , Helmet Dantine , Paul Henried , and Peter Lorre . It was all very interesting but some of the numbers went on a bite long . However , if you're of that era , it will bring back some tremendous memories . Hutton ( Barbara Hutton's cousin ) was an interesting actor , likable and very reminiscent of Jimmy Stewart . He continued to work in Hollywood for another 30 years but never achieved stardom . Most fascinating to me was seeing and hearing Kitty Carlisle as she performed " Once to Every Heart , " realizing that this film was made 62 years ago - and Kitty just performed her nightclub act , at 95 , in New York City . God bless her . By the way , female servicewomen were not allowed in the Hollywood Canteen . I can't remember who it was , but eventually someone started tea dances for the women soldiers to give them someplace to go on leave . For shame .
There's gold in them thar hills	" Gold Rush Maisie " has Maisie ( Ann Sothern ) prospecting in this 1940 entry into the series . Maisie's car breaks down , and she becomes stranded and has to ask for help from an isolated , nasty rancher ( Lee Bowman ) who shares his house with another sourpuss ( Slim Somerville ) . These films all followed the same formula - Maisie's charm , no-nonsense attitude and warmth melt the icebergs she meets . Later on , she meets a family of farmers who have lost their farm and become migrant workers . Now they're on their way to prospect for gold . Maisie is stunned at how little they have and sets out to help them . The atmosphere of " Gold Rush Maisie " is a little more down than usual , and the actions of the rancher played by Lee Bowman are inexplicable . First he's nasty , then he abruptly puts the moves on Maisie , becomes nasty again and later , after she tells him off , he becomes nice . Bowman was Sothern's leading man in the series more than once , as was James Craig - I prefer James Craig , who had more energy and variety in his acting . One does really feel for the family , and that helps to hold one's interest . Sothern does her usual bang-up job . The previous reviewer has it right - she would have been a bigger star in an earlier era . But if huge movie stardom eluded her , she still played some wonderful roles , and her two series are a treasure , as is the actress herself .
When life mocks you , mock it back	Some classic age actors , when seen today , appear hammy and using old-fashioned technique . And some are timeless . John Barrymore is timeless and , in one of his last films , " The Great Profile , " he lampoons himself mercilessly - in the role of a ham with old-fashioned technique . The story is based on what really happened to the actor during a play called " My Own Children . " The actor Evans Garrick ( Barrymore ) has been missing for three days . When he arrives home drunk , he's in costume and he's reciting Shakespeare , believing that he just left a film set an hour earlier . Infuriated , his wife Sylvia ( Mary Beth Hughes ) leaves him . Then pretty Mary Maxwell ( 17-year-old Anne Baxter ) arrives with a play she is desperate for Garrick to do . He gets rid of her by saying he will meet her in his agent's office the next day . His agent ( Gregory Ratoff ) owes some mobsters $8200 and when he hears that Ms . Maxwell has a wealthy fiance , Richard Lansing ( John Payne ) who will back the play , he's all for it . It's a complete disaster , but it gets Sylvia back from Reno as soon as she hears about it , and she wins back her role . Totally polluted by the second act , Garrick makes the play a hit by ad-libbing and finally rolling off of the stage in a wheelchair . Ms . Maxwell is finally convinced to take what she considered her serious drama into New York , where it's been booked for a six-month run , but she takes Garrick in hand to sober him up . Everyone's unhappy - her fiance and Garrick's agent in particular , since the play is deathly if Garrick isn't drunk . Strangely enough , most of this actually happened to Barrymore in real life , including his wife leaving him and returning to get her part back in New York . And she did hide in Barrymore's wardrobe as Garrick's wife does in the film , though in real life , Barrymore's daughter Diana tried to keep her from doing so . Barrymore is extremely dissipated in " The Great Profile " and reads his lines off of cue cards , which toward the end , he did often . For people who say he's a ham , I say he was playing one . He does Hamlet with a quivering sing-song voice . Does anyone believe this is actually how he played his famous Hamlet ? He was Olivier's inspiration for the role . Olivier first played Hamlet in 1937 and was known for speaking the dialogue instead of singing it . There are some very funny moments in " The Great Profile " but in the end , it's a bizarre movie , enlivened by Barrymore's presence . If you want to see a non-hammy Barrymore , I suggest " The Great Man Votes " or " Bill of Divorcement . " He was a great actor with a big personality - if that seems strange by today's standards , well , it's the pictures that got small .
lots of fog , a little Donna Reed Show , some Gaslight thrown in	Jeanne Crain was under contract to Twentieth Century Fox in the ' 40s and ' 50s and , as a pretty ingnue , made some big films . In fact , the studio wanted Joseph Mankiewicz to give her the role of Eve in " All About Eve . " Not considering her much of an actress , Mankiewicz refused to use her in the film . He was right and he was wrong . She wasn't much of an actress - but her youth , prettiness , and sweetness would have made her a great foil for Bette Davis , would have made Margo seem even more unreasonable , and her jealousy , given Crain's vibrant looks , would have even been more understandable . Where Crain would have been less effective is after Eve is found out - that's where Baxter's rightness for the role kicked in . All that being said , Crain is the star of " Dangerous Crossing . " She plays a woman on a honeymoon cruise who can't seem to find her husband . If she had a husband , that is . Elegant Michael Rennie is the ship's doctor who half believes her and wants to help . It's actually a very good , suspenseful movie , and if you've seen Fox's " Titanic , " you'll recognize the ship . Carl Betz of " The Donna Reed Show " plays the missing husband . Crain doesn't do paranoid very well , employing a lot of stock " crazy " mannerisms in her closeups . It would have been interesting to see what she could have accomplished with a strong director and a powerful cast surrounding her . Ah , what might have been .
Early Hepburn	Katharine Hepburn is a beautiful and accomplished aviatrix in " Christopher Strong , " a 1933 film also starring Clive Owen and Billie Burke , and directed by Dorothy Arzner . Hepburn's role of Lady Cynthia is loosely based on Amelia Earhart , a young , ambitious career woman who is not interested in marriage and home but rather accomplishment . She's an early feminist , and the role is perfect for Hepburn , who with her androgynous looks and strong performances would go on to play many such roles in her very long career . " Christopher Strong " is of interest because it's early Hepburn , has a feminist theme in the early ' 30s , and also because it's pre-Code . Arzner does a great job depicting the love affair of Hepburn and Owen and yet shows nothing , with a hand reaching up and checking the time on a small clock . . . then the light is turned off and plunges the room into darkness after the lovers exchange a few words . The problem with the movie is that it's badly dated , a ' 30s melodrama with tremulous , " we must be honorable , " pip-pip and all that rot dialogue . Owen tells everyone at a party that he will never be unfaithful to his wife , that it is a moral charge he holds high - and seconds later he meets Hepburn and you can tell he's already falling . Owen is an odd choice of a romantic partner - he's not exactly the man one would give up everything for . A bigger problem is the performance of Billie Burke , a fine actress . She is extremely sympathetic as the suffering wife - so sympathetic , in fact , and Hepburn seems so callous about the whole thing for most of the film , that one sides with what I'm sure is the wrong person . Also , putting up with your husband's infidelity and not saying anything brings us right back into aggressive non-feminism . I am forced to agree with one of the other comments - yes , it is directed by an important director , yes , it stars an important , legendary star , yes , it's early feminism , and yes , it's not that great a movie , rather , an artifact . Worth seeing ? To catch Hepburn in that moth costume - absolutely .
Trite and light musical comedy	" Greenwich Village " is a musical from Twentieth Century Fox starring Don Ameche , Vivian Blaine , Carmen Miranda , and William Bendix . The film seems a bit slapped together , especially in light of the fact that one of the numbers was actually footage from " Springtime in the Rockies " that was cut . There's not much of a story - it concerns a young composer , Kenneth Harvey ( Ameche ) who meets Blaine and Bendix in a speakeasy . Bendix jazzes up Kenneth's concerto , intending to use it for a show , while Kenneth hopes to have it performed in a classical genre . He also falls in love with Blaine , whom Bendix considers his girl . Miranda is a multipurpose performer at the Danny's Den , and has some cute numbers - " Give Me a Band and a Bandana , " " I Like to be Loved By You , " and " I'm Just Wild About Harry , " all energetically performed in some wild costumes . Vivian Blaine looks absolutely beautiful and sings well . Ameche gives a pleasant performance as someone experiencing New York and the Village for the first time . A great deal is made here of Greenwich Village as a haven for artists , and the sets are very much like the neighborhood as it must have been in those days - crowded and brightly lit . The street that Danny's Den was on looks like West 8th Street , and it was fun to see . " The Revuers " who included Judy Holliday , John Frank , Betty Comden and Adolph Green , alas , were cut from the film , and the best number was " It Goes to Your Toes " performed by " untitled black musicians " who were fantastic . They were possibly The Layson Brothers . The DeMarcos turned in some sprightly dancing . This isn't one of Fox's blockbusters , but it has the tell-tale vibrant Fox colors , likable cast , and good musical numbers normally associated with musicals from that studio .
Bizarre little noir	Peter Lorre is the " Stranger on the Third Floor " in this B movie from 1940 that stars John McGuire , Maria Tallichet ( Mrs . William Wyler ) and Elisha Cook , Jr . McGuire plays Mike Ward , a reporter who is the key witness in a murder trial that ends with the defendant ( Cook ) being found guilty . The man's protestations of innocence make an impression on Ward's fiance , Jane , and it causes a rift between them . Back in his rooming house , Mike realizes that his nemesis next door isn't snoring as usual . Looking out of his room , he sees a man ( Lorre ) hanging around on his floor . Unnerved from the trial and from Jane's attitude , he begins to think his neighbor is dead and fantasizes that he could , though innocent , be put in the same position as the man he testified against and accused of murder . Then the nightmare turns into reality , and it's up to Jane to try and find the stranger - who killed in the same manner as was used in the murder case just tried . This is a pretty interesting story with decent performances by McGuire and Tallichet , who retired after the birth of her second child with Wyler . Facially , she is a cross between Ella Raines and Jane Russell , though she gets no glamor treatment in this . Sitting down to watch the film , I was visualizing something like " M " or " The Lodger " - in reality , Lorre doesn't have much to do at all . He does , however , act strangely very well . Some wonderful photography and interestingly filmed sequences , and a really sweet ending . Catch it the next time it's on TCM .
enteraining , featuring a small town actor who soon goes to the big city	" Small Town Girl " is a light , entertaining piece starring Janet Gaynor and Robert Taylor . Gaynor is a young woman sick of her humdrum life . When she meets playboy Robert Taylor , she's enchanted by him , as most women of the ' 30s were . While they're together , he gets smashed and proposes . Thinking of her family and what she's got to go back to , she accepts . He's engaged already , so his family encourages him to wait six months before divorcing the stranger he married . You can figure out the rest . The two stars are very appealing . Gaynor always had a sweet , charming , and innocent demeanor ; Taylor is elegant and handsome . James Stewart plays a neighborhood boy who likes Gaynor . He doesn't have much of a part and very little function in the movie , but he's cute . Seeing him in some of the early films and realizing what a mega-star he became , it's hard to believe he was ever subjected to these tiny roles , but he was . He has more to do in " Murder Man , " which is actually earlier than this film . MGM seemed to just stick him where they needed him , as they did Spencer Tracy in his early years . You can't argue with their formula , as it yielded two great stars .
typical ' 30s comedy	" The Smartest Girl in Town " is a typical 1936 film with a typical plot . A wealthy man ( Gene Raymond ) falls for a model named Cookie ( Ann Sothern ) who mistakes him for a model . He has his butler ( Erik Blore ) call Cookie's booker and claim he's from an advertising agency so he can book her again and get close to her during the shoot . Meanwhile , Cookie's sister ( Helen Broderick ) is trying to marry her off to a supposedly rich foreigner ( Erik Rhodes ) whom Cookie not only doesn't love but can't understand . The actors are all good - Helen Broderick always had great line delivery , and Eric Blore is in his usual role . Ann Sothern is beautiful and Gene Raymond is charming . It just doesn't add up to much with its very thin plot . I assume this was a B film since it only ran an hour . It's cute , but nothing special .
Maisie tries to stop a divorce	In " Maisie Goes to Reno , " our usually effervescent Maisie is burnt out working in a wartime factory and is sent on a vacation by her doctor . She accepts an offer to sing with her old band in Reno and relax by day but finds that in order to get there , she has to buy the ticket of a woman who's decided not to go . A soldier sees the transaction and begs Maisie to help him . Initially , he wants her ticket but when an MP informs him that his unit has been called in , he asks Maisie to take a note to his soon to be ex-wife in order to stop the divorce . In Reno , Maisie discovers that the man's wife ( Ava Gardner ) is being duped by two con artists into believing her husband just wants her money . Maisie herself becomes involved with an employee in the hotel casino ( John Hodiak ) . Sothern does a fun rendition of " Panhandle Pete , " Gardner is ravishing , and John Hodiak was never handsomer . Most of the " Maisie " series was pleasant without being overwhelming , though perhaps some of the earlier films were better . This one is okay , worth it to see Gardner and Hodiak in early roles - and of course , the always wonderful Sothern .
pilot for the " Hallmark Mystery Series " entry	This was evidently the pilot for the " Mystery Woman " series starring Kellie Martin , which rotates with " Jane Doe " and " McBride " on the " Hallmark Mystery Series . " I'm a fan of Kellie Martin and of this concept , but thanks to the direction of this pilot , the minutes flew like hours . This was an extremely slow-moving , poorly acted mystery . Martin was the only one kept of the original cast ; the characters of Cassie and Philby were recast . One character who does not appear in the series is Samantha's ex-husband , played by handsome Steven Brand . Frankly , I think they could use him on the show . The producers put some money into this pilot , which concerned an unsolved , 10-year-old murder and a mystery novelist who threatens to reveal the killer in his next book . Robert Wagner plays the novelist , and Joan Severance , whose career I guess we can assume is not what it was , played his wife . With her beauty and outrageously gorgeous figure , Severance looked to be headed towards big things in the ' 80s . Who can forget her with Kevin Spacey in the " Mel Profitt " " Wiseguy " story arc ? Anyway , William Moses plays a police detective who is the partner of Wagner's son . I found the story very far-fetched ( not to mention given away in the first twenty minutes ) but with some elements that I wish they would put into Mystery Woman now . The idea of Samantha referencing mystery books to solve a crime is similar to what Pierce Brosnan's Remington Steele did with movies , and it's a fun concept . What I found frustrating was , first of all , the pacing , which particularly in Mystery Woman is very slow - it seems less of an issue in Jane Doe and McBride , and in the pilot , it was deadly . I thought it funny that , though in 2003 Wagner was using a standard typewriter , no one commented on it . The DA never asked why Wagner hadn't brought the police the evidence he had for an unsolved murder . A blackmailer claims that at the author's book party , she revealed to someone that she was that person's real mother - does anyone else think a book party is a strange place for that type of discussion ? Samantha didn't even blink . The adopted person never commented on it . And how is it that everyone knows the date of a murder that took place ten years earlier ? It seemed to be right up there with the Pearl Harbor bombing and . Bad script . I'm surprised on the basis of this , the series was picked up . I'm glad it was , though , and I hope they get some better directors and scripts as time goes on . Not to mention a few customers for the Mystery Woman bookstore .
Debut of a great screen pair	If you watch " Flying Down to Rio " expecting it to be a Rogers and Astaire film , forget it - but it was their debut as a team , dancing the Carioca . This is a 1933 movie short on plot and , as is often the case with the early talkies , a little slow in parts due to the pace of the dialogue . It is nevertheless a fun movie , with Astaire doing some wonderful solo dancing and of course , his dance with Ginger , which sent them on their way to movie history . The stars of the film are Dolores Del Rio and Gene Raymond . After bandleader Raymond meets del Rio in the U . S . , he ends up in Rio where he competes for her attentions with her fianc Julio ( Raul Roulien ) , his best friend . The plot concerns the opening of a hotel in Rio and its planned takeover by another group . When the opening date is changed , the owner cannot get another performing license , so all seems to be lost . Thus the number " Flying Down to Rio " with chorus girls doing maneuvers on the wings of flying planes . It's a spectacular part of the film , though in spots you can really seek how fake it was . It doesn't really matter - it was early film-making where , without the use of computers , artistry and imagination were needed instead , and much was accomplished . There are some interesting editing experiments noticeable as well , particularly during a big nightclub scene . It was precode , so some of the numbers are pretty darn steamy . Dolores del Rio was surely one of the most stunningly beautiful women ever to appear on screen . Growing up , I remember seeing Sunday supplements with articles and photos about her current life - it was a good 30 years after this film - and her beauty remained awesome without the plastic surgery techniques available today . She was a true , fantastic beauty , and this film really showcases it . This isn't the most wonderful musical you'll ever see but it's important nonetheless : It launched Rogers & Astairs , it's an interesting example of early editing , and it's precode . And if you watch it with the wonder that the depression audiences must have had , you'll enjoy it even more .
All this for $26 . 50 a week	John Shelton and Lana Turner star are " We Who Are Young , " a 1940 film also starring Gene Lockhart . Turner and Shelton are newlyweds who work in the same office ; she's fired as soon as the boss ( Lockhart ) finds out . Married women can't work there ; it seems they're taking the jobs away from the more deserving men , and after all , a husband should be able to support his wife . I don't know about the work rule , but it was the prevailing attitude that if your wife worked , you couldn't support her . The couple has trouble meeting their furniture payments , so hubby takes a loan . When he can't make those payments , his salary his attached . His boss fires him for that ; you can't be an upstanding citizen if your salary is attached . Meanwhile , his out of work wife becomes pregnant , the furniture is gone , his job is gone , and he can't find another one . On one hand , it shows you how times have changed in the workplace for the better at least as far as employment laws ; on the other hand , at least the Lockhart character has qualms of conscience , which no employer in this day and age would have . Firing at Christmas doesn't bother them , nor does firing someone without notice and having security escort them out , lest they steal a paper clip , nor does spending $250 , 000 to have their offices redecorated , only to tell employees there's no money for even a cost of living raise . John Shelton chews up the scenery as the husband . He's not particularly good , and though she doesn't get to emote like Shelton , MGM decided Lana Turner was going to be a star . She's very sweet , beautiful and fragile appearing here . Shelton I guess went into the service and lost what little grooming the studio was giving him . It looks like he quit show business in 1953 . Extremely dated , not great , interesting for Turner and a look at the workplace in the 1939-41 era .
excellent story , if not as harrowing as the real-life events	I saw the actual heroine of this story on Oprah . She was accompanied by her dentist husband and her son . Her husband was one of the men she hid in her wall during the war . He jumped off a train en route to a concentration camp , and the bread he hid in his chest broke his fall . He went to this young woman's home because he knew her family . She was at that time , I believe , 15 , and her parents were away working . She herself was working in a factory . In the film , the wall seemed to be an extension of the attic and was fairly large . But the real people lived in an enclosure in an actual wall . One of them had to stay awake each night to make sure no one snored . In order to use the bathroom , they had to ease their way down onto the next floor . The nurses in the next apartment dated Nazis , and at one point , the Nazis wanted the house . All of the escapees advised the young woman to save herself . However , the Nazis decided against commandeering the building . The heroine , called Fusia in this story , had to sneak food home and be very careful . People were watching everywhere . Though this is one World War II story that ultimately has a happy ending , the actual terror and anguish of what really happened during the war to these people is not fully realized in this movie . Kellie Martin is very good , as is Marion Ross as a neighbor . It was interesting to see it dramatized . No one who watched this amazing family on Oprah could have failed to be moved by them . Fusia and her husband came to this country in 1948 and made good lives . She had been dating someone else , but of course , having all these people in her wall , her social life was somewhat curtailed . When the war was over , the man who became her husband turned to her and said , " You're with me , and that's it . " My feeling for this movie is diminished by having heard the real people talk about their experiences , but it is another good example of people helping one another during the war .
pre-code early Bette programmer	Well , well , imagine my surprise when I saw two people in a double bed . That's right - precode , no whitewash . Bette Davis and Gene Raymond star in " Ex-Lady , " about talented illustrator Helen Bauer , a career girl with very definite ideas about marriage - she's against it . Don ( Raymond ) has a key to her apartment , but he finally talks her into marriage . After a wonderful Havana honeymoon , the two return to find his ad agency , at which she now works , is in shambles . The two seem to grow unhappier until they decide it's just not working . But while separated , he and Helen find that the emotions they thought they left behind in marriage are still very much present . I wasn't as enthusiastic about " Ex-Lady " as some of the other posters . It's slow-moving and stagy . It's based on an unproduced play , and it's not hard to see why it wasn't produced . Still , it's fascinating - Davis is all of about 28 , tiny and pretty , and her screen persona is as yet unset . The feminist premise is very interesting , as are all of the precode elements . Davis and Raymond display quite a bit of chemistry , and talk about not having your screen persona - Frank McHugh wanders around as if he's on another planet ! There's also a rendition of a cut version of Wagner's " Dich , teure Halle " at a party . Davis does fine in her role , but of course , this isn't the type of thing she would shine in once Warners caught on . Raymond has never impressed me much , but if Jeannette MacDonald was forced to marry him , apparently he impressed Louis B . Mayer . All in all , " Ex-Lady " is worth seeing for early Davis and as a pre-code film , which makes some of the movie seem quite modern .
Elvis in Fort Lauderdale	Elvis Presley and his band are " Girl Happy " in this 1965 film starring Shelley Fabares and featuring Gary Crosby , Mary Ann Mobley , Harold Stone , Nita Talbot , Joby Baker and Fabrizio Mioni . Presley and his band are hired by the club owner ( Harold Stone ) they work for to go to Fort Lauderdale and make sure that his daughter ( Fabares ) doesn't get into trouble . This often means cutting the romantic evenings of the band short , but Rusty ( Elvis ends up combining business with pleasure . This is pleasant enough Elvis fare . It's not the kind of movie he wanted to make , but thanks to Colonel Parker , we have a slew of them , part travelogue , part music video . Elvis looks great ; the film has a lot of youthful energy and catches the spring break atmosphere . After the success of Ricky Nelson on television , TV stars had to sing , and Fabares is no exception , and she makes a darling costar for Elvis . ( Her description during an interview of being told she had to sing by the producer of " The Donna Reed Show " is quite funny . She refused and was asked , " Do you want to do the show next year ? " ) Former Miss America Mary Ann Mobley is the knockout Rusty tries to romance while on guard duty . Rusty's band , consisting of Crosby , Baker and Hawkins , do well in their roles as lascivious lads . I wasn't as taken with the music as some on the board . It was nice , but I missed a big hit like " Return to Sender . " Elvis wanted to leave a more important film legacy . I for one am grateful for any chance to see him perform .
Laroquette is great but oy , the script	The Hallmark mystery series needs better mysteries . This one , " Tune in for Murder " in the McBride series is rotten . I mean , the evidence - hello . So obviously fake . John Laroquette is delightful as McBride , and I think he does a bit of ad-libbing as well , but this sort of thing is beneath him . It's definitely for the Perry Mason crowd and might be entertaining if they could spiff up the script some . In this episode , a shock jock hated by all is murdered , and his nice guy partner is accused . McBride is brought in as the defense attorney for what his some time girlfriend , a homicide investigator portrayed nicely by Marta Dubois , claims is a slam-dunk case . She's got some nerve . McBride , of course , discovers plenty that the police missed . Other episodes in the McBride series have been better . There is a nice device where , while someone is relating a past situation pertaining to the murder , McBride actually appears in the reliving , asking questions . Unlike " Mystery Woman , " the pace of McBride is okay , but if I were Laroquette , I'd ask for tighter scripts . I don't care how desperate a D . A . is for a conviction - even they wouldn't have accepted this evidence as the real thing .
Beautiful bore	Kirsten Dunst is " Marie Antoinette " in this anachronistic 2006 film directed by Sofia Coppola . The other stars include Jason Schwartzman , Rip Torn , Judy Davis , Marianne Faithful and Molly Shannon . I can only guess that the reason for making this film was to show a teenage Queen of France cavorting with her girlfriends and shopping until she dropped while remaining oblivious to the plight and unhappiness of the French people . In actuality , that's probably pretty close to the truth about this historical figure . Norma Shearer was very good as Marie Antoinette , but she wasn't a kid . I think this version had the right idea . The only thing Coppola omitted was Marie's story , so the movie is instead about the above-mentioned teen partying , shopping , being unfaithful , wandering the grounds , while giving us a look at royal tradition , gorgeous costumes and dazzling scenery . Little else . Marie Antoinette's life was full of drama - her liaisons with Axel von Fersen , the Affair of the Necklace , her husband's medical problem which prevented the couple from having children for so long , the revolution , the family being taken to prison , and the guillotine . Some of this is touched on or mentioned in passing ; most of it is left out . There are five exciting minutes or so toward the end of the film . In a way , it's a shame , because this film could have given us great insight into Marie Antoinette by having a very young woman play the Queen as these events swirled around her . But in order to do that , characters would have to have been developed , and there didn't seem to be any interest in that . If you love color , beautiful costumes and scenery , this is the film for you . Don't bother if you're looking for any kind of content ; like the vacuous queen , there's no there there .
A parole officer falls in love with one of his charges	" Shockproof " is a 1949 Douglas Sirk film starring Cornel Wilde and Patricia Knight . Wilde is Griff Marat , who gets a paroled prisoner , Jenny Marsh ( Knight ) on his caseload . She refuses to give up the bad acquaintances that got her into trouble in the first place ; this includes her old boyfriend , Harry ( John Baragrey ) whom she continues to meet secretly . Griff has taken Jenny into his home to care for his blind mother ( Esther Minciotti ) , and over time , they fall in love . Though she's still pulled toward Harry , she balks when Harry wants her to convince Griff to marry her , a clear violation of his job ethics and her parole . Because Griff has political ambitions , they will then have them where they want him . Gradually Harry realizes that Jenny is not going to cooperate , and he ends up gravely injured . Griff and Jenny go on the run to avoid her arrest . This is a pretty good noir with two heavyweights attached , Sirk , the director , and Sam Fuller , who co-wrote the script . Unfortunately , the characters aren't fleshed out enough so that we understand their sudden turnarounds - a man on the side of the law with political ambitions decides to throw it all out the window , marry a client secretly , and go on the run riding in boxcars and living in shacks because though the shooting was accidental , Griff feels Jenny won't be believed . That's just Griff - in reality , all three of the main characters do complete reversals during the course of this film with little or no justification . Wilde does a good job here , and Knight , a new actress to me , is beautiful and has good chemistry opposite her then husband Wilde . She didn't work much longer , as after their divorce , her career dried up . Entertaining .
fails the litmus test	The litmus test is - - if [ big star ] weren't in this film , could it be a TV movie ? Alas , the answer is yes . Though very entertaining with good performances , how Six Days Seven Nights made it to the big screen eludes me . It is not original and doesn't have the kind of script one demands of a feature film . I was just glad I didn't pay $8 . 50 or more to see it in the theater - but it will do well in video , where it should have gone directly in the first place .
blink and you miss it	Jeopardy is a B movie , and it's sad to see the wonderful Barbara Stanwyck reduced to doing it . It is , however , not without merit . Stanwyck plays a wife and mother trying to get help for her trapped husband , Barry Sullivan . She runs afoul of Ralph Meeker en route . Now , here's the thing . He refuses to help her husband unless she has sex with him . As you can imagine , this being the 1950s , this is in the subtext and so far down that if you're not paying attention , you miss the implication . This makes Jeopardy a cut above your standard B , especially because of the presence of Stanwyck . She's certainly desperate to save her husband , but the film raises some interesting questions . Meeker was more rough and tumble than her husband - was she perhaps attracted to him ? Definitely worth seeing .
glossy ' 60s sci fi	This interesting sci fi film stars George Hamilton and Suzanne Pleshette , and features some former stars / near stars who had seen better days : Yvonne DeCarlo , Richard Carlson , Aldo Ray , and Gary Merrill ( in a real stepdown from All About Eve ) . Among the older stars , Michael Rennie has a larger supporting role . The cast , a good budget , and an intriguing script make for an entertaining film about the attempt of one megamind to ferret out who's a threat to him among a group of scientists . One of them has telekinesis , and after the murder of the whistle-blower , played by Arthur O'Connell , Hamilton tries to find O'Connell's old friend , whose name was written on a piece of paper , suspecting him of somehow being involved . This is a neat drama , all the more interesting in seeing the young stars , Hamilton and Pleshette , play against the older Hollywood types .
By soap possessed	Lana Turner , Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . , Jason Robards , Barbara Bel Geddes , Susan Kohner and George Hamilton are - if we are to believe the title - " By Love Possessed " in this 1961 film which also stars Thomas Mitchell and Yvonne Craig . As the name of the movie indicates , this is a huge , glossy , color soap opera featuring beautiful fall scenery , huge homes and the attractive people in them , fancy cars and lots of driving scenes . The only house which isn't sumptuous belongs to the supposedly super-wealthy Helen - in her scenes , she looks like she lives in a Motel 6 . BLP is supposed to be about SEX . Hamilton gets it ; Lana can't get it so she rides horses ; Efrem can't get it so he works late at the office ; Kohner can't get it so she looks at papers in her safety deposit box ; Mitchell can't get it because he's too old ; Robards can't have it because he's a cripple ; Bel Geddes can't get it because she's in a marriage where the couple has drifted apart ; and Craig has enough for all of them . The couples - - Marjorie and Julius ( Lana and Jason ) , Clarissa and Arthur ( Bel Geddes and Zimbalist ) , Helen and Warren ( Kohner and Hamilton ) do a lot of talking and Warren and Veronica ( Craig ) do a lot of making out . It all adds up to a big zero that obviously was meant to cash in on Turner's big success with " Imitation of Life , " as was " Portrait in Black " but in both films , they forgot to have Douglas Sirk direct . The acting is fairly superficial except for Jason Robards and Barbara Bel Geddes . Bel Geddes , a wonderful actress , creates a real character with real emotions , sticks with it , and is a success . Robards , famous for his performances in Eugene O'Neill works , is out of place here ; he has no one to play off of , as he has to act with Zimbalist and Turner . The very pretty Yvonne Craig , who would have better success in television , pouts well . Susan Kohner has none of the allure she displayed in " Imitation of Life " but with the help of an ugly wig , creates a sad character nonetheless . Hamilton is in the Tony Perkins role , which Perkins would have done a lot better . Hamilton is someone I prefer as a personality who parodies himself . When he attempts to act , it's painful . Zimbalist , who always comes off as a rich society person , comes off as a rich society person here . Very handsome , with a fine speaking voice , he never has had much range . Not that he needed a lot here , but he needed more than he had . Lana Turner looks lovely , though her fashions don't register as they have in past films . She could always pull off an adulterous drunk - I personally don't think she has enough to do . There are too many other characters . If you're going to do a Lana Turner movie , I say make it a Lana Turner movie and let's see us some more Lana ! The end of the film is pure Hollywood hokum . So are the beginning and the middle . This type of film is usually fun if nothing else ; this one is tedious .
military school story featuring some future stars	Though it might not sound like it , " Tom Brown of Culver " is about some military school lads , mainly Tom Brown , who is played , interestingly enough , by Tom Brown . Brown goes from the fight ring into military school on scholarship because his father was a war hero . After a tough time , he goes on to be an excellent cadet , only to meet a man he never knew , his father , and comes to grips with his father's secret . This is a fairly good melodrama , though clichd by today's standards , and is especially interesting for the appearance in a small role of 17-year-old Tyrone Power . Alan Ladd is also in the film , but I didn't spot him the first time around . What's fascinating about Power's appearance is his eyebrows . Film lore has it that his boss at Fox , Darryl F . Zanuck , turned him down a few years later because of his distractingly long , large eyebrows , and it was only Mrs . Zanuck who convinced her husband to give the young man a chance . Zanuck loved telling these stories on himself - that he refused to give Clark Gable a contract because of his ears , that his daughter told him about her young friend , Elizabeth Taylor , and he ignored her - why he wanted everyone to think he wasn't good at his job is anyone's guess . The fact is , Power's eyebrows are exactly the same as ever in this film and were the same in photos of him as a child and as an movie usher in Cincinnati . Why would he want to draw them to meet across his nose on the day of a screen test ? I guess Zanuck thought these little stories of just stumbling along made him more interesting as a studio head . Eyebrows aside , there are some very nice performances in this movie from Brown , Eugene Palette ( uncredited ) , Sidney Toler , Richard Cromwell , and Ben Alexander . H . B . Warner , as Tom's father , is clearly from another era - his acting style is over the top , but he is still effective . I have to go back and see if I can find Ladd . William Wyler directed , and Tyrone Power IV's middle name is William in honor of Wyler , so Power was grateful for the break . However , it didn't lead to anything at that time . He left Hollywood for Broadway and returned later to great stardom , despite his eyebrows .
Gotta love these pre-code Loretta Young movies	" They Call it Sin " is a 1932 film starring Loretta Young , George Brent , Una Merkel , Louis Calhern and David Manners . It's about a small-town beauty named Marion who falls in love with a man , James Decker ( Manners ) passing through town . He is engaged to another woman . It doesn't stop him , however , from falling in love with Marion . After a row with her parents and finding out she's adopted , Marion heads for New York , hoping to do something with her musical talent , and looks up Decker . Disillusioned upon learning he's engaged , she eventually takes up with a producer ( Louis Calhern ) who has a bad reputation as far as women are concerned . When he realizes she's in love with someone else , he fires her from his show and steals the music she wrote . Trouble follows . Una Merkel plays dancer Dixie Dare , Marion's roommate , and she's a riot - wait until you catch her dance act sans the cartwheels she was hired to do . George Brent is a doctor friend of Manners who finds himself falling for Marion . All in all , it's a very attractive cast . As was the style in the early ' 30s , Loretta is blonder here than most people will remember her . The luminous Young is gorgeous in a series of outfits . Some people criticize her acting - I have always found her very natural and believable . There was nothing new even in 1932 about the young girl in the big bad city , but the cast makes this film fresh and holds one's attention . It's not a long movie , but for the time it lasts , it's entertaining .
Sweet	Janet Leigh is a war widow who has two men after her in " Holiday Affair , " a 1949 film also starring Robert Mitchum and Wendell Corey . Leigh plays Connie , a comparison shopper who meets Steve Mason when he waits on her . Steve pegs her as a comparison shopper - and he pegs a few other things about her too . She's been proposed to by an attorney , Carl , but she's hesitant - until her attraction to Steve so upsets her life plan that she sets the date . This is a very sweet story of a woman who lost her husband two years earlier and can't move on because she doesn't want to forget him . Janet Leigh ( who looks a little like Terry Moore in this ) is vibrant , pretty and totally believable as Connie . Wendell Corey as her staid suitor is good , but really , there is no contest between Corey and Mitchum - the minute you see him , you know what's going to happen . Mitchum is handsome , sexy , and mysterious as the generous , adventurous Steve , a man who has a way with people , particularly Connie's young son . Mitchum's acting is excellent and he is especially good in the scenes with the boy , Timmy ( Gordon Gebert ) . As nice as this movie was , it dragged for me a little . But the script , characters , and acting are very good . I think it's a lovely , light film for the holidays .
okay musical	Jack Benny , Ida Lupino , Gail Patrick , Judy Canova and Ben Blue star in " Artists & Models , " a 1937 film directed by Rapul Walsh . Benny plays Mac Brewster , the owner of an advertising agency who lands the Townsend Silver Account . Mac has a ball planned , the Artists and Models Ball , and the " Townsend girl , " who is to be their model , will be queen of the ball . Mac wants his girlfriend Paula ( Lupino ) to be the model , but Townsend ( Richard Arlen ) wants a society girl . Paula takes off for Miami , where Townsend is going , and poses as a society girl . Townsend offers her the job . Mac , meanwhile , has met a bona fide society girl , the beautiful Gail Patrick , who has approached him about helping with a charity . He shows up in Miami with her . This movie is loaded with musical numbers that , in this writer's opinion , aren't great , with the exception of the last one , a number set in Harlem . That one , featuring Louis Armstrong , would have been better if they'd hired a black woman to sing the lead instead of putting Martha Raye in dark makeup . Ben Blue and Judy Canova are a little bit over the top , and those numbers seem very dated today . Ida Lupino looks beautiful and always turned in a good performance . When one sees her here as an ingnue , it's easy to appreciate her many accomplishments playing tough-gal roles and her work as a director . Benny is funny , but frankly , he doesn't have great material to work with . Gail Patrick , with her beautiful looks and voice , is her usual classy self . Cecil Cunningham , as Mac's secretary , is a standout with her dry wit . All in all , not fabulous . I usually don't think of Raoul Walsh and musicals in the same thought process for a reason .
entertaining adaptation	This is one of the many adaptations of the novel " Pride and Prejudice , " the best probably being the miniseries that appeared on A & E . This one stars Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier . Garson , of course , is not the 19 that Elisabeth is supposed to be , and any talent that she had as an actress has long been dismissed for some reason . Though a very popular star in her day , her work now is very heavily criticized . Greer Garson was a beautiful woman and a good actress who was at times cast in roles not quite right for her , no different from any other Hollywood star , but perhaps it is her tendency toward an austere manner that makes people hate her so much . She is possibly miscast in this film , and perhaps she was a limited actress , but I don't see any reason to vilify her . Laurence Olivier is drop-dead gorgeous as Mr . Darcy , though he gives very stylized performance that might not be to everyone's taste . The sisters were played by the absolutely gorgeous Maureen O'Sullivan , Ann Rutherford , Marsha Hunt , and Heather Angel . The support players are terrific : Hugh Herbert , Edmund Gwenn , Mary Boland , and Edna May Oliver . In true Hollywood fashion , there are differences from the book and some historical inaccuracies , but all in all , this is a palatable version of Pride and Prejudice with a great cast .
French bedroom farce , American style	1965's " Boeing Boeing " is a dated but mildly amusing film starring Tony Curtis , Thelma Ritter , Jerry Lewis and Dany Saval . Curtis is a swinging bachelor living in Paris who is juggling three flight attendants at one time , all of whom live with him , and all of them are his fiancees . He's able to do this with the help of his able housekeeper ( Ritter ) and his carefully worked-out airline schedules . Unfortunately , the new fast planes are goofing up the schedules . Adding to the confusion is a visit by his friend Robert ( Lewis ) , a reporter . The two men and an exhausted Ritter try to keep the women from running into one another at the apartment as their arrivals overlap . " Boeing Boeing " was originally a play that had a very brief run on Broadway in the 1960's and went on to become the mainstay of dinner theaters throughout the U . S . After a very successful run in London , it has recently been revived on Broadway starring Christine Baranski as the maid , Bradley Whitford in the Tony Curtis role , Gina Gershon as an Italian flight attendant and Maureen McCormack as a German one . Not having seen the original play , it's hard to know what if anything in the film was changed from the play . In the current Broadway production , the Jerry Lewis character , done to great acclaim on both continents by Mark Rylance , is totally different - he's a shlub who's never seen a woman before . Lewis would have been perfect playing it that way - instead , in the film , the character of Robert is very against type , quite serious . The handsome Curtis does comedy well and is a perfect playboy . Baranski currently does the Ritter role with a French accent , which wrecks most of the dry humor that Baranski , like Ritter , brings to a role . Ritter is very funny as she changes the photograph on the desk , cooks sauerkraut for the German flight attendant , tosses it when the French flight attendant arrives and makes a souffl instead and basically wears herself out . " Boeing Boeing " is pleasant and fun to watch as an example of that great comedy form , the farce .
sweeping epic	Director Henry King and star Tyrone Power teamed up for their ninth film , almost 20 years after King helped Power shoot to stardom when he chose him as Jonathan in " Lloyds of London . " Why do I think Power was somewhat less ebullient this time around . By 1953 , he was surely in a mad rush to finish his contract with Fox , as he had already formed his own production company . " King of the Khyber Rifles " gets the full major picture treatment , in CinemaScope , and it is a film filled with battles , adventure , panaromas , and a little romance thrown in . You can't have Tyrone Power in a movie without some of that ! He plays a half-caste who is put in charge of the Khyber Rifles . Eventually , he is given the assignment of putting down a rebellion led by a childhood friend , Karram Khan , menacingly played by Guy Rolfe . Terry Moore plays the British daughter of the brigadier general ( Michael Rennie ) who falls in love with Power , and that's a forbidden love . In real life , when she first saw the actor , she was so staggered that she developed a facial tic . Power asked King if they could sit quietly and run lines before shooting the scene , which allowed her to calm down . She's fairly vapid in the role . The last part of the movie is very exciting and beautifully photographed . The film definitely hold's one's interest . Power looks great - handsome and tanned , as Lieutenant King , but it's really not much of a role . The romantic scenes are marvelous , and he does display a lot of physical prowess . He was unfortunately one of the huge stars of the golden era who did not do a lot of great pictures . Ironically , some of his films not highly thought of at the time have found appreciative audiences today , 47 years after his death . Too bad he's not here to see it .
Erratic screenplay hampers a good cast	Any old film aficionado would be drawn to a film starring Rosalind Russell , Don Ameche , Van Heflin and Kay Francis , so it's no surprise that this poster tuned into " The Feminine Touch , " a 1941 comedy . The story concerns a college professor , John Hathaway ( Ameche ) who has written a very intellectual book on jealousy and travels with his wife ( Russell ) to meet his publisher Elliot ( Heflin ) and editor Nellie ( Francis ) . Elliot likes to play around , and Nellie is in love with him . Julie keeps trying to make her husband jealous , not by deed but by hints that a certain man likes her , for instance , and is he worried - thinking that a jealous outburst would be proof of his love . However , he trusts her unreservedly and never suspects her of anything . He's especially sure that despite Elliot's interest in her , Julie would never reciprocate - because Elliot has a beard , and Julie hates them . This film is a case of too many cooks , as this screenplay was worked over by several writers . The premise is flimsy , for starters , and I fear Russell is miscast . Rosalind Russell in films is a beautiful woman , but she has a strength and intelligence about her as well . It's not an ingnue beauty . In the world of " The Feminine Touch , " despite her tailored suits , every man who meets her falls madly in love with her . I could have bought it if it had been Lana Turner . I'm not buying it here . Women like Russell are the " whole package " and men fall for her in a different way and probably after a conversation or two - not on sight . And then , to have a smart woman like Julie upset because her husband never gets jealous is ridiculous . It might bother an immature 18-year-old , but this character ? The end of the film - - which comes about 15 minutes later than it should have - is the best part , as it turns into a more screwball comedy with Julie setting fire to Elliot's beard and other crazy things happening . Otherwise , the film drags on with too much dialogue . I'm not opposed to dialogue - All About Eve has a large amount of dialogue . This dialogue was superfluous , probably because a scene or two could have been tossed . Heflin proves himself as adept at comedy as he is at drama , Francis is delightful , as is Ameche , who makes a good professorial type . Someone mentioned the clothing - Francis wears one hat that looks like a rendition of the Mickey Mouse Club ears , except with taller ears and the entire hat covered in fur . It was one of the funniest things in the movie .
Der Schlechte Samen , deutscher Stil ( that's The Bad Seed , German Style )	Lately I've been wondering about TCM's rating system . This is the second time I've been burned by a bunch of stars next to a film . I think they need to relook at some of these movies . " Tomorrow , the World ! " is based on the Broadway play . The film stars Frederic March , Skippy Homeier , Betty Field , Agnes Moorhead and Joan Carroll . Skippy is Emil ( recreating his Broadway role ) , a German boy who comes to America to live with a scientist , Mark Frame ( March ) , his sister ( Moorhead ) and his daughter ( Carroll ) - she's the same age as Emil . Field plays Leona Richards , a schoolteacher who is engaged to Mark . Emil has been indoctrinated by the Nazis to hate and to be prejudiced and also to lie and manipulate . The fact that Leona is Jewish and that Mike's insecure sister seems uncomfortable about the marriage plays right into Emil's hands , as he doesn't want Leona around . Skippy was Skip by the time I became aware of him , and he was always a very likable actor and for baby boomers , a constant television presence . This was my first exposure to him as a child . He was a beautiful young boy , with a mane of blondish hair and enormous eyes . " Tomorrow , the World ! " a propaganda film directed with a sledgehammer , is his screen debut . In the beginning I was suspicious that it might be a comedy due to Skippy's totally outrageous performance as a Hitler Jugend . For one thing , tiny Natalie Wood could have taught him something about German accents and speaking German - she was perfect in " Tomorrow is Forever . " He says his lines in a sing-song voice , often sounding Swedish , sometimes American ; only sometimes is there a hint of German , and he speaks German like an American . In the second part of the film , however , he's very effective , really showing what he can do acting-wise . It's just a shame he was directed as he was . In his faux nice moments , he comes off like a German Eddie Haskell or a male Patty McCormick - you just don't buy it . The biggest bone I have to pick with this film is the stupid soap opera part , which is the argument between Leona and Mark . Mark for reasons known only to himself thinks that Emil is becoming nicer and more acclimated to the American way ; Leona disagrees with him passionately and says she cannot live in the house with the boy , thus breaking their engagement . Mark feels she's being unreasonable . Now , if only she'd thought to mention that precious little Emil had written " Miss Richards is a Jewish tramp " on a bunch of sidewalks , Mark might have understood that Emil's attitude wasn't improving as rapidly as he thought . But she fails to mention this nugget of info . The second part of the film is far superior to the first . March , Field , and Carroll are very good in their roles . I agree with several posters here that Skippy dominates the film , but that isn't always for the right reasons . The ending is too pat - that often happens when you only have less than two hours to make a point and you've spent most of it talking about America and its strengths . I suspect " Tomorrow , the World ! " had more impact in 1944 , though it's hard for me to accept that anyone ever believed Herr Skippy in his sweet , friendly moments .
A downer	Gregory Peck leads an all-star cast in " The Snows of Kilimanjaro , " a big 1952 film directed by Henry King and produced by Darryl F . Zanuck . With a cast that includes Ava Gardner , Susan Hayward , Hildegarde Neff and Leo J . Carroll , and a story based on a story by Ernest Hemingway , one expects something more - much more - than what is delivered by this plodding film . Peck plays a writer with a severe leg infection . As he lays in Africa waiting for a transport while his wife ( Hayward ) cares for him , he believes he's dying . He goes over his past life and loves - a girl he disappoints in his youth , then Cynthia ( Gardner ) the love of his life , followed by Neff , and Hayward , whom he mistakes for Cynthia when he first meets her . Henry King mixes some beautiful scenery with stock footage of Africa . Since it's Hemingway , the movie has a macho sensibility - a lot of hunting , drinking , implied sex , and a bullfight . It's only in the last couple of scenes that the film's energy picks up - but by then , it's too late . The performances are okay - strangely , Gardner's character seems the most fleshed out . That isn't saying much - one gets the impression a lot was cut , leaving holes in characterizations and the viewer completely detached from them . Altogether , a disappointing experience .
another Philo , another mystery	Now it's Edmund Lowe as Philo Vance as he tackles " The Garden Murder Case . " It's a neat story concerning murder by hypnosis - which , as other posters point out , is a fairly obvious one , although the murder is not . The denouement makes for an exciting last minutes of the movie . Virginia Bruce costars and serves as a love interest for Vance . Lowe is certainly very attractive and extremely likable as Philo . It's a good fit , and to me , better than either Paul Lukas or Basil Rathbone . I haven't read the books , so I am just going by the films and the fact that the definitive Philo seems to have been William Powell . " The Bishop Murder Case " features a good performance by Rathbone , but it is an early talkie and the actors are still making the transition , so the film is rather awkward . Lukas was enjoyable and certainly embraced his character but his accent got in the way . This is an enjoyable entry in the exploits of a character who certainly served Hollywood well .
B movie starring Cesar Romero	" Lady in the Fog " is a 1952 film starring Cesar Romero as an amateur detective , Philip O'Dell , an American currently in London . He helps a woman ( Lois Maxwell ) whom he meets in a bar - her brother was run down by a car in the heavy London fog , but she is convinced that it wasn't accidental . O'Dell investigates , and finds himself involved with an old case , a mental hospital , a filmmaker , and a nightclub . Romero is a delightful actor , and this story has a lot of comedic elements which he acquits very well . He was very underrated , which is clear if one sees him in " The Captain from Castile " and " Julia Misbehaves . " The story of " Lady in the Fog " is about as lame as it gets and pretty easy to figure out . It's made on the cheap . Romero is always worth seeing , though .
The immoral behavior of British society	Constance Bennett is a disillusioned socialite in " Our Betters , " based on Somerset Maugham's play . Bennett plays a beautiful woman ( in absolutely knockout gowns ) who , on her wedding day , discovers that her husband has a mistress , a Charles-Diana-Camilla thing . Bennett's got the cash , and the girlfriend's poor . Constance , who plays Lady Pearl , throws herself into the London social scene , where nobody behaves . Her husband is always off with his girlfriend , and she has a lover who keeps her since her husband went through her money . And everyone else behaves the same way . The only thing that matters is knowing the right people , having money , getting invited to the right parties , and marrying titles . When Pearl's sister arrives from America , she's dazzled by the life and brushes off an old beau , played by Charles Starrett , who is the moral voice of the movie . This was the world of Elliot Templeton in " The Razor's Edge " and it's visited here fully with a brittle humor but not a great deal of energy . Bennett is perfect in her role . There are some scenes between Violet Kemble , who plays Minnie , and her much younger gigolo boyfriend , Gilbert Roland , where he manipulates her , that are overly long but quite funny . The final scene , with the dancing Ernest , is the best in the film .
Amusing but not great as a musical	Dick Powell is an insurance salesman who sells a million dollar policy to a producer in " Gold Diggers of 1937 " also starring Joan Blondell , Victor Moore , Osgood Perkins and Glenda Farrell . Due to bad investments by his staff , producer / hypochondriac Hobart ( Moore ) has no idea that the show he's planning to put on can't be financed . The men responsible for losing his money get Rosmer ( Powell ) , an insurance salesman , to sell Hobart a $1 million policy , figuring he won't live and then the show can be done . The funniest part of the movie is when Rosmer tells his fellow insurance salesmen of his coup and then announces that Hobart is 59 . " 59 ! " one of them exclaims . " He'll never pass the physical . " " We sold a policy to a 68-year-old last year , " someone says , " and he passed . " " Yeah , " the reply is , " passed OUT . " Interesting that 59 was thought of as more than 79 in the ' 30s . Coincidentally , Dick Powell himself died at the age of 59 . It's Rosmer's job to keep Hobart alive and it's his partners ' job to help him to the pearly gates . They send in Glenda Farrell to break his heart , figuring he'll want to end it all , but things don't work out as they planned . They throw him in a pool at a party ; he doesn't catch cold , nor does he drown . It's actually pretty funny . There are some pleasant songs which Powell sings beautifully , and a big Busby Berkeley number at the end , but I imagine as this is part of a series of " Gold Digger " films , audiences wanted something more . The performances are good - chameleon Powell is a great , earnest salesman , Joan Blondell ( who was either Powell's wife or about to become his wife ) is adorable as a showgirl and Moore is hilarious . Glenda Farrell is a real scene-stealer with her great line delivery . Pleasant but not much as far as musical values .
Lana gets a glimpse of lifestyles of the rich and snooty	How pretty , sexy , and vivacious Lana Turner was , and she's shown to great advantage in " These Glamour Girls , " a 1939 film about a weekend of house parties at an upper-class college . Turner plays a Jane , a taxi dancer at the Joy Lane Dance Hall who meets Phil ( Lew Ayres ) , a college student from an old family who's at the Joy Lane slumming with his pals . While drunk , he invites her to the big weekend at Knightsbridge College . When she arrives , he's forgotten who she is and he already has a date . He convinces her to stay anyway , and while having a good time , she gets a glimpse of what the upper class is really like and what's important to them : background , the right schools , social standing , and money . And don't forget the booze . This is an okay story with some good performances from Turner , Ayres , Richard Carlson , Marsha Hunt , Ann Rutherford , Tom Brown , Jane Bryan , and Anita Louise . Rutherford's with a man who doesn't want her , and Louise is the resident bitch . Bryan is dating Ayres , but it's obvious she's in love with Carlson . Marsha Hunt plays Betty , a 23-year-old still hanging with the college crowd in the hopes of nabbing a man . When she overhears someone say she should get married soon before she misses the boat , she panics . It's themes like this in the ' 30s-'50s that are hard to stomach , and frankly , it brings down this film . The resolution of the Betty arc is very out of place . Most of the actors were in their twenties , but Turner was only 18 and Ayres was 30 , a little old for a college kid - but he was always a very likable actor . Except for Turner , whose charisma leaps out of the screen , there isn't anything special about " These Glamour Girls . "
First of the Falcon series	George Sanders is " The Gay Falcon , " a 1941 film , the first entry into the Falcon series . The title has a double meaning , as the Falcon's first name is Gay . Though it's a programmer , " The Gay Falcon " has quite an uptown cast , including Gladys Cooper , Allen Jenkins , Turhan Bey , and Wendy Barrie . The Falcon and his sidekick Goldie ( Jenkins ) are insurance brokers in this , and Gay is , as usual , engaged . After turning down an invitation to a fancy party , Helen , secretary to a Perle Mesta type named Maxine who is giving the party , begs him to attend in order to prevent a jewel robbery . Maxine's events have been the scene of a string of jewel robberies . So Gay attends . A woman who insisted on wearing a huge diamond is murdered . Gay is on the case . George Sanders makes a very appealing Falcon - he's tall , elegant , and smooth , with a great voice and off-the-cuff delivery . He gives the role a light , breezy quality . The rest of the cast is very good . Turhan plays a swarthy , suspicious type - this was pre-Maria Montez and Sabu . It's always great to see the Turhan Bey , one of the actors who benefited from the man shortage in Hollywood during World War II . Though he eventually returned to his native Vienna to work as a photographer , he did quite a few television appearances in the ' 90s . Alas , there is a bit of casting that sort of gave the denouement away for this viewer , but the mystery is not really the point of The Falcon series . The point is to have fun , which you will .
The boys search for sunken treasure	1952's ROAD TO BALI is my first " road " picture , and I don't think it's the one I should have started with - after all , by 1952 , this shtick had to be getting pretty old . I admit to being a fan of Bob Hope , especially in his ' 40s films ; I'm not a particular fan of Bing Crosby as an actor . I'm more a fan of his incredible singing in the early ' 30s . But having heard a lot about these " road " movies , I wanted to see one . ROAD TO BALI isn't as highly rated as some of the others . The premise has to do with Bob and Bing , two vaudevillians who escape from Australia to avoid the father of the woman they're both engaged to for some reason . They eventually meet Dorothy Lamour , Bob dives for treasure and is almost killed by a giant squid , and then the three of them plus the treasure head for Bali . Along the way , there's music , corny jokes and beautiful women . The scene where a widowed ape decides Bob is her next mate is very funny ( " Why am I always attracted to young widows ? " he asks ) , and there are a few more laughs along the way . Just not enough . Dorothy Lamour is lovely and has a great figure . Many years ago , a friend of mine was in a revue where Lamour was scheduled to appear . Everyone looked for her , ignoring the old lady in the corner , who turned out to be Lamour . When costumes and makeup got through with her , she looked exactly as she did in the Road pictures . Good for her . I look forward earlier installments of this series .
An actor becomes the dictator of a country	Richard Dreyfuss stars in " Moon Over Parador , " a 1988 Paul Mazursky film also starring Raul Julia , Sonia Braga , Jonathan Winters and Charo . Dreyfuss plays a New York actor , Jonathan Nolan , in the Caribbean country of Parador to make a film . When the dictator dies suddenly , the Secret Police Chief ( Julia ) who is the one actually controlling the dictator and the country , drafts Jonathan to play the dictator , having noticed the resemblance between them . Soon Jonathan is ensconced in the palace as Alphonse Simms , and Simms ' prostitute girlfriend Madonna ( Braga ) who realizes the switch promises to help him in any way she can . Mazursky , who appears in drag as Simms ' mother , gives us a look at how the CIA operates in third world countries . The Winters character , supposedly a salesman , is actually a CIA operative . The film , however , flirts with but doesn't really tread on very serious ground and is more of a send-up , and a funny one at that . Richard Dreyfuss does a fabulous job as Jonathan the actor and Alphonse the dictator , creating two separate characters and nailing both . The gorgeous Sonia Braga is great as Madonna , and Raul Julia hands in a wickedly funny performance as Strausmann , the man behind the dictator . It's one of those performances where you never quite know what the character is thinking - he can be pleasant or turn psycho at any moment . Charo is on hand as a maid and manages to be funny and unobtrusive at the same time . A very good film , not a big blockbuster , but very entertaining .
frightening for all the wrong reasons	Unfortunately I just saw this film . I don't want to put in a spoiler so I'll just say - recent events make watching this movie terrifying and spooky , mostly because of the film's use of location . One scene in particular today takes on new meaning . It's interesting how the minute you put something on film , you date it so that even a few years later , it has ramifications beyond its original intent . Watch this if you dare and you'll see what I mean . As an entry into the " Die Hard " series , it's very good - Bruce Willis is always attractive and can keep a film going , and Jeremy Irons is an excellent villain . But the real villain here is history .
okay drama	William Holden and Clifton Webb star in " Satan Never Sleeps , " a 1962 drama also starring France Nuyen . It's directed by Leo McCarey - it's his last film . The story concerns a priest , Father O'Banion ( William Holden ) who comes to a mission in China to relieve an elderly priest , Father Bovard ( Clifton Webb ) . A young girl , Siu Lan ( Nuyen ) is in love with O'Banion and has followed him . The Communists seize the mission , and the leader rapes Siu Lan , who becomes pregnant . The priests have to make an effort to flee China before it becomes too late . Beautiful scenery is the highlight of this rather slow-moving story , as well as the beauty of young France Nuyen , who plays her part very well . Clifton Webb , as usual , does an excellent job as a tired old priest who is seeing his efforts at Christianity being rubbed out by the Communists , the leader being one of the boys he taught . Holden makes a handsome priest , but let's face it , there was never really anything very priestly about William Holden . One can never imagine such a man being celibate , which is probably why Siu Lan was following him all over the place . There is a major personality change toward the end of this movie that really renders it foolish - not that such a thing couldn't happen , but not in that short period of time . " Satan Never Sleeps " is not up to the standards of Leo McCarey , whose 43-year-career included " The Awful Truth , " " Bells of St . Mary's " and " Going My Way . " There are some good scenes , though , and the actors are likable .
Shades of Rebecca	Robert Young is one seemingly unlucky guy in " The Second Woman , " a 1950 film also starring Betsy Drake , Morris Carnovsky , John Sutton , Florence Bates and Henry O'Neill . This was probably a ' B ' noir ; like " Shining Victory " and " The Uninvited , " it is reminiscent of " Rebecca " - in fact , the beginning narration is basically a paraphrase of " Last night I dreamt I went to Manderlay . " This film even goes so far as to have Florence Bates playing Drake's aunt ; she was Mrs . DeWinter's employer in " Rebecca . " Drake is Ellen Foster , a young woman en route by train to visit her aunt when she meets her aunt's attractive neighbor , Jeff Cohalon ( Young ) . He's built a fantastic house that , her aunt informs Ellen , no one has ever been in . He built it for his bride-to-be , and she was killed in a car accident before the wedding . Since then , several people - his almost father-in-law , Ben ( O'Neill ) , to whom Jeff is like a son , and a psychiatrist , Dr . Hartley ( Carnovsky ) have been concerned about Jeff . He seems absent-minded and moody . Then strange things begin to happen to Jeff - he has to shoot his horse when it breaks its leg apparently while in its stall ; his dog dies ; the color on a painting he owns suddenly fades ; and roses he brings into the house die immediately . Ellen , who works with actuarial tables , is darn suspicious - there is too much bad luck , and either Jeff himself or someone who wants him destroyed is behind it . " The Second Woman " is a decent film with good , if unexciting , acting . Robert Young made several noirs in the ' 40s , and he did them well - you really don't know here if he's sinister or if he's a victim . Drake is a bland costar . Carnovsky , O'Neill , Sutton and Bates give good support . Sutton strikes the right note as a man who hates Jeff . Like dozens and dozens of post-World War II , there is an emphasis on psychology . Considering what our soldiers went through in World War II , it's not surprising that it was a hot topic . Here the big word is paranoia . But as anyone will tell you , just because you're paranoid doesn't mean someone's not out to get you .
You do something to me	Anthony Edwards is " Mr . North " in this 1988 film with a star-studded cast that includes Lauren Bacall , Robert Mitchum , Tammy Grimes , Angelica Huston , Virginia Madsen and Harry Dean Stanton . North is a young Yale graduate who comes to Newport in the 1920s and changes the lives of those he meets in a positive way while working odd jobs . With his peculiarity of having a body that can store electrical charges , he gets the reputation of a healer , something he attempts to run from but can't escape totally . With his help , one man ( Mitchum ) with a bladder problem is able to finally leave his house after years of being an invalid ; a young housemaid ( Madsen ) is reunited with her wealthy boyfriend , an elderly woman gains comfort from his words , and a young girl ( Mary Stuart Masterson ) is cured of her migraines . This is a small and entertaining film with a delightful performance from Edwards as a sincere person who cuts through all of the Newport shallowness and class distinctions . The dialogue is somewhat flowery , which Mitchum had a bit of trouble handling - that kind of dialogue really needs an accent of some kind , which just about everybody else possessed . What made Anthony Edwards so good on " ER " was his naturalness and likable personality - Mr . North is definitely a role well-suited to him .
Hot Samson , shorn or unshorn	This movie heralded the " introduction " of bona fide Australian adonis Antony Hamilton , though he had done television and a low budget cult film , " Nocturna " previously . Hamilton in various stages of undress is the only reason to watch this film - - which is a good enough one - - though in the version I saw some of the body parts were vaselined out . The dialogue is 20th century American dreck ; Victor Mature , the movie star Samson , gives an embarrassing performance eating a chicken leg ; and Belinda Bauer is no Hedy Lamarr and let's face it , Hedy Lamarr was not the most exciting actress to hit the screen , even if she was one of the most beautiful . This movie concentrates on bodies making out in the pool , a near-naked Samson getting tossed into the lake by his buddies , love-making between nearly naked Samson and nearly naked Delilah and good looks at Samson's muscles throughout . As far as I'm concerned , this is a no miss , having nothing whatsoever to do with the story . It is depressing , however , to realize that Hamilton died at such a young age and , all kidding aside , that is a very sad loss .
Joan as patriot	Decked out in gowns and outfits designed by Irene , Joan Crawford plays the French version of Scarlett O'Hara with her " Oh , war , war , war " grumbling until she has to duck a bomb while on vacation . Returning to Paris , she finds her house commandeered by the Nazis . She gets only one room for herself and those gowns . In the meantime , her boyfriend , played by Philip Dorn , seems to have gone over to the dark side and is living high . Once she realizes that , she refuses to have anything to do with him . Her patriotism for her country comes to the surface when she helps an RAF pilot on the run , played by John Wayne . Despite some of the other comments on the film , I rather enjoy the handsome Wayne out of his spurs and boots . Because of Wayne , Crawford has to make it look like she's reuniting with her old beau , who has the power to arrange to get him out of the country . Very entertaining .
Peter Sellers ' last Panther	Peter Sellers is once again Inspector Clouseau in " Revenge of the Pink Panther , " a 1978 film also starring Herbert Lom , Dyan Cannon , Robert Webber and Robert Loggia . A mobster decides to get Clouseau out of the way with disastrous results for everyone around the clumsy detective . In one of the best scenes , Clouseau picks up a good-looking woman , ladies man that he is , but she turns out to be a transvestite . Clouseau is forced to change clothes with her and is left on the highway . When the car crashes , the dead body is identified as Clouseau's , and the world mourns , with one exception - Clouseau's superior , Dreyfus ( Lom ) who feels that now , he can start living again . Forced to give the eulogy and on the verge of a psychotic break , Dreyfus keeps laughing as he speaks . A great scene . When Clouseau returns to his house , he finds that Cato , believing him dead , has turned it into an Asian brothel , making for more hilarity This isn't the best Blake Edwards-Peter Sellers collaboration , but it has some great moments . There is a tremendous amount slapstick ; some of it is funny , and some goes a long way . Seeing Sellers as Clouseau , however , is always worth it .
Bette Davis as a jinx in ' 30s melodrama	Bette Davis plays a down and out actress who believes she curses everyone she becomes involved with in " Dangerous , " one of Davis ' Oscar-winning performances . It is in this film and the earlier " Of Human Bondage " that the Davis image really solidifies - high energy , strong , smoking , and smokin ' . If she seems at times a little over the top , it can be attributed to the acting style of those days , which was a carryover from the stage . What Davis gives is very much a stage performance - with the invention of talkies , the studios raided the theater for actors who could speak , and Bette Davis was among them . Over the years , with the advent of television , acting has become more intimate , more natural , and Davis ' complaint about the newer approach was that it can also be boring . She never was . Davis costars in this film with Franchot Tone , who plays an architect that brings the Davis character out of the gutter , only to find himself face down in it himself . Smooth and classy , he's the type of leading man that one doesn't see anymore , and he's a good romantic lead for her . The lovely Margaret Lindsay is Tone's discarded fianc , and there's a wonderful performance by Alison Skipworth as Tone's housekeeper . Davis , of course , draws all of the focus , with the fire in her eyes , the bite in her voice , and those flashes of vulnerability . She was always a fascinating screen presence , and she won't disappoint you in " Dangerous . " " Dangerous " is a little bit dated , but what isn't , 70 years later .
World War I love triangle	Frederic March , Merle Oberon , and Herbert Marshall comprise a love triangle in " The Dark Angel , " set in the grimness of World War I . Kitty ( Oberon ) has grown up with both Alan ( March ) and Gerald ( Marshall ) and knows the day will come when she must choose between them . She chooses Alan , but before they can be married , he's called back into service . With just a few hours left , she accompanies him to the meeting point for his troop and stays with him at the hotel . When Gerald , in the same troop , finds out that Alan was at the hotel with a woman , he turns against him , believing that he cheated on Kitty . He refuses him leave and sends him into treacherous battle . Merle Oberon gives a touching performance as Kitty . She's very beautiful and has a lovely presence . Both March and Marshall are very good , March having the more histrionic role . " The Dark Angel " comes off as dated and there's very much a " stiff upper lip , old chap " feeling about it . It's frustrating to see the Alan character behave as he does , but this of course keeps the viewer interested , and Oberon and the supporting characters infuse the atmosphere with warmth . Worth it to see these classic stars . " The Dark Angel " is an old chestnut but a worthy one .
The forerunner of Chicago	There was a real Roxie Hart , and in 1942 , she was played by none other than Ginger Rogers with red hair . It's basically the same story as " Chicago " with some changes . What remains the same is that Roxie is a darling of the press , and her trial is a media circus . The difference here is that Roxie didn't shoot anyone , and she and her husband do divorce . Also , the matron doesn't have a song . Roxie's story is told in flashback by a reporter ( George Montgomery ) who has avid listeners in a coffee shop , particularly the man behind the counter ( William Frawley ) - who we see as the story continues was actually on the jury ! As in " Chicago , " Roxie loses the limelight when a fresh news story comes along , but she manages to get the crowd back when she announces she's pregnant . Ginger is great as Roxie and dances " The Black Bottom " and taps up a storm . She's very sassy and flirtatious , seemingly having a good time . Adolphe Menjou is just right as Billy Flynn , who knows every trick in the book to get Roxie declared not guilty . The film has a wonderful group tap number , too , which is excellent . All in all , a fun ride , with a great ending . Fans of " Chicago " will find the film interesting and entertaining .
Two pros in a lively western	Tyrone Power and Susan Hayward star in " Rawhide , " a 1951 western about convicts who take over a stagecoach station and plan to rob a morning stage carrying gold . The film sports an excellent cast , including Edgar Buchanan , Hugh Marlowe , Dean Jagger , and Jack Elam . Hayword and her niece are held over at the station because of possible danger ahead . When she and the child go into the canyon to bathe , she takes Power's gun . When the robbers come on the scene , she hides behind the cattle troth , but the baby cries and reveals her position . She drops the gun there . Back at the station , the criminals assume that Power is her husband . The two now have to figure out how to get out of their situation with no gun . This is a very suspenseful , sometimes violent , sometimes scary movie with Marlowe in the unusual role of being an educated , cold-blooded killer trying to manage his motley crew . Elam is menacing as a foolish , oversexed villain , with Dean Jagger and George Travis being appropriately moronic . Edgar Buchanan has a small role , appearing only in the beginning of the film . Susan Hayward is beautiful and a real firecracker in her role . She and Power worked well together , appearing also in " Untamed " later on . Power is 10 years too old for his part - he's supposed to be a young man learning the business . " When the green wears off and you get a little older . . . " Hugh Marlowe says to him - Power was 37 and , by old west standards , not young . The script was not changed to accommodate him . At this point in his career , he was anxious to fulfill his obligations to Fox and probably didn't make a fuss about it . He does an excellent job in the role of a man in a difficult situation nevertheless and looks very handsome . The character is a bit of bumbler at first , and Power carries this off in an amusing manner . Surprisingly good , and I think non-western fans like myself will enjoy it , and the final scene will keep you on the edge of your seat .
Crime film based on play	" The Racket " is a 1951 film based on an old play . It was first made in 1928 . This time around , it stars Robert Ryan and Robert Mitchum and is directed by James Cromwell . The other stars are Lizabeth Scott , Robert Hutton , Ray Collins and William Talman ( both of whom were regulars on " Perry Mason " ) . Robert Mitchum plays McQueeg , a police officer trying to keep his city and force free of corruption . It isn't easy with a crooked DA ( Collins ) and a loose cannon like thug Nick Scanlon ( Ryan ) around - even the other mobsters don't want him . When one of his best officers ( Talman ) is killed at headquarters , McQueeg becomes all the more determined to get Scanlon . The corruption in the city is shown as going right up to the top , with Don Porter giving orders for " the old man " and making sure that the machine stays well oiled . A dedicated , honest police commander is the last thing they want . Lizabeth Scott portrays a lounge singer in her usual smoky way , and Robert Hutton is a reporter who falls for her . Scott was beautiful and had a great screen presence , but she wasn't a big dramatic actress . Believe it or not , she was only 29 in 1951 and her " big " career days were over - that's the way it was back then if you were a beauty . Hutton ( Barbara Hutton's cousin ) , who always reminds me a little of Jimmy Stewart , was an okay actor , but his career never really took off . Nevertheless , he worked constantly and said his life in Hollywood was a wonderful fantasy . Mitchum is stalwart in the lead . It's said that as RKO players , the scripts would be brought into the annual Christmas party , thrown on a table , and Mitchum would take half and Robert Ryan would take the other half . The actors weren't really interchangeable , but you can see how they would be in some of the films they did . Interesting film .
Another take on the famous Leroux novel	Each " Phantom of the Opera " deviates somewhat from the Leroux novel - with the original silent film with Lon Chaney perhaps being the exception . In the ' 40s Nelson Eddy version , the police chief and an operatic baritone are Christine's suitors instead of Raoul ( though the baritone is named Raoul ) and it's hinted that the Phantom is her father . His acid in the face was the result of a misunderstanding at the music publisher's . In this particular " Phantom , " from Hammer Studios , the Phantom ( Herbert Lom ) has an Igor-type assistant , and here Christine's suitor is the manager of the opera house ( Edward de Souza ) . There is also a real villain , a plagiarist in the form of Lord d'Arcy ( Michael Gough ) . Most notably , it has a production of " Joan of Arc " with music written by Edwin T . Astley that is actually very pretty and beautifully sung . Everyone does a terrific job in this - Gough is hateful as the supposed composer of the opera ; de Souza is a hunk and a good romantic interest for Christine ; and Heather Sears as Christine is very sweet and , like all Christines , lacking the diva quality her rival has . In this film , the rival singer is a very minor role . The dubbing of the voices is wonderful . Herbert Lom , normally a comic character in the " Pink Panther " series , is a great phantom , performed at a time when the Phantom didn't have to be better-looking than the ingnue . The Phantom is not a huge role in this film , but an effective and highly sympathetic one . He seems a little less nuts than some of them , though he's clearly not completely there . The final scene of this film is very exciting , and the final picture very powerful and sad . This is a really excellent version with not much emphasis on the horror aspects of the Chaney film . It has good production values and is very well directed .
Sherlock Holmes in World War II	For the sake of propaganda during World War II , Sherlock Holmes was moved into the then-present . One of the results is " Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon , " starring a top Holmes , Basil Rathbone , along with Nigel Bruce , Lionel Atwill , Dennis Hoey and Kaaren Verne . It is Holmes ' assignment to deliver a scientist , Dr . Franz Tobel ( William Post Jr . ) and his weapon design to the British government before the Germans can get him . Once the man reaches England , however , his troubles are just beginning . Can Holmes decode the message Dr . Tobel left before falling into the hands of the vicious Moriarity , save the weapon and possibly the scientist too ? This is an effective Holmes story , set in the atmosphere of Switzerland and blackout England . The series worked just fine in the present day . It was not without its problems , but those problems had nothing to do with the time period . Whose idea was it to make Watson an idiot ? Nigel Bruce's characterization - aided and abetted by the scripts - has always been the false note . I much prefer the characterization of Edward Hardwicke in the Jeremy Brett Sherlock Holmes series - there , he's attractive , intelligent and a believable companion for Holmes . In the Rathbone series , Holmes is often condescending and treats Watson like the bumbling fool that he is . However , in this particular film , Watson has a chance to be quite helpful in several parts . I admit to being a complete sap for Rathbone's recitation from Richard II - " . . . this blessed plot , this earth , this England " - I can't imagine how much it meant to the Brits watching the film in 1942 . Sherlock Holmes really served his purpose .
An author meets her fictional hero in person - so she thinks	Claudette Colbert chases a soldier " Without Reservations " in this 1946 film which also stars John Wayne , Don DeFore , and Ann Triola , with cameos by Louella Parsons , Cary Grant , Jack Benny , and Delores Moran as themselves . Colbert plays a best-selling author , Christopher Madden , who has written a book about the world post-war - it looks to be a combination of " Gone with the Wind " and " Atlas Shrugged . " En route by train to Hollywood to do the screenplay , she is extremely distressed to learn that Cary Grant will not be available to do the movie version and is writing a telegram to the producer when she comes face to face with her fictional hero in the flesh . He's a soldier named Rusty ( Wayne ) going to San Diego with his pal , Dink ( DeFore ) . She doesn't tell them her identity , giving her name as Kit Klatch . Kit decides she has to have Rusty star in the film so instead of boarding the train that will take her to L . A . , she gets on the train going to San Diego . This leads to all sorts of adventures for the threesome , and it's obvious that Kit and Rusty , despite very opposing political views , have fallen in love . Colbert is delightful as usual , and DeFore , kind of a Jack Carson type , is always pleasant to watch . The surprise for some will be John Wayne who's not riding a horse or wearing a cowboy hat . Frankly , this writer has always preferred him that way . I'm not a particular fan of westerns , and the plainclothes Wayne seems handsomer and less stiff somehow . He's playing the role of someone whose beliefs are close to his own in real life , i . e . , somewhere to the left of Genghis Khan , while the Colbert character is a socialist . Tall and handsome , he does the romantic scenes well ; one wishes he'd stayed out of the saddle more often . This is a light , fun comedy that takes place in a world that , like Kit , doesn't quite know which direction to take post-World War II . Sixty-one years later , we still haven't figured it out , and " Without Reservations " remains an entertaining film .
Out of the nowhere , into the no place	Director Fritz Lang was replaced by Archie Mayo as director of the 1942 " Moontide , " and one wonders if the film would have been any better with Lang at the helm . With a script by John O'Hara , it's all dry ice , cheap sets , night shots and little action . The great French film star , perhaps the greatest , Jean Gabin , plays Bobo , a dockworker who enjoys being a free spirit . He suffers from blackouts when he's drunk , which is used to advantage by a so-called friend of his , Tiny ( Thomas Mitchell ) , who gets money out of Bobo by hinting that he strangled a man in another town . When a waitress ( Ida Lupiho ) is rescued from the ocean after trying to commit suicide , Bobo covers for her so she won't be arrested . Eventually they fall in love . This doesn't fit in with the threatening Tiny's plans , as he wants Bobo to seek work elsewhere . The movie drags along , and it's easy to see the cheapness of the production throughout . It has a certain atmosphere , but it grows tired . It's a shame that Hollywood had no clue what to do with Jean Gabin , but seeing " Moontide , " it's easy to figure out why . With his thick build , weathered face , unruly hair and large nose , he wasn't the leading man material Hollywood was used to , and he was too much a star to be a character actor . Few actors possessed his raw sexuality and charisma , seen much more clearly in Pepe LeMoko and as his signature role , Maigret . It's not for nothing that Marlene Dietrich chased him all across Europe during World War II . He only stayed in Hollywood until 1943 and worked in France as a national institution until his death in 1976 . Lupino is very young , frail and pretty here and does a good job . Claude Rains as Nutsy , Bobo's friend , is good but wasted . Thomas Mitchell has the best role among the supporting players . It's a departure from his usual thick nice guys . If you're interested in Gabin , you'll want to see this . Otherwise , skip it .
Lassie's producer as the heroine of many young girls	Bonita Granville plays smart , courageous , spunky Nancy Drew in this programmer based on the novels by Caroline Keene . It's been a long time since I read any Nancy Drews , or since my mother read the books , but one remembers every detail . The roadster , her friend named George , her boyfriend named Ned , and the Drew housekeeper named Hannah . For reasons known only to the studio , Ned is now Ted ( guess they didn't like the alliteration ) , there's no George ( guess they didn't want a girl with a boy's name ) and the housekeeper is named Effie ( you tell me why ) . Nancy still has her roadster . The Nancy Drew mysteries are wonderful reads , and this film was fun to watch , even with the little changes . Bonita Granville , who , as Bonita Granville Wrather became the producer of the " Lassie " TV series , certainly looks like Nancy ( who in the books was always having " luncheon " ) . I had always envisioned while reading the books a more sophisticated , less madcap Nancy , but Granville's energetic ( almost hyper ) characterization fits a film portrayal well . Ned is a little bit of a goof , but a smart one . John Litel was right casting as Carson Drew , Nancy's father , a widower who didn't date . The plot can be figured out in the first ten seconds , but these movies were for the teen-aged audience who knew the books . Very enjoyable , and a slice of ' 30s life which is no more .
Another version of the Leopold & Loeb case	The murder committed in the 1920s by two young men , Leopold & Loeb , has been story fodder for years . There was , of course , Hitchcock's ROPE , the independent film SWOON , and a musical , THRILL ME , which recently played at the York Theater in New York . This version stars Dean Stockwell and Bradford Dillman as the killers who believed that they were supermen as described by Nietzsche . Though their homosexuality can only be hinted at , it's pretty apparent . Stockwell likes Dillman to order him to do things , and at the beginning , the Dillman character orders him to run someone over . He does it . They move on to kidnapping and murder next . They have no emotional attachment to their crime , no sense of morality , and no remorse . As brilliant as they believed they were , they're caught pretty quickly . Clarence Darrow is brought in to defend them . They get a life sentence instead of death by hanging . Loeb was murdered by another inmate in 1936 ; Leopold died in 1971 . The two remained very much attached to one another . " Compulsion " is a fictionalized version of this story . Though set in the ' 20s , it somehow has a modern feel to it - perhaps it was the dialogue , the demeanor of the young men , but I never bought for a single second that we were in the ' 20s . The cast is uniformly excellent . Bradford Dillman is sharp , cocky , energetic , and totally unlikeable as " Arthur Strauss , " the brains of the operation , and Dean Stockwell is excellent as the submissive genius Judd . E . G . Marshall plays the district attorney , and Martin Milner gives a good performance as a reporter . Diane Varsi is Milner's love interest who takes pity on Judd . She is not very effective . Orson Welles shows up as the Darrow character , renamed here as Wilk , toward the middle of the film . He gives a powerful performance and has a huge speech to the judge at the end . Apparently , Welles only cooperated up to a point . Everything was fine until the IRS took his salary . He left before the looping for the film was finished , and the director , Richard Fleischer , had to put the missing part of the speech together from other parts of the movie , using words and even syllables . Welles was probably as detached from " Compulsion " as the characters were to their crime , but he has the technical ability to be very convincing in his role . " Compulsion " is an unsavory story , but the acting is good and the film won awards at Cannes . It's worth watching .
very funny Bob Hope movie	After swooning for quite some time on his radio show about Madeline Carroll , the actress , enjoying the publicity , approached him about being a guest on his show . Hope suggested that instead , they do a film together . The result is the delightful " My Favorite Blonde " about a British spy , Carroll , trying to deliver a coded message to Los Angeles . Attempting to escape German agents , she barges into a theater dressing room inhabited by Hope , who is performing as straight man to a penguin . Hope is a riot , with the wisecracks coming quickly throughout the film , and Carroll is a good leading lady for him - classy , serious , and the character she plays is game for anything to reach her goal . Gale Sondergaard has precious little to do - one wonders if her role was cut ; Dooley Wilson has an unspoken bit on the train ; and Bing Crosby directs Hope to a bus in one scene . Hope starts to walk away from him , stops , takes a beat and says to himself , " No . It couldn't be . " There are other in jokes as well - Hope turns the radio to his own show and turns it off , commenting , " I can't stand that guy . " As someone who was a young adult in the ' 60s , it wasn't kosher to like Bob Hope because of his politics , but I've always enjoyed his film performances . " My Favorite Blonde " is one of his best .
Asian detective and white partner fall for the same woman	Sam Fuller directed " The Crimson Kimono , " starring Glenn Corbett , James Shigeta , Victoria Shaw and Anna Lee , and this 1959 film is not your usual detective noir . Corbett and Shigeta are Charlie Bancroft and Joe Kojaku , buddies from the Korean war and now partners in the LA Police Department , investigate the death of a stripper . In the course of that investigation , they meet a beautiful artist ( Shaw ) and both men fall for her ; she in turn falls for the gentle and intelligent Joe . This tests the relationship of the two men , and when Joe sees Charlie's reaction , he assumes it comes from Charlie's latent racism . This is an odd film , not as good or as well done as Fuller's Pickup on South Street , but good nonetheless . Part of its success is due to the persona and performance of James Shigeta , for a time one of the biggest Asian-American stars ever . " The Crimson Kimono " was the first feature film for both Shigeta and Corbett , and they handle their assignments well . Fifty years later , Shigeta is still working ; Corbett worked steadily until his death in 1993 . Anna Lee is on hand giving a vigorous performance as an alcoholic artist ; the late Victoria Shaw is beautiful but doesn't register much as Chris , the love interest of both men . There are a couple of problems with this ambitious script , one being Joe's claim that he had never experienced racism . That's impossible if he was in California when World War II broke out ; it's a naive statement he wouldn't have made . The other problem is that all of the love connections seem instantaneous , though that seems to be a very " noir " thing . Nevertheless , the story holds interest , the performances are good , the atmosphere authentic , and Sam Fuller always has something to say , if only we'd listen
Slow and very sentimental	" Sentimental Journey " is a 1946 film starring Maureen O'Hara , John Payne , Connie Marshall , Cedric Hardwicke and William Bendix . Set in New York City , it's the story of an actress , Julie Beck ( O'Hara ) and her director / producer husband Bill Wetherly ( Payne ) . They have an idyllic marriage , but Julie has a precarious heart condition . Realizing she may die and leave her husband alone , she wants to adopt a child . She meets Hitty ( Marshall ) , who was very much like her as a child , filled with fantasies and dreams , and the two hit it off immediately . However , her spoiled and somewhat jealous husband finds he isn't totally happy with the arrangement . " Sentimental Journey " is a slow-moving film with a very attractive cast . It's not for people who , as Margo Channing said , " detest cheap sentiment . " Whether you like the movie or not , you'll find yourself drawn into the story , so have a box of tissues nearby . I blubbered like a baby . Maureen O'Hara is stunningly beautiful and gives a very gentle performance as Julie ; handsome John Payne is just right as her husband , a man whose world centers around his wife . William Bendix has a film-stealing role and is terrific as Donnelly , an associate of Bill's and friend of the family . His sense of comedy is great . Cedric Hardwicke is too much of a big gun to play a small part like the doctor ; he plays it beautifully , but he's wasted . Connie Marshall is Hitty . She's not only adorable , but she has to run a gamut of emotions and pulls it off very well . Nice movie .
An entertaining look at the life of a legend	I must admit before my critique that I have a bias . It's because of Bette Davis that I fell in love with film . The movie was " Dark Victory , " and I only saw Part 1 on television , but it was enough . When I went to college , I was able to see many of her greatest films with my friends , and those movies stand side by side with some wonderful memories . Before her debilitating stroke , Bette Davis gave a highly entertaining interview which is incorporated into this British documentary . The portions in which she discusses her life and career are the best parts . The film clips are so grainy as to be distracting . Besides Davis , Geraldine Fitzgerald , Anne Baxter , Olivia de Havilland , and Joseph Mankiewicz are interviewed . The funniest section is Davis ' description of making the dreadful Beyond the Forest , about an unhappy woman who wants to get away from the husband and the town in which she lives . " My husband , " she says , " should have been Eugene Palette , a big fat character actor . Instead it was Joseph Cotten . Now , who could leave Joseph Cotten ? " Davis states she was too old for the character , but doesn't add some other problems ( besides the script ) : the character's name was Rosa Moline , so she had to wear a black wig . She also had to walk on hills and rocks wearing high heels . Age was the least of her problems .
an old soul in a ' 60's musical	Barbra Streisand , with no screen test , signed a three-film contract after her enormous Broadway success . " On A Clear Day , " based , of course , on the Broadway musical , was one of her projects . Streisand plays Daisy , a psychic young woman who , under hypnosis , reveals a different personality who lived in England in the 1800s . Yves Montand is her confused psychiatrist , who finds himself falling for Melinda , Daisy's Other . This is a fun film , which co-stars an absurdly young Jack Nicholson . The songs are great , particularly " Come Back To Me , " " What Did I Have That I Don't Have ? " and the title song . Not all of the songs from the show are in the movie , and there were some new songs added . Streisand is an adorable Daisy and an effective Melinda , mastering a British accent and wearing costumes only rivaled by Adrian's masterpieces in " Marie Antoinette . " She looks spectacular in all of them . The color in this film is eye-popping throughout , and the sets AND color in the period sections of " On a Clear Day " are amazing . Though a little on the long side , it's highly recommended .
Very good performances highlight the story of " coming out "	Ellen Muth is a teen who comes out as a lesbian , and Stockard Channing and James Naughton are her parents in " The Truth About Jane , " a Lifetime movie . This was an excellent movie dealing with the shame and pain of being different , the realization of who you are , and the difficulty in telling your loved ones you're gay . Jane is terrified of losing her parents ' love so she can't tell them the truth about her friendship with a lonely , unhappy girl , even after her parents are told they were spotted kissing . When she finally comes out , there is anger and denial at first . The performances in this movie are excellent all around , as is Muth's voice-over of the girl telling her story . The emotions ring true . Unfortunately , it's all a little too pat and probably not the actual experience of many young people acknowledging their gayness . Jane's mom has a best friend ( RuPaul ) who is a gay , and she also has a female teacher who admits that she is gay . So she has lots of support , and , since this is Lifetime , her parents come around . Definitely worth seeing and discussing , and I'm sure the film would be helpful to anyone faced with this situation . But as we know from real life , acceptance often comes at a higher price .
Matchmaker , matchmaker	" The Model and the Marriage Broker " is a great film find . It has one thing few films have - Thelma Ritter in the lead ! In this , she plays a marriage broker trying - and often succeeding - at matching up misfits . When she takes a model's ( Jeanne Crain ) purse by mistake and vice versa , the two end up in each other's lives , with Ritter dissuading Crain from a relationship with a married man by getting her involved with an eligible bachelor ( Scott Brady ) . Yes , believe it or not - even bald , fat character actor Scott Brady had his palmy days when he was considered a hunk . He was a slightly rougher version of Robert Wagner , in fact , and even had a fan club . Thelma is fantastic as a woman with a sad past who tries to make the future of others happier . The film is wonderfully directed by George Cukor and written by Charles Brackett . It's one of those dozens of films churned out by the studio back then . Nowadays , when the studios churn them out , they're $20 million flops and not little gems like this one . Jeanne Crain is lovely and the rest of the cast ably supports the leads : Jay C . Flippen , Zero Mostel , Michael O'Shea , Frank Fontaine , Nancy Kulp , and John Alexander . One comment disliked the character played by Brady , but you can't judge men by the standards of today . Like it or don't , the character was pure ' 50s . A delightful , heartwarming movie with a marvelous turn by Thelma , who no matter what part she had , was always a star .
One of the more interesting entries in the series	" Terror by Night " was made in 1946 and is a modern-day Sherlock Holmes film starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce . Since it's 1946 , there's no need for the usual war propaganda , which was the actual reason for this series . In this adventure , Holmes is on a fast-moving train to protect the famous " Star of Rhodesia " ( pronounced in that delightfully British way , " Rhodezia " ) . Almost immediately , murder and suspects abound when the Star is stolen . " Terror by Night " moves as quickly as the train , which we often see in shots as it races along the track . The problem that I have with this series is the character of Watson as portrayed by Bruce . He's portrayed as a dimwit and the object of derision . When Holmes pretends to be taking him seriously , it's the worst , and it makes Holmes look bad . It's not that way in the books , and it certainly isn't that way in the superior Jeremy Brett series , where Watason is played by an attractive man a good deal younger-appearing than Bruce whom one can believe is a doctor and a writer . Watson is especially dumb in this one , and the script has built into it a comic scene between him and a train passenger he comes up against . What these films always had going for them was atmosphere , interesting acting , and of course , Rathbone , whose age is starting to show in this one . He makes a wonderful Holmes , right up there with Brett , whose Holmes was given sumptuous productions and color . Rathbone makes it work on a small budget in black and white . Always enjoyable .
A great look at being a career woman in the ' 50s	" Witness to Murder " is a small but interesting film starring Barbara Stanwyck , George Sanders , and Gary Merrill . By 1954 , Stanwyck was 47 and no longer considered leading lady material . However , because she was such a great star and actress , she could still get good roles in big films , " Titanic " and " Executive Suite " being two that leap to mind . She could also , like Loretta Young , get stuck in B movies like this one and " Jeopardy . " " Witness to Murder " isn't so much a B movie as it is closer to what one was seeing on television by 1954 . And it's not a B cast . Stanwyck plays a career woman , Cheryl , of a certain age who sees a woman murdered in the apartment across from hers . The apartment belongs to an author , Albert Richter , who emigrated to America after the war . Cheryl reports the murder but no one believes her . Richter is too smooth and always one step ahead of her with the police . Cheryl is considered an hysterical single woman who has delusions because she isn't married and probably going through menopause , though this isn't out and out stated . Completely outrageous and no doubt what actually went on at the time . These assumptions were just taken for granted in the ' 50s . There was something really wrong with a woman who never married . Read LOSER . A woman's goal in life was marriage ; the career was just a stopgap until the ring was on the finger . What must it have been like for an intelligent woman to have that mantle put on her . In this film , the police detective ( Gary Merrill ) is interested enough in her to at least follow the case . All of the acting is very good , with Stanwyck really shining as someone determined to get the truth out , even if she has to do a little detective work herself . Sanders is very effective as the villainous Richter , and he's pretty scary at the end of the film . The last 15 minutes or so are exciting and will have you on the edge of your seat . This is actually a fairly derivative film bolstered by its stars . And you can't beat the opportunity to see the attitudes toward women played out in a realistic manner . Alas , there are still touches of it today .
Actually one of the better episodes	I had to chuckle at the previous review of this - obviously , the reviewer isn't familiar with this series and therefore can't possibly know that this is one of the better entries . Cathy Davis ( Lea Thompson ) ( Jane Doe in her role as a CSA agent ) is called by Darnell ( Joe Penny ) to help investigate the theft of a $150 million Vermeer painting at a Los Angeles museum , which previously belonged to a Jewish family and was taken by the Nazis . The daughter in the family , the only survivor and now quite elderly , has sold the painting to the museum . Discovering what happened to the original involves an insurance agent ( Elaine Hendrix ) , an art collector ( Phil Casnoff ) and a waitress ( Julianna McCarthy ) , a neo-Nazi ( Mark Rolston ) and a few others . The plot isn't bad , though elements of it can be figured out . The good thing about this episode is that there is very little of Cathy's banal family life - the fewer scenes at home , the better . If the series is to continue , let's hope that's a trend .
A small drama with big names	Joseph Cotten , Barbara Stanwyck , Louis Calhern , and Leslie Caron star in " The Man with a Cloak , " a 1951 thriller set in 1848 New York . A young woman ( Caron ) comes to New York to get money for her boyfriend's political cause from his grandfather ( Calhern ) . Grandpa is in the clutches of his ex-girlfriend turned housekeeper ( Stanwyck ) and a surly butler ( Joe De Santis ) who are waiting for the old man to die so they can get his money . The Caron character thinks they are trying to kill him , so she appeals to an apparent ne'er do well who hangs at the local bar , Dupin ( Cotten ) for help . This is a slow-moving story for sure , but Cotten has some great dialogue nonetheless . Stanwyck looks beautiful and is very good as the duplicitous woman . Alas , these are film careers on the wane , as evidenced by the smallness of the film . Caron is quite young and appealing , and of course , her star would go up and up . The ending has a twist that is quite fun . I have no idea if it's historically preposterous or not , but this movie needed a kick and it was a good one . Certainly worth seeing for its stars .
Lots of fun and precode , too	" Dance , Fools , Dance " is an early Crawford-Gable vehicle from 1931 . Crawford plays a Bonnie Jordan , a wealthy young woman whose life consists of parties , booze , and stripping off her clothes to jump from a yacht and go swimming . This all ends when her father dies and leaves her and her brother ( William Blakewell ) penniless . Bonnie gets a job on a newspaper using the name Mary Smith ; her brother goes to work for bootleggers . The head man is Jake Luva - portrayed by Clark Gable as he plays yet another crook . Later , of course , he would turn into a romantic hero , but in the early ' 30s , MGM used him as a bad guy . Not realizing that her brother is involved in illegal activity , Bonnie cozies up to Luva . Gable and Crawford made a great team . Her facial expressions are a little on the wild side , but that , along with her dancing , is one of the things that makes the movie fun . Look for Cliff Edwards , the voice of Jiminy Cricket , as Bert . It's always interesting to see the precode movies , and " Dance , Fools , Dance " is no exception .
You can't go home again	Due to a car accident , Van Heflin has to return to his home town in " The Strange Love of Martha Ivers , " and walks into a world full of blackmail and murder . 18 years earlier , he ran away from home the night his friend Martha's aunt was murdered while Martha , her friend Walter , and Walter's father were in the Ivers house . Now he returns to find Walter ( Kirk Douglas ) is the drunken district attorney and married to Martha ( Barbara Stanwyck ) , the richest woman in town - Iverstown is , after all , named after her family . Though Martha has never fallen out of love with Heflin , her husband thinks he's there to blackmail them because , though a man was hung for killing her aunt , it was Martha who did so while her aunt ( Judith Anderson ) was beating Martha's cat . In my opinion , she deserved to die . D . A . Douglas uses a troubled woman Heflin has met , played by sultry Lizabeth Scott , to attempt to drive Heflin out of town . But it doesn't work . A top-notch cast carries this intriguing story along . Heflin was evidently considered a matine idol in his day - in both this and Possessed , women swoon over him . My mother loved him , so he must have had something . He was a good actor , with a smoothness and an engaging smile . And he plays the part with a certain ambiguousness - up to a certain point , you're not sure if he knows Stanwyck's guilty secret or not . Stanwyck , beautiful and elegant as the troubled Martha , does a great job playing a twisted sister if there ever was one ( though I still don't blame her for killing that miserable Judith Anderson ) . Douglas , in an early performance , holds his own well as the pathetic , wimpy Walter . Lizabeth Scott is lovely , sad , and vulnerable as Toni , the woman Heflin meets while in town . Very good mid-'40s film .
So sixties	Michael Caine as Harry Palmer comes up against the " Billion Dollar Brain " in this 1967 film also starring Karl Malden , Oscar Homolka , Francoise Dorleac and Ed Begley , directed by Ken Russell . Harry is dragged back into MI-5 , this time to get biological warfare out of the hands of the enemy . The enemy in this case is the lunatic Texas oilman Midwinter ( Ed Begley ) who's funding his own army to beat down Communism . He's planning on attacking Latvia , and one of the men working for him , Newbigen ( Karl Malden ) is controlling the movements of 30 agents working there . Except there aren't - Newbigen is pocketing the money . That's 30 agents at $30 , 000 a week . Midwinter also has these enormous computers that have tons of paper coming out of them and get fed info with punch cards - oh , the memories ! Bizarre and very sixties in its style , " Billion Dollar Brain " is filled with wild camera angles and lunatic crowd scenes , as well as some gorgeous Finnish scenery . The finale is fantastic . It's all completely insane and yet futuristic - the biological warfare , the bad intelligence , the Texas warmonger - let's face it , you could have those elements in a film today and they would all seem pretty timely . The anchor for all this madness is Michael Caine , whose underplayed Harry is laid back as he tries to figure out who's working for whom . Homolka is great as Stok , and Ed Begley portrays the mad Midwinter way over the top , which is totally appropriate for such a character . Smiling Karl Malden is effective as a man in love who only cares about getting his . Fast-moving and enjoyable .
Red Dust and Mogambo waterlogged	A good cast and lots of action highlight " China Seas , " a 1935 film directed by Tay Garnett and starring Clark Gable , Jean Harlow , Wallace Beery and Rosalind Russell . Gable plays Alan Gaskell who is captain of a ship sailing from Hong Kong to Singapore . He's in love with the refined Sybil Thorndike ( Russell ) and attempting to reform his some of his bad habits . He has a constant reminder of his former life , however , and that's his old girlfriend Dolly ( Harlow ) who wants him back . When the ship is hijacked by pirates looking for gold , Gaskell wonders how involved Dolly and her drinking buddy , MacArdle , were involved . Gable and Harlow worked extremely well together and give good performances here , and there's a lot happening - a typhoon and the pirate attack - which make for good adventure . Derivative but very enjoyable .
No coming in from the cold for this crowd	Handsome Alain Delon is " Scorpio " in this 1973 spy film starring Burt Lancaster and Paul Scofield , and featuring John Colicos , Arthur Hil and Joanna Linville . Cross is an old CIA agent who assassinates foreign officials the U . S . needs out of the way . His some time parter is Jean Laurier , aka Scorpio , a freelancer . Scorpio is given the order to kill Cross - the agency feels he knows too much . Cross is very clever , but Scorpio knows him well enough to anticipate some of his moves . The two men play an international game of cat and mouse , and along the way , there are casualties . This is a compelling if somewhat slow thriller , very typical of the spy films one saw in the ' 60s and ' 70s . What makes this one is the locations - having been to Vienna , I sat across from the opera house in the exact place where one scene was shot . The streets , the hotel lobbies and the rooms were unmistakably European . The cast is excellent , with Lancaster doing a great job - and his own stunts at the age of 59 - as a down to earth , tired agent . Scofield is effective as Zharkov , a Communist friend who helps Cross , and John Colicos is very good in a typical role for him as Cross ' cold-blooded boss . Delon isn't quite in the league of these actors - he brings a kind of lethargy to his role and is almost too internalized , plus his accent is quite thick , so some of his dialogue is difficult to understand . You can't beat him for eye candy , though . I've enjoyed other spy films better , but this one , written by David Rintels ( my cousin's brother-in-law ) is good with the right atmosphere and some dandy performances .
Story of an early film pioneer	There were undoubtedly many people working on some of our most important inventions around the time they became prominent . William Friese-Greene spent his life working on the motion picture camera , and though he isn't the official inventor , he is someone who contributed his work to what became the final product . His story is told by an all-star cast ( even in tiny roles ) in 1951's " The Magic Box " starring Robert Donat and Maria Schell . Greene held the first patent on a motion picture camera , and financial problems , by which he was beset his entire life , caused him to sell his patent for 500 pounds . He also created a " Biocolor " system which won in a lawsuit against a system called Kinemacolor . This early color process was too expensive for commercial use , however . From what I can gather , Greene had good ideas that weren't very practical , and the film is basically about how he went from a highly successful photographer to a bankrupt inventor , and how his obsession with film and color controlled his life . Not mentioned is the fact that his son Claude Friese-Greene became a cinematographer and was very prolific in British films until his death in 1943 . He continued to develop his father's color process and produced a series of travelogues in the 1920s using this system . Robert Donat is excellent , but the film is not very interesting except to spot all of the huge British stars in minor roles , such as Laurence Olivier as a bobby . Some people are fairly dismissive of Friese-Greene , and his place in the creation of the moving picture is controversial . There's no question that today he is considered an early pioneer in moving pictures and in working with color . He was in touch with Edison regarding his work , and just because the credit goes to the individual who makes a product commercial is no reason to ignore the work of others . If this film makes people aware that a credited inventor isn't always the only inventor , so be it .
Derivative script lacks some punch	" Imaginary Heroes " is a 2004 film starring Sigourney Weaver , Jeff Daniels , Emile Hirsch , Michelle Williams , and Kip Pardue . The story concerns a dysfunctional family that becomes even more dysfunctional when the oldest child ( Pardue ) commits suicide . " Ordinary People " has been mentioned often in relation to this film ; it's sort of " Ordinary People " with a role reversal . The mother in this case , Sandy Travis ( Weaver ) is more accessible than the father , Ben ( Daniels ) who is clearly devastated and unable to cope . Like " Ordinary People , " the younger son Tim ( Hirsch ) is the focus of the film . For me , the film was absorbing enough to keep watching but has a curious detachment about it . There were some wonderful interactions - mother and son , mother and neighbor , brother and sister ( Williams ) and some good offbeat moments . What never clicked was Ben being any part of that family or having any chemistry with Sandy . This seems to have been the goal of director / writer Dan Harris . In one scene in a grocery store , the checkout kid assumes Sandy is " about 30 " and gives her his phone number . In almost the next scene , Daniels asks Sandy if she wants plastic surgery for her birthday . Weaver was 55 when this film was made , actually probably 54 , and looks phenomenal . So what is Ben looking at ? However , there's something askew about Ben's complete detachment because the viewer doesn't really see how Daniels ever WAS attached to that family . The end has a couple of twists and also some very touching scenes . Everyone is very good , with Weaver and Hirsch being the standouts . There's not a tremendous amount of dialogue in this movie and lots of stares . The script could have been sharper . But " Imaginary Heroes " is a good effort .
A man travels into his past to find an answer	Bill Murray is a despondent bachelor who takes a trip into his past relationships in " Broken Flowers , " a 2005 film written and directed by Jim Jarmusch and also starring Jeffrey Wright , Sharon Stone , Tilda Swinton , Jessica Lange , Christopher MacDonald , Chloe Sevigny , and Frances Conroy . I've been a fan of Jarmusch for many years , after seeing his brilliant , low-budget film " Stranger than Paradise . " I like his quirky characters and his humor , both of which are evident in this film . Murray plays Don Johnston ( people always think it's Johnson and giggle ) who is an emotional void - his expression never seems to change . After his last girlfriend leaves him , he receives a letter from an ex-girlfriend of 20 years ago , though he doesn't know which one , telling him they had a son together . His neighbor Winston ( Jeffrey Wright ) , a man with three jobs and five kids , is an aspiring detective , so he researches the past girlfriends and sets up an itinerary for Don to visit one and figure out which one had the child . The clues to look for are the color pink and an old typewriter . Like past films of Jarmusch's that I've seen , we meet a bunch of interesting people . There's the gorgeous widow Laura ( Stone ) and her daughter Lolita , who walks around nude in front of Don ; Dora ( Conroy ) , a nervous real estate broker with a pink business card and an exuberant husband ( MacDonald ) ; Carmen ( Lange ) , a divorced ex-lawyer who talks to the animals - for a living ; and Penny ( Swinton ) , somewhat of an ex-hippie who lives on a farm . Each ex has something pink in her life , making pinning down the mother difficult . Though he complains to Winston that he doesn't want to be on the trip , nevertheless , he keeps at it . " Broken Flowers " sounds like a beautiful film about China - so the title doesn't really tell you much - and what are broken flowers anyway ? Dead flowers . . . but broken ? The broken perhaps refers to the ex-girlfriends - but in most cases , we really don't learn enough about them to see why they're broken or even if they're broken . I didn't enjoy this film as much as Jarmusch's " Mystery Train , " the story of people going to Graceland who all stay in the same hotel . For one thing , it isn't anywhere nearly as beautifully photographed . There is some beautiful scenery and one stunning shot , when Don sits by a tree , flowers in his hand , near the gravestone of his ex-girlfriend Michelle . Most people will find this film way too slow , which it is , but somehow it is also intriguing . There is some very good acting - Murray is perfect for Don , and Jeffrey Wright gives a funny performance as the enthusiastic Winston . The women are all good but they have a problem in that their roles aren't suitably fleshed out . Perhaps this is the way Don sees them - but I have to agree with one of the posts , that there's just not enough story . An admirable effort but Jarmusch could have done a lot better . What he always has going for him are humor and characterizations ; what he often doesn't have is a great script so the results are at best inconsistent . If you want to become more familiar with his movies , I suggest " Stranger than Paradise " and " Mystery Train . "
sweet film about immigrants in America	Robin Williams is a Russian musician who defects in Bloomingdale's in " Moscow on the Hudson , " a film directed and co-written by Paul Mazursky . This is a warm , funny yet melancholy film about the experiences of immigrants trying to adjust to American life , focusing mainly on Robin Williams as Vladimir . Williams is excellent in depicting the wonder , the loneliness , the sadness , and the paranoia he experiences in his new country . He meets many other immigrants who have been in the U . S . for a longer time , including Maria Conchita Alonso , who plays an Italian salesgirl with ambitions of becoming a newscaster , and his immigration attorney , Alejandro Rey , in a marvelous performance . Once the honeymoon is over , Vladimir has to come to terms with never seeing his family again , the frustration of not yet being able to find work as a musician , the mean streets - and Russia starts to look good to him . This is a wonderful movie that depicts what newcomers to our country go through as they adjust to life here and gives one a new respect for our ancestors and for those immigrants we meet today .
Entertaining comedy	Greer Garson is the lady in question in " The Law and the Lady , " a 1951 film also starring Michael Wilding , Marjorie Main and Fernando Lamas . It's a loose remake of " The Last of Mrs . Cheyney . " Here , Garson plays a former British household maid at the end of the 19th Century who hooks up with the brother of her ex-employer . They sort of fall into a con game and decide to keep going with it . After being asked to leave several countries when they're discovered cheating at gambling , they travel to America and San Francisco high society . They set their sights on a wealthy woman ( Main ) and her necklace . Complications arise . This is a good movie with some very funny dialogue , especially in the beginning - when the lady of the house informs Garson she won't get a reference , she replies , " I won't be needing one . I intend to become a lady , and there are no character references necessary for that . " Garson plays her role in a very cool , offhanded manner that is very effective . Wilding is amusing as her partner in crime , and Main is a riot as a tough old rich widow . All in all , a very charming movie and worth seeing .
entertaining post-war noir	" Dead Reckoning " is a good , if not very original , film noir starring Humphrey Bogart as a paratrooper investigating his buddy's death . William Prince , who later was a more visible actor as a white-haired older man , has a small role as the buddy , who runs away when he learns he's about to receive the Medal of Honor . Later , he's found dead in his home town . There are the usual ethnic stereotypes - the de riguer black maid , the thug of Italian descent , and the torturing thug of German descent . The thug in this case is Marvin Miller , who later became the assistant of John Beresford Tipton on the TV show , " The Millionaire . " He got to give people $1 million tax free . With prices today , they'd probably all laugh in his face . Lizabeth Scott is the woman " Johnny " ( Prince ) was in love with . She's an actress I always found heavy on style and slight on substance . Beautiful , with a warm smile , and one of the best voices in films , she never exhibited the acting range of , say , Bacall , whom she seemed groomed to follow . In this role , she's not very believable , which is great for the noir films , in which she excelled . You really didn't know how involved she was or wasn't in the crime at hand . All in all , a very entertaining film with a solid performance by Bogart . Regarding the film's reference to the " Geronimo " cry that paratroopers made as they jumped , I asked an actual war paratrooper about this , and he said , " We were usually so scared we couldn't make a sound . "
a lesser TV adaptation of an Agatha Christie novel	Having read all of the Agatha Christie books , I have to say that David Suchet was the ultimate Hercule Poirot as written by Agatha Christie . But my favorite Poirot , having nothing whatsoever to do with either Poirot or what Ms . Christie wrote , is Peter Ustinov . It always reminds me of what someone once said about Zero Mostel in " Fiddler on the Roof " - " He's fabulous . . . but what he does has nothing to do with Fiddler . " Ustinov is a sheer delight in every way - he's funny , he's charming , he's warm , he's relaxed - all things that , frankly , Agatha's Hercule just wasn't . " Murder in Three Acts " is a slapped together TV movie without the usual star power except for Tony Curtis and several TV actors - the gorgeous Emma Samms , who was a big TV star in the ' 80s , Diana Muldaur , Concetta Tomei , Dana Elcar , Nicholas Pryor , and several others . The characters have been Americanized , and though set in Acapulco , aside from a few exterior shots , you don't get much atmosphere . Though the story is very interesting ( it is , after all , based on an Agatha Christie novel ) , the production has a certain blandness to it . You know there's a problem when Diana Muldaur announces that she and the Tony Curtis character did " Private Lives " together . Now , I happen to be very fond of Tony Curtis - I did research for his autobiography , he's on the cover of a book I wrote , I found him a very charming man - but come on , PRIVATE LIVES ? With that New York accent ? I don't think so . He does , however , look really fabulous , and if you watch the scenes in his house carefully , you'll catch some fantastic photos of him on the wall . It's an okay way to pass the time , and the plot is intriguing , Tony's Tony , Emma's beautiful and sexy , Nicholas Pryor is funny , and Ustinov is - well , he's Poirot even if he's not what Dame Agatha had in mind .
A different kind of film from Woody Allen	" Shadows and Fog " is Woody Allen's tribute to German Expressionism , and it's very interesting , often funny , and at times downright strange . He gives no indication of the setting or time , and as is often true with Allen , there's a serious undertone . His nebishy character , Kleinman , is woken up in the middle of the night in his home for reasons having to do with a serial killer at large . Poor Kleinman doesn't know exactly what he has to do with anything , but as he puts it , everything seems to know what he's supposed to be doing but him . Across town , Mia Farrow is the circus performer Irmy , who finds out her boyfriend ( John Malkovich ) is cheating on her , so she leaves him . She winds up in a brothel with some real characters played by Lily Tomlin , Kathy Bates , and Jodie Foster . A client ( John Cusack ) declares himself in love with Mia and offers her money to sleep with him . When it gets up to $700 , she accepts . Later she meets Kleinman and sends him to the church to donate all but $50 . The priest is impressed , and the police cross Kleinman's name off the list of suspects . Then they meet a beggar , and she sends Kleinman back for half the money . Kleinman's name goes back on the list of suspects . Yes , it's an odd but fascinating film . The atmosphere is bizarre , very German - dark , bleak , and foggy , with a scary serial killer out of " M . " Big stars float in and out of the film , like Madonna , some with tiny roles . The funniest scene is when Kleinman tries to hide out at his ex-girlfriend's ( Julie Kavner ) who calls him every name in the book and then tries to turn him in . Kleinman is an innocent man caught in confusing circumstances and times , not sure which side he should be on - there are two factions trying to catch this killer , and both attempt to recruit him - and all the poor guy wants is a promotion at his job . Though his reactions are often amusing , imagine being awoken by the police in the middle of the night and having no idea what it's about . It's happened , though , as it happens in the film . As Kleinman wanders the streets , unsure of where he's going , we can relate .
For opera lovers	" I Dream Too Much , " nicknamed " I Scream Too Much , " is a 1935 film starring opera singer Lily Pons and Henry Fonda , who at this point in his life resembled Jane Fonda in a man's haircut . He was really at the height of his most adorable-ness . Fonda plays a composer named Johnny Street who marries a young woman , Annette , only to discover that she has an operatic voice . In attempting to push his opera , she sings some of it for the head of the opera company in Paris . He makes her a huge star and Johnny is stuck on the sidelines . When he finds out that she is paying for a production of his opera , he leaves her . This is a slight story no doubt prompted by the success of Jeanette MacDonald and Grace Moore that relies on the voice and personality of Lily Pons and the cuteness of Fonda . Eric Blore plays a neighbor who has a trained seal ; he's there for comic relief , and he was always funny . Pons was a huge opera star who actually sang for the last time in 1972 , when she was 74 years of age ! She was tiny at a time when opera stars ran very big , she was very glamorous , and her timing was impeccable - she arrived in America during the Depression and saved the Metropolitan Opera from bankruptcy . Her signature aria was the Bell Song from Lakme , an opera done infrequently today if at all . In it , she wore a bare midriff costume and showed off her F above high C and her coloratura technique . She was an ideal Rosina , Gilda , Lucia , Linda di Chamonix , etc . Women singers in those days were trained a little differently than they are today , with back placement of the high notes . Pons ' middle voice and extension above high C were lovely , but the notes from F to high C had a shrillness to them , at least in recording . Her speaking voice records shrilly as well . This is actually a sweet film that the actors make enjoyable . I could have done without the long , dragging number at the end , but it's a chance to see one of opera's legends and a very young Fonda .
Lovely remembrance of a lovely lady	Hosted by Kathleen Turner , " Myrna Loy : So Nice to Come Home To " is a good , if not terribly informative , documentary about Loy , the qualities she brought to film , and her evolution from exotic , mysterious female roles to light comedy . There is a heavy amount of focus on her film partnership with William Powell and the 14 movies they made together , including , of course , " The Thin Man " series . There is some biographical information provided and photos of the very young Loy , but the documentary clearly is concerned with her work as an actress . There are no interviews with friends , coworkers , or family , and nothing from the lady herself . Lots of film clips are scattered throughout , with emphasis on the " Nice to Come Home To " - showing various scenes of this , including Frederic March's return from the war in " The Best Years of Our Lives , " and coverage of the wonderful work Myrna Loy did for The Red Cross during World War II . She was as lovely inside as she was out , it seems . Very enjoyable .
beautiful young Stanwyck and handsome Fonda	This is a delightful comedy / mystery , very much of its time , starring Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda . Stanwyck does a great job as a madcap socialite ( though the title would have you think she's a crazy bag lady ) who gets involved in a murder and with reporter Fonda . Miss Manton has a mouthy maid played by Hattie McDaniel ( listed as McDaniels in the credits ) and many girlfriends , all of whom are at her beck and call . Stanwyck's gift for comedy is apparent , and Manton was a perfect character for her - sophisticated , clever , and vulnerable . Fonda is very juvenile and ardent . They make a great pair .
A down and out man is set up to take a fall	Glenn Ford is Mike Lambert in " Framed , " a 1947 noir also starring Janis Carter , Barry Sullivan , and Edgar Buchanan . Ford plays a man who takes a job driving a truck that ends up having no brakes . Once at his destination , he enters a bar / restaurant called La Paloma and comes to the attention of waitress Paula Lambert ( Carter ) - and vice versa . Turns out she's been waiting for someone like Ford to come along . Well , hasn't every woman ? Paula and her boyfriend , Steven Price , need someone to be identified as Price in a car accident / explosion so that she and Price can take off with the $250 , 000 Price has embezzled from his bank . Unfortunately for them , they're pretty sophomoric , and Mike gets suspicious . I can't share the deep thrill others have expressed about this film , though I love Glenn Ford's combination of gentleness , toughness , and sexiness . He had really just hit big stardom around the time of this film . As beautiful , slender and accomplished a Broadway performer as Janis Carter was , I thought her acting was - well , awful is the only word for it . This is a Lizabeth Scott / Ann Sheridan type of role - smoky , mysterious , ambiguous as to motive . Carter had none of these shadings , offering instead wooden line delivery with nothing going on underneath . A better actress would have made this a much stronger film . The plot ( to me anyway ) was very predictable , in part due to the casting . As for the denouement , there was no explanation as to how it all came together , i . e . , there were holes . Ford and Edgar Buchanan , who plays a miner hoping to get a loan from Barry Sullivan's bank , are very good in their roles . Sullivan is fine , but he has a non-showy part . A stronger female lead and a little more developed script at the end would have helped " Framed " immensely .
lovely film	" Mannequin " is a charming , Joan Crawford rags to riches story set in New York City . Desperate to get out of her family's Hester Street apartment , Jessie talks her boyfriend Eddie into getting married a little sooner than planned . At her wedding dinner in a Chinese restaurant , she is spotted by the very wealthy , well known John Hennessy ( Spencer Tracy ) who falls in love with her immediately . He's also impressed by the depth of her love for Eddie . But it's obvious to all but Jessie that Eddie is a jerk . This is not a big , splashy film , but a more intimate one , with a marvelous , heartfelt performance by a young Spencer Tracy , who plays a lonely man to perfection . His sincere performance drives the film . Crawford is photographed beautifully , all gorgeous eyes and softness . I'm not sure how many animals died so Crawford could be dressed so opulently in fur , but once she gets into modeling and then hits the big time , she wears some very expensive clothes . Curtis is an attractive louse , and Leo Gorcey is great as Jessie's impossible brother . Elisabeth Risdon gives a wonderful performance , with a poignant monologue to her daughter at one point . A sweet and satisfying film .
surprisingly timely	Henry Fonda is a college professor in danger of losing his job and his wife in " The Male Animal , " also starring Olivia de Havilland , Jack Carson , and Joan Leslie . Fonda plays a happily married intellectual . On the weekend of college homecoming , his wife's former beau ( Jack Carson ) , a jock , shows up , giving rise to the professor's insecurities . He's having problems in his teaching life as well when an editorial states that he plans to read a letter from Bartolomeo Vanzetti ( of Sacco and Vanzetti ) in his English composition class . The trustees aren't happy and want him to state that the article is incorrect . As he is up for a full professorship , his wife hopes he will back down also since three teachers have been fired for being " reds . " This is an odd film with a very timely message about censorship and its dangers that by itself would have made a good movie , especially with wonderful actors like Fonda and de Havilland . However , the home situation was played for comedy . This film didn't seem to know which it was . If I were to guess , I would say the studio wanted a comedy and the dramatic part was downplayed . It's a shame , because there was nothing special about that part of the film , except that Jack Carson was very good . The Henry Fonda character discovers that he has to become " the male animal , " i . e . , one who fiercely protects his home , and not only his home , but his role as a teacher as well . Today , when " Brokeback Mountain " isn't being shown in all areas , and more censorship is being urged , this is a good movie to see if only to remind us that the this is a war that has been fought for years . Nowadays I wonder if we're winning .
Good entry into the series	Ann Sothern again plays Maisie in " Maisie Gets Her Man , " a 1942 film featuring Red Skelton , Leo Gorcey , Allen Jenkins , Donald Meek and Lloyd Corrigan . Maisie's hired by a comedian , Hap Hixby ( Skelton ) who gets horrible stage fright , so her job is gone before she even gets to do it . However , the building owner ( Jenkins ) is impressed with Hap and gives him a job managing the building , and Maisie becomes his assistant . Hap and Maisie fall in love , but when Hap's fiance shows up , Hap can't tell her the truth . Maisie leaves and gets a job in a show . But when she finds out Hap is in trouble , she decides she has to do something . This is a lively movie , in part because of Jenkins and Gorcey , who are very funny . I can't say I've ever been a Red Skelton fan , but MGM stuck him in every B movie as they attempted to build him up . Here he's nice-looking and plays it straight except when he's on stage . Sothern of course is a delight as the fast-thinking Maisie . Like most serials , the quality varies from film to film . This was one of the better ones , with a little more plot and a strong supporting cast .
Okay suspenseful drama	Valentina Cortese and Richard Basehart star in " The House on Telegraph Hill , " a 1951 film also starring William Lundigan . It's probable that Cortese and Basehart met during the filming of this movie , since they were married in March of 1951 . Cortese plays a concentration camp survivor , Victoria Kowelska , who takes the identity of her dead friend and travels to San Francisco to claim the woman's son , who is living with an aunt , and also her inheritance . When she arrives , the aunt is deceased , and the boy is being cared for by a snippy nanny ( Fay Baker ) . Victoria and the estate's trustee ( Basehart ) fall in love , marry , and live in the aunt's mansion . It soon becomes apparent from a series of mishaps that someone is trying to do away with Victoria . She finally confides in the Army officer who processed her papers ( Lundigan ) . Robert Wise does a good job with this suspenser , which combines some diverse elements - hidden identity , romance , shady nanny and a murder plot - though the script isn't the best . It drags in spots . Cortese is an effective actress while not being a conventional beauty ; her star shone brighter in Italy , where she worked until 1993 and then retired . " The House on Telegraph Hill " does hold the viewer throughout . It's enjoyable but nothing special .
though true , it almost seems like a fable	Very good drama , employing documentary elements , about attorney Homer Cummings ' pursuit of justice on behalf of a man wrongly accused of the murder of an episcopalian minister . Cummings went on to become Attorney General of the U . S . Given the sloppy cases put on by prosecutors today with the only goal in mind being a win , given the intense political influences often in play in bringing cases to trial , Boomerang comes off like a fable about the way justice should work . Harvey , the prosecutor in this case ( actually Cummings ) refuses to bend to political pressure and rely on sloppy police work to win an indictment in the case of the accused man , beautifully portrayed by Arthur Kennedy . The interrogation techniques shown in this film were pre-Miranda , but I believe interrogations like this still exist . Elia Kazan did his usual great job of directing this stark drama and the cast is uniformly excellent : Dana Andrews , Jane Wyatt , Kennedy , Ed Begley , Lee J . Cobb , Karl Malden , and Sam Levene . Toward the end of the film , Dana Andrews opens a book and reads a quote stating in part that the role of the prosecutor is to see that justice is done . In my experience and observation , it appears that most prosecutors have never read this statement . Maybe that's why Homer Cummings became U . S . attorney general and they haven't .
much ado about drapes !	Richard Widmark is a psychiatrist in " The Cobweb , " also starring Lauren Bacall , Lillian Gish , Charles Boyer , John Kerr , Susan Strasberg and Gloria Grahame . It's quite a cast , especially when you realize that they were directed by Vincent Minnelli . It's an absorbing story of the patients and the doctors at a mental institution . Widmark has basically taken over from the troubled Boyer - though Boyer retains his title , Widmark's contract gives him more power . Bacall , a recent widow , is a doctor on staff , and Lillian Gish is an administrator . The patient most focused on is Stevie , played by John Kerr . He is making good progress with his recovery , and in fact , some of the better patients are given control over designing their lounge . The sticking point becomes the draperies which become a political football . Widmark's wife , Gloria Grahame , wants to impose herself onto the institution that is taking her husband away from her by working with a board member on the drapes ; Lillian Gish wants to save money and go the cheap route ; and the patients have their own ideas . This is a very good drama with good acting from all involved . Grahame is a brunette here and has never been more beautiful , plus she gets to wear some beautiful clothes . She , along with the others , gives a terrific performance . The one with the best role is Lillian Gish , and she is fantastic . What an actress and what a career . Who could have believed she could play such a perfect bitch ? Well worth watching if the plot is a little thin .
More Busby and an early glimpse at an actress of ' Titanic ' proportions	" Golddiggers of 1935 " stars Alice Brady as a cheapskate determined that her daughter will marry a wealthy older man as planned . In order to make sure this happens , she gives her daughter a last wish as a single woman , which is to let her do what she wants ( i . e . , have fun ) all summer at the resort where they're staying . So mom hires the student doctor at the reception desk , Dick ( Dick Powell ) to escort her around . Oh , and then there's the show for the milk fund . And what a show ! The daughter in question is the beautiful Gloria Stuart , who a mere 60 + years later will receive an Oscar nomination for " Titanic " and make it at last ! 96 at the time of this writing , Stuart today is completely recognizable as that dazzling blond of her youth . There's no mistaking those incredible eyes or wonderful voice . It was really a treat to see her in this . The film is remarkable for its milk fund numbers only - the rest of it isn't much . Berkeley pulled out all the stops with a mesmerizing array of moving white pianos played by chorus girls in gowns , and follows it up with " Lullaby of Broadway . " Sensational - so imaginative , dark , and atmospheric , truly one of the best numbers in cinema . Its unusual beginning ( also done at the end ) will cue you in immediately that you're about to see something different . The cast is first rate - Powell , Stuart , Brady , Hugh Herbert , Dorothy Dare , Glenda Farrell , and Adolphe Menjou . Parts of it are overacted , almost as if the actors were on stage , but you won't be sorry you saw Berkeley's work at its best .
inspiring story	Beautifully acted by Meryl Streep and the rest of the cast , this film is based on a true story of a mother who defied the medical profession to get her son on the ketogenic diet at Johns Hopkins . Due to the tremendous lobbying power of the AMA in this country , alternative treatments are not recognized here the way they are in Europe and in other countries . Yet people often have to be subjected to harmful , and often unhelpful medications . One hears a lot about animal experimentation - in the end , the guinea pig is always the human patient , as doctors " try out " drug cocktails and new drugs on patients who suffer horrible side effects from them , as did the child in this film . I won't give away the twist at the end of the film , but watch it clear to the end and you'll get a marvelous surprise .
Lupino as barracuda	Ida Lupino plays the ruthless , ambitious , domineering sister of Joan Leslie in " The Hard Way . " The film starts with Lupino attempting suicide by jumping off a bridge , and the resulting story is one big flashback . Unhappily married in an ugly industrial town , Lupino sees a way out for herself and her sister , played by Joan Leslie , when two vaudevillians , Jack Carson and Dennis Morgan , come into town . Carson soon is married to Leslie and Lupino joins everyone on the road , beginning her path of destruction to make way for Leslie in the big time . Ida Lupino does a terrific job , as does the entire cast , including a wonderful appearance by Gladys George . Leslie is fresh and young but no phenomenal musical talent , so one has to attribute Lupino's drive to her success ! A very good Warners Bros . offering .
A governor's idea of how to get votes is a unique one	John Barrymore , George Murphy and Joan Davis star in " Hold that Coed , " a 1938 film about politics and football . Murphy plays a football star turned coach of a state university , which has no funding and no equipment for its football players . Governor Gabby Harrigan ( John Barrymore ) is running for a Senate seat and has slashed the school's funding even further . The students , led by the coach , head for his office to protest . Harrigan refuses to see them ; a horrendous fight breaks out when the police arrive . The governor's secretary ( Marjorie Blake ) and his advisors warn him that his decision to cut funding and refusal to meet the students is going to cost him votes . He decides to do a switch - to pour money into the school and build a huge stadium which will also serve as a place to champion his election to the Senate . Of course , the school has to play only the biggest college teams . Just one problem - this team is a big loser . So a female ( Davis ) who is an amazing kicker is drafted , and two professional wrestlers who quit school are given government positions and put on the team . " Hold that Coed " is a funny satire with the kind of wild performance by John Barrymore that one expects by 1938 when he was well in his cups . Like his fellow politico , Ronald Reagan , George Murphy was an attractive , light leading man , but he could also sing and dance . Though the music in this movie isn't much , it's pleasant , as is Murphy , who never tried to move out of his range or go over the top . Joan Davis is funny as the tomboyish kicker - before she kicks , she does mincing type movements . Someone complained about the finale , which includes problems with strong winds ; I didn't mind it . The film , of course , belongs to Barrymore . You can never take your eyes off of him , and even when he hams it up , he's great . I never thought he was a hammy actor unless it was called for - and as the governor , he could be nothing else . Certainly his performances in " Bill of Divorcement , " " The Great Man Votes " and dozens of his other films prove his brilliance as an actor . Recommended ; very enjoyable .
Interesting true story	Gary Cooper plays the title role in " The Court Martial of Billy Mitchell , " a 1955 film based on the real-life court martial of former Brigadier General William Mitchell , who was demoted in rank after violating orders and later court-martialed for criticizing the Armed Forces in the press . Besides also starring Ralph Bellamy , Charles Bickford , and Rod Steiger , the film also features some later TV stars - Elizabeth Montgomery , Jack Lord , John Daly , Darren McGavin and Peter Graves . Apparently the film takes some liberties with the true facts , but Mitchell believed in the power of the airplane in war and wanted an upgrade in air power for the U . S . as well as the creation of an Air Force . Much of what he said about air power came to pass , and eventually the Air Force was formed , of which he is considered the father . However , at the time , the services were faced with budget cuts and narrow thinking . They weren't convinced of Mitchell's arguments . Mitchell ( in the film ) disobeys orders about the size of the bomb he's carrying , using one-ton bombs to destroy the Ostfriesland , which was an World War I prize from Germany . He is demoted in rank and sent to work in Texas . When a friend of his is killed in a " death trap " flier called The Shenendoah , Billy sets himself up for a court martial so that he can bring his cause to the American public . This is a good movie which holds one's interest . I have a confession , which is that I am not always impressed with the acting of Gary Cooper , though I do love him , and this was one of those times . One of the posters suggested that James Cagney would have been a better choice given the real-life character of Mitchell . Possibly . Cooper is passionate in a quiet way but a little too one-dimensional in his performance . There are strong performances from everyone , most especially Rod Steiger . He doesn't chew up the scenery ; instead , he uses his voice like a knife . He's very effective . Definitely recommended though it's not Cooper's best work .
Interesting look at a great filmmaker	King Vidor is unusual in the series " The Men Who Made the Movies " in that of all the directors , as a person , he had the least edgy , vibrant , quirky personality possessed by so many - Raoul Walsh , Hitchcock , and Sam Fuller , to name a few . Rather , for all his imagination and tremendous creativity , he is smiling and understated , looking more like a businessman than a great director . Interestingly , he is also the most optimistic of the men I've seen interviewed . " I think it's a beautiful world , " he said . Where Sam Fuller had three villain types in " Pickup on South Street , " Vidor felt he never had a complete villain in any of his films . This documentary takes a somewhat spotty look at Vidor's accomplishments - but manages to hit the high points - looking at his work , which reaches back to the sound era with classics like " Show People , " " Hallelujah , " and " The Big Parade , " then moves into talkies with films like " The Champ , " " Our Daily Bread , " " The Citadel , " " Duel in the Sun , " " " The Fountainhead , " and " Beyond the Forest , " which gave us Bette Davis ' " What a dump " line and was Vidor's foray into film noir . Well known for his battle scenes , the documentary opens with a magnificent battle scene from " Solomon and Sheba , " and we also see the ditch-digging scene from " Our Daily Bread , " and the sentimental end of " The Champ . " Vidor was certainly versatile , taking over for Victor Fleming in " The Wizard of Oz " when Fleming was called to do " Gone With the Wind . " " Every time I see ' Over the Rainbow , ' I get a thrill , because I directed that , " he commented . Vidor took great pride in his work and came up with inventive ways of using the camera before it could easily be moved , and speaks with frustration about his failure to synchronize the sound in " Hallelujah . " " There was no playback , " he explained . " They were just singing into the air . " Vidor , however , never directed into the air - he was totally grounded and organized . The films - epics like " The Big Parade , " melodramas like " Stella Dallas , " and comedies like " Comrade X " speak for themselves .
gangster flick / tribute to the FBI	" G-Men " is a 1935 film that was reissued in 1949 . At that time , the FBI was 25 years old , and a scene was added where David Brian , as an FBI head honcho , tells his rookies that they are about to see an early film about the FBI . He then starts the movie . " G-Men " is directed by William Keighley and stars James Cagney as Brick Davis , an attorney whose college friend Eddie ( Regis Toomey ) is murdered by a mobster ( Barton MacLane ) while working for the Department of Justice . Brick quits lawyering and joins the FBI . When the fact that he was close friends with a mobster ( who put him through law school ) turns up , Brick is able to supply a lot of information to the bureau . The action in this film is non-stop , with car chases , kidnappings , lots of shooting , and scenes at a lodge , reminiscent of a well-known real-life happening in Wisconsin . Cagney is excellent as usual , and Barton MacLane gives a strong performance as the enemy . Lloyd Nolan , as a fellow recruit , makes his film debut . The supporting actors are all good . Warner Brothers again proves why they were King of the Crime Flicks with this film . If you like Cagney and action , don't miss this one .
Beautiful dance film with stunning stars	How terribly sad that during such a delightful and romantic film , Fred Astaire was mourning the death of his wife . " Daddy Long Legs " is a sweet film with an utterly charming performance , in words and dance , by Leslie Caron , and Astaire's usual high-class , debonair , energetic work . Thelma Ritter and Larry Keating give fantastic support , and in looking over the cast list , I see that a future dance partner of Astaire's , the wonderful Barrie Chase , is an uncredited dancer . My only complaint is that the movie is on the long side , with the final dance being not only terribly long , but just one dance sequence too many . The highlight of the film for me was definitely " Sluefoot . " A fantastic number ! I noticed one hilarious comment about an " uncredited appearance by Cary Grant . " I remember my mom telling me how much Ray Anthony resembled Grant - I guess she was right !
Romanticized biography of great opera star	Mario Lanza , of course , is " The Great Caruso " in this 1951 film also starring Ann Blyth , Dorothy Kirsten , Eduard Franz and Ludwig Donath . This is a highly fictionalized biography of the legendary , world-renowned tenor whose name is known even today . The film is opulently produced , and the music is glorious and beautifully sung by Lanza , Kirsten , Judmila Novotna , Blanche Thebom , and other opera stars who appeared in the film . If you're a purist , seeing people on stage smiling during the Sextet from " Lucia " will strike you as odd - even if Caruso's wife Dorothy just had a baby girl . Also it's highly unlikely that Caruso ever sang Edgardo in Lucia ; the role lay too high for him . In taking dramatic license , the script leaves out some very dramatic parts of Caruso's life . What was so remarkable about him is that he actually created roles in operas that are today in the standard repertoire , yet this is never mentioned in the film . These roles include Maurizio in Adriana Lecouvreur and Dick Johnson in " Girl of the Golden West , " There is a famous photo of him posing with a sheet wrapped around him like a toga . The reason for that photo ? His only shirt was in the laundry . He was one of the pioneers of recorded music and had a long partnership with the Victor Talking-Machine Company ( later RCA Victor ) . He was singing Jose in Carmen in San Francisco the night of the earthquake . Instead , the MGM story basically has him dying on stage during a performance of Martha , which never happened . He had a hemorrhage during " L'Elisir d'amore " at the Met and could not finish the performance ; he only sang three more times at the Met , his last role as Eleazar in La Juive . What killed him ? The same thing that killed Valentino - peritonitis . His first role at the Met was not Radames in Aida , as indicated in the film , but the Duke in Rigoletto . So when it says on the screen " suggested by Dorothy Caruso's biography of her husband , " that's what it was - suggested . What is true is that Dorothy's father disowned her after her marriage , and left her $1 of his massive estate . They also did have a daughter Gloria together ( who died at the age of 79 on / 2007 ) . However , Caruso had four other children by a mistress before he married Dorothy . Some people say that Lanza's voice is remarkably like Caruso's , but just listen to Caruso sing in the film " Match Point " - - Caruso's voice is remarkably unlike Lanza's . In fact , from his sound , had he wanted to , Caruso could have sung as a baritone . He is thought to have had some trouble with high notes , further evidence of baritone leanings ; and the role he was preparing when he died was Othello , a dramatic tenor role , which Lanza definitely was not . Lanza's voice deserved not to be compared with another . He made a unique contribution to film history , popularizing operatic music . He sings the music in " The Great Caruso " with a robust energy ; he is truly here at the peak of what would be a short career . His acting is natural and genuine . Ann Blyth is lovely as Dorothy and gets to sing a little herself . Really a film for opera lovers and Lanza fans , which are probably one and the same .
For classic film buffs	Steve Martin is a Sam Spade-type detective who takes a case for a beautiful woman ( Rachel Ward ) in " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid . " Like the 1983 " Zelig , " the film deftly mixes actual old clips in with the storyline very cleverly . In this case , the clips are all from old black and white movies featuring some of our biggest and most beloved stars : Ava Gardner , Barbara Stanwyck , Joan Crawford , Ingrid Bergman , Bette Davis , Alan Ladd , Burt Lancaster , Humphrey Bogart , Ray Milland , and others , all of whom have roles opposite Martin with the help of intercuts and some great editing . Besides these costars , Martin has one from the ' 80s , Rachel Ward , who fits in beautifully with the past goddesses . Martin is hilarious as PI Rigby Reardon . Of course , in order for some of these clips to work , his dialogue had to make sense as well , which makes it even more fun . I think the scene visiting Jimmy Cagney in prison is still my favorite , along with his impersonation of a beautiful blond in a grocery store ( the scene from Double Indemnity ) . We always see Martin from the back and then it cuts to his costar . Edith Head's recreation of the costumes is mind-boggling , and there is a lovely tribute to her at the end of the film , as this was her last . This film is very entertaining , though it has no real story and the gimmick wears thin toward the end . It's still a lot of fun and frankly better than Martin's latest recreations of light ' 60s movies - though you can see he had remakes in mind even back then .
Two great stars in a disappointing film	Barbara Stanwyck smells something rotten in her husband's family home in " Cry Wolf , " a 1947 movie starring a very famous wolf off screen , Errol Flynn , as well as Jerome Cowan , Richard Basehart , and Geraldine Brooks . Stanwyck plays Sandra , the widow of James Demarest , and arrives to consult with his uncle ( Flynn ) about James ' estate . James believed that his uncle was trying to take his money from him . She gets a cool reception from everyone except James ' sister ( Brooks ) . Hearing noises coming from the uncle's lab , Sandra becomes convinced that James is still alive , and she is determined to gain access to the laboratory . This is the kind of film you can't wait to see - two fabulous stars , a mystery , atmosphere - but though " Cry Wolf " screams " Cry Hit Movie " - it falls flat . If Flynn is supposed to be the Max de Winter or Mr . Rochester of the piece , he doesn't cut it . It's not his fault . The role does not play to his strengths at all . Incredibly handsome , charming , energetic , and debonair , Flynn was one of the greatest stars of the golden era . It's understandable that he became bored with the kind of roles with which he is associated , and there's no doubt he could have pulled this off , but the script and direction let him down . Instead , his performance seems one note , uninteresting , and lazy . At 38 , given his lifestyle , he looked bloated in certain scenes . It would seem like a wonderful idea to cast him with Stanwyck , but there's no there there . Stanwyck's role , on the other hand , does play to her strengths . She's tough , determined , and called upon to do some amazing physical stunts as she rides up and down in a dumbwaiter , rides horses , falls off of one , takes one over a tall fence - she's just great . Given the lethargy of Flynn's performance and the quiet steel of Stanwyck's , Geraldine Brooks by contrast seems like she's chewing the scenery . Basehart is so young he's almost unrecognizable in a small but good role . The film ends very abruptly with most of the plot telegraphed from the beginning of the film . However , there are some wonderfully suspenseful moments - Stanwyck hiding outside the lab as Flynn exits , the horse careening through the woods , and several others . Enjoyable , disappointing , but well worth seeing for the stars and the atmosphere .
Bad Bette ! Bad , bad Bette !	Holy Toledo - Bette Davis has played some really bad women in her life , but the part of Stanley tops it ! Davis , Olivia de Havilland , Dennis Morgan , Charles Coburn , and George Brent star in " In This Our Life , " an odd film from 1942 . Davis and de Havilland play Stanley and Roy ( guess dad wanted boys ) . Stanley is dating Craig ( Brent ) and Roy is married to Peter , a doctor ( Morgan ) . The film no sooner begins than Stanley and Peter run away together . It doesn't take long before Stanley becomes dissatisfied with Peter's lack of money as a young surgeon and his hospital hours . After Peter's suicide ( I wonder ) , the good Roy comes and brings her sister back home . Meanwhile , Roy has started to see Craig . Stanley hates being home and prevails upon her lecherous uncle ( Coburn ) to give her money so she can go away . Meanwhile , I swear she's trying to kill him by plying him with booze . It goes from there , with Stanley becoming more and more horrid with each passing frame of film . Her best line is " YOU'RE AN OLD MAN ! WHO CARES IF YOU DIE ? I'M YOUNG . I'VE GOT MY WHOLE LIFE AHEAD OF ME . " Totally outrageous . One comment asks if it's Davis or the script that wrecks this film . I blame the script . You have the too good sister , so good she's saintly - I mean , her sister stole her husband and she doesn't slap her silly - and then you have the bad sister , so bad she's absurd . Then there's the treatment of black people which is offensive - though that is acknowledged in the film . Plus , Sidney's relationship with Uncle William will give rise to a lot of speculation . At one point , Olivia de Havilland looks at a portrait of an ugly relation and says , " I'm not as pretty as she is . " Well , if that were going to be the case , someone should have done a better job on the painting . De Havilland is absolutely beautiful and gives a very good , sober , well-grounded performance - in juxtaposition to Davis batting her eyes , pouting , and sashaying . Huston obviously didn't know how to handle her . Davis was capable of brilliant performances but she had to be in sync with her director . She wasn't . Morgan and Brent are the mild types of leading men Warners usually cast opposite strong women . Morgan is very handsome and believable as the put-upon Peter - and if he did kill himself , you can't really blame him . Brent does a good job as the attorney who turns his attentions to Roy . As the young black man whose future is threatened by darling Stanley , Ernest Anderson gives a wonderful performance , giving his character the appropriate likability , intelligence , and lack of aggression . Always an excellent emotional actress , Hattie McDaniel scores as his mother . This thing is one big potboiler , complete with an overwhelming score by Max Steinberg that is really a bit much . So is the movie . And guess what , I still recommend it . Even an overdone Bette is better than no Bette at all .
Loosely based on the true story	" 21 " is the story of the famous MIT Blackjack Team that plays fast and loose with the real story . Nevertheless , it's still a compelling and interesting movie . It's really a morality tale about a brilliant young man , Ben Campbell ( Jim Sturgess ) is talked by a professor ( Kevin Spacey ) into joining a blackjack group that counts cards , uses hand signals , codes , and disguises , and goes to Vegas every weekend . Ben has been accepted into Harvard pre-med but has no way of getting the $300 , 000 tuition . In this story , there are no such things as financial packages and student loans . Ben reluctantly joins the group but only until he can make his Harvard money . Of course , that's not what happens . Once in and living the high life , he can't stop . He finally becomes so arrogant that he makes what turns out to be a very costly mistake . The shots of Boston , where I went to school , and Vegas are great , and the acting is excellent . Sturgess is joined by the beautiful Kate Bosworth , Aaron Yoo , Liza Lapira , and Jacob Pitts . Laurence Fishburne has a small role , but he's scary as all get-out as a security man . Two real-life members of the Blackjack Team played card dealers . In the actual story , there were several of these groups out of MIT that played for years . In telescoping the story , there are a few holes . For instance , Campbell never wears a disguise until the end , which in real life , never happened . The only one who consistently wears a disguise is Bosworth ; these teams were much more careful than that . Also , they seem to go to Vegas every week instead of switching off with Atlantic City , for instance , or laying low for a time . There are a few interesting twists in " 21 , " and it moves quickly . Recommended - a very good movie .
Fredric March is bewitched , bothered , and bewildered by Veronica Lake	The summary line only applies to the film , however . This movie was intended by the studio for Joel McCrea . After making Sullivan's Travels , McCrea informed the top brass that he could not make another film with Veronica Lake . The role instead went to Fredric March , who declared " I Married a Witch " the most horrendous experience he'd ever had . It should be added that McCrea did work with Lake again 5 years later , after he had time to heal . I have no idea why these actors had problems with this tiny , beautiful woman . " I Married a Witch " is a delightful light comedy which I suppose is the basis for " Bewitched . " Apparently these Salem witches cursed an entire family so that they would be unlucky in love , and the movie quickly takes us through the generations of miserable men ( all March in assorted wigs ) until it gets to the present when March , a gubernatorial candidate , is set to marry a human witch ( Susan Hayward ) . When lightning strikes a tree which was grown over the ashes of burned witches , Lake and her father escape . She takes human form and March " saves " her from a fire ( that her father started ) . Then she mistakenly drinks a potion intended for him , and the situation really takes off . Lake was 23 when this film was made ; March was 45 , and McCrea , had he made the movie , was 37 . The very dignified March made a great politician , as the character in this film is - but he comes off as too old to be marrying Hayward or getting involved with Lake . Yes , we all know it happens . But this type of film was not March's mtier . Eight years younger and ever boyish , of course , McCrea was more suited to the role in looks and acting . My favorite scene is the botched wedding in which the soprano has to sing the beginning of " I Love You Truly " over and over as Susan Hayward becomes increasingly outraged . It's a young Hayward , but all the feistiness and strength is apparent . Cecil Kellaway is Lake's father , and he gives a fine performance . Although her costars may not have agreed , I found Lake funny and beautiful in this movie , and it's a shame the last years of her life were spent as they were . She had a lovely screen presence .
ooooh that HUGH	It was in this film that I discovered Hugh Jackman . I saw " Paperback Hero " at a film festival in Los Angeles and promptly fell in love . At the time , I declared Hugh the next Mel Gibson . While he hasn't reached that stature , he's done some good films and made his mark on Broadway in " The Boy from Oz , " which I'm pleased to say I saw . He is an awesome performer . Hugh's great charisma and sexiness helps this light story of a macho male who has been writing romance novels under a pseudonym and convinces a woman friend to impersonate him . The film was done in Australia so it's quite interesting as far as the setting and the other actors . I'm not sure if this film received widespread distribution here in the states , but it is delightful .
Lousy sound but interesting	Spencer Tracy and Humphrey Bogart are " Up the River " in this 1930 film directed by John Ford and also starring Claire Luce and Warren Hymer . The movie makes for tough going , as the print I saw kept skipping and the sound along with it . Well , the movie is nearly 80 years old after all . Bogart is so young-looking in this it boggles the mind . He's actually playing the romantic lead , Steve , a young man from a good family . While in prison for a fight ( in which it's implied the other man was killed ) , he meets a woman named Judy ( Luce ) who was involved in a shady bond racket . She took the fall for her boss , Frosby ( Morgan Wallace ) . Judy and Steve fall in love , and when his parole comes up , he says he'll wait for her . After being back with his family for awhile , Forsby sets up his racket in town and is cheating Steve's mother . His friends , Saint Louis ( Tracy ) and Dannemora Dan ( Hymer ) break out of prison during a variety show and come to his rescue . I probably liked this better than most of the people who reviewed the movie here . The ongoing problems with the baseball team ( " the pitcher got paroled right before the big game " ) are amusing . I also liked the free-for-all atmosphere of the prison , with the warden's daughter and her dog wandering around the jail yard , friendly with all the prisoners . The warden's a lovable fellow too . I also liked the bit where notes are hidden in the hem of a charity woman's skirt on the women's side , and when she enters the men's yard , they all rush over and dust off her shoes , retrieving the letter at the same time . Finally , there's an ongoing bit based on the fact that Saint Louis deliberately drove off and left Dannemora in the lurch previously . They're now in the same prison together , Saint Louis swearing up and down that he thought the car had a rumble seat . Besides the bad sound , the film has the usual politically incorrect blackface number . I will say that the black prisoners seemed to be on an equal footing with the whites , if that means anything . " Up the River " is fascinating , too , for the use of microphones throughout the set and actors needing to be near them . No one really has figured out screen acting yet - Bogart speaks quickly while the woman playing his mother drags out every sentence . Tracy appears very natural , however . Films had a long way to go . This one was made quickly by a man destined to become one of the screen's greatest directors and two actors who would become two of the greatest stars ever . Humble beginnings .
High entertaining	Nicholas Cage , Diane Kruger , Sean Bean , Jon Voight and Justin Bartha star in " National Treasure , " a 2004 adventure film directed by Jon Turteltaub . This is one of those movies where you just have to totally give yourself over to the preposterous story and have a good time . Cage is a member of the notorious Gates family , who have claimed for years that there is a vast treasure somewhere hidden by our forefathers . Cage gets a wealthy man ( Bean ) to underwrite his quest , which leads to an important clue . That clue eventually leads them to an invisible map . . . behind the Declaration of Independence . By then , Cage and Bean are mortal enemies , and the race is on . " National Treasure " is tremendously fun and even has some historical information embedded in it that viewers should find interesting . Its success led to National Treasure 2 . Cage is always worth seeing , as is Bean . This is a film meant to be enjoyed - not dissected .
London in wartime	" Journey for Margaret " is a propaganda film but with a twist . Made in 1942 , right after the U . S . entered World War II , it's based on a real story . A reporter , John Davis ( Robert Young ) , and his wife Nora ( Laraine Day ) are caught in London during the blitz . Nora loses the baby she is carrying and eventually goes home to the states . John stays , but the passion that made him a powerful writer is gone . He's seen too much hopelessness and futility . While working an air raid , he helps to save a little boy , Peter , from a home where the rest of the family is killed . It leaves an indelible impression on him . John meets Peter again when he visits an orphanage run by Trudy Strauss ( Fay Bainter ) . There he also meets a very traumatized little girl , Margaret ( Margaret O'Brien ) . Peter and Margaret bond with John . When it comes time for him to leave England , he wants to bring them with him to the states and adopt them . But all the flights to Lisbon are full for months in advance , and the only way he can bring them is to bring them as his 40 pound luggage limit . So that means only one child can go with him . This is a really interesting film with excellent acting from everyone . Young gives a heartfelt performance , and Day is very touching as his wife . Margaret O'Brien , even at age 4 or 5 , was capable of strong emotional acting . Wonderful story .
interesting legal drama	" Thirty Something " star Ken Olin has certainly had a fascinating career since the series ended . He has become a very successful producer , for one thing . Acting wise , for as nice a guy as he played on the series , he has often been cast as a wife killer . In this movie , based on a novel by Alan Dershowitz , he's an attorney with a run of losses who takes what looks to be a slam-dunk case , defending a basketball star accused of rape . Along the way , it begins to look like the case isn't the winner he anticipated as inconsistencies in his client's story begin to emerge . As his investigator girlfriend , beautiful Mariska Hargitay gives a warm and honest performance . I first saw Mariska's work when she was a kid on " Falcon Crest " and my opinion of her has never changed . She was a delight then , and she has evolved into a wonderful actress while still maintaining a charismatic presence . Holt McCallany , as the defendant , gives nothing away in an enigmatic performance and will keep you guessing . This is a film that will definitely hold your interest . Only a lawyer could come up with a plot like this , however . I found it just a little too clever .
Partially successful noir	Henry Fonda goes through " The Long Night " after committing murder in this 1947 film noir directed by Anatole Litvak and also starring Vincent Price , Ann Dvorak and Barbara Bel Geddes . Fonda plays Joe , a returning veteran , now a blue collar worker who falls in love with young , pretty fellow orphan Jo Ann ( Bel Geddes ) , only to come up against Price . Price plays Maximilian , a creepy magician with a show that features dogs and Charlene ( Ann Dvorak ) . At first , Maximilian asks Joe to stay away from Charlene because she's his long-lost daughter and he wants better for her . From Charlene , Joe learns the truth - Maximilian is not her father , and she's attracted to his worldliness - though she claims to love Joe . Depressed , he turns to the sexy Charlene , his heart still with Jo Ann . During a fight in his apartment , he shoots Maximilian , and spends the entire movie under siege in his apartment as he relives in flashback and flashback within flashback what led him to this moment . Litvak , a talented director , stages this film in an interesting manner - it begins with a blind man ( Elisha Cook Jr . ) stumbling across the body of Maximilian in the hallway of the apartment building where he lives . Joe will not leave his room , and the police work throughout the film to get him out . The photography and direction capture the darkness and drabness of Joe's surroundings , the cheapness of the nightclub where Maximilian performs , and focuses a harsh light on Charlene's room and Charlene herself . Despite all of this great style , the film has a cheesy quality ; the characters aren't really likable except for poor Joe ; and the motivations of the characters aren't fully fleshed out , so the story ultimately doesn't make it . The acting is very good - Fonda shows us some still waters that run pretty deep in an excellently crafted performance . He's sexy as all get-out , too , when he lays down on Charlene's bed and smiles . Dvorak does a great job as a brittle Charlene , and Price is a complete sleazebag as the cruel Maximilian . Bel Geddes is incredibly young - this is her first film , and though she was 24 or 25 , she looks and acts about 18 , which is appropriate for this small-town , inexperienced girl . " The Long Night " has some interesting elements , but because of a spotty script , we're not invested enough in the film for it to be really intriguing or exciting .
Very good mystery	I hope that TCM broadcasts more of the " Crime Doctor " series , based on the radio show . Starring Warner Baxter , 1943's " Crime Doctor " is one of the first films Michael Gordon ( Pillow Talk ) directed , and it's a good , solid B movie . Baxter plays a criminal named Phil Morgan who gets amnesia after being left for dead on the side of a road . He rehabilitates himself and , still not knowing who he is , becomes a noted psychiatrist named Robert Ordway who works with prisoners as well as other patients . However , Phil Morgan stole and hid $200 , 000 and his fellow gang members want the money . As word gets around that Dr . Ordway is Phil Morgan , the question is - does he really not remember , or does he know who he is and where he put the money ? Baxter was 54 years old when this film was made . Fifty-four in 1943 isn't what it is today , so when the character announces that " thirty years of his life " have been wiped out , one wonders which thirty years he's talking about . The film covers a span of ten years , but it's just as hard to buy he's forty . It's a minor point - Baxter gives a sincere performance with an undertone of real gentleness . The supporting cast includes the lovely Margaret Lindsay , John Litel ( who play Nancy Drew's father in the series ) , Perry Mason's Ray Collins , and Leon Ames . I hope TCM shows more of the " Crime Doctor " series .
Nice B movie , part of the Crime Doctor series	Warner Baxter is the " Crime Doctor , " and here he is in the second film of the series , " Crime Doctor's Strangest Case , " filmed in 1943 . This one has a perk for baby boomers as it stars a very young Lloyd " Sea Hunt " Bridges as a man acquitted of killing his boss who consults Dr . Ordway ( Baxter ) , the man who helped him in his case . Though he was found not guilty , he has had terrible trouble finding a new position . Now he's been offered a job working for a person instead of a company - a similar situation to his first job , and he wants to get married . Ordway recommends that he look instead for a corporate position , even if he has to leave town , and wait to get married . The Bridges character doesn't take Dr . O's advice , and when his boss is killed , it does look as though he was given the job so he could be framed . Ordway steps in to investigate , dueling wits with the detective in charge of the case ( Barton MacLaine ) . This " Crime Doctor " comedy in it , with Jerome Cowan as a musician who is careless with matches . There's also a hilarious , very fast change of identity . This is a good series , and I hope to see more of it on TCM .
Female ensemble cast in World War II drama	NO SPOILERS HERE A cast of some top actresses make up the ensemble of " Cry Havoc , " a film about war nurses and volunteers in Bataan , their courage , hard work , and sacrifices . Margaret Sullavan heads the cast in her second to last film . An accomplished stage actress , her last film was in 1950 , 10 years before her suicide . She is marvelous as the head nurse with two secrets . She is joined by Fay Bainter , Ann Sothern , Joan Blondell , Ella Raines , Marsha Hunt , and others . Even today , this is a difficult film to watch , and one can really feel the dirt , the fear , the hunger , the frustration , and the sorrow these women experienced . I can't imagine the impact when it was first released during World War II . We know that the World War II films produced in the ' 40s were whitewashed - men who were on the actual Bataan Death March think movies depicting it are a joke , and there was certainly nothing produced like " Saving Private Ryan " back then . I have no idea whether " Cry Havoc " was an accurate depiction of life at war but it presented nothing romantic , desirable , or pretty , except for the very brave nurses who represented the real thing serving our country in World War II . SPOILERS AHEADThough the ending of the film is somewhat depressing , nurses who served at Bataan and were taken prisoner were treated with great respect by the Japanese , and worked in an internment hospital until they were evacuated . According to what I've read , all the nurses who were there made it home .
very funny spoof	Michael Keaton is " Johnny Dangerously " in this take-off on gangster movies done in 1984 . Maureen Stapleton plays his sickly mother , Griffin Dunne is his DA brother , Peter Boyle is his boss , and Marilu Henner is his girlfriend . Other stars include Danny DeVito and Joe Piscopo . Keaton plays a pet store owner in the 1930s who catches a kid stealing a puppy and then tells him , in flashback , how he came to own the pet store . He turned to thievery at a young age to get his mother a pancreas operation ( $49 . 95 , special this week ) and began working for a mob boss ( Boyle ) . Johnny uses the last name " Dangerously " in the mobster world . There are some hilarious scenes in this film , and Stapleton is a riot as Johnny's foul-mouthed mother who needs ever organ in her body replaced . Peter Boyle as Johnny's boss gives a very funny performance , as does Griffin Dunne , a straight arrow DA who won't " play ball " with crooked Burr ( Danny De Vito ) . As Johnny's nemesis , Joe Piscopo is great . Richard Dimitri is a standout as Moronie , who tortures the English language - but you have to hear him do it rather than read about it . What makes it funny is that he does it all with an angry face . The movie gets a little tired toward the end , but it's well worth seeing , and Keaton is terrific as good boy / bad boy Johnny . For some reason , this film was underrated when it was released , and like Keaton's other gem , " Night Shift , " you don't hear much about it today . With some performances and scenes that are real gems , you'll find " Johnny Dangerously " immensely enjoyable .
Lovely story	" Bounce " is a nice 2000 film that , had I paid $10 to see it , I probably wouldn't have been very happy . It's got star power , all right - Ben Affleck and Gwyneth Paltrow - but Lifetime could have done this film with Heather Locklear and Stephen Collins , and the effect would have been about the same . Ben Affleck plays Buddy Amaral , an ad exec at O'Hare airport , waiting for his flight to leave for Los Angeles . Also to be on that flight is a writer , Greg Janello ( Tony Goldwyn ) who decides to take the $200 and free ticket and get bounced from the flight . Greg's wife ( Paltrow ) is extremely unhappy about that , and berates him because he's supposed to be home selling Christmas trees with his son the next day . Since Affleck has met an attractive blonde ( Nastasha Henstridge ) , he decides to stay the extra night and gives Greg his ticket . The plane crashes with 200 + people killed , Greg among them . Devastated , Buddy spends the next drinking and screwing up his business , eventually landing in rehab . When he gets out , he looks up the widow . The performances are very good all around . The story is predictable , but you find yourself caring anyway . Good Christmas movie that asks questions about guilt and fate .
Livening up	This entry into the Mystery Woman series had a lot more energy than some of its predecessors . The show seems to be moving a little faster as the characters are further developed . " Game Time " featured a familiar face , William Katt , as an eccentric mystery writer who is murdered . The plot was interesting , concerning a video game , an old high school friend of Samantha's and his partner in the game venture . I still think the show is directed too pedantically , with way too many shots of the Mystery Woman store exterior , but perhaps there were a few less . I agree with a previous comment about Kellie Martin . I am a long-time fan , and she is indeed an unusual woman . She was unforgettable as Lucy on " E . R . " I'm glad to see her have her own series . All of these Hallmark shows seem to be targeted towards baby boomers and older , those who were fans of the " Perry Mason " movies and series . The stories are clean , the regulars familiar , and the guest stars are people we're happy to see again . I for one say keep ' em coming .
Johann Strauss II in words and music	Jules Duvivier directed this opulent , highly fictionalized musical film about Johann Strauss II . " The Great Waltz " stars Luise Rainer , Fernand Gravet and Miliza Korjus . Strauss II married several times , but none of his wives were named Poldi Vogelhuber , but she is most likely modeled on Strauss ' third and last wife . The Carla Donner character , with whom Strauss falls in love , did not exist . Strauss did form an orchestra , however , consisting of friends at the tavern , and did play at Dommayer's Casino . He also was involved in the revolution on the side of the revolutionaries . None of these biographical facts are the point of this movie - it's about the beautiful music , the singing , and the romance . There it succeeds , and the film was an enormous success , especially in the European markets . Luise Rainer gives a lovely performance as Poldi , who faces losing her beloved husband to another woman , and Gravet is an effective Strauss . Thalberg gave the European coloratura Korjus , who plays operatic diva Carla Donner , a contract on the basis of one of her recordings . We can assume it wasn't a recording of her singing Die Fledermaus . Korjus was a good bet for Hollywood - she was beautiful , glamorous , a good actress and a good singer , with a few caveats . She had a lovely quality to her voice , glorious pianissimos , and her technique was adequate , but her coloratura high notes were straight and screechy . Her singing of Die Fledermaus toward the end of the film is massively off-pitch - it's surprising the recording was not re-done . The best scene in the film is Strauss and Donner going through the Vienna Woods and Strauss coming up with the Tale of the Vienna Woods while listening to the birds and hearing the different rhythms as they travel . A very fun scene . An incredibly expensive film with beautiful music , costumes and dancing .
Nelson and Jeannette in the old west	" Girl of the Golden West , " starring Nelson Eddy and Jeannette MacDonald , is based on the play by David Belasco . This play was also used for Puccini's opera of the same name , " La Fanciulla del West " where the chorus sings , " Vells Fargo ! Vells Fargo ! " One change - the heroine in the opera is named Minnie ; in the movie , she's Mary . Good move . The film deals with one of those double identity villain / good guys - Eddy plays the crook Ramirez , but as Gringo is giving gold to the Indians through the mission of Father Sienna , who knew him and comforted him as a child when his guardian died . When he robs a stagecoach , he meets the beautiful Mary . She owns the Poker Saloon ( which sounds with the heavy western accents like Polka ) . He's wearing a bandanna that covers most of his face . She's en route to visit Father Sienna , whom she also knew as a child . Determined to meet her as a gentleman , Gringo steals a uniform and introduces himself as Lt . Dick Johnson . He sweeps her off her feet , but he has competition in the local Sheriff , Jack Rance , played by Walter Pidgeon . Pidgeon wants Ramirez caught and Johnson out of Mary's life . There's lots of singing from a Romberg score here , as well as " Ave Maria " and " Liebestraum " and a big mariachi dance number . MacDonald is excellent as the uneducated , somewhat awkward Mary who can also be a real spitfire . MacDonald was a good actress as well as a beauty , and her middle voice sounds especially rich in the songs . Like many sopranos of that era , she sang her high notes in a way that is no longer taught today , but she produces some lovely soft tones in that range . Eddy was a magnificent singer but never was anywhere near MacDonald in acting . He's very likable , but his accent as Ramirez is an absolute scream . In fact , all of the accents , from Buddy Ebsen on up , are laid on with a spatula . H . B . Warner gives a beautiful performance as the gentle Father Sienna , and Leo J . Carrillo is on hand in his usual type of role . Pidgeon is an effective and handsome Jack Rance . Entertaining , and fans of Nelson and Jeannette will love it .
very sweet	Queen Latifah plays Georgia Byrd , a woman on her " Last Holiday " in this 2006 film also starring Timothy Hutton , Gerard Depardieu , L . L . Cool J , Alicia Witt , and Giancarlo Esposito . Georgia works in the cookware department of a big department store chain . She's incredibly popular with customers , and at home , she keeps a " possibilities " scrapbook with recipes she's cooked copying her idol , Emeril Lagasse , photos of exotic places , and a photo of her married to her dream man ( Cool J ) who works with her . But her dream of a restaurant , marriage , a family - she's too shy to really go after them . Then she learns that she only has three weeks to live . She cashes in all of her retirement menu and sets off for Prague . There , she entrances everyone she meets and is unafraid to say what she thinks or take chances . Her popularity and attitudes rankle the owner of the store where she worked ( Hutton ) who is suspicious of her . Queen Latifah is a natural actress who radiates warmth and honesty in her portrayal of Georgia Byrd . Borrowing from " Nothing Sacred " and " Living it Up , " the script emphasizes living life for all its worth and not being afraid to take chances . For all its simplicity , " Last Holiday " leaves the viewer feeling very good . It's predictable , somewhat generic , but delightful , with very good performances and the beautiful scenery of Prague as a backdrop .
Warners potboiler gave the Oomph Girl even more oomph !	Ann Sheridan is a nightclub singer who gets involved with a straitlaced , married doctor in " Nora Prentiss " - and the consequences are interesting indeed . The doctor is played by Kent Smith , well-remembered by yours truly as the husband of Simone Simon in " Cat People . " Though he never reached big movie stardom , Smith enjoyed a 40 + year career in film , on radio , and TV . In this , he's regimented and by the book , partly helped by his equally disciplined wife , played by another favorite of mine , Rosemary DeCamp , a wonderful actress . One night , Prentiss ends up in his office with a mild injury , and from then on , the good doctor can't imagine life without her and what he's been missing . Conflicted about asking his wife for a divorce , one day , an opportunity drops into his office , and nothing is the same again . This is an intriguing film , but it takes a little bit too long to get to the point . The ending by ' 40s standards took me by surprise . Though Sheridan is nothing like Kay Francis , they both are women associated with a certain era - you can't think of Francis without thinking of her in those flowing ' 30s gowns and outfits - and you can't think of Sheridan without tailored suits and shoulder pads . They went along well with her earthy quality and low speaking voice . The overall effect was of someone who had been around the block but still had her dignity and self-respect . Photographed by James Wong Howe in this film , she looks marvelous . Though IMDb doesn't state if she did her own singing in " Nora Prentiss , " if she didn't , the voice matched her speaking voice perfectly and sounded great . Kent Smith is very good as the pent-up , frustrated doctor . One criticism would be that most of the times , doctors look at bodies clinically and aren't usually embarrassed by the site of a woman's knee , as Smith is in one of the opening scenes . However , he's very effective , as are Robert Alda and the always reliable Bruce Bennett in smaller roles . This film apparently did a lot for Sheridan's career , which is understandable . Very good movie .
pretty good	John Mills is the " October Man " in this small 1947 British film costarring Joan Greenwood . Mills plays Jim Ackland , a man involved in a tragic train accident that killed the child of a friend ( actually played by Juliet Mills ) he was returning to town . He suffers a fractured skull and is hospitalized for a year , as he has developed some brain damage . He blames himself for the accident and is haunted by it . It's actually not clear if he has actual brain damage - he acts perfectly normal and is totally functional - or has developed psychological problems . He leaves the hospital , takes a room at a boarding house and gets a job . His neighbor in the house is a pretty young woman ( Joan Greenwood ) who apparently is always having money trouble and possibly traded either downright sex or nookies for money with another resident of the house , Mr . Peachy ( Edward Chapman ) . Meanwhile , she's seeing a married man . So one could say her life is complicated . Attempting to break the ties that bind with Mr . not-so-Peachy , she puts the touch on Jim for 30 pounds , and he writes her a check . The next day she's found dead in the Commons , the crumpled check nearby . Suspicion falls on Jim because of the check , the fact that he wasn't home that night she was killed and because of idle gossip started by Mr . Peachey . Meanwhile , Jim has fallen in love with his coworker's sister ; though his old terrors return , he realizes that he needs to keep fighting and clear himself of the murder . This is a good movie with a superb performance by John Mills and real British atmosphere which lends itself to the story and bumps up the suspense . As someone correctly stated , it is sort of a film noir but really more psychological in nature , which was all the rage after World War II . Very entertaining .
Strictly for opera lovers	Grace Moore stars in " One Night of Love , " a 1934 movie also starring Tullio Carminati and Lyle Talbot . Carminati plays a renowned vocal teacher , Giulio Monteverdi , who takes a young aspiring opera singer , Maria Barrett , under his wing . Still scarred from a disastrous love affair with a former student , Monteverdi makes it clear that the word love must never be mentioned . Maria isn't worried ; she believes she's in love with another ( Lyle Talbot ) . Nevertheless , the two fall in love but don't admit it . When Monteverdi's old student reappears , Maria becomes jealous and turns into an uberdiva . This delightful musical was a huge success - the operatic selections are wonderful , as is the title song , which was a big recording success for Moore . Moore's voice is absolutely beautiful . Female singers were trained a little differently in those days , often backing off of their high notes . Moore does a little of that but has a glorious extension above high C . Her best singing is in her rendition of " One Night of Love " ; unfortunately , the opera selections sung by " Maria Barrett " were vocally wrong for this charming lyric coloratura . Moore herself has a nice warm presence on screen , though I read once that she had an unfortunate resemblance to the comedienne Joan Davis . From certain angles , that is true , but she was photographed carefully and looks lovely throughout the movie , slender and beautiful . Due to marrying a Frenchman and living part-time in France , working at her opera career , concertizing and eventually entertaining the troops , Moore only made 9 films . She died in a plane crash in 1947 at 49 years of age . The opera selections were , as always , on the strange side . Only in Hollywood would a lyric coloratura with a weak lower register and no chest voice sing Carmen ! From the sound , female singers also were not taught to do a mix on the lower notes . The role for Moore in Carmen is Micaela , which is indeed the role she played . Surprisingly , she also in real life did Tosca and Butterfly , which must have been total disasters . Her Butterfly , the finale of the film , is not good , particularly at the end . Her voice just isn't powerful enough , nor should it be - she wasn't a spinto or dramatic soprano or even a big lyric ! The voice suffers , occasionally falling out of placement in the middle range . " Sempre Libera " was a series of wrong and skipped notes . And she scooped like crazy . This is nitpicking , but I would have preferred to hear some " La Boheme , " Mimi being her Metropolitan Opera debut , or the Jewel Song from Faust , or Micaela's aria , all of which suited her voice perfectly , and all of which she sang during her career . If you love opera , you'll love " One Night of Love " for its glorious music and the elegantly-voiced Grace Moore .
Post-war psychological drama	Rosalind Russell faces " The Guilt of Janet Ames " in this 1947 film also starring Melvin Douglas , Sid Caesar , Betsy Blair and Nina Foch . After the war , many , many films concerning psychiatry , mental illness , the mind , nerve disorders , etc . were released . Obviously readjustment and mental trauma were problems faced by many returning soldiers , and loss had to be coped with in many families . So it's no surprise that psychology became a huge subject . Rosalind Russell plays a war widow whose husband threw himself on a grenade and saved five of his platoon . Angry and bitter , she has the names of the men , and sets out to meet each one to see if any of them were worth her husband sacrificing his life . En route to see one of them , she is hit by a car and has an hysterical paralysis so that she is confined to a wheelchair . One of the names on her list is recognized as that of a reporter , Smitty ( Douglas ) , and he goes to the hospital to identify her . Though he has lost his job , is an alcoholic and due to leave for Chicago soon , he does a mental exercise with Janet that is inspired by the story of Peter Ibbetson . Ibbetson was an imprisoned man in a DuMaurier novel who was able through his imagination to leave the prison and reunite in dreams with his true love . Janet has to imagine each man , what he's like and what problems he's facing in order to gain some understanding of him . One man has a child , another man is married and he and his wife dream of building a house , another does work in the desert , one is a bouncer and another is a stand-up comic . Once she is through with this exercise , Janet is able to admit some demons she has been carrying with her since her husband's death . Then it's Smitty's turn to face some facts . Thanks to the acting of Russell and Douglas , " The Guilt of Janet Ames " is truly elevated . Russell looks beautiful , and her acting is wonderful . At first she's hard and angry ( the word neurotic is thrown around a lot ) , but gradually , her character softens . Douglas gets to do more than be the light , debonair leading man here , and as he proved later in his career , he is more than up to it . The message is that you can't live in the past and put yourself through the torture of what you did or didn't do , and it's an effective one that probably has as much resonance now as it did in 1947 . There's still a war on .
two Alecs are better than one	We've seen it done a hundred times - twins switching identities - but somehow , having Alec Guinness as the twins makes The Scapegoat a cut above the other switch films . Guinness , of course , played multiple roles with great success in the fantastic Kind Hearts and Coronets , so twins for him must have seemed a cinch . In Kind Hearts , he had the benefit of a variety of disguises and voices . In this film , he had to create two completely different characters who look exactly alike . Of course he does so magnificently . This isn't the most successful DuMaurier adaptation - that honor has to go to Rebecca , in my book , but The Scapegoat has a strong cast - Guinness , Bette Davis , Irene Worth , Pamela Brown , and the lovely Nicole Maurey . The atmosphere of this black and white film is somewhat depressing , given the gargantuan , ugly home the family resides in - but it is certainly the right mood for what Guinness inherits when his double disappears . Bette Davis is good , if on the grand guignol side . Guinness does so much with just a gesture , her histrionics seem out of place . All in all , it's a good film - it's very hard to go wrong when Alec Guinness is involved .
strong and involving	The Life of David Gale is not meant to be taken as realistic , for clearly , it is not . Although extremely convoluted , it is nevertheless compelling and keeps you guessing up until the very end . This is not a simplistic plot , but one that the viewer must follow carefully . This viewer was left with a couple of questions , in fact . Kevin Spacey's lecture to his students near the beginning of the film , and his monologue to Kate Winslett toward the end of the film are the bookends for a marvelous performance ; what he lacks in warmth , he makes up for in wryness and in the way he colors his performance . Laura Linney was her usual marvelous self . The beautiful Kate Winslett was excellent , her strongest scenes coming later on in the film . One thing that struck me was that the first 15 minutes seemed to be written by someone else . They are definitely not as good as the rest of the movie - the dialogue is awkward and Winslett definitely seems to be establishing a very stereotypical character - the beautiful but bitchy and ambitious reporter who feels the sting of sexism . Fortunately this script awkwardness faded quickly .
great performance by Taylor	Robert Taylor is Steven Kenet , accused of killing his unfaithful wife in " High Wall , " a 1947 film noir also starring Audrey Totter and Herbert Marshall . In our first glimpse of Steve , he's in a car with a dead woman careening down the road to get rid of her . The problem is , due to a brain injury suffered during the war , he can't remember what happened . He is institutionalized for psychiatric evaluation to see if he can stand trial as a sane person . Audrey Totter is Ann , the psychiatrist who takes in Steve's small son as well as works with her patient to try and uncover the truth . Herbert Marshall plays his dead wife's boss . After World War II , Hollywood began to explore mental and emotional disorders and the use of psychiatry to unlock the traumas of the mind . " Possessed , " " Spellbound , " and " The Snake Pit " are just a few of the dozens of films employing the use of psychiatry , mental hospitals , and / or psychotropic drugs . In " High Wall , " the psychiatry seems to be more of a plot device than something that is actually used to help the patient . It's there to provide flashbacks . Meanwhile , the Taylor character , once he has surgery , has a mind of his own and is constantly slipping out or in the psychiatrist's office window , hiding in her car , and visiting the scene of the crime . The biggest problem is that the character of the murder victim is never developed , and the reasons for her behavior are never made clear . Nevertheless , the film manages to hold one's interest , has a great atmosphere and a couple of really shocking moments . There are also some very funny bits throughout , including a scene where Steve meets the public defender . This is one of Robert Taylor's best performances . After " Johnny Eager , " one of Hollywood's biggest heartthrobs began to play more complex roles and more bad guys . It was a good move ; he played them very well . He doesn't get much support from Audrey Totter , who turns in a dull , somewhat cold performance in an attempt to be a professional woman . She doesn't give the role a lot of shading . Herbert Marshall seems somewhat miscast and is too lethargic for a role that requires some emotional range . Very watchable for handsome Taylor's excellent performance .
Lots of affection but oy	" Dynasty Reunion : Catfights and Caviar " was a fun reunion with some members of the cast : Linda Evans , Joan Collins , Al Corley , Pamela Bellwood , Gordon Thompson , Catherine Oxenberg , Emma Samms , and finally , John Forsythe . " Dynasty " was a fun , over the top show , and the cast seemed to really enjoy their reminisces . They also seemed to have a genuine fondness for one another , which was nice to see . A couple of things one wonders about , not the least of which is why ABC didn't air this show since Dynasty was an ABC staple for 11 years . The second thing is , why does Linda Evans look as she does ? One would think these actors could afford the very best surgery , yet Evans and Al Corley , once a beautiful man , looked beyond dreadful . I wouldn't want to see Joan Collins when she wakes up in the morning , but boy , can she still pull it off - and she's a good deal older than 61-year-old Evans . John Forsythe came on only at the end , which someone questioned - the man is 88 years old . God bless him , he seems in good health and in possession of his faculties - two things to be cherished . But I doubt he had the stamina to do an entire taping . It's a pity and not understandable why John James refused to be on the show or have clips of him shown . There was a talk show some years ago on which Linda Evans and a couple of other Dynasty people appeared and James was involved then . Wonder what happened . It was great to see the Moldavia Massacre , all the catfights , Krystle's double , and the clothes . I still remember a blue gown slit up the front that Linda Evans wore . She and a few other ladies in the ' 80s made being in your forties very fashionable . If I sound like I'm dishing her now - well , it's Dynasty , you know , and it brings out the Alexis in all of us .
pretty good	A woman goes after a crooked DA in " The Witness Files , " a 1999 film starring Yancy Butler , David Newman and Barry Flatman . Butler plays a victim of domestic violence , Sandy Dickinson , who killed her husband and was sent to prison . She is promised early parole by the DA who put her there ( Newman ) if she will pose as a witness to help him put away a mob boss . In order to be with her son , she agrees . Since she's a former actress , she's able to disguise herself as a street person and tell the police that she saw the mobster commit murder . Everything goes smoothly until someone tries to kill her . This is a far-fetched story but nevertheless absorbing , with the beautiful , throaty-voiced Butler handing in a fine performance as Sandy . David Newman is extremely likable as Dennis , the detective who falls in love with Sandy without knowing her true identity . And this is a plot hole - when it is learned that Sandy is missing , why did a detective working with the DA never look at a photo of her and realize she was the woman he fell in love with ? As stated above , the story is a little out there . A good rental .
" glory for one , oblivion for the other "	Unlike other posters , I found this film delightful and entertaining . But what was most fun was seeing all these stars as incredibly young people : Lana Turner , Paulette Goddard , Virginia Grey , Hans Conried . Luise Rainer was at her luminescent best with her big , soulful eyes , gorgeous bone structure , and beautiful speaking voice . The story takes place in France , with those dissolves that translate French into English right away . It concerns a young dramatic school student whose fantasies become real due to a series of happy accidents . The end is particularly delightful . I don't understand the backlash against Luise Rainer . She was a beautiful , principled actress who was discovered by Max Reinhardt , escaped Hitler , and came afoul of another dictator , Louis B . Mayer , who would not give her roles befitting the status of an actress who had won two Oscars . After an unhappy marriage to Clifford Odets , she found happiness in a marriage and left the U . S . She's still alive and works occasionally . You can't say that about many people born in 1910 or anyone in this film , including Ann Rutherford , who is still with us .
Interesting spy film	An almost unrecognizable George Segal stars in " The Quiller Memorandum , " set in Berlin and made 40 years ago . Segal is a very young man in this , with that flippant , relaxed quality that made him so popular . This time he's a spy trying to get the location of a neo-Nazi organization . The cast is full of familiar faces : Alec Guinness , who doesn't have much of a role , George Sanders , who has even less of one , Max von Sydow in what was to become a very familiar part for him , Robert Helpmann , Robert Flemyng , and the beautiful , enigmatic Senta Berger . This is a very good spy movie . Spy movies were the " in " thing in the ' 60s . This one doesn't have gadgets and goes more for subtlety . The last 30 minutes are tense and exciting , and the last scene , loaded with subtext , is just great .
An ambitious actor in ' 50s Hollywood and his untimely death	" Hollywoodland " has probably brought George Reeves more fame and celebrity than even he ever dreamed of - imagine being the subject of a feature film when you were most famous for being the TV Superman . Had he lived into his seventies , he might have been around for the renaissance of the old shows and stars due to the nostalgia of the maturing baby boomers . But he'd probably rather have it this way . Reeves started out in small roles such as one of the Tarlton twins in " Gone with the Wind , " and before going into the service himself , nabbed some good parts while the big stars were fighting the war . Like many young actors back then , after the war , his career had lost momentum . He ultimately landed the role of Superman and during that time appeared in " From Here to Eternity . " The film shows people recognizing him as Superman during the Hollywood premiere of " From Here to Eternity , " and as a result of the audience laughter , his role was severely cut . However , many people state that Reeves ' role in the final product was no smaller than it was originally . Unfortunately , in the ' 50s , once you were associated with a television role , it was a death knell . When Jack Larson ( Jimmy Olson in Superman ) went into an audition after the series , the director said to the others in the room : " Please don't embarrass this man . He knows I can't cast him , " or words to that effect . The actors today are more fortunate as the business has changed . It would be a steep upward climb if Reeves was to shake that Superman image . At the time of his death , he was forming his own production company and planned to go to New York . He also wanted to direct . " Hollywoodland " stars Ben Affleck , Diane Lane , Adrien Brody , Robin Tunney , Bob Hoskins and Lois Smith . It's the story of slimy detective Louis Simo ( Brody ) - a man who sells info to Confidential magazine and takes low-rent clients - and his investigation of George Reeves ' death , considered a suicide . During a small gathering in his home , Reeves went upstairs to his bedroom and allegedly shot himself . But many people believe he was murdered . Simo plays out different scenarios in his head with different suspects as he searches for evidence and motives . There were several people in Reeves ' life who had motives : Reeves ' long-time girlfriend Toni Mannix , wife of studio exec Eddie Mannix , a man with an unsavory past known by MGM as " The Fixer " ; Mannix himself , who was suspected of being involved in the death of Jean Harlow's husband Paul Bern and later on of faking a car accident in which Toni was killed ; and Leonore Lemmon , George's young girlfriend toward the end of his life , who expected to marry George . In the midst of his investigation , Simo has problems with a seedy client as well as difficulties relating with his young son . This is a beautifully produced film with some marvelous performances , particularly from Diane Lane , Bob Hoskins , and Ben Affleck . Affleck's resemblance to Reeves in some scenes is scary - particularly as Clark Kent ! Affleck even had Reeves ' vocal rhythm . An excellent performance , and hopefully one that will lead to some better films and roles for him . As Toni , Lane is superb - sexy , tough , and completely possessive of George ; Bob Hoskins is great as the bombastic , thug-like Eddie Mannix . Robin Tunney makes a gorgeous Leonore , a cheap low-life . Adrien Brody's Louis Simo is probably more cerebral than most detectives of this type , but he's still good . The problem is not so much in his performance as it is that his storyline is intrusive . The scenes filming " The Adventures of Superman " are fantastic , and I for one wanted to see more . " Hollywoodland " captures the reality of making a television show back then and evokes the atmosphere of Hollywood in the ' 50s beautifully . However , it moved slowly , and there was too much of Brody's problems and too little of George's relationships . While it was an interesting film and very worthwhile , it just didn't hang together as one would have hoped . Reeves ' friend , Jack Larson ( portrayed in the film by Joseph Adam ) , who was an adviser on the film , read several versions of the script , and met with the actors . His biggest concern was that the film not put Toni Mannix , with whom he was very close , in a bad light . Larson was very , very impressed by Ben Affleck's intelligence and personality and thought all of the acting was top-notch . One thing he was sure of - Reeves never had any intention of marrying Leonore Lemmon . " George lived big , " Larson said , " but it was Toni's money . " He adds , " No one wants to listen to me . . . He committed suicide . "
One of those easy robberies where you just go in and take the money	Harry Belafonte produced and starred in " Odds Against Tomorrow , " a 1959 film also starring Robert Ryan , Ed Begley , Gloria Grahame , and Shelley Winters and directed by Robert Wise . It's a depressing story of a bunch of losers who team up for what is supposed to be an easy robbery . For all of them it represents a last chance . A gritty , black and white film that takes place on lonely streets , barren roads , cheap apartments , and cheap night clubs , what makes it interesting is that at the end , there is very little dialogue and a big " Top of the world , ma , " finish that is both splashy and ironic . Other than that , it's routine stuff . Robert Ryan plays his usual cruel , deeply prejudiced wacko with an itchy trigger finger . Is it my imagination , or did his characters just get meaner as he aged ? Other than John the Baptist , that is . Supposedly , he was a wonderful man - it's amazing that these roles didn't get to him after a while . The story goes that while he was at RKO , the scripts for the year would be delivered at the annual Christmas party . Ryan would take half and Mitchum the other half . Somehow Ryan always ended up with the monsters . Winters is his clinging , desperate wife - also nothing new there , and Grahame is the horny neighbor . Not exactly a departure . Belafonte , a brilliant musical performer , gets to belt out a couple in the nightclub where his compulsive gambler character works . I have to agree with one of the comments - he's just too handsome and classy to be considered part of this bunch . If the character had been cast as a white man , would we have expected to see some hunk or a character actor ? His performance is very good , however , as a man who believes it's a white man's world , and he's sick of playing by their rules . Ed Begley is terrific as the seedy old man who puts the plan together but picks two people who are at terrible odds with one another . Which didn't give very good odds against tomorrow . Worth seeing for the actors and the exciting ending .
Charming film	Monty Woolley believes you're as " Young as You Feel " in this 1951 film also starring Thelma Ritter , David Wayne , Jean Peters , Allyn Joslyn , Russ Tamblyn , Albert Dekker , Constance Bennett and Marilyn Monroe . Woolley plays John Hodges , who at the age of 65 , is fired from his job in a printing company due to corporate policy that no one can work past 65 . Many baby boomers wish that were the case today , because in fact , they'll be working way past 65 . He finds out that the company he works for is a subsidiary of a huge company that is owned by a huge corporation . Finding out the name of the President of that huge corporation , he dies his hair and whiskers and poses as the man , comes to town , tours the plant , and makes a speech in which he declares that the knowledge of our elders is critical in printing , and changes the policy . And there the fun begins . The boss ' wife ( Constance Bennett ) , feeling unloved by her husband ( Dekker ) , falls for Hodges ; his granddaughter's boyfriend ( Wayne ) recognizes him and tells someone else at the plant ; and the corporation doesn't know what to do . This fake president has raised their stock and given them a fabulous profile , so much so that the labor union has settled their grievances with them . How can they call his bluff ? I seem to have enjoyed this film more than some of the other posters . Thelma Ritter , as John's daughter-in-law , is a scream . An ex-singer who gave up her career to marry George ( Joslyn ) , John's son , sings " Temptation " while in the kitchen - she's hilarious . Woolley is great as an older man not ready to be put out to pasture , and it's wonderful to see one of the great stars of the ' 30s , Constance Bennett , in a later role . This film is remembered today as early Marilyn Monroe . She plays the boss ' sexy secretary , and she does a wonderful job . It's a small role , but you can definitely see that she , Peters , who plays the granddaughter , and David Wayne are all getting the star buildup and are each at different stages of it . Monroe was just about to break through , and she and Wayne would appear together in " How to Marry a Millionaire " ( where he says , " I already think you're quite a strudel . " ) Entertaining and definitely worth seeing .
Norma and Montgomery in another precode potboiler	Norma Shearer teams up with Robert Montgomery again in " Riptide " which also stars Herbert Marshall as part of a love triangle . There isn't too much special about this , but the beginning scene , with Marshall dressed as an huge insect and Shearer as a spider is very funny . Having just finished Shearer's bio by Gavin Lambert , it speaks of figure problems she had , particularly with her legs , and how hard she worked at being in shape . It paid off . She is absolutely beautiful in this film . It's always difficult to realize that evidently , Herbert Marshall was once considered a romantic leading man , but given this movie and " Girls Dormitory , " which I saw recently , I guess he was . In this , he sweeps playgirl Shearer off of her feet ; they marry and have a daughter . After five years of wedded bliss , he goes on a business trip . While he's away , Norma meets old friend Montgomery at a party . He's always been crazy about her . They get drunk , kiss , and she runs for it . The next thing she knows , he's fooling around outside her window and throws himself off of her balcony . Scandal . Hubby comes home to headlines . Doesn't know if he can believe that nothing went on since the scripts hints that she was a slut while she was single . Marriage strained . Etc . This kind of story is a little hard to take these days , but Shearer and Montgomery are very good . In comparison to their lively performances , Marshall is rather dull - which is the point , so it's appropriate . The amazing thing about " Riptide " is an appearance by Mrs . Patrick Campbell , a theater icon . She's excellent as Marshall's aunt . I've often wondered if some of the early stage luminaries were as good as everyone claimed , but after seeing Campbell and the Barrymores in film , they sure were . For this reason and because it's pre-code , " Riptide " is worth seeing .
old-fashioned entertainment	This is the kind of old-fashioned entertainment that the studios used to churn out every week . Gorgeous Robert Taylor plays a prize fighter , Frank Morgan his moronic father , Edward Arnold a mob boss , and Maureen O'Sullvian is Arnold's beautiful daughter , who falls in love with Taylor . And hello , who wouldn't . This is a piece very much of its time . Today , the relationship between the Tommy McCoy character as a young kid and the light heavyweight title holder Martin would be instantly suspect . How the world has changed . The film manages to hold one's interest , especially with its exciting fight sequences . As an added treat , " Hart to Hart " co-star Lionel Stander , who played " Max , " has a supporting role . I'd know that voice anywhere .
A film that was created for the title	" The Cowboy and the Lady " starring Gary Cooper and Merle Oberon was written after Sam Goldwyn thought up the title - so it's the reverse of the usual process . It's a 1938 film about a wealthy , sheltered young woman ( Oberon ) whose father is about to announce his candidacy for President . One night , she slips out for a night of fun with her uncle ( Harry Davenport ) . When her name is discovered on a list of people who were in attendance at a club during a raid , she is sent out of town so her father can say she wasn't in town at the time . Since her name is Mary Smith , it could easily be another person . While on her vacation , Mary meets a tall , gorgeous hunk of man - a cowboy named Stretch Willoughby ( Gary Cooper ) . As any red-blooded woman would do , she falls for him . It's young Gary Cooper . He's a hottie . To put them in the same class , she says she's a maid . Before she knows it , she's married to him . The stars are very good in the film , as is Harry Davenport as the uncle with a twinkle in his eye . Cooper and Oberon are darling together - he's so tall and broad-shouldered and she's beautiful and petite , and they have a nice chemistry . When she first asks him about himself , Stretch answers with Cooper's famous " Yep " several times . Parts of the film are a little slow but it's a nice romance . I realize some people think it's a preposterous love story but I can see any woman , rich or poor , flipping out for Gary Cooper and any guy falling for Merle Oberon . They were , after all , two of Hollywood's great beauties . Very enjoyable .
fun ' 60s " caper " film	Michael Caine and Shirley Maclaine star in " Gambit , " a 1966 movie done in the style so popular in that era , the " caper " film . Inspired by the success and style of " Charade , " the ' 60s brought us " How to Steal a Million , " " Topkapi , " " Rififi " et al . - sophisticated , glamorous , international , breezy fun . In " Gambit , " Harry ( Michael Caine ) hires Nicole ( Maclaine ) to pose as his exotic wife so that he can get into the apartment of the richest man in the world , Shabhandar , played by Herbert Lom . " There's no such thing as the richest man in the world , " Nicole complains . " It's like the highest star or - " " Okay , the second richest man in the world , the third richest ! " Harry yells . Nicole is made up to resemble Shabhandar's late wife . The purpose : robbery . Without giving anything away , the beginning of the film is fabulous and draws the viewer in immediately . Caine is a riot as the gifted Harry , who finds that coping with Nicole is one part of the plan he hadn't counted on , and Maclaine is very funny as a performer who gets more involved in her assignment than she wanted to . Herbert Lom , as the first , second , whatever wealthiest man in the world , Shabhandar , is perfect portraying the urbane , suspicious , and calculating recluse . This isn't the top of the genre , but it's still very enjoyable .
Grable tries to solve a murder which might involve a friend of Bennett's	Clark Gable and Constance Bennett star in " After Office Hours , " a 1935 film directed by Robert Z . Leonard . Gable is Jim Branch , the go-getter editor of a newspaper , who is hot on the trial of a society love triangle . Irritated with the music critic , Sharon Norwood ( Bennett ) , he fires her , only to find out that evening that she is very good friends with all the parties . He then not so subtly tries to find out as much as he can . When the woman in the triangle is murdered , he's certain that he knows who did it - but since it's someone Sharon is close to , he's going to have a tough time of it . Gable and Bennett make a great team , though how Sharon ever believed a word coming out Branch's mouth is beyond me . Bennett is beautiful with outfits that match her elegant looks , and Gable makes a pretty glib Jim - also an insincere one . One assumes Sharon was in love with him and gave him the benefit of the doubt . You really couldn't blame her . A delightful film with two wonderful stars .
The point of this film seems to have been lost	In reading the comments , I notice there is quite a bit written about " Too Young to be a Dad " that focus on the fact that at 15 , the young boy in the film didn't feel ready to continue having sex with the more experienced young woman , who becomes pregnant . I'm not sure why that detail was included in the script , except it was probably meant to convey that he was a little more fine-tuned than other kids his age , and therefore would make the decisions he made later on in the film . But " Too Young to be a Dad " isn't about whether or not this kid wanted to have sex and whether or not this makes him gay or strange . It's about the reactions of two families , notably the boy's , to his getting a girl pregnant and its ramifications . Two of the finest actors around , Kathy Baker and Bruce Davison , play the boy's parents , because the story is about them as well . In this film , the boy takes full responsibility for his part in the pregnancy , and the focus is on him rather than the girl , which is a different take , and also why this , as well as " Unwed Father " was shown on Father's Day . His actions are commendable , and the point is well made , though there are some script elements that are bothersome . First of all , what kind of a place did these people live in ? The committee members the mom deals with , the kids on the bus , etc . , all act as if the girl was impregnated by an alien , and they'd never heard of such a thing . Hello , teen pregnancy is QUITE common . Secondly , unlike the harsh realities of " Unwed Father , " this boy is able to make his decision knowing he has tons of support from his parents and his sister - which makes it a lot easier . Nevertheless , the movie is well-acted with some lovely scenes , particularly the one between Davison and Baker when she brings him his coffee after he loses his temper . Pregnancy has consequences , something often lost in the fantasy of wanting a baby . The young girl in this film had no such fantasy , but many young girls do . It's good to have a few movies around that focus on adoption , parent reactions , and decisions that need to be made .
Another great Newman performance	Paul Newman is " Harper , " a detective called upon to find a missing husband in this 1966 film based on the book " The Moving Target " by Ross MacDonald . It also stars Lauren Bacall , Arthur Hill , Pamela Tiffin , Robert Wagner , Shelley Winters , Robert Webber , Janet Leigh and Julie Harris . Bacall , on the suggestion of the family attorney ( Hill ) hires Harper to locate her husband . Along the way , Harper meets some bizarre characters , including Strother Martin as an alleged religious guru , Harris as a junkie singer and others . There are enough twists and turns to keep the audience interested throughout . As Harper , Newman turns in another excellent portrayal as he beards Steve McQueen in his den - and wins . His characterization has wit and style throughout - he's the perfect ' 60s detective with a wife he needs but can't stay with , a home in his office , and a determination to get at the truth despite a great deal of danger . Though one usually doesn't associate Newman with warmth , he is perhaps more likable in this role than the ubercool McQueen would have been . Newman is , in fact , just plain great as he whips off those one-liners . Though down and out , his Harper plays it as it lays . The supporting cast is wonderful , top-notch all the way , and the film is accompanied by a terrific musical score . Paul Newman has given us some great portrayals . I put Harper near the top of the list .
Some great swimming and easy listening	Esther Williams stars in " This Time for Keeps , " costarring Johnny Johnston , Dame May Witty , Jimmy Durante , and Lauritz Melchior . I guess the Third Reich was still a little too close for comfort , because the magnificent Heldentenor Melchior only sings Italian repertoire in this film , albeit magnificently . He was , of course , one of the all time great , if not the greatest , Wagnerian tenor in history . Williams is the beautiful star of aquatic ballet when ex-GI Richard Johnson ( Johnston ) falls for her , having met her once while he was in the service . His father ( Melchior ) has other plans for him , and they include singing with an opera company and marrying the girl he left behind . It's a thin story - after all , there has to be room for lots of swimming and singing . Esther is a goddess both in and out of the water , and Durante is terrific as her protective friend and work partner . Although referred to as a handsome man and a magnificent singer , Johnny Johnston makes a goofy looking leading man with a pleasant voice that only a father could think was suitable for opera , though he had some pretty high notes . Melchior rips up the sound system with " La Donna e Mobile " and " M'appari . " Gorgeous . Durante's big number is " The Lost Chord , " a real delight . Entertaining , but a little draggy , with some beautiful location shots of Mackinac Island .
scary as all get out	This is a very suspenseful film with uniformly good performances . The film moves quickly , isn't boring and really sustains one's interest . And hey , an apartment at the Ansonia ! Reminiscent of another great thriller , Rosemary's Baby .
A different kind of Hitchcock	" The Paradine Case , " released in 1947 , is a courtroom drama directed by the master , Alfred Hitchcock , and it's obvious it isn't his thing , or else he didn't care about it . Gregory Peck plays a British attorney and Ann Harding his wife ; Alida Valli is Mrs . Paradine , a woman accused of murdering her blind husband , Louis Jourdan is her husband's valet , Charles Laughton is the judge , and Leo G . Carroll is the prosecutor . All that talent , and it's pretty slow going . Peck is Anthony Keane , a successful attorney with a very happy marriage to Gay . They are extremely affectionate and loving with one another , which is why it seems strange that five minutes after Keane meets Mrs . Paradine , he falls in love with her . Granted , Alida Valli is exquisite and mysterious , but the woman is accused of killing her husband . She becomes an instant threat to Gay , who tries to remain courageous . Peck's hair is grayed in this , and I was surprised to read in another comment that he had a British accent . I only heard an accent in one scene where he kept saying cahn't - and it sounded really odd . Louis Jourdan is Andre La Tour , whom Keane suspects may have committed the murder . Jourdan is so handsome , even Laughton's character comments on it ! The story drags on , and the trial is really a McGuffin , because the actual plot involves the Keane's marriage . Harding does her usual excellent job , and Peck , accent or not , is very good . It's the kind of film that leaves one flat . There's not too much to say about it except that given Hitchcock and the cast , one would expect a lot more .
A runaway bride plot is an excuse for lots of fashions and music	Joan Bennett runs out on her wedding day and takes up with fashion designer Warner Baxter in " Vogues of 1938 " which is a combination of musical numbers and fashion shows with a little plot in between . And it's in Technicolor ! Bennett has reddish-blonde hair here and resembles Lucille Ball a little but her voice is similar to her sister Constance . I'm so used to her as a beautiful brunette that the change took some getting used to - it has to be shortly after that she did a screen test for " Gone With the Wind , " and by then , she had dark hair . In this story , after she abandons her wedding , she falls for the married Baxter ( who designed and made her gown ) and becomes a model in his fashion house . Baxter's wife is an ambitious performer who persuades him to back a show she's in - and it nearly breaks him . There are some great scenes - I have to admit , I thought the roller skaters were spectacular . There was a wonderful scene at the Cotton Club , another at El Morocco , and the entire finale is a fashion show done as a musical . The gowns and suits are gorgeous . Precious little plot here but plenty of shots of the New York of the ' 30s , some good music , dancing , gowns - and oh , those roller skaters !
Good film	" Union Station " is a realistic 1950 film starring William Holden , Nancy Olson , Jan Sterling and Barry Fitzgerald . It was released after " Sunset Boulevard " so by the time it came out , Holden had actually moved up another level of stardom . Rudolph Mate directed the film in a quasi-documentary way , showing all levels of an attempt to rescue a kidnapped blind girl ( Allene Roberts ) , the daughter of Olson's wealthy boss . Holden plays the detective in charge of Union Station , and he doesn't like the idea of anybody messing with his turf . There are some very exciting scenes , particularly the one on the train , which as someone mentioned , very likely inspired " The French Connection . " Holden gives a strong , macho performance , which makes the scene where he visits Olson in her home extra delightful , as he becomes embarrassed when her mother fusses over him . It's amazing that after Golden Boy , he toiled in so many films beneath his ability . Jan Sterling is the gangster's girlfriend with a heart - it's a small but showy and sympathetic role . Lyle Bettger is the villain , and he's slime all the way through . The only problem with the film is the kidnap victim herself , Lorna , who screams non-stop . I'm surprised her father wanted her back , but you know how it is with parents . Really holds your interest . What a hunk Holden is . Highly recommended .
early version of the classic	Before Humphrey Bogart , Ricardo Cortez , as Sam Spade , was looking for that big black bird in 1931's " The Maltese Falcon , " also starring Bebe Daniels , Una Merkel , and Thelma Todd . Since it's 1931 and therefore pre-code , the emphasis is on sex and Sam's libidinous nature . In the first scene , a woman leaves his office straightening the seams in her stockings . Bebe Daniels as Ms . Wonderly takes a bath in Sam's tub , strips in the kitchen - you name it . Thelma Todd is on hand as the wife of Spade's partner , Miles Archer who , if you know the story , gets it in the first reel . Sam's had a thing with her too . He keeps them all on the hook . I found this version slow going , mainly because it's an early talkie - the dialogue pacing isn't quite right . You can drive a truck through the pauses . The only one with a more modern feel for the dialogue is the handsome , smiling Cortez , and he's absolutely marvelous as Spade . His Spade is more relaxed than Bogie's , less sardonic , more delightfully crooked - in short , he has a lot more fun . He fits just as well into this version as world-weary Bogie does into the 1941 version . Bebe Daniels is attractive and alluring as the greedy and totally ruthless Miss Wonderly . The gay subplot between Greenstreet and Lorre everyone assumes isn't as apparent in this film between Wilmer ( Dwight Frye ) and Caspar Guttman ( Dudley Digges ) . I found the comments in the first post on the actors ' approaches to their roles very interesting ; I'm not sure I totally agree , but for sure , Cortez spoke louder and Daniels did underplay ( which she did not do in " 42nd Street " - at all ) . However , as far as the pace , I still Cortez did better in keeping the dialogue going than anyone else . This is a fascinating film - so different from the 1941 version , which I hope to see this evening - it's definitely worth catching .
Grable	" Springtime in the Rockies " is another delightful 20th Century Fox musical , this time starring Betty Grable , John Payne , Carmen Miranda , Charlotte Greenwood , Edward Everett Horton , Cesar Romero , and Harry James . All of them are wonderful , but Grable really sparkled in this as Vicky Lane , a Broadway actress whose heart is broken by Dan ( John Payne ) . She quits the show they're doing and teams up for a song and dance act with handsome Victor Prince ( Romero ) . The show's producer ( Jackie Gleason ) is in need of backing for his next show , finds Dan in a bar , and insists that he get Vicky back to New York . She's currently performing at Lake Louise . Payne is drunk out of his mind , so the bartender ( Horton ) escorts him to the Canadian resort . Grable looks fantastic and dances with Romero beautifully . Romero was tall , handsome , a beautiful dancer , and could do drama ( Captain from Castile ) as well as comedy ( Julia Misbehaves ) . He enjoyed a wonderful career but had he not been Cuban , his film work would probably not been limited to supporting roles . Payne is handsome and delightful , and Carmen Miranda as Rosita Murphy is very funny . The scenery is gorgeous , the music upbeat with lots of great trumpet-playing by Harry James , and the actors marvelous . " Springtime in the Rockies " is a real treat .
ahead of its time	Agents are sent from the west to retrieve " The Kremlin Letter " in this 1970 film directed by John Huston and starring Patrick O'Neal , Richard Boone , George Sanders , Orson Welles , Max von Sydow , Barbara Parkins , Dean Jagger , and Bibi Andersson . O'Neal plays Rone , who is removed from military service and put on the mission because of his photographic memory . Each man and Parkins , who is a safecracker sent in place of her arthritic father , is assigned a group to infiltrate , all with the objective of finding this anti-Chinese letter . Or is that what the assignment is really about ? This is an extremely cold and vicious look at the spy game - it's no fun caper film . It's absorbing , moves quickly and is filled with marvelous , if not altogether likable characters . The last moment in the film will leave you breathless . With a cast like this , the acting should be uniformly excellent , and it is , with the not-so-talented but beautiful Parkins given a role where she doesn't have to do any scenery chewing . George Sanders is especially memorable as the spy assigned to the gay contingent . O'Neal underplays , which is ideal for his character . Many people on this board won't remember that Richard Boone was a prominent western TV star who had aspirations of being taken seriously as an actor . In fact , he even started some sort of repetory company , as I recall . He was very talented , and here plays the head man to perfection , blond hair , down-home accent and all . Very intriguing , done at a time when spy films were a dime a dozen . " The Kremlin Letter " stands out for its detachment and lack of sentiment .
Not much reason for this sequel	A great soundtrack and the delightful performance of Renee Zwelleger aren't good enough reasons for this " Bridget Jones " sequel : " Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason , " the 2004 film starring Hugh Grant and Colin Firth as Bridget's suitors . The film continues as the relationship between Bridget and Mark develops , with Bridget's insecurities driving it toward disaster . Because of a promotion , Daniel is back in her life again - but out just as quickly . To top it off , she winds up in a Thai prison , and while there , she teaches fellow prisoners the right moves to " Like a Virgin . " Finding enough of a plot to for a feature-length script was obviously tough , so tough , in fact , that large parts of it become music videos . Everyone is very good , but one can't help asking why someone like Mark puts up with Bridget . They're not a realistic couple . At all . I'd have been furious if I'd paid to see this in a theater ; in fact , I would have been unhappy if I had rented it . I saw it for free on TV and on that basis , it's okay and fun to see the actors and listen to the songs . Alas , it's the only way to see it without feeling you've been had .
offbeat	Joseph Cotten stars in " Walk Softly , Stranger , " a 1950 film also starring Valli , Paul Stewart and Spring Byington . Cotten plays Chris Hale , a con man who takes up residence in a small town under his new name . He has a sweet landlady ( Byington ) who loves him , a decent job and is enjoying a flirtation with the boss ' wheelchair-bound daughter ( Valli ) . However , he just can't resist one more opportunity to make a huge haul by stealing a gambler's money with a partner ( Stewart ) . After they split the money , the two go their separate ways , but Stewart panics and tracks down Chris . Chris is afraid he's led the gambler's men right to his door . This is a small , engrossing film with an excellent performance from Cotten . Someone on the board compared him here to Uncle Charle in " Shadow of a Doubt , " but Charlie was a murderer , which Chris is not , and also a psychotic , again , which Chris is not . Cotten is extremely likable as Chris , a basically good man who has a fatal flaw of liking fast , easy money . Valli is okay as the boss ' daughter - she's not quite as beautiful as she was in " The Paradine Case , " but she's still soulful with that aura of misery . That quality made many think she could be a new Garbo . Despite doing some good , high profile films , she returned to Italy shortly after this film and worked steadily until a few years before her death . To say she seems out of place in this small town is an understatement . You really pull for Chris all the way through the film . Maybe the ending was a bit of a stretch , but I was satisfied with it . Is it a noir or a romance ? This movie really doesn't know , but it's a good watch .
off kilter , effective thriller	Edward G . Robinson doesn't want his adopted daughter to go near " The Red House " in this 1947 film which also stars Judith Anderson , Lon McAllister , Allene Roberts , Julie London and Rory Calhoun . Robinson is Pete , who lives with his sister Ellen ( Anderson ) on a self-sufficient farm . They have a daughter they both adopted , Meg , who is now a teenager with a crush on Nath ( McAllister ) so she arranges for him to work for Pete . Nath is interested instead in the gorgeous Tibby ( London ) , a tramp in training who flirts with a randy local ( Calhoun ) . When Nath decides to go home via the woods , Pete becomes very agitated and tries to dissuade him . Meg and Nath decide to find out what's in those woods and start investigating . What they uncover is life-changing . Directed by Delmer Daves , " The Red House " is one scary noir with lots of night scenes that take place in the woods and a haunting ending . The story is also an allegory for growing up and going out into the world , which Meg and Nath are determined to do . Nath urges his mother to marry her long-time boyfriend and go north with him because it's time he was independent , and Meg wants to be treated like a young woman - not only by a young man , but by the people she sees as her parents . The more Pete tells her not to go into the woods , the more she rebels . There are several unsettling things in this film - the secret Pete is keeping , for one , as well as very unhealthy obsession with Meg . That is handled subtly for the most part , but is still there . That may seem an ambitious subject for 1947 , but it is also an obvious part of the plot of " In This Our Life , " as an example . We learn as the film continues that Ellen had a chance at having her own home and happiness with the local doctor , but because Pete would not allow her to take Meg with her , she never married and stayed on the farm . The fact that she wasn't willing to leave Meg alone with Pete is quite telling . As Pete becomes more unbalanced at the thought of anyone trespassing in the woods , we can understand her motives . Another interesting feature of the film is the blatant sexuality of Tibby as opposed to the naivet of Meg . All the performances are good , but Robinson is a standout . He could be convincing as both a villain and a lovesick fool , a great man or a coward . Here he slowly fleshes out his character from that of a nice , gentle man to one who is becoming unhinged to complete disintegration in a truly frightening performance . Judith Anderson , so menacing in " Rebecca " underplays beautifully here and is perfectly convincing as Pete's sister . It's a sign of a great actress when she can be at home in Shakespeare and as a farmer's sister . London is stunning and does well as a gal trying to hedge her bets . Roberts and McAllister are appropriately young and have the necessary naive quality . The best way I can describe " The Red House " is to call it unsettling . The undertones and the end of the film are disturbing , and one can see the beginnings of the psychology and dark feelings that surfaced in film after World War II .
Good Fox musical	Alice Faye , Don Ameche , The Ritz Brothers , Louise Hovick ( Gypsy Rose Lee ) , Charles Winninger and Tony Martin star in " You Can't Have Everything , " a 1937 musical from 20th Century Fox . MGM musicals were glamorous ; Fox musicals were down to earth , glitzy , and just plain fun . This is one of them . Faye is a playwright , Judith Poe Wells , a distant relative of Edgar Allan Poe's , who takes herself very seriously . She meets a man ( Ameche ) at a restaurant while eating food she can't pay for and doesn't realize he is a major Broadway producer , George Macrae . He options her play , North Winds . In the meantime , his musical's ingnue ( Phyllis Brooks ) walks out of the show , and Judith is talked into replacing her by Sam Gordon ( Winninger ) , George's business partner . Though there's another woman ( Hovick ) , Judith falls in love with George and he with her . Complications ensue . Faye sings the title song and " Pardon Us , We're in Love " and she's wonderful - pretty , vivacious , and she sounds great . Ameche sings in a heady tenor , but the real male pipes in the film belong to Tony Martin , the star of the Broadway show , who sounds glorious . I admit to finding the Ritz Brothers annoying , especially because their numbers seem to go on and on . However , they do have funny moments here . Enjoyable film and a good example of a prime Fox musical .
Engrossing tearjerker	1959's " Imitation of Life " was a remake of the 1934 version starring Claudette Colbert , Louise Beavers , and Fredi Washington . Both are marvelous in their own way . The ' 59 version changes a few plot points - the Turner character isn't a Jewish businesswoman , and there's no pancake batter and a big business success for the two women . Rather , Turner plays an an aspiring actress with a small daughter who meets Juanita Moore and daughter at the beach . As with the original , Moore just kind of moves in , needing a place to live . When her daughter gets older , she tries to pass for white . The ' 59 version is done as a glossy soap opera - and why not , it stars Lana Turner in all her glamour and beauty and is directed by the master of this type of film , Douglas Sirk . Sandra Dee plays Turner's daughter - great casting - and beautiful Susan Kohner is Moore's daughter , Sarah Jane . Kohner's real life mother was an actor and her father a big-time agent / producer , Paul Kohner . Susan Kohner retired from show business when she married the designer , John Weitz . Today , their two sons are producers . The acting kudos in " Imitation of Life " belong to Juanita Moore , who gives a touching performance as Annie and just breaks your heart . Kohner is excellent as well ; in fact , the two were nominated for best supporting Oscars . John Gavin , Robert Alda , and Troy Donahue also appear in the film , Donahue in a nasty , small role and Gavin as Turner's love interest . One of the great tear-jerking melodramas of all time - a very different experience than the original - if you can see both , do so .
Keeping your husband - a woman's only mission in life	Yeah , as the above quote indicates , this is an old , old movie . But it's a darling one , starring Dorothy Mackaill and Joel McCrea . McCrea plays football star Dick Brunton , who now works for Mackaill's dad . Dad brings Dick home for dinner one night , which doesn't make anyone very happy - after all , they're filthy rich and he's just filthy , i . e . , a working man . Mackaill can't take her eyes off of him - and who can blame her ? McCrea is gloriously handsome and shy . After a month has gone by , Mackaill , a spoiled brat , has proposed marriage and bought herself an engagement ring . She tells dad they'll need $50 , 000 a year to live on . Since poor Dick only makes $180 a month , Dad says he'll make up the difference . Dick soon begins neglecting what little work he has to do as Vice President of the family company and starts feeling like a kept man . There are several " kept " men in this movie , the difference here being that Dot and Dick are truly in love . Mackaill does a beautiful job of being a manipulative daughter and wife , but we're able to see the vulnerable woman underneath who finally realizes what's important in life . McCrea , only 26 here , is at his natural , adorable , hunky best . Mary Carr gives a sweet performance as Dick's mom , the one who offers the summary comment quote . Ned Sparks is on hand with some funny lines and great delivery . All in all , a delightful movie , if dated , though I'm sure there are still some people today who think that keeping your man is all that matters .
Reconstructing Marion	" Capturing the Truth : The True Story of Marion Davies " is a pretty good documentary about the screen comedienne and mistress of publishing mogul William Randolph Hearst . The documentary was made to dispel assumptions that Marion is basis of " Susan Alexander , " the drunken no talent opera singer married to Charles Foster Kane in " Citizen Kane . " It goes on to tell of the love story between Davies and Hearst , with a 1951 interview of Marion's occasionally supplying interesting audio bytes . There was definite bias toward Hearst here , saying as much that he was within his rights to attempt to stop the release of " Citizen Kane . " In fact he abused his power many times and used it as a weapon . The good part about this documentary is that it shows Marion the actress and Marion the woman with recounts from friends about her sense of fun , her generosity and her devotion to Hearst . It is a good insight into the woman , into the Hearst marriage , and into the 30 years Hearst and Marion had together . Marion was talented and hard-working - would she have become a star if she hadn't had Hearst's support - given the right opportunities , probably . If her work seems old-fashioned today , it's because that work is 80 years old . Film and film acting were in its infancy . If people appeared in the documentary that were peripheral , as one of the posters here said , it's because it was hard to find people still alive who could speak about Marion or Hearst . As to was she or wasn't she Susan Alexander , perhaps partially , perhaps not . Hearst was obviously too sensitive about the whole project to be rational . Orson Welles said it was a compilation of tycoons , and it probably was to an extent , but there isn't any doubt with Xanadu , the publishing , etc . , that it relied heavily on Hearst . Welles was a 24-year-old boy who came from radio and the New York stage to make " Citizen Kane , " and Marion Davis at the time hadn't made a film in 4 years . Certainly it was well known that Hearst put the power of his publishing business behind her - to some people , that may easily have translated into thinking she had no talent . Frankly , I don't think that notion started with Citizen Kane . What Hearst was most upset about was that Susan Alexander was a drunk , and Marion had a drinking problem . That surely was put into the script to make the character more interesting . There was nothing of Marion's personality in Susan , and people who knew anything about her at all certainly recognized that at the time . Welles may have taken an idea that was floating around in the ozone and created a whole different scenario with it - modeling it , in fact , on Robert McCormick , a publisher who built the Chicago Opera House to promote his untalented girlfriend as an operatic star . It is sad that it remains a pervasive rumor that Susan is Marion - alas , sometimes rumors have more longevity than fact .
depressing melodrama	Fritz Lang did a great job with this well-acted , uniquely photographed drama from the ' 30s . It's not anything to see if you're looking for a lift , though . Henry Fonda and Sylvia Sidney , so young it's unbelievable , play a husband and wife escaping the law . Sidney is a secretary who falls in love with a convict and marries him as soon as he gets out of prison . He's a three-time felon and has a tough time getting back into society . Ultimately , he's convicted of a crime he didn't commit and sent to death row . He escapes with Sidney and they become sort of a Bonnie and Clyde on the run for the Canadian border . There are some plot problems , for instance , how Fonda got the gun in order to escape . Also , the boss at the trucking firm where he works is over the top in his dislike for Fonda and refuses to give him another chance . The acting is very intense from both Sidney and Fonda . Looking at the young Fonda , one can really see where Jane got her looks . This isn't a big film , nor is it a happy one , but it's worth seeing .
lush ' 50s drama where the other woman is a violin	Rhapsody is all about beautiful music and beautiful Elizabeth Taylor . Taylor , in a short , stylish hairdo , is at the height of her beauty in this stunningly photographed color film . And she's not the only beauty . Vittorio Gassman plays one of her love interests . Just try keeping your eyes off of him . Handsome John Ericson is the other man in her life . All in all , it's candy for the eyes and ears , gorgeous to watch and to listen to with all that classical music . Elizabeth Taylor plays a role perfect for her , i . e . , a spoiled , rich brat . She follows the man of her dreams , Gassman , a gifted violinist , to music school in Zurich , even though her own musical ability is pathetic and she'll have nothing to do except wait around for him to finish classes and rehearsals . When it's obvious that Gassman is totally immersed in his music , she begins to compete with the violin for his attention . All three leads are excellent , as is Louis Calhern as Taylor's father . Taylor wears beautiful outfits . I'm certain this film was intended to be a showcase for her beauty , and there it succeeds . Despite some harsh comments made on the board , I think this you just have to take it for what it was intended to be and no more . Very entertaining .
A fisherman becomes the " Toast of New Orleans "	Using the formula that worked so well in " That Midnight Kiss , " Mario Lanza , this time one Pepe Duvalle , is again discovered by someone with connections to the opera world while he's singing his heart out doing his normal job . Here he's a bayou fisherman , but after the loss of their boat , Pepe and his Uncle Nicky ( J . Carrol Naish ) head to New Orleans to look up the opera director ( David Niven ) who offered Pepe an opportunity after hearing him in the village when Pepe joins his prima donna ( Grayson ) in song . Pepe finds himself in love with the somewhat cold diva , who is being pursued by Niven . Lanza is in fine form as a crude , loud , uneducated man who , in order to fit into New Orleans society and the opera world , has to learn manners , as well as how to dance and dress . A natural actor , he makes his complete transformation believable . He sings Jose's aria from " Carmen " beautifully , and this film introduces his hit , " Be My Love " to audiences , which he sings with Grayson . With the diminutive soprano , he also does " Libiamo " from " La Traviata . " In the days in which this story is set , a singer like Grayson would have sung " Traviata , " though audiences aren't used to hearing a fluttery coloratura sing it any longer . The two perform the love duet from " Madama Butterfly " as well - an absolutely horrid choice for Grayson , calling for a much weightier voice . Obviously the repertoire was chosen with Lanza in mind . Had MGM not used " Lucia " in " That Midnight Kiss , " they could have perhaps used it here . Grayson gets to use her high extension in " Je suis Titania , " but the rest of the aria suffers from pitch difficulties . Lanza really helped to commercialize opera in the United States , but he did it without the help of MGM . Is it necessary for Niven to give the wrong explanation for the duet " La ci darem la mano ? " And why , during the Butterfly duet , which is total foreplay , does Grayson constantly try to get away from Lanza ? No matter her personal feelings , she was on stage playing a role . Grayson looks lovely in an assortment of magnificent gowns and hats , and if her voice doesn't match Lanza's , it doesn't mean she could not have sung opera , which is often the criticism . There is definitely a place for coloratura sopranos in the opera world - just not singing with spinto tenors . J . Carrol Naish plays an embarrassing , annoying stereotype as Uncle Nicky ; Niven is wonderful , if underused , and his perfect voice and smooth manners are in great juxtaposition to Lanza's bumbling Pepe . James Mitchell , known to soap opera audiences now as Palmer Courtland on " All My Children " has a good featured part as a friend of Pepe's from the bayou , and he and a very young Rita Moreno , who's in love with Pepe , do a spirited dance number . Lanza's reign at MGM was disappointingly short , and yo-yo dieting and drinking would claim his life nine years after this film . But what years , in which he gifted the world with his fresh , passionate , Italianate sound and thrilled millions of people all over the world .
old melodrama gets gloss treatment at the hands of Ross Hunter	The old chestnut " Madame X " has had something like 9 screen versions , not to mention a play and the book . There's an occasional change here and there but the plot remains basically the same : A young woman is thrown out of her home and separated from her child . She hits the skids , and 20 years later , the child defends her on a murder charge . So goes this version of " Madame X " as well , with a nice roster of stars : Lana Turner , Keir Dullea , John Forsythe , Ricardo Montalban , Constance Bennett , and Burgess Meredith . Turner is the unfortunate woman , happily married to Clayton Anderson ( John Forsythe ) a man with a good political future , and she's the mother of a young son . But the marriage becomes strained when Clayton is away too much , and Holly starts fooling around . When her husband comes home and she realizes how much she loves him , she tries to break it off with a rou ( Ricardo Montalban ) . During an argument , he falls down the stairs to his death . Holly's mother-in-law , played by Constance Bennett , arranges for her to disappear with a new identity . In Europe , Holly meets a wealthy musician who falls in love with her , but she runs out on him - a big mistake - and ends up turning to alcohol and easy sex . When she murders a blackmailer ( Meredith ) who is going to tell her son who she is , she ends up on trial - defended by her son . Well , the pot doesn't boil any better than this , and Hunter gives it a big , expensive production and sets Lana Turner loose in what is probably her best performance . Although the age / dissipation makeup is a little over the top , Turner gives the degenerate Holly a great , hard edge and a lot of frailty . It's a nice juxtaposition to the earlier sweetness and buoyancy of her character . Turner was one of those movie stars whose beauty , glamor , and private life often had critics not paying much attention to her performances , but she gave some good ones nonetheless . The other standout in the cast is Bennett , who's as slender as she was in the ' 30s and a lot tougher . Her voice has dropped a couple of octaves and her hair is a strange brown ( this was perhaps in deference to the blond Lana ) . Toward the end of the film , she gets white hair softly styled and looks beautiful - even with the age makeup that needed to be added to the 60-year-old . The role of Forsythe's manipulative , protective mother is perfect for her - - a fitting last film for one of the great and prolific stars of the 1930s . She died before the film was released . Keir Dullea is appealing as the son , and Forsythe is pleasant though he doesn't have a huge role . Try as they might , Madame X is from another time and by 1966 just wasn't great movie material . It is however , entertaining and engrossing . The most jaded person can't help but to be moved by the ending , though you may hate yourself for it .
Sir Walter Raleigh and The Virgin Queen	Bette Davis is again " The Virgin Queen " in this 1955 film , and this time , her attention is on Sir Walter Raleigh . Earlier , in a more interesting film , " The Story of Elizabeth and Essex , " she was the younger Elizabeth and the Earl of Essex was Errol Flynn . " The Virgin Queen " is sumptuous in its production , done in color , and the costumes deservedly won an Oscar . Here Elizabeth is older and becomes fascinated with Walter Raleigh ( Richard Todd ) when he comes to her court to request three ships to sail to the new world in search of treasure on behalf of England . She puts him in charge of the palace guard ; he in turn falls for a lady-in-waiting , Lady Elizabeth Throckmorton ( Joan Collins ) and secretly marries her . The queen grants him one ship , but while he's preparing it , he finds out that Elizabeth Throckmorton is pregnant with his child . Unfortunately , Elizabeth finds out too and has him placed under arrest . This is a mildly interesting film and historically not very accurate , though it is true that he married Beth Throckmorton secretly , she became pregnant , and he was arrested . The real story is simplified in the film . It makes for not very exciting viewing , though the acting is strong and the cast excellent - besides the stars mentioned , Herbert Marshall is Lord Leicester and Dan O'Herlihy is Lord Derry . Bette Davis does a marvelous job as Elizabeth , a tough , feisty , demanding and sometimes angry woman . Nobody could look as bad as Davis when she felt it was necessary for the role - she allowed four inches to be shaved from her hairline ( Elizabeth had lost her hair due to fever ) and wears what can only be called a fright wig . Hollywood stars back then would dress down , muss their hair , maybe cut back on the makeup , but Bette set the bar quite high for acting generations to come when it came to distorting her appearance . She is very effective in the role - as someone pointed out , she's a Yankee playing a British queen , and you never doubt that she is one . Richard Todd handles the language beautifully , but while he may have more depth than someone like Flynn , he doesn't exhibit the necessary charisma and charm . Joan Collins is young , beautiful , and does a good job as Elizabeth Throckmorton . Worth seeing for the elegance of production and for that fabulous force of nature , Bette Davis .
a great cast in the film version of one of Tennessee Williams ' great plays	Paul Newman , Elizabeth Taylor , Burl Ives , Judith Anderson , Jack Carson , and Madeline Sherwood star in " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , " a watered down version of the Tennessee Williams hit play that starred Barbara Bel Geddes and Ben Gazzara on Broadway and was there directed by Elia Kazan . The film is directed by Richard Brooks , as apparently Kazan and Williams did not get along . Now for my big confession - I have never cared for this play because I find it extremely loud , strident , and ultimately irritating . This includes the television version with Sir Laurence Olivier , in which he looked like Colonel Sanders that also starred Jean Stapleton , Robert Wagner and Natalie Wood . I think the main problem is that " Cat " was written for the stage and doesn't play as well in any other venue - certainly not on television , where these larger than life characters become overwhelming . It's the story of a dysfunctional southern family with a dying patriarch and an alcoholic son who broke his leg recreating a moment of glory on the football field one drunken night . He has turned away from his wife ; meanwhile , his brother and sister-in-law continue to breed brats and hope to get most of Big Daddy's estate once he dies . The film is criticized because the censors demanded that references to Brick's homosexuality be eliminated from the script . Seen with today's eyes , it's an unnecessary criticism . Brick started drinking after Skipper's death ; Skipper hated Maggie , Brick's wife ; Brick started a football team because , while he was good enough to play with the big pros , Skipper wasn't ; and Brick isn't interested in sex with his gorgeous wife . Hello . How many other ways are there to say it ? As with anything that stars Paul Newman , there is some brilliant acting to be had , and as Brick , he delivers , though perhaps he isn't quite enough of a bum . Elizabeth Taylor has been blessed with many gifts - an incredibly beautiful face being one - but she was behind the door when the great voices were given out . As Maggie , her voice is particularly cloying , though she gives an excellent performance . She was working under the terrible burden of having lost her husband , Mike Todd , right after filming began . At the age of 26 , her professionalism is astonishing , and she looks sensational throughout the film during what must have been a horrible time for her . Supposedly the director insisted on repeat takes of the scene during which the family eats in order to get her to take some nourishment . Like Lana Turner , Taylor is one of those stars whose career accomplishments took second place to her private life in the mind of the public . Given the quantity and quality of much of her work , it's really not fair . Burl Ives successfully repeats his stage role ; Madeline Sherwood is brilliant as the annoying wife of Gooper , and Jack Carson plays Gooper well , though it's not much of a role . Judith Anderson makes a good Big Mama . Ives and Newman score big-time in their long scene together in the basement ; it's a very touching and magnificently acted . As far as Big Daddy favoring his alcoholic , childless son over his first-born - the scene where Big Mama admits to having been four months pregnant with Gooper when Big Daddy proposed says it all . Gooper probably isn't Big Daddy's son . Recommended for the performances , but keep the volume down on your television .
Film from the swinging ' 60s	" Dead Heat on a Merry-Go-Round " is a fun film , especially if you remember the ' 60s . It looks just like a movie from the ' 60s too - beautiful women , casual sex , calling the cops " the fuzz , " and as everyone else has mentioned , Harrison Ford as a messenger . Blink and you miss him . James Coburn plays a man of many names and professions who needs to raise $90 , 000 to buy building plans of a bank next to the airport so that he can commit a robbery . He gets it by seducing women , making copies of their keys , and then robbing them . Once he has the plans , he and his cronies decide to rob the bank the day the Soviet premier is due at the airport . This film really held my interest , and it had some very tense moments toward the end of the film . James Coburn does a wonderful job in the lead , and there's nice acting in a supporting role by Robert Webber as the self-important head of the security force at the airport . Camilla Sparv , as one of Coburn's women , received some big publicity in the ' 60s , but her U . S . career never went anywhere . Great twist ending . Baby boomers will get a kick out of this one .
Suspenseful , small black and white film from the ' 50s	" Cry Terror , " from 1958 is not a big-budget film , but it holds the viewer throughout . It's the story of a man , James Mason , who is duped into making small bombs which he believes are for government use . Only later does he realize that he made them for a criminal who intends to extort money by placing them on airlines and threatening to detonate them if the money is not paid . He and his family are kidnapped , and his wife ( Inger Stevens ) is used to collect the money so it seems as if he is the actual guilty party . Rod Steiger is the bad guy , and Jack Klugman , Neville Brand , and the nearly unrecognizable Angie Dickinson make up his gang , each with their own part to play . Without giving anything away , the story is preposterous at times but always suspenseful and effective . Steiger is terrific as a dangerous man whose quiet orders belie a violent temperament . Dickinson is only 26 here and brunette but her sultry voice and gorgeous figure are the same . Brand does well as a scary psychotic , and Klugman is good as a man under Steiger's domination . Mason is appropriately harried . The workhorse role belongs to Inger Stevens , a natural beauty who rose to fame in the TV series " The Farmer's Daughter " and who took her own life , after several unsuccessful attempts , in 1970 . In a way , one of her tries at suicide occurred during the filming of " Cry Terror " when she and Rod Steiger suffered carbon monoxide poisoning during a tunnel scene at the end of the film . She refused medical treatment , stating that she wanted to die . She gives an excellent performance in this movie , that of an hysterical , panicked , and ultimately nearly catatonic mother who fears for her husband and young daughter and her own assault by Brand . Unfortunately , due to the fact that Steiger and Mason are so underplayed , she comes off at times as overacting . She was , however , a wonderful and appealing actress who might have gone on to a much bigger career had she lived . She had it all - or so it seemed . This is a good movie loaded with the New York City atmosphere of the ' 50s , though in one scene , it looked as if Stevens was headed for Brooklyn using the Holland Tunnel . You'll never get there that way .
Pretty good B movie	Richard Carlson goes " Behind Locked Doors " in this 1948 film also starring Lucille Bremer . Carlson plays detective Ross Stewart who enters an insane asylum as a patient at the behest of a reporter Kathy Lawrence ( Bremer ) to find a judge who is on the lam from the police . For his trouble , there is a $10 , 000 reward , which he and Lawrence will split , but she has to make sure the Judge is in the asylum first . They play man and wife , and she has him committed . Once inside , Stewart discovers that the place is run somewhat inhumanely , and that the judge may be in a ward of the asylum that is locked and inaccessible to other patients . This is a B movie all the way with decent performances by Carlson and Bremer , Douglas Fowley and Tor Johnson and good direction by Budd Boetticher . I sort of hoped that , although the Bremer character was on the trail of the judge , that she might have been interested in some of the bad conditions at the asylum and wanted to expose them . Though things don't stay as they are there , it would have been nice if earlier , she had mentioned having any interest in it . Guess she just wanted the big story . Good but not exceptional .
Post-war Tourneur	Robert Ryan , Merle Oberon , Robert Coote Paul Lukas and Charles Korvin are on the " Berlin Express , " a 1948 Jacques Tourneur film about a multinational group headed for a conference in postwar Germany . In the film , Ryan is an agricultural expert from America , Robert Coote is a schoolteacher from England , Merle Oberon is a French national accompanying an important German , played by Paul Lukas . He has a plan to unify Germany once again . His protectors have anticipated some danger on the train , and when he appears to be murdered , the murdered man is actually someone impersonating him . As soon as the enemy finds this out , however , Lukas is kidnapped . The group on the train bands together to find him and also to clear themselves . This is a good film , historically significant , as it was the first Hollywood production made in post-war Germany and also because it shows the devastation in Germany as a result of all of the bombings . There are some suspenseful moments and a message for unity - Tourneur does a good job with the elements , though it doesn't compare with " The Third Man . "
good British spy film	Supposedly based on a true story , this British film starring Jeffrey Hunter is very good , considering what was in all probability low budget . The plot concerns feeding incorrect information to the Axis about where D-Day would actually take place . When a young woman comes from Holland to join the intelligence team , she needs to be checked out carefully , as she is suspected of being a spy . Hunter and Nigel Patrick do a very good job and Hunter's boyishness is especially appealing . He had a nice , relaxed way about him before the cameras and like so many other incredibly handsome men , undoubtedly had a tough time convincing anyone that he could really act . But he really could . Sad that he died so young . Anne-Marie Duringer is the love interest under suspicion . It may be a little slow at times , but also quite interesting .
Al Pacino battles Robin Williams and no sleep	Sumptuous scenery and a fresh , enthusiastic Hillary Swank are in sharp contrast to weary Al Pacino in " Insomnia , " about a legendary LA homicide investigator who goes to Alaska to assist in finding a killer . In the land of the midnight sun , Pacino finds there's no rest from his demons . This is a slow-moving film at times , though the performances are very good . Pacino makes one tired just to look at him . As the film goes on , and he's had no sleep due to the constant light , his voice becomes raspy , his eyes are nearly shut , and he looks stupefied . He plays a complicated man , hounded by a departmental investigation and now a blackmailing killer . Like many of his other characterizations , Pacino gives us many layers of an imperfect man . Hillary Swank is very good , though wasted in a role that doesn't give her much to do except be young . Robin Williams , as a mystery author , turns in an excellent performance . Former General Hospital actor Jonathan Jackson has a small part as the victim's boyfriend . Jackson is very much a chameleon , playing a bad boy as if he was born to it . This was probably a disappointment in a movie theater at $10 a shot ; it's perhaps more interesting as a rental or on television .
Life on a farm	Robert Montgomery plays a gangster hiding out on a farm in " Hide-Out , " a 1934 film also starring Maureen O'Sullivan , Edward Arnold , Elizabeth Patterson , Whitford Kane , and Mickey Rooney . With the police after him , Lucky Wilson takes off but ends up shot and unconscious . He is then found by a farmer Miller ( Kane ) who takes him home . There , Lucky , now calling himself by his real name , Jonathan , meets a normal American family , including an above-normal looking Pauline ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) , who is the daughter of the house . Jonathan stretches out his recovery and begins to enjoy the idyllic life of milking cows , feeding chickens , romancing Pauline , and being sort of a big brother to her younger sibling Willie ( Mickey Rooney ) . This is a sweet film with nothing special to recommend it except the beautiful young O'Sullivan and an amusing performance by Montgomery . In one of the best scenes , he sits at a ringside table and asks a singer out - while she's singing - and she answers him under her breath during short orchestral interludes . The end seems a little abrupt , but this is a pleasant film . If Mrs . Miller looks familiar , she was Mrs . Trumbull , the neighbor who babysat Little Ricky on " I Love Lucy . "
fascinating film about the international banking family	Darryl F . Zanuck covered Napoleon's sweep across Europe in two early films : " Lloyds of London , " in which Tyrone Power plays a fictional character who continues insuring the British fleet so that his childhood friend , Horatio Nelson , can win the war ; and " The House of Rothschild " in which Nathan Rothschild and his banker brothers provide the financing to beat Napoleon . Both are excellent films . There are a few historical liberties in " The House of Rothschild , " but the film is based on fact . George Arliss has a dual role as Mayer Rothschild and his son , Nathan . When the film begins , the family is living in a Prussian Jewish ghetto where Mayer is doing well but doesn't want the tax collectors to know . On his deathbed , he instructs his sons to establish banking houses throughout Europe as so much money is stolen when it is being carried by messengers . The plot then focuses on Nathan and goes into the rampant anti-Semitism which forces Nathan out of an important loan . It also shows his brilliance for business as he fights Count Ledrantz ( Boris Karloff ) who spreads propaganda and incites pogroms . The climax of the film takes place when it appears Napoleon is winning and Nathan starts buying up everything on the stock market , which is bottoming out , in order to keep the deal he made for the war effort . Though not much is made of it , the Rothschilds had informants everywhere , which enabled them to get information before anyone else . He is able to announce before it is made public that Napoleon has been defeated at Waterloo . " House of Rothschild " stars one of the great actors , George Arliss . Other actors from the stage entering films often used tremulous voices and melodramatic gestures but Arliss had a tremendous speaking voice and a grand acting style that made a powerful impression on the screen and infused the characters he played with a believability as well . A blond , beautiful Loretta Young is on hand as his daughter , who is in love with a Gentile named Fitzroy ( Robert Young ) - and though one would expect the love story to be fiction , it isn't . This film has an interesting history of its own : Excerpts from it , taken out of context , were used in the anti-semitic Nazi films Der ewige Jude and Die Rothschilds . Despite persecution , the Rothschilds remain an extremely powerful family in the present - the original name of the family was Bauer ; Rothschild is actually German for " red shield , " which is in the center of the family coat of arms . Today , they're in a variety of occupations besides banking - actress Helena Bonham Carter is a Rothschild due to a marriage on her mother's side .
ooh baby , that's some noir you've got there	Robert Siodmak does a fabulous job with this B noir starring Ella Raines , Franchot Tone , and Alan Curtis . And he does it , I might add , without a lot of help from his male actors , i . e . , Curtis and Tone . It's Raines all the way , a pretty , leggy actress who for one reason or another never reached the status of some of her " noir " counterparts . Siodmak's use of sex , light , shadows , and music is truly remarkable as he tackles this genre . The shadows , lighting effects , and camera angles are all effective . But the highlight of the film takes place in a nightclub with a very sexual drum riff by Elisha Cook , egged on by an excited Raines . It's this scene that brings " Phantom Lady " into new territory . Siodmak's commitment to the material is matched only by Raines , who gives a sincere performance as a woman in love trying to save her man . Franchot Tone phoned this one in . Alan Curtis didn't seem upset that he might die and didn't seem happy that he lived . And he never , except for a brief moment in prison , seemed to be in love with Raines . The amusing thing about many of these films is that , as World War II progressed , interest in psychiatry deepened . But often the terms were used incorrectly in films such as " Possessed , " " Spellbound , " and " The Greatest Show on Earth . " Tone is called paranoid by Thomas Gomez - Tone probably has some paranoia attached to his disorder , but he appears to be closer to a psychopath . In actuality , as evidenced by his headaches , he may have had a brain tumor pushing against his brain . Phantom Lady doesn't have the greatest plot , but it's well worth watching .
Another Princess and a commoner , with some propaganda thrown in	It is , after all , 1943 , so you've got to expect a little propaganda from a film , even if it is a comedy called " Princess O'Rourke , " starring Olivia de Havilland , Robert Cummings , Jack Carson , and Jane Wyman . DeHavilland is a princess visiting in New York , en route by plane to San Francisco to escape from boredom . Before she leaves , she gets a sleeping pill from her uncle's secretary ( Gladys Cooper ) but when it doesn't work immediately , she gets another one from the flight attendant , one from the copilot ( Jack Carson ) , and finally , two from the pilot , Eddie ( Robert Cummings ) . Then she can sleep . Unfortunately , the plane has to turn around and return to New York and the princess can't be awakened . Eddie takes her to his place to sleep it off - all very chaste , of course - and the two fall in love . Olivia de Havilland is very beautiful and was one of the best actresses in Hollywood . Alas , she didn't always get a chance to show it . But she is certainly lovely as a young woman torn between loyalty and love . Her sleeping pill scene and the scene where her uncle discusses a possible American suitor with her are wonderful and demonstrate her impeccable timing . Jack Carson and Jane Wyman are delightful as Eddie's friends , and Cummings gives an energetic performance as Eddie . In the film Eddie's birth date is given as 1914 ; Cummings was actually born in 1908 and was around 33 when the movie was made ( though released in 1943 , the film was made over a year earlier ) . He retained his youthful appearance well past the 1950s , during which time he played a swinging bachelor in his television series . Charles Coburn provides excellent support , and Gladys Cooper is totally wasted in a role that she must have been assigned for some contractual reason . " Princess O'Rourke " enters the realm of whimsy when the President and his " little dog Fala , " as Roosevelt referred to his buddy , take a hand in the romance . The dog playing Fala is excellent ! One interesting bit of trivia : It's rare to see a film released 63 years ago in which two of the stars are still alive ( in fact , it's rare to see a film released 63 years ago in which even one star is alive ) , but at this writing , both de Havilland and Wyman are still with us . So is " Princess O'Rourke . " It's light and enjoyable .
Drama of the supernatural	Scientist Ray Milland believes he's seeing and speaking to his late young daughter in " Daughter of the Mind , " also starring Gene Tierney and Don Murray . I suspect this was a pilot for a series on psychic phenomenon that was to star Murray ; hence the " guest starring " credits for Tierney and Milland . This is an intriguing drama . Milland is a scientist involved in sensitive government work , and our side is convinced that the messages he's getting from his daughter to quit what he's doing - bringing into play the possibility of defection - are a conjurer's trick by the other side . George MacCready , who plays Murray's boss , asks him to investigate . There are some sticking points for Murray . He sees the girl's image , he hears her voice - and then , during a sance , a wax replica of her hand appears in water , with verifiable fingerprints yet ! If these things aren't true , how are they being accomplished ? John Carradine , who plays an expert in the field of sances and mediums , advises him , " You're going about it the wrong way . Don't ask if it was a trick . Ask yourself , if you were going to do it , how would you ? " Gene Tierney plays Milland's wife . 1969 was the last year she worked with the exception of one appearance in 1980 . Though not Laura any longer , the blue eyes are still beautiful and vibrant , her smile is still lovely , and though illness has taken its toll , she is still beautiful . Ray Milland is fine as the devastated father though his bad hairpiece is distracting . He lost his hair after a permanent he received for " Reap the Wild Wind , " and eventually embraced baldness . Pamelyn Ferdin , a popular child actress of the day , plays the daughter . All in all , a very interesting story .
A ' 70s Mother Theresa is accused of murder	This was , I guess , a pilot for a series called " McNaughton's Daughter " that didn't make it . Susan Clark plays an assistant district attorney who is , as the title suggests , the daughter of a prominent ( defense ) lawyer . She is assigned the case of a Mother Theresa type who raises money for the poor in Africa , and in fact , has adopted a child from there , Aprile . However , this sainted woman is now accused of murdering someone in her organization . Clark does not believe a jury will convict . The plot centers around two strong women , Clark and the icon , well played by Vera Miles . Clark is attempting to live her own life , which draws some disapproval : she has a live-in boyfriend , Bohemian friends , and she's on the side of the prosecution . Miles may be a saint , or she may be a fraud and a murderer . It's an interesting story , with nice appearances by Ralph Bellamy , Ricardo Montalban , and Louise Latham . There were many such shows bouncing around in the ' 70s ; I suppose that's why this one didn't take off . But Clark is an excellent actress and this pilot certainly had the benefit of a good script and a strong cast .
neat little programmer	" The Mysterious Doctor " is an enjoyable , atmospheric B movie about a unmine-able tin mine in Morgan's Head , England , due to the presence of a headless ghost . It's wartime and the country needs the tin , but no amount of persuading can get the workers back after so many people have been killed by the spirit , which goes back to a local legend in the town . It sure feels and looks British , and the cast includes a young , vibrant Eleanor Parker who fits right in with actors John Loder and others . This is an excellent little wartime gem . Don't miss it when it's on TCM .
Fred & Ginger's first starring role as a team	After their hit dancing of the " Carioca " in " Flying Down the Rio , " RKO gave the teaming of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers a star role in " The Gay Divorce " in 1934 . With few exceptions , the plots of the Fred-Ginger films were excuses to get to the important part - the dancing - but the story lines were always pleasant and the casting good . " The Gay Divorce " was based on a Broadway musical ( of which the only number retained is " Night and Day " ) and it appears that a few of its plot devices were adopted in later Astaire-Rogers films as well . One such plot device is that of mistaken identity . In this movie , Astaire ( reprising his Broadway role ) is mistaken for a professional correspondent hired to help Rogers get her divorce . Another device is that at first , Ginger is never interested in Fred - that goes here , too . And there's a stock cast in these films , namely , Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore ( and of course , he's always the butler and always very funny ) . Horton plays Rogers ' attorney whose major problem is Rogers ' aunt ( Alice Brady ) . What can be said about the dancing except that it's glorious ? Fred and Ginger dance to " Night and Day " after Astaire sings it to her . For a supposed non-singer , Astaire could really put over a song - his voice is pleasant and he's so musical - no wonder composers wrote songs for him . Ginger is beautiful and spunky as Mimi , a young woman ducking Fred while she's trying to get a divorce . Betty Grable has a bit that showcases her in the number " Let's K-knock Kneez . " There's also " I'm Looking for a Needle in a Haystack " delightfully sung and danced by Fred . Astaire's dancing is fantastic throughout . It feels as if about half the picture is taken up with the elaborately staged production number , " The Continental . " In later films , of course , the dancing would center more around Fred and Ginger , but it's a great part of the movie and certainly solidified these two as a top box office pairing . For pure enjoyment , there's nothing like watching Astaire & Rogers in these movies .
uneven Renoir noir	Joan Bennett is " The Woman on the Beach " in this off-center 1947 film also starring Robert Ryan and Charles Bickford . Directed by Jean Renoir , it apparently was badly edited by RKO ; thus , it sometimes felt to this viewer as if large sections were omitted . Robert Ryan plays Scott , a Coast Guard officer with post-traumatic stress from the war . Psychologically , he's a little off balance . I suppose saying " Robert Ryan " and " a little off balance " is saying the same thing , given the roles he played , but there we are . He's set to be married to a lovely woman , Eve , ( Nan Leslie ) , and in fact , urges her to marry him even sooner than planned in an early scene . A few minutes later , he's madly in love with Peggy ( Bennett ) , whom he sees collecting driftwood on the beach near an old wreck . Her husband Tod , it turns out , is a great artist , now blind from a fight with his wife . The two of them have a fairly sick relationship , with Tod apparently tempting Peggy with good-looking young guys to see if she'll cheat on him . At one point during dinner with the couple , Scott passes a lighter across to Peggy and Tod head turns as the flame passes him . When Peggy walks Scott out of the house she says , " No , Scott , you're wrong . " So Scott , somewhere in a cut out section , became convinced that Tod can see , tells Peggy , and feels that Tod failed the test . But you have to fill that in because it's not in the movie . It doesn't occur to him , I suppose , that Tod felt the heat of the light . Finally , Scott takes Tod for a walk along the cliffs , determined to find out for once and for all if he can see or not . The film holds one's interest because of the direction , atmosphere , and performances , but things seem to happen very quickly . Eve complains to Scott that he didn't stop by the night before - which she considers a sign that they are drifting apart - and he tells her that he shouldn't be married . In the film it seems like that happens within 24 hours from the time he wants to get married immediately . Fickle . One suspects another cut . This is a film about becoming free of obsession , and though some found the end ambiguous , it did seem clear to me that there was some resolution . The three leads are excellent - Bennett and Bickford play a couple with a strong history that has led to a love / hate " Virginia Woolf " type of relationship along with infidelity on her part ; Ryan , looking quite young here , is handsome , sincere and gullible as a man who , while trying to break free of his demons , walks into a situation that feeds on them rather than resolves them . With a more judicious cutting , " The Woman on the Beach " could have been a really fantastic film , with its psychological underpinnings being far ahead of their time . As it is , it's still worth watching , though if I'd been Renoir , I would have been plenty angry at RKO for what was done to this movie .
small comedy remembered for early Audrey Hepburn	This is a small but enjoyable comedy mostly remembered today for an early Audrey Hepburn appearance at the beginning of the film . Blink and you miss her , but she is beautifully chic . The story concerns the reminisences of a criminal , marvelously played by Alec Guinness , who , after 20 long years escorting gold bullion shipments , finally figures out how to disguise the gold and move it out of England . The man who supplies the means is Stanley Holloway . This is a fun film where the main theme is that the joy is in the ascent and not necessarily making it to the top of the ladder . The word ascent brings the word descent to mind , and there is a dizzying one from the top to the bottom of the Eiffel Tower , as the two chase some schoolgirls who inadvertently got their hands on gold souvenirs . There is also an excellent car chase . You're really pulling for the " bad guys " - although you can't call them that - all the way . It's a charming comedy , not up there with " The Ladykillers " or " Kind Hearts and Coronets , " but still wonderful .
Entertaining , derivative , but they're trying	I give " Firewall " a lot of credit for attempting to make an exciting film about computer fraud . It can't be easy to do something concerning the digital age and computers , with its sedentary activity and focus on monitors , and yet given our lifestyles and the technology age , it has to be addressed in films set in the present . " Firewall " tries and , though the story is old , it partially succeeds . It's the story of a family held hostage - nothing new there - because the crooks need something from dad . Nothing new there either . The family as usual is fairly idyllic - a pretty wife , successful dad , a sweet boy , a teenaged brat daughter going on 40 . The crooks are typical too - there's the ruthless , evil one , the one who's more sympathetic , and the idiot . However , there are some tense moments to be had in " Firewall " and it is in its way good old-fashioned entertainment as security specialist Harrison Ford attempts to outsmart the villains who want him to transfer huge amounts of a bank's money into a special account . The good cast helps : 24's perfect everywoman , Mary Lynn Rajskub , is on hand as Ford's assistant , the excellent Paul Bettany is the nasty kidnapper , and the cast is rounded out by Robert Patrick and Alan Arkin . Two comeback kids are in the cast as well : Robert Forster as Harry and Virginia Madsen as Ford's wife . Imagine - she's 45 , so for a change , the wife was not 20-something or 30-something . Although Forster is completely wasted in his role ( as is Arkin ) , it's great to see him in A pictures again . Thanks , Quentin Tarantino , for rediscovering this fine actor . I'm a huge fan of Harrison Ford's . To me , he's a adventure hero right out of the ' 40s and a classic movie star . But at 63 ( at the time of filming ) he's too old for this kind of thing and looks it . It's time he stepped into roles such as Robert Redford's in " The Clearing . " We get rid of the female stars as romantic leads a lot sooner . Somehow , Hollywood lets actors like Ford , Connery , Eastwood , etc . do these action films until they're ready to drop . Ford has a screen presence that is good in a variety of roles . No reason he can't retire this particular genre . All in all , this is a very good rental .
Operetta gets the MGM treatment	This 1952 version of " The Merry Widow " couldn't possibly compare to the 1934 Lubitsch production , but MGM went all out to make a lavish , colorful film starring Lana Turner and Fernando Lamas . To do so , all of the singing , except for one short section , was taken away from Turner . I guess someone thought a soprano voice coming out of her mouth would seem funny to 1952 audiences , which seems a strange decision . Some stars , like Ava Gardner , were dubbed constantly . Lamas did his own singing in a tremulous tenor . Considering the fact that " The Merry Widow " has been a staple of opera companies for years , it really needs some bigger guns . MGM had them but didn't use them . " The Merry Widow " is about Crystal Radek ( Turner ) , a wealthy widow living , in this version , in New York , whose husband was from a small country , Marshkovia . She is lured to Marshovia under false pretenses . The country is broke and Count Danilo ( Lamas ) has been asked to court and marry her so the debts can be paid . Danilo mistakes Crystal's attractive but older friend ( Una Merkel ) for Crystal and is reluctant to pursue her . Crystal finds out why she has been brought to Marshovia and takes off for Paris . Danilo follows her - still not knowing what she looks like - and she follows him to Maxim's and introduces herself as Fifi , a chorus girl . Danilo falls in love with Fifi , but his country has ordered him to marry Crystal . This film was nominated for best art direction and best costumes , and no wonder . " The Merry Widow " is absolutely gorgeous , with the most heavenly costumes and sets . Turner looks fabulous and despite the long gowns , gets to show off her legs . Lamas makes a handsome and charming Danilo . As Billy Crystal would say , he looks mahvelous . The supporting players - Thomas Gomez , Richard Haydn , Maurice Danilo , King Donovan , are all excellent , and if you think you recognize Gwen Verdon among the dancers at Maxim's , you do . The best part of the film is the waltz toward the end of the film , which is stunning . Hitchcock aficionados will recognize " The Merry Widow Waltz " from " Shadow of a Doubt " and get an eerie feeling every time they hear it - which in " The Merry Widow " is more than once . When Dore Schary took over MGM in 1951 , he considered Lana Turner , at the age of 30 , nothing more than an over-the-hill actress . She proved him wrong . Seeing her in " The Merry Widow " is a good indication that Dore Schary needed stronger glasses .
A desperate producer makes a film , but the star doesn't know he's the star	Steve Martin is a producer with what he considers a great script - - " Chubby Rain " - in " Bowfinger , " a 1999 film also starring Eddie Murphy , Heather Graham , Terrence Stamp and Christine Baranski . Martin , who wrote the screenplay , is Bobby Bowfinger , a producer who is convinced that he has a hot sci fi property and wants Kit Ramsey ( Murphy ) , a huge action star , to be his lead . ( The script , by the way , sounds awful . ) He has no way of getting to Kit , but he tries - and fails . Then he decides to make the film starring Kit anyway , except that Kit won't know it . He has a cast that has been on hold for months , and he rounds it out by holding auditions for $25 each ( no checks ) . Here he finds his leading lady ( Graham ) and his - and everybody else in the cast and on the crew's - future girlfriend . His parking attendant friend can steal fancy cars for him , and he has another friend who can steal cameras and sound equipment . And he can get a top crew by going out in a van and picking up illegals trying to cross the border . He's set . Bobby tells his cast that Kit won't meet anyone and doesn't want to see the camera , and then stakes out Kit's house , finds out where he's having lunch , etc . , and has his actors walking up to Kit and saying lines about aliens , screaming at him or chasing his car . Little do they know , Kit is a little paranoid when it comes to extraterrestrials . He's a member of a mind cult , run by Terrence Stamp , who keeps having him repeat that there are no aliens . As the filming continues and Kit is continually approached by aliens , Stamp sends him on an enforced vacation . That's when Bobby hires a Kit lookalike named Jiff ( also Eddie Murphy ) . This is a preposterous story that's done well enough so that you can believe it could work , and it's a great premise . I may be a sap , but I found the end when everyone is watching the final film very touching . There are some hilarious moments and lots of satire from a very funny cast . Very enjoyable .
The more personal side of a great mogul	Ironically , " Biography : Darryl F . Zanuck : 20th Century Filmmaker " tells us more about the man than the mogul . Many details of his unusual career are left out due to time constraints , and more emphasis is put on his role as a husband , father , his work during World War II , and his love affairs . Most notable of the affairs was his liaison with Bella Darvi , a discovery of not only Zanuck's , but Mrs . Zanuck's . The couple took the young woman ( who bears a strong resemblance to Tyrone Power's second wife , Linda Christian ) under their wing , put her up in their home , and encouraged her to become an actress . She was like a sister to Mrs . Zanuck but to Mr . Zanuck , she was no daughter . When Virginia found out , she kicked both of them out of the house . Nineteen years later , when an old and sick Zanuck wanted to return home , Virginia was there waiting . The documentary spends time on Zanuck's chaotic childhood and early escapades and his ending up in Hollywood writing for Rin Tin-Tin . While he was still in his twenties , he became a Hollywood mogul and went on to produce films such as " The Grapes of Wrath , " " Gentlemens Agreement , " " Pinky , " and " The Robe " before resigning and going to Europe . He returned to take over the company again during the " Cleopatra " debacle to keep the studio from closing its doors . I could have used a little more of his work at 20th Century Fox - but you can only do so much in 40-odd minutes . Certainly this episode of " Biography " tells us more than we ever knew about Zanuck , the man .
fluffy fun	" Fashions of 1934 " is an amusing light comedy starring William Powell and Bette Davis . Davis looks much more sophisticated than she did in " The Man Who Played God . " She's very glamorous and also very good in a film that's mainly fueled by Powell's performance as a con man . The Powell character goes from con to con , sometimes a con within a con - he can't resist . One of his schemes is to copy fashion sketches from Paris and pass them off as originals . Another is to sell a surplus of ostrich plumes by featuring them in a musical revue . This gives rise to a great musical number , " Spin a Little Web of Dreams . " It's a Busby Berkeley kaleidoscope production . The audience at the musical revue , however , didn't see it as moviegoers did - from above . This is a fun movie and notable for the actual fashions shown , a good performance by Powell , a spectacular number and early Davis before she established her screen persona .
Good film if you like ballet and Margaret O'Brien	" The Unfinished Dance " is a color MGM film made in 1947 that depends on the star power and dancing ability of little Margaret O'Brien . Here she plays Meg , a nine-year-old ballet student enamored of the gorgeous prima ballerina , played by Cyd Charisse in a very early role . When the company brings in " La Darina " ( Karin Booth ) to do some performances , O'Brien is determined that she not succeed . In order for the dancer to be humiliated , she plans , with the help of a friend ( Elinor Donahue ) , to douse the lights during her ballet . It all plays out , except that a trap door opens by mistake , and La Darina's career is over . When La Darina turns to teaching and takes a big interest in Meg's dancing , Meg's guilt becomes unbearable . The ballet segments are beautiful , and while the intensity of O'Brien's performance may not be for everyone , she is excellent . I confess that she's always been a favorite of mine . Danny Thomas , in a role written for Danny Kaye , makes his debut in this film . It's a somewhat saccharine role , but he appoints himself well . Charisse is good as a shallow , ambitious dancer who really isn't worthy of Meg's adoration , and Karin Booth is lovely as La Darina , and she's absolutely stunning to boot . Not to everyone's taste , but a nice niche film from MGM .
I have to say I didn't mind it .	I'll take my Ustinov as Poirot however I can get him . I happen to like Thirteen at Dinner . It's one of the smaller films as it was made for TV . You certainly can't compare it to the lavish " Murder on the Orient Express . " And I frankly like it better than " Murder in Three Acts . " I always love Ustinov as Poirot . One of the other comments said these characters are never how you picture them after reading the books . Interesting and true . The very popular Miss Marple of Margaret Rutherford had nothing to do with Miss Marple as she was written , and Ustinov has nothing to do with Poirot as written . I think David Suchet was perfect as Poirot as Christie wrote him , and I loved seeing him as Inspector Japp in this , but for a fun time , call 1-800-Ustinov ! Because this is based on a Christie mystery , however poor the production values or the cast , the basic story is always interesting , as this was . Faye Dunaway is absolutely gorgeous in this movie in both her roles . And it did have a British flavor ( which " Murder in Three Acts " absolutely did not . ) I really don't understand giving this 1 star . Surely we've all seen worse .
Lovely and MAJOR lethal	Very entertaining film from the ' 70s , produced by Aaron Spelling and written by Yvette Mimieux , who stars in it , looks gorgeous ( it is , after all , Aaron Spelling ) , and surrounds herself with men , particularly Dack Rambo . Mimieux plays a woman in a man's job - she's a hit woman . Though very successful knocking people off , she gets tired of it and , in love with Rambo , wants to retire from the business and live with him in Mexico . Her costars , besides Rambo , are Clu Gulager , Joseph Campanella , Keenan Wynn - basically all men . There's one very fun scene at the airport when Mimieux , attempting to disguise herself , offers a woman ( Mitzi Hoag ) outrageous money for her coat . I'd have handed it over too . Obviously a very brainy woman in real life , Mimieux does this cold , impersonal kind of role very well , and she's a real knockout in this ( as usual ) . The film contains a very neat twist as well . Highly recommended .
Wonderful role for Monroe	Marilyn Monroe , Don Murray , Arthur O'Connell and Betty Field are all at the " Bus Stop , " a 1956 film based on the play by William Inge and directed by Josh Logan . Murray plays a young , ill-mannered , uninhibited cowboy who's never been off the ranch , who comes to town to appear in a rodeo . When he sees Cherie ( Monroe ) performing at a club , he decides then and there to marry her - and he's so determined , he kidnaps her to get her to return to Montana with him . They're snowed in , however , and have to stop for the night at a restaurant on the route , run by Betty Field . Logan seems to have directed this like a play , and Murray's performance through most of the film is very stagy - big and loud . Bo's character was written for the stage ; I'm not certain in any hands it would have translated with ease to film . Today it seems overdone . Marilyn Monroe is fantastic as Cherie , a role done on Broadway by Kim Stanley . She uses a very broad accent - but what she lacks in technique she makes up in charm , beauty and warmth . She creates a wonderful , vulnerable character here that the audience cares about . The other standout is Betty Field , who does an excellent job as the owner of the restaurant who has a little flirtation going with the bus driver . Hope Lange has a small part as a waitress ; I assume this is where she met her husband , Don Murray . Arthur O'Connell is terrific as Bo's friend who tries to keep him in line . A really good film with a strong cast and a very iconic role for Monroe .
Peter Lawford as a jewel thief in Victorian England	The theft of an emerald coincides with a policeman's murder by a serial killer in " The Hour of 13 , " starring Peter Lawford , Dawn Addams , Roland Culver , and Derek Bond . Lawford stars as Nicholas Revel , an attractive young man in league with a ring of thieves that steals jewels and then gives them back to the insurance company and collects the reward . Unfortunately , " The Terror , " a murderer who targets the bobbies of London , has just struck his latest victim on the property Revel is inside robbing . The police assume the murderer also stole the emerald . Revel needs to solve the case , or help the police solve it , so that the stone can be delivered without anyone being arrested . Scotland Yard becomes suspicious . Peter Lawford is plenty dreamy-looking in this film and his speaking voice is devastating . What a shame he was content to drink , hang with Frank , and play " Password . " He was really something . " The Hour of 13 " is entertaining , though no great shakes . Its atmosphere is studio-manufactured and loaded with dry ice for fog effects . If you like the urbane , Raffles type of thief , you'll enjoy this .
Davis ' breakout role	Today actresses happily gain weight , dye their hair , dress like slobs , and lose their glamor for a role , and Bette Davis was probably the actress who started the trend . Even as a pretty young woman who occasionally wore designer clothes and Constance Bennett-type makeup in films , Davis was willing to ravage herself in order to create a character on the outside as well as the inside . Her determination is amply demonstrated here in her breakout film , " Of Human Bondage , " in which she stars with Leslie Howard as Philip Carey . Davis plays Mildred , a slutty , manipulative , greedy low-life to Howard's masochistic , club-footed Philip . He first meets her when she's a waitress , and she allows him to take her out to dinner and theater while she frolics with a wealthy older man ( Alan Hale Sr . ) . In truth , Mildred is repulsed by Philip's club foot . On his part , Philip seems to enjoy the abuse of her open flirtation and her coolness toward him . He allows Mildred to bleed him dry financially in between boyfriends who drop her when they tire of her , while he blows off a couple of truly lovely women ( Kay Johnson and Frances Dee ) . When he gets the gumption to throw her out , Mildred trashes his apartment and robs him , forcing him to withdraw from medical school and lose his lodgings . " Of Human Bondage " looks rather stilted today in parts . Though Leslie Howard was a wonderful actor and attractive , his acting style is of a more formal old school , and as a result , he tends to date whatever he's in . He shines in material like his role opposite Davis in " It's Love I'm After " or " The Petrified Forest " which call for his kind of technique . His dated acting is even more obvious here because Davis was forging new ground with a gritty , edgy performance that would really make her name . If she seems at times over the top , she came from the stage , and the subtleties of film acting would emerge later for her . Contrast this performance with the restraint , warmth and gentleness of her Henriette in " All This , and Heaven Too " or the pathos she brought to " Dark Victory . " She was a true actress and a true artist . Davis really allows herself to look like holy hell ; Mildred's deterioration is absolutely pathetic as Philip seems to gain strength as her spirit fades . An excellent film in which to see the burgeoning of one of film's greatest stars .
Good cast elevates story	Clark Gable , Lana Turner , Anne Baxter , John Hodiak , and Gladys Cooper star in " Homecoming , " a 1948 film about wartime and its aftermath . Gable plays a surgeon , Lee , who falls for a nurse ( Turner ) with whom he puts together the wounded , endures a life with only the barest of necessities , sits in shelters , and dodges . Back home , his devoted wife ( Baxter ) realizes by reading his letters that she's losing him . World War II has been romanticized often in films and in music - somehow , it is perceived by people who lived through Vietnam , Desert Storm , and our current conflicts as being somehow a cleaner war . But no war is clean , and there were some homecomings that were difficult as well . This was touched upon in " The Best Years of Our Lives , " and very well here . The story is brought to life by its players . The role of Snapshot the nurse is a different one for the glamorous and beautiful Turner than what she was normally handed - the curse of the beautiful in Hollywood . She was capable of much more , and she gives a strong performance as an outspoken soldier who finally lets her vulnerability show . The stalwart Gable gives us a man who realizes the detached attitude he had toward his patients at home will no longer work , and he has to rethink himself and his life . Baxter is the " one left out , " who can't experience the war , and she gives an excellent portrayal of a woman who loves her husband but doesn't know what to expect from him when he comes home . " I know he's changed , " she laments , " but why couldn't we have changed together ? " Her real-life husband , John Hodiak , looks quite handsome but doesn't have much to do as a family friend - his brief brush with stardom was a few years away . A very nice movie that shows that homecoming can be uncomfortable and bittersweet .
Rosalind Russell takes on Emily Pollifax	In her final theatrical film ( there would be a TV movie in 1972 ) , Rosalind Russell plays novelist Dorothy Gilman's Mrs . Pollifax in " Mrs . Pollifax , Spy . " This 1971 film also stars Darren McGavin , Nehemiah Piersoff , Albert Paulson , Harold Gould , John Beck and Dana Elcar . The script is written by Russell under a pseudonym . Mrs . Pollifax is an elderly woman who after being widowed volunteers to be a spy for the CIA . Since she looks so un-spylike , one of the people at the CIA ( Elcar ) decides to try her out on a mission . She is to go to Mexico , head for a bookstore , watch for The Tale of Two Cities in the window , enter the bookstore when she sees the book has been placed in the window , exchange some code sentences with the owner , get the book and leave . Except it doesn't go that way . Before Mrs . Pollifax knows what hit her , she's en route to an Albanian fortress with a man , John Sebastian Farrell ( McGavin ) . They share a cell . Mrs . Pollifax goes to work plotting their escape as Farrell recovers from a bullet wound . The Mrs . Pollifax books make for light , fun reading , and this pleasant story is along the same benign lines . Some of the elements of the books are disregarded - for instance , Mrs . Pollifax's children never were told she was a spy as they are here . Rosalind Russell does an excellent job , and she looks wonderful , particularly when one remembers how blown up the poor woman was from steroids due to her rheumatoid arthritis later on . She was such a striking woman with a strong presence in the films she made over her career . Darren McGavin isn't Gilman's Farrell , but his dry humor is effective just the same - another actor who , like Russell , is sorely missed . This movie doesn't move very quickly ; in fact , it's slow in parts , but there are some good scenes , particularly the Christmas party that Mrs . Pollifax talks her jailers into throwing . You can really admire her charm and cleverness . " Mrs . Pollifax , Spy " is one of those comfortable movies where one sees a lot of familiar faces and an okay story . You'll see worse , you'll see better - but seeing Russell and McGavin more than makes up for the script's shortcomings .
Mother and daughter swindlers	Signorney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt , that fat girl in a bikini , are " Heartbreakers " in this 2001 film also starring Ray Liotta , Gene Hackman , Jason Lee , Anne Bancroft and Nora Dunn . Of course I've seen Jennifer Love Hewitt many times since 2001 , and every time I've seen her , she's been a stick , so I still don't get all the hoopla about how she looks in a swimsuit . She has always been a spectacular looking young woman . That's not really beside the point - this is a film about mother and daughter con artists who make their money in a variety of ways , all illegal . Mom Max ( Weaver ) marries ' em , daughter Page ( Hewitt ) seduces ' em , mom catches ' em and gets a huge divorce settlement without ever having sex with a husband - she claims her religion dictates she wait until the wedding night , and then on the wedding night , she unceremoniously falls asleep after getting the guy raring to go . So raring that when he sees the daughter's boobs and legs that go up to her neck , he's ready to pounce . But there are other cons . There's the fall on the wet hotel floor which gets them a free suite ; the glass in the salad that gets them a free meal , and out and out stealing . In one scene , while a man is filling the gas tank , Page ( Hewitt ) takes his credit card , inserts it at her tank on the other side , and replaces it on his side , filling her tank on his money . These women are pros . After the two con mobster Liotta , Page announces she wants to go out on her own . Then , believing that the IRS has wiped them out and wants more money , she agrees to stay with her mother for one last con - and it has to be a huge one . Heading for Palm Beach , they have to decide on two men - one decrepit billionaire ( Gene Hackman ) and a young bachelor Jack Winthrowe ( Lee ) . After Max wins a bet , the target becomes chain-smoking , constantly coughing Tensy ( Hackman ) . Unbeknownst to mom at first , Page goes after Jack . Then the unexpected happens . This is a very funny movie with some great scenes , one of the best being when Max , posing as a Russian , is forced to get up on stage and sing in Russian . Weaver is simply great in this role , not to mention outrageously beautiful and sexy . I asked my mother how old she thought Weaver was , and she answered " Thirty . " I said , " Mom , she's exactly my age . She used to have the voice lesson after mine in New York . " She was tall and beautiful then ; she was tall and beautiful in 2001 , and she's tall and beautiful now . Hewitt is both sexy and trashy , playing the role of a young woman tough on the outside and a marshmallow on the inside very well . Very enjoyable and entertaining , with some excellent performances .
Attend the tale	" Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street , " directed by Tim Burton and starring Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter , is based on the Stephen Sondheim musical from the 1970s . I remember sitting stage right , down front , in the theater when I saw this musical with Angela Lansbury and Len Cariou and being completely , utterly blown away . As a stage show , it was jaw-dropping , with some of Sondheim's most beautiful music : " Johanna " is perhaps my favorite of all Sondheim's songs , but the score also includes the beautiful " Not While I'm Around " and " Pretty Women . " Seeing the film is a different experience from seeing the musical . Burton does a marvelous job here , blending the macabre grand guignol with the cartoonish and also with reality , overall giving the movie a really murky atmosphere . " By the Sea " was , for me , pure Burton . Depp , Carter , Rickman , Ed Sanders , Jamie Bower , etc . , are all excellent , Sacha Baron Cohen does a great turn as Pirelli . Sweeney can be a great singer , as he usually is on stage , but he really doesn't have to be , and Depp and Carter match well . The singers need to be Joanna , Anthony , the judge , and Toby if at all possible . They all sing very well in the film , and the orchestrations are fantastic , " Johanna " and " Pretty Women " being the highlights . The " gore " looked fake so it wouldn't be too off-putting ; it off-put me anyway . More than that , the entire story is sickening - somehow the distance between the audience and the stage makes it more palatable . I literally gagged a few times . I would have been better off just listening to the soundtrack . In the end - not my thing , but this extravagant musical may surely be yours .
Take It Off the E-String	That body - those legs - yes , it's Barbara Stanwyck , who is sensational in " Lady of Burlesque , " a 1943 film based on Gypsy Rose Lee's novel " The G String Murders . " The murder mystery aspect of this film ( which is pretty lame ) is just an excuse to give the audience a taste of life in a burlesque house - the crummy dressing rooms , the fights , the raids , the dumb on-stage humor , and underneath it all , a camaraderie and a closeness . The performances are all very chaste thanks to the censors . Stanwyck performs " Take It Off the E-String ( Play It On the G-String ) " and she's fantastic . It sounded like she was dubbed in the big parts of the song , but the lower register sounds a lot like her . Stanwyck is Dixie Daisy , a newcomer to this burlesque house who's making a big splash with the customers and with one of the comics ( Michael O'Shea ) . When one of the girls is murdered , and then another ( strangled with a G string ) , it begins to look as if someone is trying to close the old opera house where the show plays . Stanwyck is backed up by a lot of pros , including Iris Adrian , O'Shea , J . Edward Bromberg , and Pinky Lee . They're pros but she's a star - and it's her film from beginning to end . Somehow Stanwyck made it all look easy , slipping as easily into this role as she did into all the parts she played throughout her career . And it looks like she did her own dancing too . " Lady of Burlesque " is a lot of fun , and Stanwyck - sexy , tough , and warm - is spectacular .
The Ted Binion Case	Mena Suvari plays Sandy Murphy , a former stripper mixed up in " Sex and Lies in Sin City , " a 2008 TV movie also starring Matthew Modine as Ted Binion and Johnathon Schaech as Rick Tabish , Marcia Gay Harden as Binion's sister Becky and Peter Haskell as Ian Miller . The film is based on the true story of the death of Vegas casino owner Ted Binion and the subsequent arrest of his girlfriend Sandy and her boyfriend , Rick Tabish . The producers wanted to stick closely to the facts of the case , and they probably did . However , they left out one of the most interesting parts of the case . When Sandy was brought in for trial , she was sitting across , not next to , Rick Tabish , and she gave him a devastating smile that left no doubt as to their relationship . It was picked up by the cameras in the courtroom - it's a shame that moment was left out of this movie . Ted Binion was a drug addict who smoked heroin and took Xanax , among other things , but he was filthy rich . He meets Murphy in a strip club , and the two become involved . At one point , he has Tabish , a contractor , dig a concrete vault in the desert , where he hid silver bullion amounting to something like $7 million . Eventually Sandy and Tabish become lovers . Tabish was caught taking it out of the vault after Binion died , and his rare silver coins disappeared from his safe . The question is , did Binion die of an overdose or was he helped along by Sandy and Tabish ? If you're not familiar with the case , I won't give it away . From the beginning of the film , it's played somewhat ambiguously so that the viewer isn't sure . The acting is strong , particularly from Modine and Hardin . Hardin is very Mercedes McCambridge in this playing a tough-talking , strong woman who is sure Murphy is guilty . Modine as the drug-addicted , paranoid and sometimes violent Binion does an excellent job . Suvari bears a resemblance to the real-life Murphy , though she's younger and fresher . She's good , but not great . The handsome Johnathon Schaech gives her steady support . In real life , with the exception of Murphy , none of the characters were as good-looking as the people who portrayed them . Ian Miller , an wealthy old man who takes an interest in helping Sandy , is played by Peter Haskell . He has always been a favorite actor of mine . He looked very old in this movie , but it's always great to see him .
A neat B noir	John Payne stars in " Kansas City Confidential , " a 1952 noir also starring Preston Foster , Colleen Gray , Jack Elam , Neville Brand and Lee Van Cleef . Payne is Joe Rolfe , a WW II vet who delivers flowers for a living . He finds himself accused of a spectacular robbery of $1 . 2 million because the thieves used a truck like his as their escape vehicle . With the help of a buddy , he finds out that a criminal has split town suddenly for Mexico , and he goes there to locate the man and hopefully clear his own name . What he doesn't realize is that there were four thieves , and all of them wore masks to shield their identities from one another . When the man he's tracking is killed , Joe assumes his identity and goes to the place where the other thieves are supposed to await further instructions from their boss . Phil Karlson directed this good noir , which has an excellent cast that includes a favorite actress of mine , the lovely Coleen Gray as an ex-cop's daughter . She shows up at the locale to surprise her dad ( Preston Foster ) , who is actually the mastermind of the heist . Like any actor who worked for 20th Century Fox , John Payne had to be versatile , and he was . Here he plays a rough-around-the-edges war hero who has to survive among thieves by being tougher than they are . The the man known as " The Singing Tyrone Power " at Fox pulls it off . A handsome leading man , here Payne steps into John Garfield territory with ease . Elam , van Cleef and Brand are as mean and low-down as you can get , and the film gets quite violent at times . The print I saw was very grainy ; this wasn't a studio B movie but one made on the cheap , though the film was distributed by UA . However , it stands up very well next to other noirs of that era .
Entertaining film with Faye and Payne	Alice Faye's reign at 20th Century Fox , which overlapped with Betty Grable's , started earlier than Grable's and ended sooner - and on a sour note . Faye actually came with the old Fox Film Corp . when Zanuck founded 20th Century Fox and was at first a Harlow type , eventually developing into the Alice Faye moviegoers came to love . When she was given a dramatic role , in the 1945 " Dark Angel , " the film was re-edited to favor Linda Darnell , and a disgusted Faye left Fox and never returned . Here she's on top in " Hello Frisco , Hello " also starring John Payne , Lynn Bari , Jack Oakie , June Havoc and Laird Cregar , a big , colorful turn of the century musical in the Fox tradition . Alice plays Trudy Evans , the linchpin in a group formed by the ambitious Johnny Cornell . Johnny isn't content with the Barbary Coast - he wants Nob Hill . After opening a series of clubs , he becomes interested in a beautiful widow ( Bari ) who can give him the respectability he wants . When she goes broke , he tries to buy her house . To the heartbreak of Trudy , who's been in love with him all along , the two eventually marry . There's one song after another in this musical , including Faye's beautiful rendition of " You'll Never Know , " which became a smash hit . Faye's voice was so unusual - low , sultry and smooth , and it fits the music here perfectly . She is beautifully photographed and costumed as well . Oakie and Havoc provide comic support , and Bari is excellent as the woman who wins Johnny away from Trudy . The big problem with the film is the character of Johnny ( Payne ) , who is a real louse and a user to boot as he strings Trudy along . Personally , I would have let him stew in his own juice but this is Hollywood after all . And the plot is so secondary to the wonderful music and stars . Highly entertaining .
" I can't believe it - I told a lie and it turned out to be the truth ! "	George Sanders is the scoundrel in " Death of a Scoundrel , " a 1956 film that , though it appears to be a low-budget , boasts a fine cast : Yvonne DeCarlo , Colleen Gray , Nancy Gates , Victor Jory , and Zsa Zsa Gabor . Supposedly the story is based on the antics and ultimate murder of Serge Rubinstein that hit the news around the time the film was made . The lead role was originally given to George Brent , but the actor became ill and couldn't do the role . Because the party scene had already been filmed , he can be spotted there . In the beginning of the movie , Sanders , who plays Clementi Sabourni , is lying dead . One of his business associates tells his story to the police . It begins in Czechoslovakia when Sabourni , believed to have died in a concentration camp , appears at the shop of his brother ( played by Sanders ' real-life brother , Tom Conway ) . He wants money and his girl - except there's no money and his brother has married his girl . Furious , Sabourni turns his brother over to the Communist police for being involved in black marketeering and selling stolen goods . In return , he gains his passage to America . His brother is killed resisting arrest . When Sabourni arrives in New York , he spots a woman ( DeCarlo ) stealing a wallet . Clementi picks her up and steals the wallet from her . But her husband chases him in an effort to retrieve it , and Clementi is shot . The husband is hit by a truck when Clementi pushes him into the street . While Clementi is being treated for his bullet wound , he learns of the marvels of a new drug , penicillin . Using a check that was in the wallet , he buys stock in the company . Thus his career begins . The film is fascinating , in part because of the deals in which Clementi masterminds , and all of the women he juggles as a result . He becomes involved with a wealthy widow ( Gabor ) while flirting with her aspiring actress secretary ( Gates ) , and trying to convince the wife ( Gray ) of a successful businessman to divorce her husband so that he can get her stock and take over her husband's company . His schemes grow more outrageous until his brother's widow - who is also his ex-girlfriend - appears . Zsa Zsa Gabor ( a recent ex-Mrs . Sanders at the time of filming ) is stunningly beautiful and delightful in her role . Lovely Colleen Gray doesn't have a large part , but she shines when on screen . The exotic DeCarlo brings an earthiness and sarcasm as Bridget Kelly , who , though rough around the edges , is in love with Clementi and loyal to him . Sanders is a marvel - always likable no matter how heinous his character , always smooth , and always watchable . If he's a little too old for Clementi , it doesn't matter . He still makes it work . I don't think this would have been as good a movie with Brent in the lead . A year before his suicide , Sanders appeared in an episode of " Mission : Impossible " and played an elderly con man - magnificently dressed , proud , and elegant . When he is defeated , the character turns into a tired old man in a matter of seconds . That is true acting , and there aren't many that can do it . Sanders could . Don't let the black and white and the low budget fool you . " Death of a Scoundrel " is well worth viewing .
What wound up on the cutting room floor	Joan Collins hosts this entertaining look at cut scenes from 20th Century Fox films , explaining that many of them were cut because of a film running too long . Most of the scenes were musical numbers , which are , of course , the easiest to cut . There was a long acting scene with Walter Brennan from " We're Not Married " which was cut that was quite funny , and a scene in a music store with Betty Grable in " I Wake Up Screaming " that was cut when her profession was changed from music saleswoman to stenographer . People were confused by the original title of the film , " Hot Spot , " and thought they were seeing a musical with Grable . Her singing to sell a song didn't help . The most interesting cut scenes were those of Bill Bojangles Robinson in " Cafe Metropole . " He plays an entertainer at the caf . He has two wonderful dance numbers that were probably cut because some audiences weren't ready to accept a black person as anything but a servant . There's also a test from a film that was never made with Joan Collins and Robert Wagner . It looks like it would have been a true horror . Other cut scenes included songs in " Alexander's Ragtime Band , " " Springtime in the Rockies , " and " Rose of Washington Square . " I personally would have preferred more outtakes where you could get a glimpse of the star's personality . A Betty Grable dance number , where she kept having to stop , did give us some idea of her and the work process , but more of that would have been great . Also I would have liked more acting scenes . However , if you're a fan of musicals , you can't beat this .
big , lush miniseries	This is another of those big , lush ' 80s miniseries , better known as trash wallows . What fun they were - expensive , scenic , opulent . Mistral's Daughter is based on a novel by Judith Kranz , concerning three generations of women in the same family involved with a great artist , portrayed by Stacy Keach . Stefanie Powers plays Maggy , the matriarch of the family , who , as a young woman , meets Mistral and becomes involved with him . Later on , her daughter meets him , falls in love with him and bears him a child . Mistral is a real jerk , a Nazi collaborator who turns escaping Jews away at his gates and even turns in a few to get paint supplies . The kind of total narcissist codependents fall in love with . When his illegitimate daughter finds out about this years later , Mistral has to come to grips with his own selfish , self-absorbed life . For a good actor , Stacy Keach isn't very good in this - everyone suffers from rotten accents . Stefanie Powers is always good but playing a 17-year-old when she was over 40 may not have been the best move , although she certainly is very beautiful . All in all , this is a very entertaining miniseries . Just don't take it too seriously and enjoy it for what it is - an ' 80s artifact .
Very good European whodunit	" End of the Game , " a 1975 film directed by Maximilian Schell , isn't a standard murder mystery . Set in Europe , Martin Ritt is a Swiss police detective trying to capture Robert Shaw . Thirty years earlier , Shaw killed a woman in front of Ritt and was never prosecuted . When Ritt's partner is killed , he gets a new one ( Jon Voight ) . Ritt is excellent as a man determined to carry out this assignment despite facing death himself . Donald Sutherland , in an early role , plays the murdered detective in photos and as a corpse . The beautiful Jacqueline Bisset is the late detective's girlfriend . Robert Shaw is his usual hateful and smooth self . Voight does a good job , playing his role in a somewhat frenzied manner . He's also has a big nude scene . " End of the Game " has a very European feel to it , and a host of accents from all over the place . It's unclear if they were all supposed to be speaking the same language or not . Accents aren't necessary , for instance , if you're a German living in Germany because you're not speaking English with an accent , you're speaking German . I suppose one can assume whatever language the characters were speaking , they had regional accents . Fascinating film , the type of which one saw made more in the ' 70s than today - uneven , remote , but interesting .
Two men , one woman : A ' 30s melodrama with a great cast	Clark Gable and William Powell are boyhood friends who end up on opposite sides of the law in " Manhattan Melodrama , " also starring Myrna Loy . Loy is lovely here , as usual , but she doesn't really have much of a role . The film focuses on Gable and Powell . In the first scenes of the film , we see that they are orphaned and taken in by a man who has lost his son in the same fire that killed the boys ' friends and family . When we see them in present day , Gable is running an illegal gambling joint , leaning on people for money they owe , and dating the Loy character . Powell is in politics . After Loy spends some time with Powell , she decides she'd rather be with him , and eventually they marry , and Powell moves from DA to governor . Gable becomes increasingly ruthless , though the two remain devoted friends . There are some melodramatic sections in the film , particularly the beginning and the courtroom scene which contains a very dramatic speech delivered by Powell . The acting is marvelous . Gable is likable as a slick gangster who takes things in stride . His smile lights up the screen . He really had one of the great screen presences - looks , a great voice , and dripping with charm . But the really interesting performance is given by Powell . He's not the witty , energetic Thin Man in this , but a very committed and serious , dignified person with a lot on his shoulders . He's totally believable , and he and Gable provide great contrast . Powell's scene at the end of the film is very touching . Enjoy the great stars and the story , but don't look for laughs .
Funny if flawed comedy starring one of Hollywood's best screen teams	Cary Grant and Irene Dunne were great together , and though " My Favorite Wife " is not as funny as " The Awful Truth , " it's still pretty good . Ellen , lost at sea and presumed dead , returns after 7 years to find her husband Nick has remarried . She goes to his honeymoon hotel , which is a setup for one of Grant's best bits - he sees her as the elevator is closing and his head follows the door until it closes . However , he can't seem to tell his bride Bianca ( Gail Patrick ) . Then he finds out that Ellen wasn't alone on the island but spent the 7 years with one Stephen Burkett . In another funny scene , Ellen gets a sheepish , short , bald shoe salesman to pose as Burkett . Nick has tracked the real Burkett down , and Stephen looks a lot more like Randolph Scott than the shoe salesman . In fact , he's played by Randolph Scott . Grant is his usual riot and extremely handsome . He spends a lot of time talking to himself as he acts out what he's going to say to Bianca . Also , as in " Bringing Up Baby " and " I Was a Male War Bride , " he gets to do something with women's clothing - this time standing in front a mirror and trying to figure out what to bring Ellen to wear . Dunne is very funny , posing as a southern friend when she meets Bianca , and also is quite touching when she first sees her children . The only problem is that it all gets a little tired , particularly at the end with a prolonged scene having to do with Grant in the attic . As others have pointed out , the script has some holes , particularly the fact that a woman returning after 7 years gets no publicity . And poor Bianca comes off like a villain when she's a victim . Go figure . As amusing as " My Favorite Wife " is , it could have been better . Nevertheless , with these stars , it's a delightful film , and some of the funniest scenes take place in the courtroom . The Judge , played by Granville Bates , is hilarious and a good example of " no small parts . " He sure makes the most of his role .
Well done noir	Richard Conte and Victor Mature play tough adversaries in " Cry of the City , " a 1948 film noir from 20th Century Fox , directed by Robert Siodmak . It also stars Shelley Winters , Debra Paget , Tommy Cook , Hope Emerson , Roland Winters and Barry Kroeger . Set on the streets of New York , the subways , the lower class neighborhoods , the film's atmosphere is perfect , although the story of gangster versus cop is derivative . Conte plays Martin Rome , a completely amoral thug who escapes from the prison hospital where he's recovering from bullet wounds . He manipulates and / or uses everyone he runs into in his quest to get some relief from his injuries , get money to leave town and find his girlfriend . His victims include an equally crooked attorney ( Kroeger ) , a she-man masseuse ( Emerson ) , an old girlfriend ( Winters ) , his mother and his brother . Meanwhile , another kid from the neighborhood , Lt . Candella ( Mature ) tries to find him and at the same time convince Martin's little brother that Martin's choices should not be his . The film is a little slow-moving at times , but Conte and Mature have never been better . There was always something a little dumb about Mature's performances - probably because he didn't take himself too seriously . Just as filming had started on a scene of 1984's " Samson & Delilah , " he announced to the entire cast and crew , " I knew he was gay , " when one of the actors sat next to a known gay actor . The scene had to be started over . Despite Mature's less than committed attitude , Robert Siodmak drew an excellent performance from him , possibly his best . The underrated Conte was always a force to be reckoned with , and this is one of his best roles . There are some stunning shots to be appreciated in " Cry of the City " - my favorite is as Rose Given takes a walk down her long hallway , the shadows that look like prison bars giving way to curtains and Rose's face and body walking into focus . Much to like here , but in the end , it's quite predictable , right down to the ending . But the acting , atmosphere and characters created are a real treat .
Engrossing WWII film	Having been to the beautiful country of Czechoslovakia and met its wonderful people , it's hard not to have an even stronger feeling for the way this country has suffered at the hands of oppressors . In " Hangmen Also Die , " director Fritz Lang captures the indomitable spirit of the Czechs using a true story , the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich , one of Hitler's enforcers in Czechoslovakia . In this story , a young woman , Nasha Novotny ( Anna Lee ) misdirects the police as they search for a man she saw running away , in fact , the freedom fighter , Dr . Svoboda ( Brian Donlevy ) who shot Heydrich . Eventually her entire family is under suspicion because , without knowing it , they actually house the man who showed up on their doorstep later . Until someone in the country gives up the assassin , Hitler has ordered stiff reprisals and many hostages are taken and executions carried out . The head of the Novotny household ( Walter Brennan ) is ultimately taken hostage . In order to save him , Nasha wants to turn Svoboda over to the Gestapo . This is an exciting and nerve-wracking film , if overly long . Anna Lee , who played the matriarch Lila Quartermaine on General Hospital for many years here is a young woman , and she does a wonderful job . Donlevy is perhaps slightly miscast . Dennis O'Keefe as Nasha's fiance is even more miscast than Donlevy - both those male characters could have used more color and depth . Walter Brennan is marvelous as Nasha's father . The rest of the cast is excellent . Marcia Davenport dealt with the Czech freedom fighters in her book " The Valley of Decision " - alas , that section was not included in the film version of the book . Davenport in real life was in love with Jan Mazurek , who was defenestrated . " Hangmen Also Die " is another example of bravery and heroism from the common man during an evil war .
More post-war psychology . . . and an odd resemblance	Lee J . Cobb is a psychiatrist who works to discover " The Dark Past " of convict William Holden in this 1948 drama that also stars Nina Foch and Adele Jurgens . Two of Hollywood's favorite subject matters are part of the film plot : The post-war obsession with psychiatry and a hostage situation , of which there have been many in films over the years . Like Bogart in " The Desperate Hours , " Holden's an escaped convict with a gang that holes up in someone's home while waiting for a ride that doesn't arrive when it's supposed to . And , like the later " Desperate Hours , " the couple has a child that tries to escape . In " The Desperate Hours , " you wanted to kill the kid ; at least here , he doesn't cause as much trouble . Psychiatry in America was really just being explored in film , and it was as a result of the trauma soldiers suffered in World War II and the problems they had when they came home . The script is simplistic and dated , but the performances are good . Holden is terrific as the on-the-edge convict tortured by partial hand paralysis and a recurring nightmare from an incident in his childhood ; young , pretty Nina Foch is his girlfriend who loves him but is terribly hurt by his actions . When I was growing up , the striking Foch was in her forties and a constant presence in television , usually playing a neurotic mess . She still acts and is a very prominent drama teacher in Los Angeles . It was wonderful to see her in these early days - she made a fine ingnue . Cobb is convincing as a psychiatrist who keeps his cool as he tries to help the young man . After William Holden's big splash at the age of 21 in " Golden Boy " in 1939 , his career settled into a series of light leading man roles that took him nowhere . Superstardom didn't hit until 1950's Sunset Boulevard . One of the comments on IMDb remarked that in " Golden Boy , " he looked like Tom Hanks , which stuck in my mind as I was watching " The Dark Past . " Well , it's the strangest version of separated at birth that I've ever seen , but there is the oddest resemblance between these two stars . Here , with his hairline exposed , you can really see the similarity in the shape of Holden's face to Hanks ' , and there's even a similarity in profile and around the eyes . You'd never catch it unless someone mentioned it to you or you've seen " Golden Boy " where Holden is nearly unrecognizable - and then once you pick it up , it's totally distracting . The other odd thing about this film which says something about our society today is that these people were getting together for a casual evening in a country home and they were all dressed to the nines - even the criminals were wearing suits and ties ! Times sure have changed . Despite this and other dated elements of " The Dark Past , " William Holden , a tremendous star , is always worth a look .
True story becomes a TV movie	I read the magazine story on which " Murder in the Hamptons " is based , but alas , when I sat down to watch this movie , I didn't recall much of it . Starring Poppy Montgomery as Generosa Rand Ammon , the movie tells the story of the Ammon family - Ted , Generosa , and their adopted twins - and the horrific murder of Ted in their palatial Hamptons home - a case that stayed open for a long time before an arrest was made . Generosa is an attractive artist when she meets Ted Ammon and marries him . After a while , it becomes evident that she's wound a little too tightly on one hand and one sandwich short of a picnic on the other . Her paranoia becomes worse and worse as time goes on , and she and Ammon eventually separate as she becomes convinced that he's cheating on her and has an illegitimate child . Neither of which was apparently true . She soon takes up with an electrician , Daniel Pelosi , who is renovating her house . Generosa is presented as an extremely disturbed woman . She emotionally abuses her children , she brainwashes them against their father , and she keeps Ted's sister from seeing the kids . She has surveillance bugs planted in the Hampton house so she can watch all of Ted's activities on a laptop - which after the murder was never found . Though it's a fascinating case , " Murder in the Hamptons " is the stuff of routine TV movies as it meanders through the story . Montgomery is very good , acting completely normal in her scenes - as a result of her demeanor , one then never knows when Generosa is going to totally lose it , so you're waiting for the next blow-up . The rest of the performances are okay , with the nanny giving an especially chilling performance . Naturally there are things that were omitted , and for some reason , Pelosi is presented in a decent light . In fact he's a total waste . Also , assuming the will referenced near the end of the movie was filed in New York State - which it was - it's not possible to eliminate one's husband from a will . You can disinherit a child in your will as long as you specifically mention them by name . But no matter what your will directs , your husband is entitled to a third of the estate . So that business was a foolish plot device . Stick to the facts - they're usually more interesting .
Two great stars race all over London	Gregory Peck and Sophia Loren star in " Arabesque , " directed by Stanley Donen , who gave us " Charade . " This isn't " Charade " - nothing could be - but this derivative film has its roots in Hitchcock and " Charade . " Gregory Peck is the common man - in this case , a professor - who is more or less kidnapped to translate a cipher . While he's doing so at the home of his slimy host , he meets Sophia Loren , who tips him off that once he's deciphered this piece of paper , he's going to be eliminated . With her cooperation , he takes her as a hostage and the two start running throughout London . Along the way , the cipher is hidden , goes missing , someone picks it up - etc . The big question , what side is Loren on , and how much of whatever story she's currently telling is true ? The main interest in this film is Loren , whose beauty is staggering , as is her amazing wardrobe . She's the absolute height of chic . All eyes are on her whenever she appears in a scene - she's probably at her height as a goddess in this , no question . Peck does his usual great job as a likable , confused man . There are some fantastic scenes , including one at a construction site , and a neat twist the audience won't see coming . Peck was 50 when he made this film . It's fascinating to see these classic middle aged-plus male stars with today's eyes . I say males because women past 40 , with a few exceptions , are by that age no longer stars of yesterday's movies . We're so used to seeing eye lifts , brow lifts , and chemical peels on our male stars that men like Peck , Taylor , Holden , Power , Cooper etc . , look tired and past it to us when in fact , they were often still young . Somehow , though there have now been great advances in plastic surgery , I'll take Peck , his generation , and the one before him , any time .
Don't tell mom the babysitter is NUTS	Marilyn Monroe and Richard Widmark star in this early Monroe star vehicle . This is one film you'd never see being made today , due to the new child-care sensibilities . Jim Backus and Lorene Tuttle leave their child with a complete stranger while they go out for an evening . The stranger is Monroe , complete with wrist scars , who is the niece of the elevator man in the hotel where the couple is staying . Mid-evening , she picks up with Widmark , who is more upset about his lounge singer girlfriend ( Anne Bancroft ) breaking up with him than he thought he would be - he and Monroe flirt from their respective rooms . Widmark goes to the room , expecting a night of fun . Instead he and the hapless child get a night of terror , with Monroe believing Widmark is her dead pilot boyfriend and nearly killing not only the little girl but her uncle as well . Turns out , Marilyn's been institutionalized and her uncle ( Elisha Cooke , Jr . ) thought she was " nearly well . " Monroe is very good in this - very beautiful , of course , as well as vulnerable and believable . The wild look in her eyes when she scolds the little girl is downright scary . One thing that has always bothered me about Monroe doing drama is her very excellent diction which always sounds studied and unnatural . It's a distraction in this film as well . However , she's so watchable in everything - the camera just adored her - I have to believe that as she lived and aged , she would have had more chances at drama . Widmark is excellent as the apparent cynic who proves to have more to him than his girlfriend thought - in fact , his character was much better with the child than Monroe's ; Bancroft's role is small and belies her future dramatic appearances ; and there is a cameo by " Honeybee Gillis , " Joan Blondell's sister Gloria , as a photographer .
brisk Cold War drama	Tyrone Power stars as a courier put in an awkward situation by the U . S . government in " Diplomatic Courier , " which also stars Patricia Neal and Hildegarde Knef . Neal has a small but showy role as a society widow who chases Power around Europe . The film was shot on location in Europe , possibly using post-war blocked funds that caused so many films to be made there in the ' 50s and beyond . I first saw this film on TV as a kid , and like one of the other posters , it stuck in my mind , possibly because even back then , I was a Tyrone Power fan . The early ' 50s were a transition time for him . Unlike some actors - Bogart , Mitchum , Gable , to name a few - Power changed dramatically over the years . By the time this film was made , he had lost the last vestige of his boyishness and was thoroughly disillusioned with movies and undoubtedly the master he had served since 1936 , 20th Century Fox . In the few years he had left , he would turn more and more to theater and form his own movie production company . Some of his best work lay ahead of him . Power is supported in the film with a vigorous performance by Karl Malden and from newcomer Hildegarde Knef . Talented and beautiful , Knef , like many other European actresses who came to Hollywood after the war , never found a niche in Hollywood . She went on to great success on Broadway , however , with " Silk Stockings , " the musical version of " Ninotchka , " costarring Don Ameche , and remained friends with Power . Patricia Neal plays a widow that Power meets on an airplane . He keeps standing her up when they're supposed to get together but the story takes it a little further . Neal was an ardent fan of Power's and when they met , she asked him why it was that he hadn't answered her fan letter . Diplomatic Courier is a fast-moving , atmospheric film where you can't tell the good guys from the bad , and it holds interest . Watch for a Lee Marvin in a small role and an uncredited moment by Charles Bronson .
Funny film with references to some classics	Gene Wilder is the ordinary man caught up in murder on mayhem on the train " Silver Streak " in this 1976 comedy starring Richard Pryor , Jill Clayburgh , Ned Beatty , Ray Walston , and Patrick McGoohan . In a quasi-homage to Hitchcock , Wilder plays George Caldwell , who falls for the lovely Hilly ( Jill Clayburgh ) and finds himself mixed up in art fraud , missing letters of Rembrandt , and murder . Not only that , he keeps getting thrown out of the train . One of those times , he meets up with a criminal , Grover Muldoon ( Pryor ) who happens to be in the police car he steals . In the funniest scene in the film , Grover has George buy the cap , shoe polish , sunglasses and radio from a shoe polisher at the train station and makes George a black jiver so he can get by the feds . There are lots of funny scenes in this film , but the best part of it is the chemistry between Wilder and Pryor , who became a successful screen team . This , however , is their best teaming . The bad guys are great . McGoohan and Walston act as if they're in a heavy duty suspense film , which makes them real and threatening . It works perfectly against the comic aspects of the film . Hitchcock fans will see this as a mild takeoff on " North by Northwest . " It is , but it stands on its own as well .
bizarre movie , beautiful Lee Remick	I'm assuming the comments I read on this site were written by horny guys - the accolades to Lee Remick's beauty take up most of the comments . She is absolutely gorgeous and sexy in this movie , and I agree , she's the main reason to see this film . James Coburn has a " Hard Contract " in this 1969 film about a top hit man , John Cunningham , who's sent to Europe by his boss Ramsey ( Burgess Meredith ) to kill three people , one of whom , Michael Carlson ( Sterling Hayden ) was his predecessor in the job . Cummingham is a man completely detached from human emotion ; he only pays for sex , won't kiss , and won't let a woman spend the night . While in Europe , he meets a beautiful woman , Sheila Metcalfe ( the afore - and oft-mentioned - Remick ) and her group of friends , including Adrianne ( Lilli Palmer ) and an ex-Nazi . Sheila falls for Cummingham , the rest of the group adopts him , and before Cunningham knows it , he's become , for the first time , part of the human race . Carlson knows what he's there for immediately , and the two have a confrontation . Cunningham has started to realize there's something in the world besides killing . This movie makes a great effort to be deep . It doesn't really know what it is ; it lacks a point of view , but it does convey a message . Some of it is kind of cryptic . I actually thought there were lines of dialogue missing from the version I saw . Coburn is very good as a man who finally realizes he can't avoid living ; Remick as an outrageous , adventurous socialite gives a wonderful performance ; Palmer as her dizzy friend is delightful . Hayden , never a favorite of mine , was an unusual man in real life , and I think what made him special as a person comes through here . The retired hit man is one who thought a good deal about the meaning of life , as did Hayden , and found peace within himself . Hayden , after his forays into Communism , his guilt over cooperating with the committee , and his basically going out to sea and writing , did the same thing . Karen Black has a small role as a prostitute in the beginning of the film . A really wonderful cast , an uneven film , a kind of blah ending - still worth seeing for Remick and Coburn in their primes .
Nice entry into the Falcon series	Tom Conway is The Falcon in " The Falcon and the Co-eds , " a 1943 addition to the serial that also featured several recognizable actresses who appeared in B movies - Rita Corday , Isabel Jewell and Jean Brooks . Dorothy Malone is a co-ed and is uncredited . After a young woman appeals to Tom Lawrence ( The Falcon ) for help at her school , Bluecliff , where one suspicious death has taken place and a psychic student has predicted another one , she steals Tom's car to get him out to the school . Once there , he meets an interesting group of people , some of whom have secrets and others who act suspiciously . As foretold , another murder takes place , and it's up to The Falcon to sort things out . He usually does so before the police . This is a pretty good mystery with some obvious stealing from the film " Rebecca , " particularly the monologue about the sea that came right out of Danvers ' mouth - and for the same purpose as here . There is also an overabundance of establishing shots of the sea and its high waves . However , it's still an enjoyable film . Tom Lawrence is without an annoying fiance , instead being followed around by three young women , the Ughs , who help him out as well as sing . Frankly , I prefer them . Conway isn't as smooth and debonair as his brother , George Sanders , but like his brother he has a beautiful speaking voice , is an attractive man , and flirts like crazy . His Falcon is more straightforward , and he's very likable . This is a very good series that always gives the viewer a relaxing hour-plus of watching .
good drama wrapped in a B production	" Beyond a Reasonable Doubt " is a curious film - it has the look and feel of a B movie and two stars who had seen better days - Dana Andrews and Joan Fontaine - yet it's a good script directed by Fritz Lang . A novelist ( Andrews ) and his future father-in-law , a newspaper magnet ( Sidney Blackmer ) work together to prove that the death penalty isn't justified by framing Andrews for a recent murder . I thought the story excellent with some exciting twists , though the whole movie has an underplayed ( not to mention inexpensive ) feeling to it . Fontaine seemed a little old for her role . However , she does a good job as a sophisticate , and Andrews is good as well . Barbara Nichols does a fine job in a typical supporting role for her . Lang returned to Germany after this film , his last in America . It's an effective plot but one wishes the man who made Metropolis and so many other fine films was given more of a budget for his swansong .
The effects of a miracle drug	James Mason becomes " Bigger than Life " in this 1956 Nicholas Ray film that also stars Barbara Rush and Walter Matthau . Mason plays Ed Avery , a schoolteacher who also is a part-time cab dispatcher . He is suffering from severe spasms that are getting worse . He learns that he has a terminal illness that perhaps can be cured with a steroid , cortisone . He is helped , but he also begins to suffer from mood swings and depression and , as he takes more and more , veers completely out of control . Barbara Rush plays his suffering wife , and Walter Matthau is a family friend and coworker . I actually had a family member who went into profound depressions because of continuing to take black market cortisone , so this film resonated with me . Mason , who produced the film , is terrifying . Barbara Rush is very good , though her character puts up with an awful lot before she makes a move . Matthau is good in a supporting role , but roles showcasing his true strengths as an actor were a few years away . This is much more than a cautionary tale about steroids , which need to be taken and tapered off very carefully . In his cortisone-induced mindset , Ed Avery spouts off on the problems in society , very unusual in the repressed ' 50s . His ideas are a tad over the top , but there's a good kernel in them . Ray always did well with a rebellious mindset .
real life murder mystery	When " Murder in Texas " premiered on network television in two parts , it was a big deal . It's a very intriguing , true story of a Texan plastic surgeon ( Sam Eilliott ) suspected of causing the death of his very wealthy wife , portrayed by Farrah Fawcett . For years , Ash Robinson , the victim's father , was convinced of Dr . Hill's guilt . Andy Griffith is a great Ash . The story is based on Ann Kurth's book - Ann Kurth was Dr . Hill's second wife , who in the film is played by Katherine Ross . I could never find a copy of Kurth's book , so I read another book on the subject . The actual events are much , much more complicated than could ever have been shown on screen . In fact , the end of this movie is pure fiction , as are scenes that support the ending . The reason for this , I believe , was a legal one , as some participants were still living at the time of the filming . Today it is believed that Joan Robinson Hill died of toxic shock syndrome before it became a known entity . What her husband had to do with it - by direct act or simple neglect - I don't believe has ever been decided other than in the mind of Ash Robinson . While the movie made fascinating watching , particularly Part I , if this case interests you , I suggest you read a book on the subject for the true story . The acting is marvelous , particularly from Elliott , Fawcett , and Griffith , and the movie will hold your interest .
Robert Walker meets a heavenly goddess	During and after World War II , fantasy was big in Hollywood . It wasn't just escapism ; it was all the thinking about death as many loved ones were lost . It's no wonder we had so many people coming back ( " Here Comes Mr . Jordan " ) , facing the pearly gates or the hotter ones ( " Heaven Can Wait " ) , or meeting angels in human form ( " The Bishop's Wife " ) . We also had a visits from the big goddesses . How fitting that two women closest to being goddesses in human form actually played them - Rita Hayworth as Terpsichore in 1947's " Down to Earth , " and of course , Ava Gardner as Venus in " One Touch of Venus . " " One Touch of Venus " is based on the Broadway musical of the same name that was revived in London a few years ago with Melissa Errico , but never came to New York . Alas , there aren't many songs in this version but the most famous song , " Speak Low When You Speak Love " remains . The film stars Gardner , Robert Walker , Dick Haymes , Olga San Juan , Tom Conway , and Eve Arden . Walker works in a department store where a magnificent statue of Venus is about to be unveiled . On an impulse , he kisses it , and she comes to life . He falls madly in love with her , while his girlfriend ( San Juan ) flips out for his friend ( Haymes ) . When the statue is discovered missing , the police assume that Walker knows something about it , since he was fixing the presentation curtain and claims that she then came to life . Walker is an energetic delight as he chases Venus . After this film , he was institutionalized , and by 1951 , his boyishness was gone as he entered what should have been the greatest part of his career with a magnificent performance in " Strangers on a Train . " Instead , he only made one more film after that , dying in 1951 . Looking at him in " One Touch of Venus , " it's hard to imagine he had any demons . Eve Arden is hilarious as the secretary in unrequited love with her boss , Tom Conway . He's seen Venus sleeping in the home department and fallen for her as well . Haymes sings beautifully , and San Juan is pert and pretty as a young woman suddenly torn between two men . But all eyes are on Ava Gardner's dazzling beauty . She's a perfect embodiment of Venus with her flawless face , figure , and soft voice . Even though as a younger woman she had tried singing with a band , she wasn't a singer , so her voice is dubbed in this by Eileen Wilson . Like Hayworth , early in her career , she sometimes played roles that required vocals , and like Hayworth , she was always dubbed . The best scene in the film takes place in the park toward the end . It's exuberant and thrilling - you won't want it to end . That scene sums up this lovely fantasy with a divine Ava , and you can't get any better than that .
Rollie's at it again	Special effects genius Rollie Tyler ( Bryan Brown ) is lured back into the world of creating illusion in " F / X2 " also starring Brian Dennehy and Rachel Ticotin . It's five years since Rollie quit the film business ; now he's a toy-maker with a new girlfriend , Kim ( Ticotin ) . When Kim's ex-husband , Mike ( Tom Mason ) , a police officer , asks for Rollie's help in catching a killer , he reluctantly agrees . Through no fault of Rollie's , Mike ends up dead and Rollie has the proof that Mike was set up . This puts Rollie in danger - deja vu . He makes a desperate call to Leo , and the two team up again . This time around , the plot is a somewhat far-fetched , the emphasis being more on action . There are some very exciting scenes as well as some ingenious toys , including a toy clown that figures prominently in the plot . Brown and Dennehy have incredible chemistry . They're a joy to watch . My old classmate , Josie DeGuzman ( here spelled Josie ) is back as Leo's secret weapon in the department . Being predominantly a theater actress , her performance is somewhat stagy but she's no less likable . Joanna Gleason plays an assistant DA . Clever effects , the great re-teaming of Brown and Dennehy , and very entertaining .
Cute , warm film	Adam Sandler is one of those performers , like Jim Carrey , that one either likes or doesn't . However , over the years , he's taken on a variety of roles , and his comedy isn't always the same , either . " The Wedding Singer " is not a typical Adam Sandler film that found great popularity from a wide audience . I certainly didn't expect to like it , but I did . Set in the ' 80s , Sandler is Robbie Hart , once an aspiring singer / songwriter who sings at weddings and has an knack for livening up the festivities . Both Robbie and Julia are planning to get married to other people , but fate intervenes . For one thing , Robbie's intended Linda doesn't appear at their wedding ( she met him when he was the lead singer in a rock band and now that he's doing receptions , the bloom is off the rose ) and Julia's Wall Street broker boyfriend is a jerk . Robbie agrees to help Julia with her wedding , and then finds out that Julia's fiance is marrying her out of duty because she dated him when he was poor . On top of which , he cheats . Both leads are wonderful , make a great couple , and the film is a lot of fun . The idea of ' 80s nostalgia in 1998 is funny as well . The film is bright and it's briskly directed by Frank Coraci . " The Wedding Singer " is highly entertaining and has a lot of warmth . See it . Great fun .
Adorable light comedy , adorable stars	Three of 20th Century Fox's stars of the late ' 30s team up for " Love is News " - Tyrone Power , Loretta Young , and Don Ameche . Power plays a clever reporter , Steve Layton , who is after a big story on a $100 million heiress , Toni Gateson ( Young ) . Sick of being hounded night and day by the press , Young turns the tables on him and announces to the world that she and Layton are engaged . It comes as a surprise to him , as it does to his editor , Ameche , and of course , they don't have the story and the rest of the papers do . Layton soon learns that being engaged to Gateson has some perks and also a few things that aren't so great , particularly when the two of them end up in adjacent jail cells . There is a very funny scene in the beginning where Power and Ameche become hysterical laughing as they reminisce about the horrible things they've done to one another . The actors worked together often and make a great team . Young is gorgeous as the heiress , and she and Power are a beautiful couple as usual . This is one of Power's very early films - he was about 23 at the time - and still in his pretty phase . You can't take your eyes off of him when he's on screen - he lights it up . This is a high-energy , pleasant comedy with a delightful cast , though there's nothing particularly unusual about the story . Madcap heiresses abounded in ' 30s films . Power actually remade this movie with Gene Tierney in 1948 as " That Wonderful Urge . " By then , it was tired stuff , and Power was tired of these roles . But here , it's three young stars on top of the world , and you can't beat the spirit with which they imbue " Love is News . "
enjoyable and interesting early talkie	" Sin Takes a Holiday " stars Constance Bennett as a secretary in love with her boss - how's that for a novel plot line ? Well , perhaps in 1930 , it was , and there is more to it than that . It's an early talkie , so the timing is a little off as the actors get used to the technique . It's also pre-Code , so anything goes . And does . In this film , everybody cheats on their spouses . The boss , however , is unmarried , but his girlfriend wants to get married to him right away . So he marries Bennett and sends her abroad so he can have his cake and eat it too . While there , Bennett is escorted about by Basil Rathbone , in a delightful performance . He falls in love with her , but Bennett needs to find out if she can have a real marriage with her husband . Having read some of the comments , I'm unsure if people think that Bennett was amoral . The marriage for opportunity plot was used over and over - " Mannequin " is just one example - and Bennett marries her boss to do him a favor , not so much for the money . Plus , the title is " Sin Takes a Holiday " and it does seem that she avoids a dalliance with Rathbone while abroad . So while I find the crowd her boss runs with fast and loose , I did feel Bennett was a very likable character . Not to mention , a great beauty .
good , if uneven	Very cleverly written disco vampire flick that could have been terrific were it not for the uneven direction and acting . Nai Bonet , who wrote the script , is extremely good to herself - she not only displays her body to full advantage but has the late Antony Hamilton , a contender for the role of James Bond and one of the handsomest men to hit Hollywood , as her love interest ! Some hilarious lines and the casting of Yvonne DeCarlo and John Carradine don't hurt either . The cartoon special effects only add to the overall campiness of the film . If it had just moved a little faster and been a tad slicker , this would be a real classic .
history in the making	Just think . . . if Jeffrey Hunter had wound up playing the Captain in Star Trek , he might be alive today . Hunter died in 1969 from a subarachnoid hemorrhage , probably caused by an explosion that imploded instead during a film he was working on in Europe . Interesting thought . The Cage was the most expensive pilot in NBC history to that point . Though the Star Trek idea had its supporters , the network couldn't see past its nose to pick up the series . They did , however , agree to a second pilot with some changed elements - like a woman who was second in command . The reasons why Hunter did not do the next pilot have been debated . A friend of Hunter's stated that Hunter's wife , Dusty , thought science fiction was low class and didn't want him involved in the show . And , according to Shatner's book , she also made unreasonable demands of the producers . It's worth remembering that back in the ' 60s , science fiction , space movies , etc . , did not have the " A " status that they do today . B movies only became A movies after Star Wars . The Cage is a not only very good but touching , and of course , it's fascinating to see " Star Trek " before it became a cult classic . The story concerns a planet that exists basically on Mind Control , and the inhabitants in charge capture Pike in the hope that he can help replenish their race with an earth woman who is there as a result of a ship crashing . Susan Oliver is the woman . During the run of the series , in order to recoup some of the costs of this fabulously expensive pilot , it was incorporated into a two-part episode , with another actor playing the now near-vegetative Captain Pike . I love seeing films such as this that were done before all the special effect technology became available , because they were done in such innovative and imaginative ways . The Cage is worth a look to see the genesis of a show that became part of our culture .
Suspenseful Tourneur film	Hedy Lamarr is a beautiful but troubled woman in " Experiment Perilous , " also starring George Brent and Paul Lukas . This film has been compared to " Gaslight " as well as other works by Tourneur , including " Cat People . " It certainly has elements of both . Brent is a doctor who meets a lovely woman on a train . She says some strange things to him about the home of her brother , where she is going to stay . Shortly afterward , she dies suddenly . When he later meets her brother and his wife , he falls for the wife at first sight . And what man wouldn't - she's Hedy Lamarr . The doctor is soon drawn into a confused and mysterious situation at the house as the husband , Paul Lukas , confesses concerns about his wife . This is a well done , compelling movie where nothing happens until the end , but there is plenty under the surface to keep the viewer interested and guessing . Underlying suspense and tension pervades throughout as Brent becomes more and more suspicious of activities going on at the house , especially when Lamarr asks for his help . The casting is a little bizarre . George Brent exhibits no emotion throughout and is quite wooden . Lamarr is supposed to be a former farm girl and evidently from the U . S . , so one questions the accent . She has no expression in her voice or face throughout , which may have been the decision of the director . Lukas is excellent , an affability and charm belying what's underneath . He is a member of a wealthy New York family , yet he has an accent and his sister didn't . So one wonders what dictated this strange casting and why at least the story wasn't changed to accommodate the actors chosen . There's been some discussion as to whether Lamarr could have done " Gaslight " rather than Bergman . Hedy Lamarr with good direction was a decent actress , but not in my opinion a strong enough one for the role in " Gaslight . " She was one of the most beautiful women in film and could be absolutely delightful in the right circumstances . Her contribution to film history is more than satisfactory .
Joan with both Powell and Montgomery	Joan Crawford is a jewel thief trying to break into society in " The Last of Mrs . Cheyney , " a 1937 film from MGM also starring William Powell , Robert Montgomery , Nigel Bruce , Frank Morgan , and Jessie Ralph . It's a remake of a 1929 film which starred Norma Shearer . Crawford is a sophisticated and glamorous woman we first meet on board ship as she's maneuvering and flirting her way into the company of a society crowd . While doing so , she meets Lord Arthur Dilling ( Robert Montgomery ) . He and Lord Kelton ( Morgan ) pursue her . Once in London , she wangles the one thing that she and her gang of thieves ( led by William Powell as her butler ) have been waiting for - an invitation to Lady Ebley's country home , and a crack at Lady Ebley's fabulous pearl necklace . All doesn't go as planned . Given the star power , the film has some interesting moments , but for the most part , it's played too straight . A lighter touch was needed . This is perhaps a directorial problem ( there were several ) or the fact that Joan Crawford was better at drama than at comedy , and William Powell better at comedy than at drama . Powell does a great job , but it isn't much of a role . Audiences probably left the theater disappointed - perhaps part of the reason the film flopped at the box office . He doesn't have a lot to play off of , and no chemistry with Crawford . Robert Montgomery is his usual self in one of those roles that fit him like a glove , but the star trio is too somber . Joan Crawford looks fabulous , and with a strong director who had a concept of the script , she would have been fine . She didn't have a grasp of playing comedy , but she was a hard worker who seemingly took direction well . It's a shame MGM spent all that money on what was a first-class production only to have it just lay an egg . Apparently some of the racier parts of the play version had to be left out due to the code . At times , the film drags . Several of the comments blamed Crawford , some the script , but I do believe with the right director , " The Last of Mrs . Cheney " could have been a lot better .
A flop Clifford Odets play makes a strong film	Barbara Stanwyck , Paul Douglas , Robert Ryan , Marilyn Monroe , and Keith Andes star in " Clash by Night , " based on the play by Clifford Odets that flopped on Broadway . It gets the full-blown treatment on the screen , with Fritz Lang directing and a strong group of actors . Stanwyck is a world-weary woman who comes back to her roots because " home is where you go when you run out of places , " and immediately attracts male attention from both Ryan and Paul Douglas . She's instantly attracted to Ryan , and each recognizes in the other an edginess and need for excitement . To fight these urges , which haven't brought her any joy in the past , she marries Douglas , a simple fisherman who is deeply in love with her . It's not long before she gets antsy . The acting is terrific , but the emotions are very big - possibly too big for the screen and more suited to the stage . Though everyone is excellent , Douglas has the sympathetic role and breaks your heart as the cuckolded husband . Ryan is great as a volcano waiting to erupt , and Stanwyck's portrayal is ferociously honest and layered . She was 45 at the time of thee filming and obviously playing someone a good 10 years younger , but it still works . Marilyn Monroe has a supporting role playing the girlfriend of handsome Keith Andes . He mainly shows off his physique , though he was actually a good actor who had success in TV and was also a powerful singer , playing opposite Lucille Ball on Broadway in " Wildcat . " Monroe , mostly in jeans and with a swimsuit scene , is beautiful and her acting is very natural . Later on in her career , she overpronounced her words , which worked well in comedy but less so in drama . This is a very good movie with vigorous direction by Lang . There's just not much about it that's subtle .
Marlene looks great no matter what	Robert Donat is a British spy who is a " Knight Without Armor " in this 1937 Alexander Korda film , also starring Marlene Dietrich as a widowed Countess . Donat is A . J . Fothergill , a Brit in Russia who is recruited to spy on the revolutionary movement in 1913 because of his knowledge of the language . After being imprisoned in Siberia , he's released due to the 1917 revolution . As an assistant to a commissar he met in Siberia , he is assigned to the takeover of the estate of Countess Alexandra ( Dietrich ) . He has to take her to Petrograd , and ultimately , they fall in love . He then attempts to get her out of the country . A very good and absorbing film with Donat and the beautiful Dietrich giving wonderful performances as they trudge through Mother Russia . Be she in peasant clothes , babushka , nightgown , wedding gown , or evening gown , Dietrich looks fabulous , makeup intact . The most stunning scene takes place in the beginning when she wakes up in her gorgeous bedroom and rings for her maid . No maid . She gets up and searches the house . Nobody . She goes outside in her long white flowing nightgown , hair loose . Nothing . She spots her maid and calls to her . The maid runs . Dietrich turns around to see the entire horizon covered with soldiers coming at her . Fabulous . There are many wonderful scenes , including a crowd stopping a train , that really capture the feeling of the chaos , panic , and dirt of war . Robert Donat is marvelous , elegant of voice , sometimes a character actor and sometimes , with a wavy lock of hair on his forehead and kissing Dietrich , a very effective romantic leading man . Very exciting film , and you really care about these characters . Highly recommended .
surprisingly timely	A very good movie about The Day , a newspaper publishing its last editions , and its aggressive attack on a known mobster . Humphrey Bogart does an excellent job as the editor , and Ethel Barrymore gives a wonderful , regal performance as the widow of the publisher , whose daughters are now demanding that the paper be sold to a competitor . The film brings up , a mere 53 years ago , issues that are relevant today - the tabloids versus real , factual news , and the meaning of a free press . These debates continue today , but unfortunately , it seems that the tabloid type of journalism is winning . As for a free press - our press might be freer than many , but it isn't entirely free . As anyone who lost money in the great savings and loan scandal can tell you , important stories disappear from the front pages all the time . Bogart's strong performance is the engine that keeps this film going , and there's a nice performance by Kim Hunter as his ex-wife . Deadline USA reminds us of the good old days , when you could believe what you read in the New York Times .
odd film	" Party Girl " is a B film in A wrapping paper - even the title suggests a tawdry B picture . But it's in color and stars Robert Taylor , Cyd Charisse , Lee J . Cobb , and John Ireland . Taylor plays an attorney whose hip was damaged in a boyhood accident . He's become a powerful mob mouthpiece when he falls in love with a showgirl ( Charisse ) . When he wants out of the mob life , he finds that the mobster ( Cobb ) is unwilling to let him go . Directed by Nicholas Ray , the film flirts more with film noir than B status and has some excellent performances , particularly by Taylor and Lee J . Cobb . Cobb is quite terrifying as a violent thug who doesn't telegraph his violence , making him all the more frightening - you just never know what he's going to do . And the violence doesn't leave much to the imagination . Taylor does a terrific job as an attorney who all his life has believed he's nothing but a cripple , an outsider , and has given up on having any kind of a personal life . He tells Charisse the story of how his hip came to be damaged in his youth and talks about it being a mark of bravery - until he was older and the other guys were getting the dates . I really can't see any woman looking at Robert Taylor being deterred by a limp - or anything else - but perhaps this is more a statement about the power of a negative self image and how it allowed him to be ridiculed by his wife . Charisse is very good and has two great dance numbers that show off her great talent , gorgeous figure , and those to-die-for legs . The script has some huge problems . The story is preposterous , the Swedish surgery being one aspect that defies reality . The other is the DA expecting a lawyer to breach attorney-client privilege . Also , the film is set in the ' 30s but some of it has a ' 50s aura to it - I blame the color more than anything else . " Party Girl " is still worth seeing . It's a Nicholas Ray film , it's Taylor's last MGM film as a contract player , and he turns in a wonderful performance .
Tyrone , the cow , and going up in flames	Immortalized by Martha at the beginning of " Who's afraid of Virginia Wolff , " " In Old Chicago " is a dramatization ( you know , 20th Century Fox style ) of the 1871 Chicago fire . As is fitting , it focuses on the owners of the cow that allegedly started it all , the O'Learys . Tyrone Power is the drop dead gorgeous , bad boy brother of good Don Ameche . " Little Miss Alice Faye , " ( as Martha says ) plays Power's love interest , a dance hall girl . All of the performances are good , the threesome of Power-Ameche-Faye being a great combination that works well here and in " Alexander's Ragtime Band . " Faye gets to show off her voice , and she looks very pretty , having graduated from the days when Zanuck tried to make her look like Jean Harlow . The role was actually intended for Harlow , who died before she could do it ; Gable was also supposed to be loaned out for the Power role . Power had only started with Fox a year earlier . Harlow's death killed the deal . Also in the film is Rondo Hatton , referred to by Power as " Rondo . " Hatton suffered from acromegaly after laughing gas exposure in World War I . Standing side by side were a man who , due to disease , was deformed and ugly , and Power , perhaps the handsomest man in the world . More ironic yet , Power had no appreciation of his looks , feeling they kept him from roles he wanted . The fire and devastation effects are fantastic , Fox no doubt feeling the " heat " from MGM's " San Francisco " earthquake scenes . Alice Brady gives a strong performance , with a somewhat melodramatic monologue at the end . She won an Oscar , which was stolen by the person she sent to accept it . A lovely actress , it's a shame she died at the age of 47 .
Good film and story with a strange ending	Louis Jourdan is a pianist who receives " A Letter from an Unknown Woman " in this 1948 film also starring Joan Fontaine . The film starts at the end , actually , as Stefan Brand ( Jourdan ) runs home to pack a bag , planning to flee a duel with a cuckolded husband . However , he receives a letter that changes everything . Set in Austria in the 19th Century , Fontaine is Lisa , who as a young girl falls madly in love with the brilliant pianist Stefan Brand - so much so , that although she doesn't really know him , when she receives a proposal a marriage , she claims to be spoken for . Eventually they do meet and become lovers ; Stefan goes away for two weeks to do a concert , and that is the end of their relationship for the time being . Lisa has Stefan's son and marries her old beau , Journet , for money and security . While married to Journet , she and Stefan meet again and become lovers a second time . But he's so narcissistic and has had so many women , he doesn't remember knowing her before , and does not even know her name . As tragedy strikes Lisa's life , she writes a letter to him , revealing everything . This is a beautiful story , well cast and directed by Max Ophuls , but the ending may leave one scratching his or her head . If you don't watch very carefully - and hello , even if you do - it can leave the viewer quite confused , as the IMDb message board for this film confirms . I'm not sure if it is deliberately obscure or if something was cut , but the ending may have you scurrying back to the aforementioned board for clarification . Nevertheless , an underrated film with fine performances by Jourdan and Fontaine , highly recommended for the romantic at heart .
Another wartime film from Warner Brothers	You know that Warner Brothers - once they have their hands on a hot property , they slice it , dice it , and put it in the Mixmaster . Just look at the three versions of " The Maltese Falcon . " Now it's wartime , and that hot property is , of course " Casablanca . " In " The Conspirators , " part of that magnificent cast is reunited - Paul Henried , Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre - in this story of a Dutch freedom fighter , Vincent Van der Lyn , in neutral Lisbon and having trouble figuring out who wants to help him and who wants to hurt him . The suspects are Greenstreet , the head of a resistance group , Lorre , one of its members , and the exquisite Hedy Lamarr , married to a Nazi official . The story is harder to follow and ultimately , the film is not as good as " Joan of Paris , " another World War II film starring Henried , but it still has great atmosphere and is fairly intriguing . There just isn't enough of Greenstreet or Lorre , one of the great screen teams . Paul Henried , a very useful actor during World War II while the stars were away , does a good job as Van der Lyn . Lamarr is positively outrageously beautiful - no , she's not much of an actress - it's a face made for the closeup , and one can just look at her forever . What she brings is a certain enigmatic quality , probably by default , but who cares . If this pops up on TCM , you won't be sorry you saw it , but you won't be swept away either .
" We only want to give the illusion of due diligence "	I gave " Syriana " a 7 only because I thought it could have been a little easier to follow . And I love complicated plots . Other than that , this is an excellent movie about how absolute power corrupts absolutely , and what people will do to control the oil situation and profit by it . In the film , which is based on a book by an ex-CIA agent ( the Clooney character ) , we are shown many different stories that eventually come together - a CIA agent who infiltrates the other side , an executive and his family , two brothers struggling for a country's power , a young man who is seduced into a fundamentalist cell , and fat cats who want two huge oil companies want to merger and will do just about anything to get the merger approved . Probably the most sobering thing in the film for me was the fact that the emir had two sons ready to take over the country , and the U . S . wanted to make sure that the son in power was the one more in tune with them than the other son , who wanted to do things for his country and his people . The point made by George Clooney on one of the DVD features is that there are no good guys and no bad guys - the oil people , despite despicable actions , feel completely justified doing what they do because we need oil . As a result , other countries hate us , we're at war now , and with so many Iraquis killed , terrorists have been able to raise money for their cause . I told you the most sobering part . The saddest was a young man , before a suicide mission , approaching his father and asking for money for the bus . The father is playing baseball and stops and gives him the money . The boy impulsively hugs him and holds him tight . It was heartbreaking and frustrating - they believe in their cause and are willing to die for it , and I can't understand how that can be . But it is . The performances are all excellent with many stars , such as William Hurt , in cameos . Chris Cooper , Christopher Plummer , Jeffrey Wright , Robert Foxworth , Matt Damon , and Amanda Peet are all wonderful as part of this intricate story . Clooney is great - his eyes are haunted , he's scruffy , flabby , and conveys terror and his sense of isolation beautifully . You see " Syriana , " and you think , wow , that was pretty complicated , I'm not even sure I knew half of what was going on - and then you can't forget about it . " Syriana " and its thought-provoking messages will haunt you and make you wonder what on earth is going to happen to all of us .
Starring role for Jerome Cowan	" Crime by Night " is a lively 1944 film starring Jerome Cowan , Jane Wyman and Faye Emerson . Cowan plays a private eye trying to help a man wrongly accused of murder . It ends up being a lot more complicated than originally thought . Jane Wyman is his attractive secretary , and Emerson plays a talent representative . Eleanor Parker has a small role as the daughter of the murder victim . This is an enjoyable B movie that moves fast ; Cowan is slick and Wyman looks great and gives a vivacious performance . Cowan was rarely given an opportunity at leads . He makes the most of this one . A good B movie made during World War II .
some vintage Welles that ultimately disappoints	It's very hard to say just what was going on with " The Lady from Shanghai " and what the film could have been without studio interference . Orson Welles ' prime interest in film at this point was to raise money for his theater ; indeed , funding his own projects is what drove him to seek out acting jobs . He made " Lady from Shanghai " for his soon to be ex-wife , Rita Hayworth . Harry Cohn was fearful for Rita's image and held back the release of this movie for one year . The plot concerns an Irish sailor , Michael O'Hara , who falls in love with Else ( Hayworth , stunning with short blond hair ) . Her husband is a well known criminal attorney Arthur Bannister ( Everett Sloane ) who is as crippled on the inside as he is out . He hires O'Hara to work on his yacht , and there O'Hara is drawn deeper and deeper into a web of murder and deceit . " The Lady from Shanghai " moves at a snail's pace , though I agree with one of the posters that films today are criticized for taking time to build a plot . Still , this movie drags . The scene in the fun house is fantastic - Welles wanted it without music , though , and I believe the studio cut it down . It's a shame . The photography throughout is stunning , atmospheric , bold , and very stylish . Welles was an excellent actor , handsome in his youth , charismatic and possessing a magnificent voice and technique , but in many films , it's almost as if he doesn't trust himself or doesn't take the time to develop a character . Instead he relies on externals such as accents and fake noses . One of the only times he didn't do this was " Tomorrow is Forever , " where the director gets an excellent , deeply felt performance out of him . Contrast that with " Compulsion " where he shows he is a master of pure technical acting as he phones in his performance . Here Welles is doing quadruple duty - as director , star , co-writer and narrator . Sporting a completely unnecessary accent and looking intense was a fast way to a characterization . Nevertheless , he is always compelling . The supporting players are excellent , including Sloan and Glenn Anders . Hayworth , gorgeous and soft-voiced ( her singing was again dubbed by Anita Ellis ) is as usual a complete goddess and one of the great screen presences . What a sad life for such a vibrant beauty . Any film that Orson Welles directed is worth seeing , and " The Lady from Shanghai " is no exception . But this one leaves the viewer frustrated , as does " The Magnificent Ambersons " - as does any work that Welles did within the studio system . He was a great artist who should have been given a freer reign ; he wasn't . He was a strange dichotomy - he needed more freedom , but as is evidenced by some of his later work , he needed the structure of the studio . Alas , he couldn't have both .
An inside joke	Charles Boyer asks Rock Hudson for " A Very Special Favor , " a 1965 film starring Leslie Caron , Walter Slezak , Dick Shawn , Nita Talbot and Larry Storch . Boyer is Michel Boullard , a man estranged from his cold , rigid daughter , a psychiatrist , Lauren Boullard ( Caron ) engaged to a wimp ( Shawn ) . Impressed by his colleague Paul Chadwick's ( Hudson ) success with women , he asks Paul to seduce his daughter . However , Michel then reconnects with his daughter and , becoming angry with Paul , turns against him and works with Lauren to extract revenge on his mistreatment of her . This involves inventing a lover for Lauren , a bullfighter named El Magnifico and convincing Paul he's lost it in the sack . Paul finally catches on and enlists a female friend who isn't getting any at the moment ( Nita Talbot ) and has her impersonate a man so that Lauren will think he's now gay . I notice people on the board have all kinds of theories why this film isn't on DVD except that now , of course , it is . It also isn't the only time this inside joke was used in a Rock Hudson film , if anyone recalls his description to Doris Day about her boyfriend in " Pillow Talk . " " Well , there are some men . . . who live with their mothers . . . " etc . I'm sure that in those days ( unlike today ) Hudson's private life was safe enough that no one thought twice about using something like this in a script . Everyone probably thought it was pretty funny . These sex comedies were all the rage in the ' 60s , and this one has its moments , with Hudson and Caron very good in their roles and surrounded by excellent people . In one of the first scenes , Boyer and Slezak , two suicides in real life , embrace - it really didn't get the comedy off to a good start for me . But they're both delightful , Boyer moving from romantic leads to the father roles still possessing that wonderful , easy charm he had . Slezak was a very versatile actor who could go from playing an invincible Nazi in " Lifeboat " to a role like this . Nita Talbot is one of my favorite actresses of all time - seeing her made me nostalgic for the old days . If you like this type of comedy , at which Hudson really excelled , you'll enjoy this one . This is on a DVD set of some of the more obscure Hudson films such as " Has Anybody Seen My Gal , " and the collection shows the trajectory of his career from young supporting player to lead . The fact that Hudson has since been " outed " shouldn't make his work any less enjoyable . He was , after all , doing what he was hired to do - act .
The personal side of a controversial moment in history	" Above and Beyond " stars Robert Taylor and Eleanor Parker and chronicles the story of Paul Tibbets , the man who dropped the bomb on Hiroshima in 1945 . The event today , seen with modern eyes , is more unsavory than it was to people who lived in the midst of World War II . I watched the film with a skewed perspective unheard of in the ' 40s , as I interviewed Hiroshima survivors some years ago and discussed the event and their various health problems with them . Known as the " hibachi , " they are human beings like everybody else . But as we all know , in war , human life is cheap , especially as far as warring governments are concerned . The story as told in " Above and Beyond " is factually correct . The focus is not just on the technical details of outfitting the planes , the training , the secrecy , the testing , etc . , but also on Tibbets ' personal life . I read Tibbets married in 1953 or 1954 , but I did not learn if he had a wife at the time of Hiroshima . In this movie , he had a wife and two small children . The high security of the base , the constant pressure of Tibbets ' work , and the weight of the act he was to perform put a strain on his marriage and his relationships with friends . I suspect most of the personal life aspects of the film were heavily fictionalized . First of all , in the movie , the character of Tibbets is deeply conflicted about his assignment . In real life , Tibbets never had a moment of regret . Secondly , one would think a military wife would have understood that if security was so high and her husband was abrupt and tense - and there was a war on - there must be a reason other than " he's changed . " Instead , he is accused by her of " playing it too big . " She even takes her confusion to one of his bosses , who , instead of saying , " Your husband is working on something important and is under a lot of pressure , " gives her no help at all . But that was probably to get her off of the airbase . Robert Taylor was about 40 when this movie was made . It was a different world then - cigarettes and the lack of an eyelift robbed him of his boyish beauty , but he was still ruggedly handsome and does well in the role . Taylor wasn't a great actor , nor was he a bad one . Like his 20th Century Fox counterpart , Tyrone Power , he suffered at the hands of the critics because of his outrageous good looks , but he was always believable in the right role . Eleanor Parker is lovely and effective as his wife . The film was obviously meant to show the action of dropping the bomb and to put the character of Tibbets in a sympathetic light . The stars are likable , it's thought provoking , and of some interest . It has , of course , the Robert Alda as Gershwin moment - you know , " I'll write a rhapsody - a Rhapsody in Blue " when Tibbets is asked what he wants to name the plane , and he decides on " Enola Gay . " It's for historians to say if in actuality this horrendous event by the Enola Gay shortened the war and saved lives , and they've been arguing about it for years . I can't say . I didn't live through the war ; I just interviewed some of its victims .
good for an Elvis movie	This is actually a very good Elvis movie . The plot concerns a bunch of hillbillies , the Kwimpers - a dad , his son , and three orphans , who take over some beach property under the Homestead act after they run out of gas there . Elvis portrays a dummy of sorts - he plays it very naturally and he's quite funny ! It's not so much that he's dumb , but he's so guileless , literal , and helpful , he seems that way . With these attributes , he continually gets the best of the bad guys , including a mobster , Simon Oakland , Joanna Moore , from child welfare , and assorted others . The conceit makes for some hilarious scenes . In one , the mobster , after Elvis beats up his thugs , decides to blow up Elvis ' family home . They prepare a bomb and put it in a box . When Elvis sees it , he thinks the mobsters have forgotten their package and dutifully returns it . BAM . One poster mentioned that Elvis doesn't try to look as if he's singing . Apparently , he was notorious for not bothering much with lipsynching , though I'm not sure why . For my money , the only really good song in this film is the title one . And lipsynching or not , Presley looks great . I guess we can spend time lamenting the fact that Elvis didn't make better films or get the acting opportunities he deserved , or we can enjoy what we have . And Follow That Dream is better than most .
The title says it all	" Bananas " is just that on the surface - a crazy , off the wall movie written by , directed by , and starring a very young Woody Allen as a clumsy New Yorker who winds up as the leader of a small country . In the beginning , Allen plays a product tester whose parents are surgeons ( in fact , he walks in on them at one point while they're performing surgery , and they have him take over the reins ) . He basically just wants to get laid , and when a young activist ( Louise Lasser ) appears at his door with a petition , he sees an opportunity . The two eventually break up , and in despair , he quits his job and goes to San Marcos , one of her causes . There he becomes a pawn in the revolution , later becoming their leader dressed like Castro but with a red beard . Only Allen could have imagined this , and it's quite brilliant . Underneath the one-liners and crazy situations is a statement about the war in Vietnam and the way it was reduced to sports reporting on television . To make his point , Howard Cossell is on hand for a play by play of the character's wedding night before an audience . Total Woody , with some hilarious moments . Highly recommended .
Lovely fantasy	Tyrone Power is a man who encounters a leprechaun in " The Luck of the Irish , " also starring Anne Baxter , Jayne Meadows Cecil Kellaway , and Lee J . Cobb . Power plays Stephen Fitzgerald , a newspaperman who takes a job with an influential publisher turned politician , Augur ( Cobb ) - not because he believes in Augur , but because of the money and prestige . Egging him on is Augur's elegant , glamorous daughter ( Meadows ) who's in love with him . And who can blame her . It's outrageously handsome and charming Tyrone Power . While in Ireland , Fitz meets a young woman , Nora , to whom he's attracted , and a leprechaun with the proverbial pot o ' gold . Even though Fitz gets the gold , he returns it , and the leprechaun is in his debt . When Fitz returns to New York , the leprechaun appears as a servant , Horace , and strange things begin to happen . This is a charming film that effortlessly draws you into its whimsical story . Power did many comedies when he first signed with 20th Century Fox , and if you've seen them , you know he performed them beautifully . His reactions while a bartender is telling a leprechaun story are hilarious . It's a shame this versatile actor didn't put down his sword and do more comic roles . He'd pay homage once again to the land of his ancestors in " The Long Gray Line " for John Ford seven years later . How sad that when the really good parts were finally coming his way , he died . Anne Baxter is darling as Nora , and Meadows is appropriately brittle . The two are great opposites - Baxter natural and sweet , Meadows made up and bejeweled . Kellaway is excellent as Horace , the leprechaun turned houseman . " The Luck of the Irish " will leave you with a smile on your face . Uplifting stories are hard to find - see this one .
Hollywood home movies	These are fun Hollywood home movies assembled by Ken Murray . Some of them are fascinating , such as film of stars at the Hearst castle , some are fun , like Kirk Douglas ' appearance on television with Murray , and some for this viewer went on too long , such as the cowboy section . The clip of Murray introducing a young Marilyn Monroe is marvelous , however , and ends the film . Murray takes a drive down the old Hollywood Boulevard so we can see it as it was , and it sure has changed . There are clips of Douglas Fairbanks and Mary Pickford , Cary Grant swimming , Charlie Chaplin playing tennis , and an almost unrecognizable Norma Shearer at an outdoor gathering . And Walt Disney takes Murray's daughters on a tour of his magic kingdom . This is worth picking up if you see it on ebay .
Communist spy film based on a true story	Dana Andrews is Igor Gouzenko , a Russian spy in Canada in " The Iron Curtain , " a 1948 film based on a true story . Andrews plays a Russian during and after World War II who is sent to work as a code clerk for a ring in Canada ; once the bomb is dropped on Hiroshima , the Communists become particularly interested in documents pertaining to it . Eventually his wife ( Gene Tierney ) joins him and tells him that she is pregnant . With the birth of his son , and the disillusionment of one of the ring ( Eduard Franz ) , whose father was a great leader , Gouzenko slowly begins to realize that he's on the wrong side and decides that he and his family will not return to Russia . He steals important documents from his office with the idea of handing them over to the Department of Justice before his bosses realize what has happened , but fate plays against him . It becomes a race against time to get the documents into the right hands as well as save his family , even if he can't save himself . Done in semi-documentary style , this is a pretty good propaganda drama with fine performances from an always attractive couple , Andrews and Tierney , and a great performance by Eduard Franz in a showy role . Andrews is one of the few leading men under contract at 20th Century Fox who was served well , particularly once Fox's biggest star , Tyrone Power , went to war ; the hard-bitten roles Andrews played in many film noirs have given him a place in film history . Like both Power and John Payne , he was versatile , appearing in every type of film . Not realizing he was trained as an opera singer , the studio dubbed him in " State Fair " - they'd thrown so many non-singers into musicals , it never occurred to them he actually might be one . Alcoholism cut his star years short though he continued to work and speak on behalf of facing up to alcoholism . Tierney's career had its ups and downs due to her personal life as well , but in three films , they made a wonderful couple . Toward the end , " The Iron Curtain " becomes quite intense and exciting . Well directed by William Wellman , it's worth watching though some may not like its definite propaganda bent .
A hard day's night that doesn't go as well as one originally hoped	Jodie Foster and her diabetic daughter ( Kristen Stewart ) are stuck in a " Panic Room , " in this 2002 film also starring Forrest Whitaker , Dwight Yoakam , Jared Leto and Jonathan Pryce . The robbery of a safe in an empty house runs into a few problems when the thieves ( Whitaker , Yoakam , and Leto ) find the house occupied and the occupants in the very room that has the safe - the panic room . How to get into the room or force the people out is the question , when the woman and girl prove pretty smart . This derivative film , a sort of 2002 version of " Wait Until Dark , " seems to have been pretty much blasted from here to kingdom come here on IMDb . I didn't see it in the theater ; I rented it , and I think often that makes a difference in how disappointed or cheated one feels . I found it suspenseful and exciting with good acting . The story is full of plot holes that others have listed , so I won't bother . It's easier to accept plot holes in comedy or in a caper film . It's annoying in drama or suspense , admittedly . Foster gives a strong performance , full of girl power and intelligence . She hits all the right notes as a desperate mother . Whitaker is excellent as the weak link who works for the security company that has a contract for the house and doesn't want any violence . Kristen Stewart is perfect casting as Foster's daughter Sarah - she looks so much like Foster it's amazing , though I admit for the first few scenes I thought Sarah was a boy . Someone in a previous post asks if anyone sits down and looks at a script in Hollywood and works on the plot holes . Obviously the answer to that one is no , and here's why - films are greenlit on the basis of their business plan and who's attached . Hello , no one looks at the script or a treatment . And once the script is in production , 8 or 9 writers work on it . And you wonder why there are holes . The answer is , because there are holes in lots of heads .
Growing up is hard to do , especially when you're already an adult	" A Thousand Clowns " was a ' 60s Broadway hit that starred Jason Robards , who repeats his role for the film , as does William Daniels . It has been revived several times , the last time for , of all people , Tom Selleck . I suppose it was cast that way because the lead role , Murray , is an overgrown kid , kind of like Magnum . The casting people seemed to forget that Murray is a New Yorker and Jewish besides . Tom Selleck was skewered by critics , in part because he was miscast and in part because he's not a stage actor . The Herb Gardner play concerns a twelve-year-old boy , Nick , who lives with his eccentric Uncle Murray . A social worker ( Barbara Harris ) appears ; she and Murray fall for one another . Child welfare insists that Murray become a traditional working man if he wants to keep his nephew , who loves being with him . Young Nick is horrified when his uncle seems to accept their decision instead of fighting it . " A Thousand Clowns " is a thought-provoking film , done at a time when rebellion was something to be admired . Underneath it all , what it's really about is growing up ; in fact , Nick acts older than his uncle in many ways . Murray wants freedom , but he needs to change his definition of freedom if he wants his nephew . Jason Robards does a terrific job as Murray , an unemployed TV writer and fun guy for sure , more big brother than father material with his cluttered apartment , eternal joking , going to the movies instead of looking for a job , inability to commit to a relationship , and basic refusal to work . The marvelous Barbara Harris takes the role of the social worker , played on stage by Sandy Dennis . She's great as the dizzy woman who splits with her boring , by the book fianc to be with Murray . Barry Gordon , who is still acting today , makes an excellent , forceful , and funny Nick , and manages to project a vulnerability underneath the New York kid . Martin Balsam plays Murray's straightlaced brother and rounds off a fine cast . Though dated , " A Thousand Clowns " is still a good watch , about love , responsibility , and rebellion .
What's left of it is both interesting and frustrating	I unfortunately missed the introduction ( if there was one ) to " The Young Rajah " on Turner Classic Movies , but the film was pieced together - the entire beginning is lost , told with dialogue cards , story cards , and stills . Eventually there is a clip of badly preserved film , more stills , and then finally " The Young Rajah " is completed using the actual film . The entire presentation only runs about an hour . The silent era was the great equalizer - only in silents could an Italian with a thick accent play an Indian living on an American farm under the name of Amos Judd . As a young boy , the heir to the throne of India is brought to the farm of his father's friend , where he grows up , goes to Harvard , and falls in love . He has the gift of foretelling the future - which is where the frustration comes in for this viewer - but I digress . As his wedding day draws near , he is asked to return to India , where a usurper has taken over the throne and chaos reigns . Valentino was very much of his time . He was an Italian working in silent films , and there's every chance he would not have survived sound or , as tastes changed , kept his leading man status . While Ramon Novarro enjoyed a career in talkies and television in character roles , we don't know if this would have happened to Valentino or would have been acceptable to him . Yet appearance-wise , he's ahead of his time , too . When one views him with today's eyes , he looks like one of the current Italian models with his slicked back hair , handsome face , and knack for looking elegant in suits . No man around him comes even close in appearance . People must have had better vision in the ' 20s - the film contains many notes various characters received , and despite them being clear , I couldn't read them from where I was sitting . At the end of the movie , the film is almost completely deteriorated during the young rajah's vision - so I can only guess at what happens . A real pity , but what a credit to the people who worked to preserve what was left . A movie of great interest for those fascinated by film history .
Danish resistance helps Jews escape the Nazis	Anything involving Jews and the Nazis is going to be a nail-biter , and " A Day in October " is no different . This 1992 film stars Daniel Benzali , Tovah Feldshuh , D . B . Sweeney and Kelly Wolf in this story of a wounded member of the Danish resistance , Niels ( Sweeney ) taken in by Sara ( Wolf ) , the daughter of Solomon and Emma Kublitz ( Benzali and Feldshuh ) . Niels and his cronies have just bombed the factory where Solomon works as an accountant , as it has been taken over by the Germans for their use . However , they hit the wrong building and the only one to escape is Niels . Niels pressures Solomon to help him bomb the right building ; Solomon and Sara have stayed passive during the war , believing nothing will happen in Denmark . Then Solomon sees the dead bodies of Niels ' friends and realizes their courage . He finally agrees to help , though the Nazi security guard ( Ole Lemmeke ) is suspicious of him . Then the family learns that Jews are to be rounded up and arrested . They must try to escape and warn as many of their friends as possible . This a very good film , both tense and atmospheric . The acting is excellent , with the standout performances belonging to Benzali and Feldshuh . Benzali , who played the successful , self-assured attorney in Murder One is here a nervous , quiet accountant ; the beautiful Feldshuh , who as a young actress was one of the stars of Holocaust , displays the emotion and fright that Emma has when she is faced with losing her home and family . She is especially touching in the scene when she tries to replace family items into the small suitcase she is allowed to bring to the boat that will take them to Sweden . The love story between Niels and Sara is slow to develop , but a true bond develops between them . Sweeney does not display enough intensity in his role , but Wolf is good as the daughter . Ole Lemmeke is appropriately menacing as the security guard at the factory . The Danish resistance helped 7500 Jews escape Denmark , and of the 450 or so Jews who were arrested and sent to concentration camps , nearly all survived . Like their fellow Scandinavian countries , the Danes helped the Jews greatly during World War II , demonstrating great humanity that other countries did not .
delightful comedy	Brian Aherne is the great actor David Garrick in " The Great Garrick , " directed by James Whale and costarring Olivia DeHavilland . The actress was 21 years old when this film was released . The Comedy Francaise , insulted by comments made by Garrick about working with them , decides to give him a night in a French inn he won't ever forget . Knowing he will stop there en route to Paris , the head of the company rents the place for the day , dismissing the staff . The company take roles as maids , waiters , servants , etc . in a play written for the occasion by Beaumarchis , full of love triangles , duels , a crazy man , and lots of noise . What they don't know is that the old prompter , who once worked with Garrick , has gone ahead and warned him of what is to happen . One other thing they're not counting on is the appearance of another guest ( DeHavilland ) besides Garrick . Garrick , however , thinks she's part of the troupe . This is a witty , well done comedy . Aherne , an accomplished Shakespearean actor , is great as the egomaniacal Garrick . He was equally good in " Merrily We Live , " but for some reason , stopped getting the showy roles , possibly because of Errol Flynn . Edward Everett Horton is excellent as his manservant . The supporting cast , including Lionel Atwill , Melville Cooper , Fritz Leiber , and Marie Wilson are all wonderful . Lana Turner has a tiny role as one of the maids . Olivia DeHavilland is luminously beautiful in a true ingnue role , done before Warners realized what a wonderful actress they had in her . Very entertaining , and a good chance to see a very young DeHavilland and Aherne shine .
Mario's in the army now	With Kathryn Grayson refusing to work with him again , Mario Lanza has a new leading lady in " Because You're Mine , " a 1952 film which also stars Doretta Morrow , James Whitmore , Paula Corday , Jeff Donnell , and Spring Byington . Lanza is a great opera star , Renaldo Rossano , who gets drafted into the army . Fortunately for him , his commanding officer , Sgt . Batterson ( Whitmore ) is a fan , so Rossano has it pretty easy . Batterson is also trying to promote his sister as a singer . Renaldo falls for her . His prima donna back at the opera house ( Paula Corday ) will have something to say about that . Broadway star Doretta Morrow is perky , and while not as pretty as Grayson , sings beautifully . Lanza was not very nice to her - that's putting it mildly - but apparently eventually apologized . Unhappy making this film after his triumphant " The Great Caruso , " Lanza gained weight throughout the film so he's trim in one scene and chunky the next . It's a shame he felt that way - the film is pleasant enough , and he sings like a dream , doing a segment from " Il Trovatore , " the " Addio " from " Rigoletto , " the end of " Cavalleria Rusticana , " the " Our Father , " the title song , " Because You're Mine , " and a very impressive " Granada . " Not only does he impress with his glorious high notes , he does some very lyrical and soft singing as well . James Whitmore moves into the comedy of his role easily , and Spring Byington is delightful as a general's wife who needs Renaldo to sing at a reception . Very pleasant and a must for opera and Lanza fans .
A young man's life goes from bad to worse in ' 80s film .	For a kid who has nightmares about making mistakes and not getting into college , Tom Cruise sure gets into a lot of trouble in " Risky Business , " one of his star-making films . Cruise , then just 21 , appears with a lot of other youngsters who went onto careers with varying degrees of success : Rebecca DeMornay , Curtis Armstrong , Bronson Pinchot , Shera Danese , Megan Mullaley and others . Cruise plays Joel Goodsen , who is basically just that until his parents take a trip . Joel's troubles begin when he calls a call girl and she becomes like the man who came to dinner . Before he knows it , he has an unhappy relationship with her pimp , rolled his father's $40 , 000 car into Lake Michigan ( in a hilarious scene ) and is flunking subjects . Desperate for money to get the car fixed , he starts suggesting to his friends that they could use some sex ed before college . In the midst of one of his hook-up parties , an ivy league college admissions officer shows up for an interview . This is a very funny film that includes the oft-imitated " Old Time Rock ' n ' Roll " sequence .
father and daughter , both attorneys , duke it out	Gene Hackman and Mary Elizabeth Mastroantonio are involved in a " Class Action " in this 1991 film that also stars Laurence Fishburne , Donald Moffatt , Joanna Merlin and Fred Thompson . Hackman and MEM , father and daughter , are both attorneys . " I raised you , " Jed ( Hackman ) yells at Maggie ( MEM ) during one scene . " Mom raised me , " she screams back . " You had a date . " Maggie's resentment over her father's infidelity erupts after the death of her mother ( Merlin ) in a powerful scene . Although Maggie has tried to reconcile with him , she finds there is too much in the way . Maggie is in an ethical quandary when the law firm she works for wants to suppress evidence about an automobile manufacturer's malfeasance ; complicating things is that her father heads the team the other side of the case . This is a very good movie that emotionally rings true , thanks to a good script and fine performances by Hackman and Mary Elizabeth . I had the pleasure of working with Mary Elizabeth when she was a Broadway actress - a lovely woman with a great talent , shown here to excellent advantage . Grieving for her mother and unable to accept her father's love , she is blindsided by her boyfriend / boss ' ethics violation and has nowhere to turn . The viewer can really feel her pain . Hackman is wonderful as a shark attorney who loved his wife deeply but made some unfortunate choices and alienated his only child . He finds himself now vulnerable and confused ; Hackman expresses these emotions beautifully . There is able support from the top-notch cast . Compelling and at times powerful .
Courtroom drama with Walter Pidgeon at the helm	Walter Pidgeon is Braley Mason , a civil attorney who takes on a criminal case in " The Unknown Man , " a 1951 film also starring Ann Harding , Barry Sullivan , Keefe Braselle , and Richard Anderson . A great believer in justice , Pidgeon accepts a pro bono case defending a young man , Rudi Walchek ( Braselle ) accused of murder and gets him acquitted . Shortly afterward , he realizes that the man is guilty and was extorting protection money from his victim as well as other shopkeepers in the neighborhood . He is advised by the DA ( Sullivan ) that Rudi is small change , that to wipe out the organized crime , one has to find the top man . Mason finds the top man , and is faced with a dilemma . " The Unknown Man " is a small , black and white film that manages to hold the viewer's interest with its various plot twists , though the plot is somewhat contrived . It's really the story of a good man seeking his god , justice , and what he is willing to do in order to attain it . And that's the most contrived part of all . I suppose there was a time before O . J . , the Menendez Brothers , etc . , etc . , when people believed in justice and the integrity of attorneys . For this viewer anyway , those days are long over . Walter Pidgeon does an excellent job - - his handsome , elegant demeanor and declamatory voice show us a successful , confident man but also a deeply caring one . Pidgeon had a magnificent career spanning 60 years but never really rose to superstardom . He was a solid actor who could play just about anything and did . It may be because by the time he was getting leads , he was well into his thirties and missed being a matine idol ; or it could be he lacked that certain something ; or that he was typed early on as second lead to a big female star like Greer Garson . Hard to say . He gives an honest and touching performance here . Very good movie with good performances .
Enjoyable spy film	Gene Hackman is Sam Boyd , an old CIA agent who is dragged back into " Company Business " in this 1991 film also starring Mikhail Baryshnikov . Boyd has to funnel money to the Russians using a prisoner switch as an excuse , but it all goes awry when , during the exchange , he realizes the prisoner the Russians are sending over is someone he just saw at the airport . He aborts the switch immediately . He and his Russian ( Baryshnikov ) are directed to a safe house , but when it blows up , Hackman realizes the CIA wants both of them dead . So they go on the run with $2 million . This film had a light , breezy atmosphere to it , and the two stars play it sort of like an " I Spy " episode . It's not an out and out comedy but it's pleasant and implausible enough . Someone thought that the " big reveal " about the young the woman helping the two in France made the thing truly ridiculous - I don't know why . Baryshnikov at the time of the filming was 43 , and the young woman ( Geraldine Danon ) was 23 . What's the problem ? Great locations in Berlin and France , good acting , and some exciting scenes . Fun if you're not expecting " The Spy Who Came in from the Cold . "
disappointing Columbo	I gave this a 7 because of the great cast and some wonderful scenes , but it's a problematic script . And let's face it , the alibi is absolutely no good . Dabney Coleman is an attorney with live-in girlfriend / rock star whom he kills . He then frames her boyfriend for the murder . One of the best things is that when Columbo hears her name , he knows what her hit song is ! There's another hilarious scene in a restaurant where Coleman asks Columbo if he wants something to eat . Well , he starts ordering and just keeps on going , seemingly every new item being an afterthought - it's priceless . Someone posted that Shera Danese ( Falk's wife ) who plays an associate in Coleman's law firm could not have provided the alibi , because she starts blackmailing him after the event . I believe she did what he asked her to do without realizing why - when she realizes why , she starts blackmailing him . I may be wrong - I don't have the episode in front of me . My REAL problem with this episode is the fact that I've never understood how anybody could drive with that mask on . It did not look opaque to me . It looked like a photograph . Some trivia : Falk's real-life wife , Shera Danese , wanted to play the girlfriend but was felt to be too old for the role . She MAY have sung the song , I can't remember now .
Eastwood's last " Dirty Harry "	In the final Dirty Harry movie , Inspector Callahan ( Clint Eastwood ) is annoyed by his new-found fame , caused by his court testimony against an important mob figure . His next case is a real winner : an obnoxious British director ( Liam Neeson ) has a " dead pool " on the set of his new horror flick . Each crew member picks ten celebrities they believe will die , and the one with the most dead celebs on their list at the end of the game is the big winner . Just one problem with this - the people on the director's list start dying at an alarming rate and mysteriously , including his leading man . And guess whose name is on the list as well - yeah , Harry's . If this isn't enough , a TV reporter ( Patricia Clarkson ) wants to do a big story on him . Directed by Buddy van Horn , " The Dead Pool " is a spoof of a sort , killing a movie critic as part of the story ( ouch ) , and the story actually concerns movie-making . It also has a car chase that's a take-off on " Bullitt . " The stereotypical characters found in this type of film are played by some excellent actors , and there's plenty of sexual innuendo to go around . Someone mentioned that Eastwood seems a little old here for Dirty Harry . He seems old for just about every role he plays , frankly , but he keeps playing them . It's always amazing how men are able to do this with no problem , but give the man his due . He's a great presence , and in 1988 , his best work as both a director and an actor was yet to come ! Very entertaining and well-acted . If you can get the joke , you'll enjoy it all the more .
Funny post - black comedy	Imagine a terrorist getting to the final round of an American Idol-type show so that he can bump off one of the judges - the President of the United States . Paul Weitz has a great and creative imagination to think up the plot of " American Dreamz , " a 2006 comedy that he wrote and directed . The premise is that the President of the U . S . ( Dennis Quaid ) is the puppet of his chief adviser ( Willem Dafoe ) and has to have an earpiece so he knows what to say . At the beginning of the film , he's reading newspapers and discovering that things in the world aren't quite as they've been described to him . So absorbed is he in this new knowledge , that he won't leave the residence , and rumors surface that he's had a nervous breakdown or is ill . So his Chief of Staff mounts a massive publicity campaign , and one of the things he's going to do is judge the " American Dreamz " contest . Hugh Grant is the Simon Cowell character who also hosts the show . He wants a Jew and an Arab to compete , plus someone really yummy ( Mandy Moore ) . An idiot terrorist ( Tony Yalda ) is sent to the U . S . to live with his cousins to get him out of the way , and his goal in life is to be on American Dreamz . However , the day the Dreamz committee arrives in response to his tape , his terrorist cousin Omer ( Sam Golzali ) is in his stage / basement setup doing a song for Guys and Dolls . He's scooped up for American Dreamz , which makes his cousin a ) furious and b ) his choreographer . The terrorist bosses devise a bomb that Omer will retrieve in the mens room to kill himself and the President - but he has to get to the final round . This comedy is truly outrageous . I just wish we could have seen a few more numbers from Omer and his cousin - for me , the competition just made the movie . In my opinion also , it would have been funnier if the Mandy Moore character of Sally Kendoo had been below par - she actually was pretty good . When Omer went into " The Impossible Dream " and one of the terrorists criticizes the choice of song to his fellow cell members , it was hilarious . It is incredibly nervy to show terrorists assembling pieces of a bomb for Omer to put together and juxtapose it with a mindless competition - nervy because it's the old Hitchcock terror in normal places idea that is scary indeed . After all Omer has been told about the evils in America , it must seem like a pretty silly place to him - but tempting - and he goes after the American Dream on American Dreamz . Sally Kendoo , looking for all the world like an innocent hometown girl , is anything but , as ruthless as they come , even taking advantage of an Iraqui vet she doesn't love to pull in audience votes . Grant is appropriately sleazy as Martin Tweed , Quaid good as an out of it President just finding his own voice , and Marcia Gay Harden has a small but colorful role as the First Lady . Most of the characters are sketchy and not likable - except for Omer and his cousin , who are a riot . If only real young terrorists were the way these two are depicted .
music hall mind reader starts making real predictions	Claude Rains stars as Maximus in " The Clairvoyant , " a British film from the Gainsborough studio which costars Fay Wray . Rains and Wray are a husband and wife team who have a mind-reading act that is dependent on a code ( as I just saw demonstrated in the film " Nightmare Alley " ) . During a moment of anxiety on stage when his wife loses her way backstage and gets locked out , Maximus makes a prediction to the audience that turns out to be true . His new gift seems dependent on the presence of a newspaper owner's daughter ( Jane Baxter ) and also , though not pointed out in the film , being under great stress . His foreseeing of the future , however , seems more like a curse than a gift as it threatens his marriage , and he is incapable of stopping the trouble he sees ahead . This is an old-fashioned , entertaining melodrama starring two people who had just become big stars , Rains ( Invisible Man ) and Wray ( King Kong ) . Both are excellent , with Wray looking especially stunning . The script was written by Charles Bennett , who wrote for Hitchcock . The curious thing about the movie was Robert Osborne's description of it on TCM , which didn't seem to jibe with the film itself . He states that the character of Maximus had predictions after terrible headaches , which I don't recall from the story , and that Maximus starts out as a con artist . A mind-reading act that describes an object being held as a fountain pen is not exactly a con , more like a parlor trick . It wasn't as if he had storefront where he took money for fortune telling . That aside , it's interesting to see Rains and Wray in this 72-year-old film .
1937 film remade for The King of Rock ' n ' Roll	Elvis Presley is a mechanic turned fighter in " Kid Galahad , " a 1962 film with Presley playing the role originally essayed by Wayne Morris in the ' 30s . He has strong support from Gig Young , Lola Albright , Joan Blackman and Charles Bronson . Elvis plays an ex-GI named Walter Grogan , who is taken on as a fighter by a man ( Gig Young ) who runs a resort but owes money to mobsters due to gambling debts . What he doesn't count on is the Kid falling for his sister ( Joan Blackman , Bette Davis in the original ) . This is early Elvis , when the production values were high and the songs fresh . Later on , Colonel Parker would tighten up on the budgets , since the cheaper he could get the films made , the more money he made for himself and Elvis . And Elvis ' parents had naively signed a contract giving Parker 50 % . I think Elvis would have been happier with better movies , such as " King Creole , " and less money . " Kid Galahad " is quite good , though , with fine music and a relaxed performance by Elvis , who looks great . He doesn't have the jet black hair and while he's not as thin as he would eventually get from using amphetamines , he's still in great shape . It became more and more difficult for Elvis to be Elvis , but here , he's a boyish , mellow guy who seemed to be enjoying what he was doing . Unfortunately , he didn't stay that way .
An icon of the ' 60s	Made in 1965 , " The Loved One , " based on a novel by Evelyn Waugh , was highly publicized when it first came out . Brilliantly directed by Tony Richardson and with a magnificent and bizarre cast , it's the penultimate black comedy . It totally sums up the ' 60s youth movement of anti-tradition , anti-war , and anti-establishment . The basis of the story is that young Dennis Barlow ( Robert Morse ) comes over from England to visit his uncle ( John Gielgud ) , a Hollywood studio artist who , shortly after Barlow's arrival , is fired by a clueless studio head ( Roddy McDowell ) and promptly hangs himself . This leads Barlow to the Whispering Glades cemetery , where death is both an art form and a religion . Barlow becomes involved with a young cosmetician , Amy ( Anjanette Comer ) and meets some real characters , including the embalmer , Mr . Joyboy , who is saving up for a big tub for his big mother . This is a satire with lots underneath it and probably one of the most off-beat casts ever assembled , everyone from Liberace to James Coburn , and what was probably Dana Andrews ' final A-list role . Somewhere along the line , off-type casting went out of fashion , which is one reason why see are burdened with so much mediocrity today . A page from Richardson's book would liven up many a film . Dark , sometimes gross , sometimes hilarious , sometimes wild , " The Loved One " is not for everyone and its message probably won't be appreciated by the younger generation . Still , it's worth seeing .
Odd film	James Garner is " Mr . Buddwing , " a man who wakes up in Central Park and can't remember who he is in this 1966 film directed by Delbert Mann . Taking the name Buddwing off of a Budweiser truck and the wing of a plane , Garner has a train schedule for a Harlem line , a phone number , and a ring with a crack in it from " GV . " Gradually things start to come back to him as he meets various women throughout the day , all of whom he thinks are named Grace . Through them , he relives different stages of his married life : Katharine Ross , a college student ; Suzanne Pleshette , an actress ; and Jean Simmons , as a drunken blond on a scavenger hunt . Angela Lansbury plays a blowsy woman whose phone number Buddwing finds in his pocket - or thinks he does . The film is made in an interesting way - one minute , Garner will be talking to Pleshette , for instance , in the present , and then a second later , he's talking to Pleshette as Grace , at some time in the past . The film is like that all the way through , as Buddwing's memories come back . Despite its stylishness and the ' 60s New York City scenes , " Mr . Buddwing " moves somewhat slowly . Garner does a good job , portraying the man's confusion and frustration well . Both Pleshette and Simmons are excellent ; Ross has the least showy role . A dark movie , worth seeing .
Crazy film done under sad circumstances	" Double Wedding " is an enjoyable , albeit dizzying comedy starring William Powell and Myrna Loy . It's really a tribute to the cast that they were able to carry on in such a wacky movie despite being shut down for a time due to Jean Harlow's untimely death . Both Powell , who was involved with Harlow , and Loy , who was a friend of hers , took her death very hard . Powell and Loy play polar opposites in this film . She is a complete control freak who has her life , her sister's life , and the life of her sister's fianc , planned down to the millisecond . Along comes Powell , who lives in a trailer and hocks items when he needs money . Once he's in their lives , all bets are off , and chaos reigns supreme . The cast is great but the whole thing kind of veers off focus from time to time . The writing isn't as strong as in some of the other screwball comedies of the era . But Powell is a treasure and teamed with Loy , even more so .
enjoyable , light story set in Europe and Russia	Back in the ' 30s , the studios made dozens of movies that were set in Europe to give Americans during the Depression a sense of fantasy and other world glamor , and to keep their foreign market . " The Emperor's Candlesticks " starring William Powell and Luise Rainer is such a film , with supporting roles featuring two young stars , Robert Young and Maureen O'Sullivan . Powell and Rainer are opposing foreign agents who each hide their documents in a pair of candlesticks to be brought to Russia as a gift to a noblewoman . The candlesticks were to be delivered by Powell , but Rainer talks the Austrian who has given him the task to let her do it . They are stolen by her maid and her boyfriend , and both Powell and Rainer try to be the first to recover them . Powell and Rainer are delightful in this crazy story . Rainer , with her small face and enormous eyes , is gorgeous , playing the part of a spy with charm . Powell is always good and plays off Rainer very well . Robert Young and Maureen O'Sullivan portray a prince and his kidnapper's accomplice , respectively , who meet at a masquerade ball , he dressed as Romeo and she as Juliet . Their last scene together is very sweet . This movie is odd for one reason . The stars all lived for a very long time , and in fact , Rainer at this writing is still alive at the age of 96 . Young lived to 91 , O'Sullivan to 87 , Powell to 91 . Must have been something in the water on the set . Wish it had been present on more films !
Dark drama with a touch of poetry	" Things to do in Denver When You're Dead " is a 1995 film starring Andy Garcia , Christopher Walken , Christopher Lloyd , Steve Buscemi , Bill Nunn , Treat Williams , Jack Warden , Gabrielle Anwar and Fairuza Balk . Garcia is Jimmy the Saint , an ex-mobster who now runs a company called Afterlife Advice , where he tapes the words of dying people so that their relatives can come in after they're gone and listen to them . He's called in by a paralyzed mobster ( Walken ) who wants a favor . Jimmy has no choice but to do it , because he owes money and the mobster owns his notes . On the surface and by mob standards , the favor is pretty benign . The Walken character has a child molester in the making son who is in love with a woman he dated for years . She left him and is now engaged to someone else . Her fianc is due in town , and the Walken character wants him frightened out of seeing her anymore . Jimmy gets a crew together , two men to pose as cops and some guys to sit nearby and do the scaring once the cops bring him over . Unfortunately , due to a ridiculous decision by Jimmy ( and THE major plot hole ) , a loose canon known as Critical Bill ( Williams ) is allowed to be one of the police ) . Unbeknownst to the men , the young woman is asleep in the back seat , her fianc realizes the guys aren't cops , Critical Bill becomes critical , and both she and her fianc wind up dead . The Walken character puts out buckwheat hits on everyone , meaning that they don't die instantly . He gives Jimmy 48 hours to get out of town . Jimmy spends it trying to help the others disappear , helping a young hooker ( Balk ) and dealing with his love for a young woman ( Anwar ) . In his own way , Jimmy the Saint brings things full circle in a way that makes sense for his own life . Violent , sad and depressing , " Things to do in Denver When You're Dead " has some brilliant performances and some very likable characters . Everyone is a standout , most especially Garcia , Lloyd and Williams . The film is punctuated with the advice from the elderly on tape , which gives the film a bittersweet flavor . Very well directed by Gary Fleder , with a somewhat derivative but good script by Scott Rosenberg .
Enjoyable entry into the Columbo series	After being off the air for a while , Columbo returned with some new made-for-TV mysteries that , while not being as good as the original series , are better than the shows that were done in the later ' 90s . " Murder Can Be Hazardous to Your Health " used the then ( and I guess now , if you think about it ) true crime shows as the situation for a murder . The murder is committed by a very successful , egomaniacal true crime show host , George Hamilton ( in a nice bit of casting ) . His chain-smoking nemesis , who lost the job to him , played by Peter Haskell , attempts to blackmail Hamilton when he discovers a porno video Hamilton made with an underage actress in his salad days . Hamilton uses Haskell's cigarettes to deliver the death blow via poison , giving himself an alibi as well . Columbo is brought in to find out what happened . You know the rest . Highly entertaining .
Medical soap opera with all the trimmings	Olivia deHavilland , Robert Mitchum , Frank Sinatra , Gloria Grahame , Broderick Crawford , and Charles Bickford star in " Not as a Stranger , " the story of an arrogant young man ( Mitchum ) and his quest to become a great , godlike doctor . Along the way , he learns something about becoming a human being . What a cast - Lon Chaney , Jr . even has a minor role as Mitchum's drunken father . Mae Clarke is a nurse . Harry Morgan plays a big eater , Virginia Christine his wife . If you look fast , you'll spot Lee Marvin and also Jerry Paris from " The Mary Tyler Moore Show . " Mitchum and Sinatra are old to be medical students - Sinatra was 40 and Mitchum , 38 . Mitchum is nevertheless very effective as an arrogant but poor man desperate to become a doctor - so desperate , in fact , that when he finds out that nurse deHavilland has $4 , 000 in the bank , he romances and marries her . Once out of medical school , he joins a country practice headed by Charles Bickford and meets sexy , lonely Gloria Grahame - and you nearly can see the sparks . Both actors had hot presences , both oozed sex appeal - I would have loved to have seen them in a star teaming instead of a subplot . This is a very good film - perhaps overly long - but it still holds interest because of the performances and the characters they play . It's very much the story of Mitchum's character and evolution and his marriage to deHavilland . In these days of special effects , a character-driven story is refreshing . All the performances are good , Sinatra supplying the wisecracks as a loyal friend of Mitchum's and the only one who understands him . There have been comments that he was miscast . There is such a thing as a society doctor , however , and the Sinatra character was on the track , so I didn't find his characterization that unrealistic . The towering performance , of course , comes from Olivia deHavilland as Kris , a simple Swedish nurse who falls in love with Mitchum and marries him , only to find it isn't much of a relationship . I say " of course " because in my opinion , deHavilland was one of the great actresses of the classic era , capable of playing a wide variety of roles and in different genres . Sweet and gentle as Melanie , plain , in love , and bitter in " The Heiress , " a petulant ingnue in " It's Love I'm After , " a young beauty in " The Adventures of Robin Hood , " elegant but tough in " Hush , Hush , Sweet Charlotte , " she's letter-perfect as Kris . She is believable from the time she comes on camera with her unattractive blond hairdo , her accent , her plain ways , and her shyness . As Sinatra points out , she's not doctor's wife material - no parents who belong to a country club , no class - " She should marry a farmer , " he says . 38 when the film was made , deHavilland is totally sympathetic as Mitchum criticizes her for not being smart and turns his back on her , not realizing her value as a wife and as a woman . A very good movie . Recommended .
Long and hot all right , with a tremendous cast	Paul Newman stars with Joanne Woodward , Orson Welles , Lee Remick , Anthony Franciosca , Richard Anderson and Angela Lansbury in " The Long , Hot Summer , " based on stories by William Faulkner . It's a lushly produced film about a drifter , Ben Quick ( Newman ) , who comes to town . His reputation precedes him , and he soon upsets the status quo in the wealthy Varner family , headed by Orson Welles with a fake nose that kept melting off and an even faker southern accent . There's the weak , insecure son ( Franciosa ) married to a sex kitten ( Remick ) and an unmarried daughter ( Woodward ) saving herself for a momma's boy ( Anderson ) . In town , there's also Varner Sr . ' s mistress , played by Angela Lansbury . Ben sets his sights on Clara Varner and puts himself in direct competition with nervous son Jody for papa's approval . But Quick ultimately needs to reach underneath his swagger and bravura and confront his cut and run philosophy . This is a fantastic cast that delivers sparkling dialogue and an interesting story that has mostly well-drawn characters . The exception would probably be Remick , who has a small but showy role . She doesn't get to do much except show off her figure and sexiness . Welles is a riot - a marvelous technician , he knew how to externalize a character perfectly , and he is here the epitome of a Big Daddy type . His southern drawl is outrageous , and why he decided he needed a new nose ( which he had in other roles as well ) is beyond me . Woodward gives a touching performance as a young woman who has been living on hope and can't quite cope with her attraction to the overtly sexual Quick . Franciosa is excellent as a tortured young man unable to win his father's love . But as any film that stars Paul Newman , the movie belongs to him , one of the greatest actors to ever hit the screen . Macho , sexy and handsome , his Ben Quick is angry , determined , manipulative , and disturbing , with a hidden vulnerability . His scenes with Woodward sizzle , and you can see her character blossom under his attention . They're a great couple , both on and off the screen . Highly recommended , as is any film that stars Paul Newman .
Ruth Chatterton in an early talkie	I watched this film , Lady of Scandal , because I had never seen Ruth Chatterton in a film , and I'm very glad I saw it . There was very witty dialogue , some funny scenes , and some tender moments peppered throughout this movie , which was based on a play . The beginning was a riot , as Chatterton , while performing on stage , dances herself over to the wings and hands her fiance a letter from his family . " Your family is horrid ! " she exclaims while doing her high kicks . The dialogue between Chatterton's prospective parents-in-law is especially funny . It's fascinating to see Basil Rathbone in his pre-Sherlock Holmes days . He was Margaret Mitchell's idea of Rhett Butler , she told a reporter , and it's perhaps a little bit easier to see why in these early films . But it's obvious that when Mitchell wrote her famous book , she envisioned her characters somewhat differently and from another perspective . Rathbone could have been a dashing southern gentleman but the ruggedness and sexiness would have been lost . Chatterton was a charming performer with a wide range , as exhibited in this film . She could do the theatrical diva , as well as comedy and pathos . I look forward to seeing more of her films .
A woman overhears a plot to kill - her !	Barbara Stanwyck stars as an invalid who hears about a murder plot on the telephone in " Sorry , Wrong Number , " a 1948 film based on a radio script that also stars Burt Lancaster , Ed Begley , and Wendell Corey . You can really get how beautifully this must have worked on radio - it's a natural . Stanwyck's character is Leona Stevenson , whose father owns a huge drug conglomerate . She's a total bitch - I mean , there are points where you wonder why someone didn't knock her off before . Because of a heart condition , she is an invalid and this particular night is alone in her father's house ( though she's married , they live with her father - she likes it there ) . She picks up the phone and asks the operator for a number . The operator gives her the wrong number , or there are crossed lines - at any rate , she hears plans to murder someone . Eventually she comes to realize that she's the victim . This would be such a fascinating film to show students who don't remember an operator asking for a telephone number or even dial phones ! It's also of interest because there aren't the old-fashioned type " invalids " that there used to be - although it turns out that Leona is an invalid , all right , but not where she thinks . Now to the problems . In 1948 , Barbara Stanwyck was 41 and Lancaster 35 . Frankly , he looks a lot younger . We are supposed to believe - apparently - that they met in college not that long ago . It made the scene where they met almost impossible to understand , because I didn't realize at first that they were at a college dance . Then later she says she's cutting some classes . Oy . It's aggravating because that could have been so easily altered in the script . Burt Lancaster is to die for gorgeous . Those shoulders , those lips , that hair , that face - yikes ! One certainly can't fault Leona for going after him , but one certainly wouldn't have faulted her if she was a slightly older woman going after him either . Nevertheless , " Sorry , Wrong Number " is a very intense film , especially in its final minutes . Much of it is told in flashback , and there is actually a flashback within a flashback , a device used a lot in the film " The Locket . " Highly recommended for Stanwyck's performance and for a look at the old days , when operators said " number , please ! "
Disturbing and outrageous look at Sante and Kenny Kimes	" A Little Thing Called Murder " is another TV movie about Sante and Kenny Kimes , the real-life mother and son con artist / murder team . The first film starred Mary Tyler Moore and focused mainly on the murder of Irene Silverman , the New York woman killed for her brownstone and whose body was never found . ( Court TV also did a documentary on them . ) In this version , the murder of Irene is at the end of the movie . Director Richard Benjamin takes us through the bizarre life of Sante , with each crime a new episode that begins with the title " A Little " - which is how Sante thought of her crimes - A Little Problem with the Maid ( slavery ) , A Little Problem with the Check , etc . Now in prison , Sante Kimes must be in life as over the top as depicted by Mary Tyler Moore - and if you thought Moore was outrageous , wait until you see Judy Davis sink her teeth into Sante . The approach in this film is more of dark comedy , though much of it is quite shocking . Davis ' performance can only be described as out there - and probably accurate . Sante thoroughly corrupts her young son , played here by adorable Jonathan Jackson , which makes his crimes and killings all the more horrible . She sets fire to the family home for insurance ; she takes a test drive in a car and holds onto it for a year ; her Mexican help are actually slaves ; she shoplifts , and when caught , she hits her son and goes after the security guard ; the two claim to the cops that the security guard slapped Kenny and leave ; she hides her husband's death so she can clean out his Bahamian bank accounts ; and finally , of course , the Silverman case . In real life , not shown here , Sante actually posed as Silverman , an 82-year-old , in order to sign some papers . Catch Davis performing " Santa Baby " with a boa and you'll know you've entered the twilight zone . She's a scream . The film is very well done , interesting , and intriguing . But don't look for motives or reasons . The writers deliberately didn't explore them . Sante is so nuts , though , one wonders if she hadn't lost sight of her original demons years earlier .
Hope / Lamour WWII comedy	Bob Hope is a Pulitzer-prize winning Robert Kittridge reporter who , after assuring his editor that Germany will not invade Russia loses his job in " They Got Me Covered . " He thinks that this minor infraction can be forgiven if the man who won him the first Pulitzer , his contact Vanescu , will just come through with the story he says he has . But he's too nervous and tells Kittridge to have a stenographer ( Lamour ) meet him and she should carry a red bag and a green umbrella . His girlfriend / secretary calls home and arranges to have her roommate meet them - but Kittridge has the meeting place mixed up and by the time they get to the right place , the roommate has been taken away in a car . She gets the story in shorthand but the Nazis can't decipher it . They bring in decoder after decoder who look at the notes in dismay and say things like , " This isn't Gregg shorthand . . . this isn't Pittman . . . . this isn't speedwriting . . . " - a very funny scene that probably had the secretaries in the audience laughing . The poor roommate then becomes a target . The script is loaded with war jokes about rationing , the swing shift , etc . , and Hope pops them off in his usual wry manner . When he hears Crosby on the radio , he turns it off and says , " That guy is haunting me . " Lamour sports a big , high hairdo that almost looks like she's got it intertwined with a fur piece . She gives Hope great support . The Axis powers are a scream - Otto Preminger , Eduardo Cianelli , and Philip Ahn . In one very funny scene , Hope , disguised as a dummy , is eavesdropping on them at a health club when Preminger decides to show his skill with a knife - at the dummy . Wartime audiences must have loved this , and much of " They Got Me Covered " still holds up even if that particular war is over . Great comedy delivered by masters .
funny feminist film with good performances	I was very entertained by " Something to Talk About . " I didn't consider it a big , important movie , I just took it as light fun . I have read some of the other comments , and it seems not everyone reacted to it that way . I thought this was a great cast . Robert Duvall and Gena Rowlands were fabulous , as was Kyra Sedgwick . Dennis Quaid is beyond adorable - and there is one of the flaws in the film . How could you trust that man for one second and be surprised when he cheats ? The other flaw is how he managed to be in college with Julia Roberts , unless she was a child wunderkind . As for Julia Roberts , I prefer her in this kind of film rather than heavy drama , because I don't care for her very external acting . She was more believable in this and , especially at the end , she sparkled . I personally loved the ending , and for all you who wonder , I absolutely think they get back together . I think infidelity hurts and yes , it maybe even hurts enough that , in the heat of anger , you might try to poison your husband . I also think you can get past it , and I think this character did . I agree that often , when women cheat in films , it's somehow justified and the man who cheats is vilified . In life , that's not always true . Life is a lot more complicated than that . Obviously , this was written from a woman's point of view . As I said , I took it for what it was . It was entertaining . I had to think when I watched " Camille Claudel . "
Lincoln makes a " tall target "	" The Tall Target , " about a plot to kill Lincoln before his inauguration , is a compact little film directed by Anthony Mann and starring Dick Powell , Adolphe Menjou , Marshall Thompson , and Ruby Dee . Powell plays John Kennedy , a detective and admirer of the future President who finds out about an assassination plot and hopes to stop it , although his written report seems to fall on blind eyes . On board a train , Kennedy finds the person he was to meet is dead , someone is impersonating him , and , from all the political talk , there are lots of suspects who hate Lincoln as the country gets ready for war . Most of the action takes place on the train and the atmosphere and black and white cinematography neatly capture the period . The performances are all excellent , including that of Will Geer as the train conductor and Ruby Dee as a young slave whose mistress ' brother ( Thompson ) is a prime suspect in the assassination plot . Twenty years earlier , Dick Powell was a boy tenor playing male ingnues opposite Ruby Keeler ; in the ' 40s , he turned to tough detective type roles , and ultimately became a highly successful producer . He's very good in " The Tall Target " but a little too modern in manner and dialogue delivery . It's somewhat noticeable because the period is captured very well by the other actors . This is a very good movie with a neat ending and based on a true incident . There was , by the way , a John Kennedy who was a former law enforcement officer who served in the Lincoln administration . Whether he was involved in this situation , I don't know . It's a wonderful story nonetheless .
very good look at the making of a classic	" Destination Hitchcock : The Making of North by Northwest " is an interesting behind-the-scenes look at what went on during the production of this wonderful movie . Hosted by Eva Marie Saint , the documentary contains interviews with Ernest Lehman , the writer , Patricia Hitchcock , the director's daughter , and Martin Landau , as well as plenty of anecdotes of Saint's . Lehman goes into detail about how the movie was conceived , coming out of his failed attempts to write a script for " The Wreck of the Mary Deare " and his writing around two elements that Hitchcock wanted : a delegate dead at the UN and Mount Rushmore . The most amusing story is one told by Saint , of Hitchcock secretly filming Grant entering the UN from across the street . The best part of the documentary for me were the on-the-set photos showing the cast clowning around and the director speaking with Grant , etc . Also Saint shows the faux pas of the little boy putting his hands over his ears before the gun goes off , adding , " Why of all the takes we did , that one was chosen , I'll never know . " The way Hitchock worked , i . e . , planning to the last detail , has been discussed ad infinitum , but this was the first time I ever actually saw his sketches of the various scenes - he literally drew the entire movie scene by scene before sitting down to actually film it . Entertaining , though alas , there are not enough people alive anymore to talk further about a great movie , " North by Northwest . " Well worth seeing , though .
Great cast in ' 40s noir	Richard Widmark , Ida Lupino , Cornel Wilde and Celeste Holm are all in the " Road House , " a 1948 film noir directed by Jean Negulesco . Widmark , fresh from his career-making role of Tommy Udo , plays Jefty , who owns a road house . His friend from the service , Wilde , runs the place . Jefty is gone on Lily ( Lupino ) but can't get to first base and hires her as a singer . Unfortunately , she falls for Pete . Jefty frames Pete for robbery to keep him and Lily from leaving town to get married , and then arranges with the judge to have Pete paroled to him . To say he's up to something is an understatement . The revelation here is Lupino as a sexy torch singer . She does her own singing here , husky , seductive , very stylized and smoking . She's wonderful . Widmark is vicious as only Widmark could be , and Wilde repeats his " Leave Her to Heaven " nice guy as victim role . Celeste Holm looks great and does her usual excellent job as a woman attracted to Pete who takes pity on him and Lily just the same . My only criticism is that there is a scene where Lily turns on the radio to a classical station where a soprano is singing " Einsam im Truben Tagen . " She tells Pete that she studied opera , and her father had great ambition for her . With that whiskey and cigarette soaked set of vocal cords - I doubt it .
With all that beauty , who listens to what they're saying ?	A broke American is forced to pose as a Russian prince in order to pay a gambling debt in " Cafe Metropole , " a film written by the multi-talented Gregory Ratoff , who also plays a role in the movie . This is a funny , light , romantic comedy where the best scenes are saved for the character actors Charles Winninger and Helen Westley , who have great banter . Menjou is a duplicitous restaurateur who blackmails Tyrone Power into going along with his scheme ; Loretta Young , romanced by Power , is the beautiful daughter of Charles Winninger . If you're a shallow person , this is the movie for you because it's Eye Candy City . Power and Young , two people very , very high on any " most beautiful " list , are so ethereally , incalculably gorgeous that it's hard to listen to a word they're saying while they're on screen . And Young's fashions are divine ' 30s couturier . This is one of Power's very early films ; he was only 22 when it was made , and though only a year older than he was , Young had been around since silent film days . For me , Power's looks reached their full dazzle about two to three years later but if you only saw him in Cafe Metropole , you'd have a hard time believing there could be any improvement in that face . And in a tuxedo for so much of the movie . Almost too much of a good thing . Anyway , if you can concentrate , Cafe Metropole is a delightful film . As a bit of trivia , Power and Young made several films together in Power's early days at Fox . They remained friends , and in 1958 , Young showed up for Power's funeral straight from filming her TV show , decked out and unrecognizable in Oriental garb and makeup to match . In the late ' 70s , she was photographed with Power's son , Ty , Jr . , and you would swear you'd gone back in time . His resemblance to his father was so striking , and she was still so very beautiful .
very good	" True Crime " is a very good , if derivative film directed by and starring Clint Eastwood . We've seen the whole thing before , but it goes to show that if something is well done and well performed , the viewer will become very involved in it . A rogue reporter , an off and on drunk , who is assigned a human interest story of a man on death row comes to believe in his innocence and must find a way to stop the execution . There are some strong performances by Isaiah Washington , Lisa Gay Hamilton and Diana Venora as well as Eastwood's smooth direction . James Woods to me seemed a little over the top , if only because Eastwood is so relaxed . I have the same problem with this film as I have had with past Eastwood films , and that has to do with his age . Eastwood is 68 in this film ; his character is still working - no mention of retirement ; he's a ladies man and at the end of the movie he's trying to pick up a 20-something ; he has a four-year-old or so daughter . I'm just taking a stab at this - the character is supposed to be , say , 10 to 20 years younger ? One assumes then that there is a young wife at home - well , she's young for Eastwood anyway - it's Diana Venora , with whom I went to school . What's the story with this marriage ? Is it a recent one ? Frankly I'm surprised that Eastwood , who insists on playing roles he's 10 to 20 years too old for , would have tolerated a woman in her forties as his wife . Maybe in his mind , they're the same age . He was running through the forest like an Olympian in " Absolute Power " while he looked like Father Time ; he had ropes in his neck for " Bridges of Madison County . " Meanwhile , the film " Premonition " cast Kate Nelligan , age 57 , as 43-year-old Sandra Bullock's mother and in " Postcards from the Edge , " 56-year-old Shirley Maclaine as 41-year-old Meryl Streep's mother . These women evidently lived in states that allowed 14-year-olds to be married . My point is , Hollywood can never get the ages right . Women are pushed into old age in their fifties and the male stars get to play 40-year-olds when they're pushing eighty . At a certain point , it becomes insulting . If this film had been made last year , I suppose Diana Venora would have been playing Clint's mother . So though I like Eastwood very much and his directing very much and found this film compelling , I was distracted - as I have been in the past - by these little details . We shouldn't be expected to have to suspend reality with the ages of the characters as well as everything else . Once in a while , I'd like to focus on the story .
pleasant wartime film	Fred Astaire is an incognito war hero on leave in " The Sky's the Limit , " also starring Joan Leslie , Robert Ryan , and Robert Benchley . Astaire is a member of " The Flying Tigers " and jumps off of a train so that he can have fun during his leave instead of making promotional appearances . At a bar , he sees magazine photographer Joan Leslie and falls for her without telling her who he is . This is a very sweet film with some good numbers , but I wanted more ! Leslie and Astaire danced well together in the energetic " I've Got a Lot in Common With You , " and Astaire's " One for My Baby " is a standout , both his singing and in a tricky dance number that involves breaking glasses with his feet . Apparently , he injured himself while filming . I love Astaire's singing - he's so musical and if his voice isn't great , it's lyrical . My only quibble is that Joan Leslie's voice was dubbed and yet it wasn't very good . If they were going to dub it , why didn't they dub it with somebody better ? Certainly this was a perfect film to see in wartime - not only entertaining but poignant .
The Mounties always get their man	Jeanette MacDonald is " Rose-Marie " in this 1936 film also starring Nelson Eddy , James Stewart and Allan Jones . The movie borrows its title from the Rudolf Friml operetta , but it does not use the plot or many of the songs . MacDonald plays a famous opera singer named Marie de Flor whose brother ( Stewart ) , going by the last name of Flower , has escaped prison and killed a Mountie . She leaves at once for Quebec and winds up meeting - who else - Nelson Eddy , a Mountie who recognizes her immediately and believes at first that he is helping her get to a rendezvous with a man . Meanwhile , he's falling for her himself . Nelson and Jeannette were one of the great screen teams , and even now , they have fans all over the world . Jeanette was beautiful , a good singer and a fine actress , and Nelson , while not being much of an actor , was an attractive man with a magnificent voice . Their big hit , in fact , their signature song , " Indian Love Call , " is from this film , as is , naturally , " Rose-Marie . " Because of the recording devices used back then and the way female singers were taught , Jeannette's lyric-coloratura suffers somewhat . Like all female singers of that era , she has a back placement for her high notes , though the middle part of her range is quite beautiful . Her obsession with Tosca - one of the opera scenes shown , and a role she also performed on stage in real life - is a curious one . She had no business singing it , and neither did the tenor , Allan Jones , who was a lyric tenor . It's for a dramatic soprano and a spinto tenor . The Gounod " Romeo et Juliette , " which she sings with Jones in the beginning of the movie is much more appropriate for both of them . Eddy , on the other hand , had operatic roots , and his baritone has survived very well . They sounded wonderful together , and there was something about them that just worked , even if he was somewhat wooden . She was spitfire enough for both of them , and it made a nice contrast . My favorite part of the film is when , after her guide steals her money , Marie goes looking for the job as a singer in a honky tonk caf and tries to do " Some of these Days , " which she sings operatically while attempting to copy the hoochie-coochie movements of the caf's resident singer . Stewart was slowly ascending the scale to stardom , getting better and better roles - he has a couple of big scenes in this film . He's boyish , good-looking and very effective . Today I suppose these films seem very campy , and they've surely been parodied over and over again . However , the music is enjoyable , Nelson and Jeanette are treasures , and one can't help but marvel , amidst the insanity of today , what a much simpler time it was . People were able to be lifted out of themselves for a little while with fantasy and beauty . These movies must have been doing something right . Seventy-plus years later , we're still enjoying them .
MGM jumps on that 42nd Street bandwagon	Like the other studios , MGM wasted no time cashing in on the success of 42nd Street with its own backstage musical , complete with ersatz Busby Berkeley choreography . This one is " Dancing Lady , " and she's young Joan Crawford costarring with Franchot Tone and Clark Gable . A dancer named Fred Astaire makes his official film debut , and Nelson Eddy pops in for a song . Crawford is an ambitious dancer being pursued by a rich boyfriend ( Tone ) , but she's blinded by the footlights of Broadway . He helps her out by getting her into a show directed by tough guy Gable , and when he sees her talent and perseverance , he gives her the " top spot " in the show . Of course , he's attracted to her , too , and she to him . It's easy for all of them to be attracted to one another because they're all gorgeous . 30 years after this film , Franchot Tone would play a dying President in " Advise and Consent " . . . and look it . Here he's a smooth dazzler in his top hat , tails , brilliant smile and dimples . Gable is muscular , sexy , and rough around the edges . Crawford sparkles with her athletic figure , beautiful legs , and surely a pair of the most spellbinding eyes ever in film . She is perfection in her Adrian outfits . Though she does well in her big number with Astaire , Crawford really was from the Ruby Keeler School of Hoofing - lots of arms , big steps , and a ton of noise . The musical itself - uh , " Dancing Lady " - is tuneful and pleasant , and its spectacular finale gives one the impression that Louis B screamed for the kitchen sink - Berkeley-type choreography , a Nelson Eddy solo , and Astaire . It's wonderful to see these stars so young and energetic , and they are all great to watch . Look for an uncredited appearance by a blond Eve Arden and Lynn Bari somewhere in the chorus . Lots of fun from MGM .
Sturges ' first hit	Brian Donlevy is " The Great McGinty " in this 1940 film written and directed by Preston Sturges . The film also stars two men who would become part of the Sturges group of actors , Akim Tamiroff and William Demarest . Muriel Angelus plays McGinty's wife . Sturges always had interesting beginnings - or ends - to his films . This one begins : One man was always evil and had a moment of honesty ; another man was always good and had a moment of evil . They both had to leave the country ( paraphrasing ) . In a foreign country , a bartender tells his story to a suicidal man , an embezzler whom he has just saved , and a woman who works at the establishment . His story is a wild one - he was once governor of a state . As the story unfolds , McGinty - that's the man's name - was a hobo when he was paid $2 to vote to get a man into office . He voted 37 times and attracted the attention of a crooked political boss ( Tamiroff ) who gets him elected as alderman , mayor , and finally puts him up for governor . Along the way , he marries his secretary ( Angelus ) in order to have the appearance of a stable , good man . It's a marriage of convenience - she has two children and a dachshund . But he falls in love with all of them , and with her encouragement , decides to turn his back on the graft and the stealing and start thinking of the people . That's when he gets into trouble . " The Great McGinty " isn't a crazy comedy like " The Miracle of Morgan's Creek " or " The Palm Beach Story . " The humor comes out of the fact that this bum rises to the office of mayor and locks horns with the big boss . The best scenes are between Tamiroff and Donlevy , who work beautifully together , particularly when they're trying to kill one another . Though one of the last scenes is a sad one , Sturges gives us our smiles back with the last moments of the film . Brian Donlevy , who is usually in a supporting role , does a terrific job as McGinty - tough and belligerent , but with a kind side even he didn't know he had . Donlevy repeated his role of McGinty in " The Miracle of Morgan's Creek " in a cameo . Muriel Angelus , a British leading lady who retired to raise a family in 1946 , is lovely as Mrs . McGinty , who never wanted to get married again and then falls in love with her husband . Tamiroff makes a powerful " Boss " who has a volatile relationship with his puppet , who sometimes gets out of his strings . An excellent movie that pokes fun at political machinery and behind the scenes plotting . It also shows us what can happen when a little love comes into our lives .
Interesting story of Dr . Thomas Morton	In an unusual move , Preston Sturges decided to film " The Great Moment , " a movie that tells the story of Dr . Thomas Morton's struggle to be acknowledged for his work in discovering anesthesia . The Sturges 1944 film ( shelved for two years ) starring Joel McCrea takes the point of view that Morton was a wronged man . In reading up on it , it seems that he was , and that a good deal of " The Great Moment " is accurate , probably until the very end . Morton is a dentist seeking a way to practice pain-free dentistry . With the help of his mentor , Dr . Jackson , he eventually tries a form of ether that works , and he gives a name to his product . It was successfully used at the Massachusetts General Hospital for the first time in 1846 . The problem comes in that , as with many inventions , other people claimed credit . Dr . Horace Wells , with whom Morton had worked , indeed used anesthesia in the form of laughing gas , but had a colossal public failure and after that , continued experimenting . Jackson , who claimed credit for telling Morton about the ether , later claimed he had invented the telegraph and a form of ammunition and was clearly unbalanced . The man who made anesthesia a practical tool of surgery was Morton , but he was unable to obtain a patent , and the fight about who really invented it raged on for years . Joel McCrea is very likable as Dr . Morton , and Betty Field is wonderful as his long-suffering wife . Harry Carey turns in one of the best performances as Dr . Warren , the doctor who lets Morton use anesthesia on his patient . William Demarest plays a dental patient who has a pain-free surgery and after that , aligns with Morton . He's actually there more for comic relief . " The Great Moment " works backwards , starting at the end and working through until Dr . Morton " ruins himself for a servant girl " - you'll be wondering what that's about all through the film . Actually , from my research , that part is pure hooey , and that's not why Dr . Morton lost control of his invention . The film is an uneasy mix of comedy and drama and , unlike other Sturges films , is a downer . Apparently this version isn't his cut . Sturges fans will be disappointed . I have to say , I was intrigued .
Nick Carter's last case	" Sky Murder " turned out to be Nick Carter's final case , which is a shame . The series had a lot going for it , including handsome , commanding Walter Pidgeon as Carter in one of his best roles . " Sky Murder " is a fast-moving mystery involving subversives - Nazis no doubt . Ten years later and it would have been Communists . After a murder in a locked airplane compartment , a German refugee ( Kaaren Verne ) becomes a suspect , and Nick is sure she didn't do it . It's never easy for Nick to work on a case because of people who won't leave him alone , and this time is no different . Donald Meek as Bartholemew is still around with his bees , and he has a hilarious fight scene . There's also a pseudo-detective , Christine Cross ( Joyce Compton ) who is a complete airhead . This series had a nice , chaotic and humorous feel to it , with the anchor ably provided by Pidgeon who puts up with Bartholemew and here , Compton , but never seems to get flustered . Really fun . It's a shame there were so few of the Nick Carter films .
entertaining , absorbing drama	I'll say right off that I'm not a fan of Julia Roberts . I find her acting very external . I do , however , like a lot of her movies . I think our tastes run to similar type stories . What can I say . " Sleeping with the Enemy " is a good , if not great film . It held my interest , especially at the beginning , where one feels the tension in the beautiful home , and when all the little pieces of conversation come together . It seems like the object was to showcase Julia rather than the story - I found some of the scenes a big waste , such as her MTV video doing costume changes and yet another one of those couples dancing together and falling for one another scenes . I thought Kevin Anderson , a marvelous stage performer , did a great job as Julia's love interest , and Patrick Bergin was one scary husband . The suspense did build at the end . Yes , the movie has holes . I just went with it .
We're better off not knowing what tomorrow brings	Dick Powell gets himself in a trouble with tomorrow's newspaper in " It Happened Tomorrow , " a 1944 film also starring Linda Darnell and Jack Oakie . Powell plays Larry Stevens , an ambitious reporter who is given the next day's newspaper by an old man , Pop Benson , who works at the paper . Benson , and Powell have a discussion about knowing the news in advance , and Pop shows up the next day with an advanced newspaper issue showing what is going to happen . Larry is able to write a robbery story in advance and have it ready to go as soon as the event occurs , which puts him under suspicion with the police . Then he reads about his own death . Interesting premise that will sound familiar to those who watched the TV series " Early Edition . " The beautiful Linda Darnell , Stevens ' love interest , plays half of a mind-reading act , the other half being her uncle ( Jack Oakie ) . Rene Clair was an odd duck who was attracted to this type of story . It isn't paced well , but Powell's performance manages to hold the thing together . The film begins with a couple celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary , and the husband wanting to tell the guests a story of something that happened to him . You won't have any trouble figuring out who they are . The plot sounds serious , but it's delivered with a light touch .
not your typical Gable and Crawford film	" Strange Cargo " is a 1940 film starring Joan Crawford and Clark Gable that leaves the usual story lines behind - romantic comedy , kept woman , rags to riches - as it weaves an allegorical tale of escaping prisoners and a Christ-like figure who accompanies them . Gable is Andre Verne , a prisoner on Devil's Island who escapes with several other prisoners ( Paul Lukas , Albert Dekker , Eduardo Ciannelli , J . Edward Bromberg and John Arledge ) . During the evening count , he's almost found missing but another man , Cambreau ( Ian Hunter ) replaces him in line . He then boards the boat to the mainland with them and Julie ( Crawford ) , probably a prostitute , who is escaping also from a lecherous bounty hunter ( Peter Lorre ) . The prisoners fall on hard times as they escape through the woods and also while at sea when their water becomes tainted . Cambreau gives each prisoner comfort and helps them to confront the evil that brought them to Devil's Island , helping to bring them peace at last . This is not lost on Julie who sees a chance for redemption . Verne , however , isn't interested . This is a very simple story beautifully directed by Borzage . The atmosphere of the film is dark and haunting . There is no preachiness . The sheer power of Cambreau and his sense of faith is what brings the prisoners solace . Hunter is majestic in the role . Gable is appropriately tough , and Crawford brings depth to Julie , who thought she knew what she wanted . The rest of the cast is top-notch . " Strange Cargo " seems like a film that was made in the early ' 30s with its Christian parable . This was the last film that Crawford and Gable made together . Its powerful message makes this a fitting ending for a fine MGM team .
The King of Fox as the Prince of Foxes	Despite a comment that Darryl F . Zanuck refused Tyrone Power's pleas to make " Prince of Foxes " in color because he was angry with his star , this is not true . The film was probably made with Italian funds that the studio couldn't get out of the country , and there just wasn't enough money to do this richly-produced film in color . Zanuck was too much of a businessman to let anger ruin a good opportunity . And why would he have been angry ? Power was doing another swashbuckler like the big man ordered , wasn't he ? Despite not being in color , " Prince of Foxes " is a glorious-looking film , made on location in Italy . It's based on the Shellabarger novel about Andrea Orsini , a peasant with a fake royal name , who is sent by Cesare Borgia to infiltrate the court of Count Verrano , seduce his wife , and get rid of him so that Borgia's troops can take over his province . Orsini , however , double-crosses his boss . The acting is marvelous - Tyrone Power is wonderful as the turncoat Orsini , and manages to hold his own against the flashier roles of Cesare Borgia ( Orson Welles ) and Belli ( Everett Sloane ) . Though I doubt that Welles was terribly into his part , as usual he's excellent . When doing a role strictly for money , he had the habit of arching his eyebrow and intoning that glorious voice to make the audience believe he was doing something . It's only when one sees him as Citizen Kane or in a film like " Tomorrow is Forever " that one realizes these later supporting roles are phoned in . But who better to make the call than master technician Welles . Sloane does a fantastic job as a man who just can't stay loyal to one side and pulls one of the film's big surprises . The part is cut down from the book , which is a pity . The music , the scenery - amazing . The great halls are like nothing you've ever seen . For once , Tyrone Power has competition for beauty ! By the time of Prince of Foxes , he was totally sick of these roles , but he had a few years left before Zanuck turned him loose . It's said that he was too old to be a swashbuckler by 1949 - he was 35 , which today is nothing , though he often had to play parts that were intended for someone 10 or even 15 years younger . As a result , he sometimes looked tired out . But not here . Perhaps this film was more tolerable for him because of his impending marriage to Linda Christian , his second wife . In any event , he comes off very well . One thing I never understood is why Zanuck insisted on casting the post-war Power opposite these vapid starlets - Wanda Hendrix in this , Cecile Aubry in " The Black Rose , " Jean Peters in " Captain from Castile " etc . - of these , the only " find " was the wonderful Peters . Hendrix is okay in " Prince of Foxes " but that's about it . The role called for a little more depth than she was able to give . All in all , beautiful to watch , an intriguing story , excellent acting . Recommended , and , by the way , soon to be released in DVD as part of the Tyrone Power Collection .
Like a road , it has twists and turns	When you tune in a film that stars George Raft , Humphrey Bogart , Ann Sheridan , Ida Lupino , and Alan Hale Jr . - well , you expect to see a Warners Brother film starring Humphrey Bogart . Guess again . And that's the first twist " They Drive By Night " has for the viewer - George Raft has top billing . This movie was made before Bogie became a hot property , so the iconic film star is fourth on the cast list . After turning down " Casablanca , " " High Sierra , " " The Maltese Falcon " and " Double Idemnity " and a few other gems - well , there's not much more to be said . Raft and Bogart play the Fabrini brothers who work in the tough trucking business , where it's hard to make a decent living , get any sleep , or maintain any kind of family life . One of the more generous fleet owners ( Hale ) gives Raft a tip on going into business for himself . Hale's wife is the precursor to Glenn Close in " Fatal Attraction " - she's obsessed with Raft and horrible to her adoring husband . Raft , however , is in love with Cassie ( Sheridan ) . After a devastating accident takes Bogart out of commission and destroys their truck , Raft goes to work in-house for Hale . Time for twist # 2 - and it's a doozy that leads to murder and revenge . This is a highly entertaining film with some good performances , and it shows what the common man has to go through to make a decent living - and that remains true today . Bogart is very good in his supporting role , and Sheridan has a nice , earthy quality . Raft , an effective film tough guy , can't give a nuanced performance , but he's okay . Where the movie goes off is in the characters played by Lupino and Hale . Hale is a loud , highly successful businessman who comes off as being incredibly stupid , and the Lupino character has not one redeeming quality . Her big scene at the end is completely over the top and comes from nowhere . Lupino is capable of much better acting than this , but the character is badly written and she was not well directed . Nevertheless , this is vintage ' 30s and vintage Warners - dark , workmanlike , and worth seeing for its stars , though some aren't at their best .
unbelievable pre-code	" Blood Money " is a fascinating precode - what else can you say about a film that has Judith Anderson in a glamor role ? And an ingnue who longs for S & M to boot . This 1933 film concerns a bail bondsman named Bill Bailey ( George Bancroft ) who's been helping out the mob for years . He falls for a pretty shoplifter named Elaine ( Frances Dee ) - she's actually slumming , as she's from a wealthy family . This leaves Bailey's girlfriend , club owner Ruby ( Anderson ) in the lurch . She's the woman responsible for his success , helping him out when he was thrown off of the police force . However , Elaine ( who would follow any man who thrashed her around like a dog , says she ) steals some bonds instead of delivering them to the appropriate place , thereby setting up Bailey as a mob target and getting his brother-in-law in deep trouble with the law . Ruby believes he's responsible for her brother's problems , and has a hit put out on him . The acting is over the top , the dialogue is rough and filled with sexual innuendos , the atmosphere is sleazy - it's pre-code all right . I read a transcript of an interview with Joel McCrea ( intended to be for a biography that wasn't written ) and he kept referring to " Mother " - I finally realized that he didn't call his wife , Frances Dee , " mother " - he was referring to her that way while talking to one of his sons , who was conducting the interview . As the promiscuous , dying to be hit ingnue , she wasn't very motherly in this . This is a no-miss if only to see Judith Anderson in a gown and jewels hanging out with mobsters and Frances Dee as something other than a pretty goody-two-shoes .
Compelling drama based on a true story	" Innocent Victims " is the story of what happens what the police decide on a suspect and set out to nail that particular suspect , becoming blind to any evidence that would raise doubt . For those who don't believe this can happen in the U . S . , guess again - we just saw it in the Duke University case . Did the same thing happen in this case ? It's up to you . The young man here , Tim Hennis , is well played by a blond John Corbett as a man questioned and finally arrested for brutal murder of a woman and her two small children . He insists on his innocence , and his parents go to great lengths , including selling their home , and his father retiring early and getting only a partial pension , to help him prove it . When he is convicted and lands on Death Row , efforts are redoubled by his attorneys to get him a new trial and to find the real killer . This was a sensational case that resulted in a book and this TV movie . One thing pointed up here is that the defendant agreed to be questioned by the police and submit to DNA testing without an attorney present . I think from seeing the film , people realize that it doesn't matter whether or not you are innocent of the crime , you should never , ever talk to the police without a lawyer , no matter what they tell you . They told this guy he wasn't a suspect and just wanted to talk to him . My sister works for the public defender . She says , don't fall for it . I know many people assume that if you bring a lawyer , you have nothing to hide , but that isn't true . A lawyer is there to protect your rights . Hal Holbrook and Rue McClanahan are excellent as Tim's devoted parents , and Rick Shroeder does a terrific job as one of the lawyers trying to prove that Tim is not guilty . All of the acting is good . It's difficult for me to see lawyers depicted in such a positive light - I had a lawyer for something who did nothing and collected a fortune from me . Someone posted that they have a hard time believing this could happen in America ; I have a hard time believing lawyers like this exist . There is a fascinating update on this case if you go to google . com and put " Tim Hennis " " update " in the search box . The link was too long , and IMDb would not allow it .
Sweet as they come	" It All Came True " is a delightful 1940 film starring Humphrey Bogart , Ann Sheridan , Jeffrey Lynn , and Zasu Pitts . Sheridan and Lynn are the adult children of business partners in a boarding house ( Jessie Busley and Una O'Connor ) . The women are about to lose the house because of back taxes . Lynn is Tommy , a composer , and Sheridan is Sarah Jane , a nightclub entertainer . Both move back home , but Lynn brings his boss , Chips Maguire ( Bogart ) with him , who is hiding from the police . He's blackmailing Tommy into hiding him the gun that killed the victim is in Tommy's name . Chips can't leave his room , of course , and eventually grows bored with the entire arrangement . He recognizes the very attractive Sarah Jane as having been on the circuit , and decides to help her out by making the boarding house into a nightclub . He finances it and bails the women out of their financial troubles at the same time . Sarah Jane isn't interested in Chips - she's re-connected with Tommy - but naturally plays along . Tommy is uneasy ; if Chips is caught , he'll tell the cops that Tommy committed the murder . The plot may sound serious , but the film is filled with music and a lightheartedness that's hard to describe . Ann Sheridan was sort of the working man's Rita Hayworth . She was at Warner's , which put her low , sultry voice , mane of red hair and other assets to good use in a variety of roles . She wasn't as beautiful as Hayworth or as exotic , but she was more versatile as an actress . Here she's at the top of her game , singing and dancing up a storm and looking sensational . She really carries the film . Lynn , whose career lost its momentum after World War II , was a nice-looking , boy next door type of leading man , and does an able job here . Bogart is a riot ; the man could do anything . Though his character is ruthless and dangerous , he comes off as extremely likable . The striking Zasu Pitts is wonderful as a boarder who sees men following her everywhere and can't handle her liquor . At all . There's a charming sentiment about this film - it'll leave you smiling .
Mother and daughter want the same man and the same part	Deanna Durbin stars in " It's a Date , " a 1940 comedy also starring Kay Francis , Walter Pidgeon and S . Z . Sakall . Durbin plays Pam Drake , an aspiring young actress whose mother is a theater star , Georgia Drake . After the successful run of a play , Georgia and her maid Sara Frankenstein ( Cecilia Loftus ) head for Hawaii for R & R before she starts her new play . However , the author ( Sakall ) isn't sure she's right for the role ; he thinks Georgia is too old . Ultimately he sees Pam perform and gives her the role . Not realizing her mother thinks it's hers , she takes a ship to Hawaii so her mother can help her prepare . On the ship , she meets a man ( Walter Pidgeon ) that she thinks is a stowaway - he's actually John Arlen , a successful businessman . Once in Hawaii , Pam finds out the truth about the role and tries to keep it from her mother ; John , meanwhile , has fallen in love with Georgia , but Pam thinks she's in love with him and it's mutual . It's a mess . In Durbin's earlier films , I found her speaking voice high-pitched and a little annoying and her acting overly energetic to the point of being hyper . Here , she's delightful , bubbly without being manic , and she looks very pretty . Her singing voice has matured as well - she sings " Musetta's Waltz , " " Ave Maria " and " Loch Lomond . " The whole voice is richer though I will never be a fan of the way sopranos in those days were trained to back off of their high notes . She puts a little too much weight in the middle voice and therefore has a somewhat screechy Bb at the end of " Quando M'en Vo . " Still , however , she is one of the best classical singers in film . Though Durbin was a huge star at Universal , the studio never bought big properties for her . This is a nice film with good performances but that's about it . Kay Francis is lovely as Georgia and Loftus is funny as Sarah . The handsome Pidgeon does his usual good job . Deanna Durbin in the end out-Garboed Greta Garbo , retiring at the age of 27 and moving to the outskirts of France , and I don't believe she's been seen since or even interviewed . The image and voice of the young girl live , and thanks to TCM , she undoubtedly has new fans . She deserves them .
What a concept	Though one might suspect " Too Many Husbands " as being in the same vein as " My Favorite Wife , " it's actually based on a Somerset Maugham play . The stars of this 1940 film are Jean Arthur , Melvyn Douglas , Fred MacMurray and Harry Davenport . After her first husband , Bill Cardew ( MacMurray ) was lost at sea , his grieving , lonely widow Vicky marries his friend and business partner , Henry Lowndes ( Douglas ) six months later . Boy is she surprised when Bill shows up alive . So is her new husband and her father ( Davenport ) . It then falls to the confused Vicky to decide which husband she wants . This is a very amusing comedy with terrific performances from all the stars . Melvyn Douglas , one of the truly great American actors , had to do this type of film until he finally reached old age and could show the world how sensational he was . He's very funny , his voice cracking when he's upset . The men act like quarreling children , playing games of oneupmanship and chasing Vicky everywhere . Seeing the frilly guest room , Bill questions Henry's effeminate taste . " What's this fabric ? " Bill asks , holding up a piece of curtain . " DOTTED SWISS ! " Henry yells in a booming voice . In another scene , Bill impresses Vicky by jumping over furniture , causing Henry to give it a try . He falls flat on his face . Arthur does an excellent job as a somewhat dizzy woman who loves both men , and Davenport is a riot as her sober-faced , worried father . MacMurray has always seemed bland to me , but he holds his own as the returning husband who's been stranded on an island for a year . Much better than I thought it would be , and Arthur fans will love it .
Crime drama starring Zanuck's top draw	Darryl F . Zanuck knew the best way to have a hit was to star Tyrone Power , and star him he did , with each Power film grossing more than the previous one . The actor was 25 when he starred in this crime drama . When we first see him , he's in bathing trunks , Zanuck being no fool . At the time " Johnny Apollo " was made , Power was the # 2 box office in the world . There's not much to this movie - it's fairly typical of its genre , similar to what was produced in the ' 30s . There are , however , some very good performances , including those of Lloyd Nolan and Edward Arnold . Dorothy Lamour , wearing very exotic makeup , plays a street-wise singer involved with Nolan . Naturally she falls for the handsome , well-educated Power , who falls in with crooks and renames himself Johnny Apollo after his father goes to prison for embezzlement . Lamour has two good numbers , " This is the Beginning of the End , " and " Dancin ' for Nickels and Dimes . " Johnny Apollo isn't one of Power's best roles by any stretch , but he's adorable , and his presence made it an enormous hit . This film spawned a lot of " Johnny " movies ( Johnny Eager , Johnny Angel , Johnny Doughboy , etc . ) . It was re-released in 1949 .
Gorgeous but disappointing film	Greer Garson is " That Forsyte Woman " in a 1949 film that also stars Errol Flynn , Walter Pidgeon , Robert Young and Janet Leigh . The story is told in flashback . Garson is Irene , a beautiful but poverty-stricken woman who marries Soames Forsyte ( Flynn ) , admitting from the first that she does not love him . Soames isn't the only Forsyte in whom Irene has an interest - she loves the paintings done by Jolyon Forsyte ( Pidgeon ) , though she learns quickly that he is the family outcast , not even permitted to see his daughter , June ( Leigh ) . Irene seeks to bring Jolyon back into the family and to reunite him with June , who is about to be married to an architect , Philip Bosinney ( Young ) - while she herself is falling for Philip , and he with her . MGM spared not one cent in giving " That Forsyte Woman " primo attention - the cost of Garson's gorgeous costumes alone could have probably paid for three lesser films ; the Technicolor , sets , and photography are all stunning ; and in Flynn and Garson , you have two top stars . Unfortunately , the superficial gloss can't cover the film's flaws . For an adulteress , Greer Garson is pretty ladylike - there is no unbridled passion - and zero chemistry - between Irene and Philip . In fact , the inference is that while she loves Philip in her heart , nothing except a few kisses has actually happened . Not being familiar with the source material , I don't know if this was the case or not . And I'm sorry - if I had to pick between the handsome Flynn and Robert Young wearing some sort of curly hairpiece , I know which way I'd go . Philip Bosinney is described as a little older than June - well , Janet Leigh was 21 or so at the time of the filming and probably playing an 18-year-old . Young was about 40 . And looked it . Fond as I am of Young's work , this was blatant miscasting . The role needed to be sexed up a little so we see what the fuss is about - Robert Mitchum , Burt Lancaster , someone hot and in that 30-ish age range . Errol Flynn does an excellent job as the angry , frustrated and jealous Soames . It seems that with a few exceptions , by the late ' 40s , Flynn no longer played roles that exhibited what made him Errol Flynn - charm , dash , a devilish smile , and natural athleticism . While this is certainly a better role than he had in " Cry Wolf , " again , it does not play to Flynn's strengths . Walter Pidgeon is very good as Jolyon and of course he's great with Garson . He should be , considering all the films they made together . Though the story isn't that absorbing , I still recommend this film for its sheer beauty - not only in its look , but for the beauty of Garson , Flynn and Leigh , and the sturdy handsomeness of Pidgeon . " That Forsyte Woman " is a cake with an incredible icing , but the cake is pretty dry .
A singing truck driver makes an operatic splash	Mario Lanza made his film debut in " That Midnight Kiss " costarring Kathryn Grayson , Ethel Barrymore , Jose Iturbi , Keenan Wynn , Thomas Gomez , Marjorie Reynolds , and Jules Munshin . The script was tailor-made for Lanza , set in his home town of Philadelphia . It was this film that nearly ruined my own singing aspirations . My mother always thought that if I were really good , someone would discover me - I guess hauling a piano - the way that Lanza was in this film . Nevertheless , I put all that aside when I watched it . Johnny is a truck driver discovered testing out the piano he delivers to Abigail Budell ( Barrymore ) , patron of the arts . She's just founded an opera company for the benefit of her daughter Prudence ( Grayson ) . When the current tenor ( Gomez ) quits in a huff , Johnny steps in . He and Prudence are in love , but before either one of them can really act on it , Prudence is told by another woman ( Marjorie Reynolds ) that she wants to marry Johnny . How to get these two songbirds back together ? " That Midnight Kiss " is a big budget , glossy MGM musical extravaganza and as such , it's delicious to watch and makes for joyful listening . Lanza , attractive and a natural before the cameras , really commercialized opera in the U . S . with his clarion tenor . His IMDb bios were obviously written by fans . Though he certainly had a fantastic voice , he was evidently hard to work with , especially for his female costars . Alcohol and crash dieting eventually made his heart give out while he was still in his thirties . Also , he had his own sound ; in recordings , Caruso sounds much more baritone-y , though Lanza's IMDb bio claims the voices match . It's hard to know what Lanza's voice sounded like on the opera stage . People who heard him in person claim the voice was not very large . Nevertheless , it was perfect for film . Pretty and petite , Kathryn Grayson does a lovely job both in her acting and singing . Both singers shine in the more lyrical pieces sung outside Prudence's window and show their versatility . A side note - it's a little questionable what opera the company is doing - Grayson and Gomez sing a duet from " Lucia " in rehearsals , but the final product was in English and definitely NOT Donizetti ! The rest of the cast is superb - Keenan Wynn has impeccable comic timing , and Jules Munshin is given some great bits throughout . Thomas Gomez is hilarious as the bombastic tenor Betelli . Ethel Barrymore is stately and classy as Prudence's grandmother . Iturbi , playing himself , is delightful and plays some beautiful piano . Celeste Aida and the Lucia duet were conducted at pretty swift tempi , as was the " Caro Nome " that Grayson starts to sing at the piano . Highly entertaining and recommended if you're a lover of classical music .
excellent Harlow film , if a little confusing	What a loss to films when Jean Harlow died . She was so immensely likable , with a wonderful vulnerability . In " Suzy , " she marries one man ( Franchot Tone ) in London , believes him dead and fears she'll be arrested for his murder , runs to Paris , and ends up married to a pilot ( Cary Grant ) . The story was interesting , enjoyable , and poignant , but a little confusing . I sat through the entire film saying to myself , " Why did France go to war in 1936 ? " I knew it was supposed to be World War I - sort of - but only because 1936 made no sense at all . The clothing , however , was very ' 30s . Cary Grant plays his part of a war hero and bounder very well . The sweetest scenes were between Harlow and Lewis Stone , who plays Grant's ill father . The final scenes were exciting , with a lot of airplane footage from " Hell's Angels . " Virginia Verrill dubbed Harlow's singing , and I assume Grant did his own . Interesting how people in those days sang with that very rapid vibrato .
A model becomes involved with a swindler	Kay Francis stars in " Stolen Holiday , " a 1937 film that also stars Claude Rains , Ian Hunter and Alison Skipworth . Francis plays Nicole Picot , a beautiful Parisian model who is hired by Orloff ( Claude Rains ) to be his escort for an important dinner with a financier . The dinner is a great success , Orloff makes a lot of money and sets Nicole up in her own design house . Though there is not a romantic involvement , they are very close friends , and she is very loyal to him . Unbeknownst to her , Orloff is involved in some unsavory business practices , and things begin to unravel when he and Nicole take a vacation together . Since Orloff isn't around , and at the encouragement of her assistant ( Alison Skipworth ) , Nicole is escorted around town by Anthony Wayne ( Ian Hunter ) . The two fall in love . However , Orloff believes that an elaborate society wedding will make the police less likely to bother him , so Nicole agrees to marry him . The cast and the fashions really help this story . Francis looks beautiful in some great fashions . She often played strong , independent women - even as a young woman , as she is here , she has the air of a leading lady and not an ingnue . Despite her famous speech impediment , her speaking voice is one of her most interesting traits - low and melodic . Rains could play anything . Here he's an elegant Russian swindler who has set his business up with his own self-preservation in mind , and he's very believable . Alison Skipworth , as Nicole's friend and assistant , brings some humor to the film as a card-reader who is less than enthusiastic about Nicole's association with Orloff . Good movie , and I'm grateful that here in the states , we're able to see films such as this on TCM .
Unquestionably Hitchcock	Britain's first talkie , the 1929 " Blackmail , " is directed by Alfred Hitchock , and even back then , it has many of his touches . The stars are Anny Ondra , Cyril Ritchard , John Longden , and Sara Allgood . A young woman ( Ondra ) two-times her Scotland Yard inspector boyfriend ( Longden ) and goes out with an artist ( Ritchard ) . Things get rough in his apartment , and he forces himself on her . She kills him ( a la Dial M for Murder ) . Her boyfriend finds her glove in the apartment and realizes she did it ; the other glove was found by a criminal hanging around the artist's apartment building , and he decides to blackmail the inspector . Hitchcock more than appears in this film ; he has a bit with a little boy on a subway . The film is strange in that the beginning is silent with no title cards . Then suddenly , there is sound . It moves quite slowly , with not much in the way of action . The story builds slowly , and the scene in the artist's apartment is quite long before anything happens . Nevertheless , the Hitchcock touches are there . A pivotal scene happens at the British Museum - Hitchcock's upheaval in familiar places . And in the jail scene , there's a sound the director often described as being terrifying in his childhood when his father had the local police teach him a lesson - the jail door closing . The very pretty Ondra , wife of boxer Max Schmelling , is dubbed here . Ritchard in 1929 is not recognizable as Captain Hook . Worth seeing - it's early Hitchcock and it's an 80-year-old movie . Mind-boggling .
Nice Warner Brothers bio	Paul Muni has the title role in " The Story of Louis Pasteur , " a 1935 film also starring Josephine Hutchinson , Anita Louise , Donald Woods , and Fritz Lieber . The biopic focuses on Pasteur's work in sterilization , rabies , and anthrax , and includes his inoculation of the small boy Joseph Meister ( Dickie Moore ) which is a famous - and risky - moment in Pasteur's life . Strangely , there is nothing about pasteurization , although with a great scientist who was responsible for so many innovations , you can't show everything . And certainly the rabies and anthrax stories are more dramatic . Some of the film , I believe , is fictionalized - his nemesis , Dr . Charbonnet , was probably created to represent some of the criticism Pasteur faced in his lifetime . The love affair between his assistant , Dr . Martel ( Donald Woods ) and Pasteur's daughter Annette doesn't seem to be true either . Typical Hollywood . Nevertheless , this is a reverent biography with a strong performance by Muni and good work by the rest of the cast . It seems crazy to think that before Pasteur , doctors did not sterilize instruments and wash their hands , but apparently , they didn't . Good movie .
Playing fast and loose with Mrs . Carter's memoirs	Miriam Hopkins is " The Lady with Red Hair " in this 1940 biopic of Mrs . Leslie Carter which also stars Claude Rains as David Belasco , Richard Ainley as Lou Payne , and a fine cast of supporting players , including Laura Hope Crews and Victor Jory . Miriam Hopkins and Claude Rains give wonderful performances . Hopkins was a beautiful actress who really makes us feel for Mrs . Carter . Rains is great as the flamboyant , egotistical producer / writer / actor / impresario David Belasco , one of the great names in theater . Though Mrs . Carter's second husband , Lou Payne , served as adviser on this film , it's a poor representation of the real events of Mrs . Carter's life . True , there was a much publicized and bitter divorce , and she was undoubtedly viewed as a scandalous character for that and for becoming an actress . However , she had custody of her son Dudley , so there was no custody battle . Once she broke with Belasco , she did not go back to him and , in fact , started working in vaudeville and actually made some films toward the end of her life . She did indeed marry Lou , and he became her leading man in many productions . The driving force for Mrs . Carter in the beginning of this film is regaining custody of her son , but she finally realizes that in her time away from him , he is thoroughly bonded with his father . In the film also ( and I'm not sure if it was true in real life ) she traveled with her mother and lived in a theatrical boarding house , which gives the film some added interesting atmosphere . Not a bad movie , probably not a depiction of the greatness of either Carter or Belasco . One of Mrs . Carter's most famous moments was in The Heart of Maryland , The Heart of Maryland , where she wore a wig with six-foot tresses . Off-stage , fans were used to blow her hair as she hung 35 feet above the stage clutching the center of the bell to keep it from ringing . Quite a visual .
Funny comedy	Rosalind Russell is the Judge in " Tell it to the Judge , " a 1949 film also starring Bob Cummings , Marie McDonald and Gig Young . Russell plays Marsha Meredith , a recently divorced woman up for a judgeship , encouraged in her career by her judge grandfather ( Harry Davenport ) . The ex-husband , however , Pete Webb ( Cummings ) wants her back . The two are still in love . The divorce was basically a misunderstanding - Webb was working with a beautiful blond witness ( McDonald ) and Marsha mistook it for something else . Even though it puts her career in jeopardy , Marsha remarries Pete . On their wedding night , her grandfather kidnaps Pete so that Marsha thinks he's up to his old tricks . She then takes off and announces to the press that she's married to someone else , and makes up a name . When Alexander ( Gig Young ) , a man she met previously appears , she has him play the part of her husband . This is a typical screwball comedy centering around the struggle that the independent woman has between being a career person and a wife - and apparently back then , it was one or the other . I thought Russell was fine as Marsha , unlike another reviewer - I've seen her miscast , and I didn't think she was this time - but I agree with another remark the poster made , that Bob Cummings steals the movie . Cummings is thought of as a bland film actor , and perhaps he was . What made him a tremendous television star was his sense of comedy , which he didn't get to use much in films but which was his strength . Here he gets to show it off , and a few years later , he made his mark in television . A fun movie , not earth-shattering , as films were going through a difficult transition . So apparently were women , and in the ' 40s , they lost the career battle , only to pick it up again a couple of decades later .
Based on a true story of the Norwegian resistance	" The Heroes of Telemark " is a 1965 film telling the story of the great bravery of people in the Norwegian resistance during World War II as they attempt to keep material for the atom bomb out of the hands of the Nazis . It stars Kirk Douglas , Richard Harris , Michael Redgrave and Ulla Jacobsen . This is a strange film for several reasons . It has some tremendous people in it yet they aren't really used effectively , i . e . , Michael Redgrave and Ulla Jacobsen as examples , gorgeous scenery and skiing sequences that aren't particularly well photographed ; and a story that includes inaccuracies rather than the true facts . Certainly one can understand the need to combine characters or cut out segments of a story , but when the actual event is as thrilling as the real story of Telemark , why change it ? Several people have commented , as usual , about actors having no accents , most especially Kirk Douglas as a Norwegian scientist . In films , it's more difficult to keep to the theatrical convention , but nevertheless , it is correct : When a film takes place in another country and characters from and in that country are speaking , they ARE NOT SPEAKING English . They are speaking German , Norwegian , whatever . So the convention is - NO ACCENT . Why would Norwegians be in Norway speaking to other Norwegians in English ? Why would they be speaking English to Germans ? They wouldn't be . A good example is the film " The Mortal Storm . " It takes place in Germany , and Margaret Sullavan , James Stewart , and Robert Young speak with no accents . CORRECT . The problem in Hollywood is that they cast some people who are American and some people who are from other countries , making the accent situation difficult . Be that as it may , Kirk Douglas did not need an accent and it was correct that he did not have one . And he can't slip in and out of one - speak with an accent when in England , for instance , because that would be ridiculous . Despite the fact that this film has its drawbacks , it is nevertheless good , with some exciting sequences . It just wasn't very well directed by Anthony Mann , who makes the pace too leisurely . It would have been a better film with more attention to the true facts , a little more characterization , and a faster pace .
Entertaining	Queen Latifah has the dream of owning a " Beauty Shop " in this 2005 film that also stars Kevin Bacon , Alfre Woodward , Alicia Silverstone , Mena Suvari , Andie MacDowell , Della Reese , Keisha Knight Pulliman and Bryce Wilson . Latifah plays a widow with a young daughter who makes her living as a hairdresser for a pretentious phony ( Bacon ) . When she's finally had enough of his bad attitude , she quits and manages to get a small loan from a bank to start her own shop . She takes some clients and workers with her and gradually builds up her clientle and keeps going despite setbacks . There's not much to this story ; it's the acting and the characterizations that make it enjoyable . Queen Latifah is a warm , natural actress and as the cast list indicates , she's surrounded by some top people . Woodward , a great actress , is very funny as Ms . Josephine , and Sherri Shepherd gives an energetic performance as Ida . But everyone is good , though Alicia Silverstone is over the top with her Southern accent . Andie MacDowell and Mena Suvari do good jobs as upper class clients , MacDowell as someone who hasn't forgotten her down home roots , and Suvari as a self-absorbed , nasty woman . Della Reese makes a brief appearance , which isn't enough . Kevin Bacon sports long hair with highlights and a German accent . He's a Eurotrash riot . The other men in the cast are total hunks - instead of the women being chosen for their looks , it's the guys ! An entertaining , charming film .
Interesting , thought-provoking film	Good directors always have a point of view , and Robert Redford is no exception . Once a gorgeous leading man , he has emerged in the past years as a fine director . What he's always been is a political and environmental activist . So " Lions for Lambs , " coming from him , should be no surprise . The film , which runs only 88 minutes , shows us three scenarios : a Senator ( Tom Cruise ) handing an intelligent reporter ( Meryl Streep ) a " new plan " for the war in Iraq , which is nothing more than a strategy from the Vietnam War that didn't work ; a professor ( Redford ) prodding a lazy student ( Andrew Garfield ) about his beliefs and urging him to be an active , not passive participant in the world ; and two Army rangers ( Derek Luke and Michael Pea ) behind enemy lines in freezing Afghanistan . The reporter doesn't want to write the story given to her by the Senator because she feels it's false , but she needs her job ; the hawk Senator is , after all , only doing his job , as is the professor ; and the two soldiers are doing theirs . This could have been a stunning film - as it is , it does hold interest despite being very talky . The stark picture of the soldiers juxtaposed with the Senator in his well-tailored suit ( " says he in the air-conditioned room , " Streep reminds him as he's talking about the war ) is a sad reminder that for all the plans , the statistics and the estimates , soldiers are human beings , and young human beings at that , committed to what they're doing - and the professor's student could easily have been one of them , freezing in Afgahanistan instead of contemplating his life . In fact , the two soldiers were the professor's students . Despite what others have said , there aren't any true good guys or bad guys in " Lions for Lambs . " Talk is cheap ( and there's plenty of it in this movie ) - it's easy , detached from a set of circumstances , to intellectualize it or to work it like a chess set . It's easy to say you don't believe something and won't write it - when your job is threatened , you fold . What the film has is two heroes . Despite what everybody talks about in the movie , two people literally put their lives on the line . For what ? Well , that's for you to decide .
A sharp divorce attorney meets his match	" Intolerable Cruelty " is a 2003 film starring George Clooney and Catherine Zeta-Jones , two beautiful stars who definitely harken back to the golden era of Hollywood . This film , directed by Joel Coen , is an attempt to do one of those battle of the wits comedies so successful in that same era , which starred Cary Grant and Irene Dunne , or several other combinations . Despite the star power , " Intolerable Cruelty " isn't as successful as those older films , partly because the writing isn't sharp enough and the pacing isn't fast enough . The premise is a very funny one ; A sharp , successful divorce attorney , Miles Massey ( Clooney ) comes up against a woman , Marylin Rexroth ( Zeta-Jones ) who marries men for the big settlements she can get in a divorce . She is humiliated by him in court , but shows up in his office with her next husband , a rich Texan ( Billy-Bob Thornton ) wanting a prenup . She's is given the famous " Massey prenup , " which has never been broken in court . On their wedding day , her new husband shows his devotion by eating the prenup . Six months later , she dumps him . Miles is fascinated by her and pursues her , at first wanting to learn her secret , and then falling for her . The best part of the film is the very beginning , when a television producer ( Geoffrey Rush ) catches his wife with an old friend of hers who just happens to be selling pool supplies in their neighborhood . The scene sets up " Intolerable Cruelty " to be much funnier than it turns out . Clooney is very funny ; Jones underplays , which here comes off as somewhat lethargic , given Clooney's broad portrayal . Thornton , Edward Herrmann as Marylin's first husband , and the rest of the cast offer excellent support . Certainly not unwatchable , but not completely successful .
And introducing Universal's new discovery	Deanna Durbin , Nan Grey and Barbara Read are " Three Smart Girls " in this Universal film from 1936 , which introduces Deanna Durbin to film audiences . It also stars Ray Milland , Mischa Auer , Charles Winninger , John King , Binnie Barnes and Alice Brady . It's a sweet story about three young women , now living in Switzerland with their divorced mother , who hear their father ( Winninger ) is marrying again . Not having seen him in 10 years and knowing their mother still loves him , they board a ship to America , with the help of the housekeeper / nanny , determined to stop the wedding . Realizing that the intended , called " Precious " ( Barnes ) is nothing but a gold-digger aided and abetted by her mother ( Brady ) , they arrange for her to be introduced to a wealthy Count . This is arranged by their father's accountant ( King ) . The man he chooses is a full-time drunk ( Auer ) , but the girls mistake him for an actual wealthy count ( Milland ) . What a mess . This is a delightful film , not cloying or overly sugary at all , with some nice performances , particularly by Auer , Milland , Barnes and Brady . The young women are pretty and all do good work . The emphasis , of course , is on young Durbin , who is a natural actress and a beautifully-trained singer . In fact , her voice as a youngster is much more even than it would be as an adult - she has no trouble with the high notes , as she did later on because she put too much weight in the middle voice . She sings a delightful " Il Bacio " in a police station . One of the nicest things about the film is to see the father , played by Charles Winninger , not want his children around - until he sees them and gets to know them . Barnes as the gold-digger isn't all that young , but the girls ' mother looks way up there , so the inference probably was the older man seeking his youth with a younger , more glamorous woman . In fact , he finds the youth he was seeking in his daughters . Universal gives Durbin the big star buildup here - she has the final shot in the movie . Ray Milland at this point was still paying his dues , and it will probably be a surprise even to film fans how young and attractive he is . Very entertaining and of course , this led to a sequel and big stardom for Deanna .
Tyrone Power and Edward R . Murrow	With only about 11 months to live , Tyrone Power was interviewed by Edward R . Murrow in his New York apartment around Christmas 1957 . At the time , he was planning on going on a very ambitious tour of a play , Back to Methuselah , which would then end up in New York . Actually , the tour ended about 12 weeks later , the play opened and closed on Broadway , and Power eventually went to Spain to do " Solomon and Sheba " during which he died . The interview is okay , Power very much using his screen persona . His appearance on What's My Line is much more telling - there he's himself - shy , soft-spoken and humble . At the time of the interview , he was single - he would get married five months later , and when he died , his wife was pregnant with their son . Especially interesting because we know what's going to happen and sad at the same time .
Good acting highlights crime caper drama	Edward G . Robinson has planned the perfect crime in " Seven Thieves , " a 1960 black and white film also starring Rod Steiger , Joan Collins , Eli Wallach , Alexander Scourby , Michael Dante , Marcel Hillaire , and Sebastian Cabot . The film is set in Monte Carlo where Theo Wilkins ( Robinson ) has arranged to meet Paul Mason ( Rod Steiger ) to ask him to join in the plot . Wilkins is a former scientist who lost his credibility after commission of some sort of crime , but we don't know what it is ; Mason has just finished three years in jail . The crime concerns the theft of 4 million francs from a casino and will involve a total of 7 people - a dancer ( Collins ) , her friend ( Wallach ) , her married boyfriend ( Scourby ) , and a safe cracker ( Dante ) . Directed by Henry Hathaway , this is an interesting drama that moves somewhat slowly and might have been better . It has a couple of twists at the end that are interesting , and there is quite a bit of tension and suspense for the audience throughout . The performances are excellent . Robinson gives a sympathetic portrayal of an old man looking for his last shot ; Steiger gives a subdued ( ! ) performance , his character being quietly threatening instead of screaming his guts out - good choice . Someone commented on this site that Joan Collins looks the same today as she did in this film 45 years ago - actually , it's kind of true . The only difference is that she wore less makeup then . Her figure is amazing , and she gives a wonderful performance as an unhappy , hard woman who has much compassion underneath . Eli Wallach does a great job as a nervous wreck . " Seven Thieves " holds your attention . Strangely this is around the time of " Ocean's 11 " where the touch is much lighter . This is a very dramatic story . It's not the greatest but worth checking out .
highly enjoyable comedy	Irene Dunne breaks out of small town conventions in " Theodora Goes Wild , " a 1936 comedy also starring Melvyn Douglas , Thomas Mitchell and Spring Byington . Dunne plays Theodora , who lives a sterile life with her two aunts in a small , Puritan , judgmental town . However , she's got them all beat because she's living a double life - in New York City , she's Caroline Adams , a hot romance novelist who put the capital L in LOVE . Her scandalous best-seller is in the process of being banned by the town literary society . While in New York visiting her disapproved of uncle , she meets a friend of her publisher's , the flirtatious , irreverent Michael ( Douglas ) . He doesn't know her real name or her literary alter ego so to prove to him she's no prude , she gets drunk and goes to his apartment - of course , she leaves screaming - but in doing so , drops a few papers that tell him who she is and where she lives . He soon shows up in her home town as a down on his luck man seeking work and she's more or less blackmailed into giving him a job as the family gardener . This is a delightful comedy buoyed by the marvelous acting of Irene Dunne and Melvyn Douglas . The points are hit a little too hard , however , so that both characters come off as very annoying and exasperating at times . The fault lies in the script , because I don't think those two actors ever made a wrong move . Douglas , who in later life would prove himself one of the great actors of all time , sails through this film as he sailed through so many others in roles that gave no hint of his enormous abilities . Here he's charming , smooth and attractive , inspiring Theodora to take some risks - though he's got a few skeletons he fails to mention to her . Dunne is great as the staid spinster who becomes the talk of New York with her wild outfits , saucy attitude , and smart remarks . Underneath it all , of course , it's a love story some innuendo you don't find in a lot of ' 30s comedies , which adds to the fun . Highly recommended .
Precode drama	1933's " Double Harness " is a precoder based on a play of the same name . Before playwrights like Clifford Odets championed the working man , plays dealt with the upper class , as does " Double Harness . " William Powell is John Fletcher , a committed playboy , and Ann Harding is Joan Colby , who believes marriage is a business . She isn't in love with John , but she believes she can be of use to him in his family enterprise , which he neglects . They become lovers ; she arranges for her father ( Henry Stephenson ) to find her in John's apartment . He strongly suggests to John that he do the right thing , and John leaves it up to Joan - does she want to marry him ? He's surprised when she says yes . On their honeymoon , they agree to stay married for six months and then divorce . Then a funny thing happens : love . Ann Harding came from the Broadway stage ; she was a sophisticated , mature , dramatic looking actress with a rich speaking voice . Actually by 1933 , her career had begun its decline ( though she worked on and off until 1965 ) . Like Kay Francis , she is an elegant , independent heroine , a type which had faded out by the 1940s . Here , her Joan is strong , droll and earthy . Powell was an actor whose appearance didn't change from role to role , but he was able to internalize a character so that he always seemed different . He became associated later on with Nick Charles and some wonderful comedies , but in this era , he's quite serious and as always , wonderful . Dated due to the different mores of today but no less entertaining .
Big prewar MGM Production	Clark Gable , Spencer Tracy , Claudette Colbert and Hedy Lamarr star in " Boom Town , " a 1940 film directed by Jack Conway . It's about wildcatters and friends , played by Gable and Tracy , who make money as partners , love the same woman , go their separate ways , reunite , all under the specter of oil rigs . Gable has a role he owned , that of Big John , a tough guy , a man's man , kind of Rhett Butler goes wildcatting . Tracy is Jonathan Sand , his buddy , with a girl back home . Big John meets a lady and falls for her - except it's Sand's girlfriend Elizabeth ( Colbert ) who's just arrived in town . Well , she had to choose between Clark Gable , matine idol , and Spencer Tracy , a character actor whose talent gave him leading man status . She chooses Big John . Sand accepts it as best he can . By now the two have struck oil and are in the big money . Eventually , Big John loses his part of the business to Sand , and he and Elizabeth leave the area in order to rebuild - and they do , big time . The couple end up in New York , where Big John meets a Big Beauty named Karen ( Lamarr ) and goes for her , threatening his marriage . Everyone is very good in this absorbing movie , with Lamarr's knockout beauty a real asset . This is nothing against Colbert , who is stunning as well and excellent as Elizabeth . Gable and Tracy have good chemistry - in the end , this is really a buddy movie , and they're a good match . Gable is very sexy and at his peak here . Very enjoyable , with great special effects - no expense spared for the four huge stars .
Good precode with a beautiful Lombard	Carole Lombard and Pat O'Brien star in " Virtue , " a 1932 pre-code film featuring Ward Bond , Mayo Methot and Jack LaRue . Robert Riskin wrote the script and Lombard is a prostitute who's thrown out of New York - escorted onto the train , in fact , by a policeman - but she gets off at another city stop and stays in town . She meets and eventually marries a cab driver ( O'Brien ) who has no idea of her past . When he finds out , he's upset , but he's really in love with her , and they stay together . Then she's implicated in a murder . " Virtue " moves at a fast pace , has very good dialogue , and Lombard gives an excellent performance as a street smart woman who falls in love unexpectedly . She's very beautiful and quite sophisticated in appearance , though her comrades in the streetwalker trade seem a lot lower class . Pat O'Brien , who worked into his eighties and usually played the best friend to someone like Jimmy Cagney , does a good job in a rare leading role for him . Since the film is precode , it contains a lot of innuendo , my favorite being O'Brien's advice to Ward Bond , who wants to get married . " It's your doughnut , " O'Brien says . " Dunk it . "
good comedy with music	Ann Sothern and Gene Raymond star in " Walking on Air , " a 1936 comedy with music . Sothern and Raymond were thrown together a lot in the early to mid-thirties , and they're an attractive team . Raymond is a fledgling singer named Pete Quinlan whom Kit Bennett ( Sothern ) hires to play an annoying boyfriend . Her father ( Henry Stephenson ) refuses to allow her to be with the man she loves ( Alan Curtis ) , so Sothern figures if she can come up with someone worse , her real boyfriend will start to look good . Raymond gets to sing some pleasant songs , and the scenes where he insults the family are fun . Raymond and Sothern sing " Let's Make a Wish " and sound wonderful together . It's cute , it's predictable , but it has nice music and a good cast . Recommended .
Delightful tale of a ' 30s stage star	Annette Bening has title role in " Being Julia , " a story about an actress who oftentimes doesn't know where she leaves off and her stage character begins . Though this is really a one-woman show , Bening is surrounded by a marvelous cast including Jeremy Irons as her impresario husband , Michael Gambon as her acting coach , who , though dead for 15 years , is coaching her through life , Shaun Evans as her young , ambitious beau , and Lucy Punch as her rival . Kudos to Bruce Greenwood , who plays a suitor of Julia's - it looked like Bruce Greenwood but didn't sound like Bruce Greenwood , so I had to look at the cast list . Julia Lambert is a 1930s stage star who , as far as she's concerned , will be playing women in her thirties for a long time . Though she depends on her husband , who owns a theater and guides her career , they lead separate lives ( he's under the impression that she hasn't been interested in sex since she gave birth to their son ) . She takes a young lover ( Evans ) who soon falls in love with blonde Avice ( Punch ) and asks Julia to let her audition for a role in her new play . Julia is most generous to her rival , encouraging her husband to cast her as the ingnue in the new play , giving Avice the stage in her key scene , and even wearing a colorless costume so as not to distract from Avice's moment . The viewer isn't fooled ; we sit there waiting for Julia's next move . Julia's own son Roger is never sure when she's acting or being real , especially since she once told him something and that night , repeated the identical thing on stage . Let's just say when something works , she keeps it . When she begs her young lover not to leave her , she says the same speech , word for word , she gave to another boyfriend . Bening is fabulous in this tour de force , and she looks beautiful and elegant in the gorgeous costumes . Someone commented that she bravely let Szabo photograph her in " unforgiving closeup , " but I'm sure there are plenty of 46 year-olds who wouldn't mind looking like Bening . This is a slight story but a highly entertaining one . My only complaint is the casting of Evans , and I do not understand how it is that casting people always , always get this wrong . When Linda Grey had a young boyfriend on " Dallas , " it was Christopher Atkins , which ruined the plot . I could go on , but these roles are often given to men who , first of all , are too young and look it , and secondly are too vapid . Someone on this site suggested Heath Ledger or Billy Crudup - uh , now you're talking . This kind of a role demands someone hot and of the type we older women would appreciate , not someone we want to pat on the head . Definitely worth seeing for Bening's performance and the great period atmosphere evoked in the film . Also , it's a film targeted to the over 40 demographic for a change .
Nelson and Jeannette sing their hearts out	Jeannette MacDonald is an English woman who falls in love with her teacher ( Nelson Eddy ) and runs away with him to Vienna in " Bitter Sweet , " a 1940 musical based on a play by Noel Coward . Sarah ( MacDonald ) gets away from her family and a man she doesn't love to be with Carl ( Eddy ) who sings and composes . They have a hard time making ends meet but eventually start making money performing in a club . When a top producer is brought to the club to hear Carl's music , the future looks rosy . It's just an illusion . The film was given a top-notch production in color , and Jeannette not only looks lovely but wears the most glorious gowns ! I have always preferred Jeanette's acting to Nelson's and Nelson's singing to Jeanette's . Both of them sound wonderful singing Noel Coward's music , including the beautiful " I'll See You Again . " For some reason , both MacDonald and Eddy had uncredited " vocal stand-ins " - I would assume these people did not sing for them but perhaps rehearsed with the musicians , because Nelson and Jeanette sounded like themselves . MacDonald's voice had a fluttery quality and her tone tended to straighten at the top , but the middle voice and lower tones sounded beautiful . And you can't beat her presence . Eddy , of course , was a magnificent singer , totally suited to the operatic stage . He just never seemed that comfortable in front of the camera . Reminiscent of " Maytime , " this is a treat for Eddy-MacDonald fans .
Kids from the real world fall into a TV one	1998's " Pleasantville " is an interesting film with a great concept that somehow doesn't come off . It seems like a simple story at first but as the plot deepens , the film becomes unwieldy though fascinating in sections . Tobey Macguire is David , a teenager who is looking forward to a marathon of his favorite TV show , " Pleasantville , " a ' 50s comedy similar to any that baby boomers grew up with . When an unsolicited TV repairman ( Don Knotts ) appears , he leaves David a special remote . David manages to zap himself and his sister Jennifer ( Reese Witherspoon ) into the black and white world of Pleasantville . David warns Jennifer that they cannot do anything out of character for the town . However , being modern teens , they are not in step with the people of Pleasantville and sure enough , the TV town begins to change . . . from black and white to color . What makes " Pleasantville " the movie a fun experience is that everyone seems to have a different interpretation of what , for instance , the color means , and the message of the film . I can only give my own impressions . For some , the film promotes sexual promiscuity . As the kids become more sexually active , led by Jennifer , and turn into color characters , they are then faced with sexually transmitted diseases and become objects of prejudice , black and white versus colored . Get it ? Then pages that were blank in books are filled in as Jennifer and David tell the stories of Huck Finn et al . , which causes books to be burned . For me the color wasn't equal to sexual promiscuity but to emotional life . And what the movie was trying to say for me is that the black and white world of the Pleasantville TV show only existed on television . There were enlightened people in the ' 50s and plenty of dysfunctional families and illegitimate babies , so someone was having sex ; television just didn't show them . TV did mirror much of society , but people have been people through the ages even if the identities men and women have in our culture has changed . Jennifer is a sexually promiscuous teen ; in Pleasantville , she starts reading and studying and understands that there's a lot more to life . David's TV dad ( Bill Macy ) realizes that he loves his wife ( Joan Allen ) even if she doesn't have dinner on the table at 6 p . m . every evening . I found " Pleasantville " absorbing but something was a little off-kilter about its execution . Perhaps it was in the set-up of David and Jennifer winding up in Pleasantville , which initially made it seem that the film was going to be a wacky comedy . Despite fine performances from Bill Macy , Jeff Daniels as a coffee shop owner / frustrated artist , Joan Allen , Knotts , Witherspoon , and Maguire , in the end , " Pleasantville " bit off a little more than it could chew .
Hudson and Lollobrigida in Italy	Rock Hudson and Gina Lollabrigida star in " Come September , " a 1961 comedy beautifully photographed to showcase the glorious scenery of Portafino , Italy , and the exquisiteness of Gina Lollabrigida , a knockout if there ever was one . Haven't seen her lately , but 25 years later , she was every bit as gorgeous . Hudson plays a millionaire who comes to Italy to spend time in his villa each September . This year , he arrives early , looking forward to a dalliance with Lollobrigida as well . But she's through with him and planning to marry someone else - until she hears his voice . When Hudson arrives at his fabulous villa , he discovers that his major domo ( expertly played by Walter Slezak ) has , for the last six years , been turning his place into a hotel . There is a bus load of young girls staying there with their chaperone , who slips on a champagne cork and is put out of commission . Thus , the girls can't leave and Hudson feels compelled to chaperone them . When Lollobrigida hears the advice he's giving the young women to keep them out of the clutches of some young men who have arrived with reservations - she's not happy . The young men figure Hudson is too old to compete with them so they try exhausting him , hoping to get some time alone with the women . Though this comedy sags in the middle , it's a cute story and the cast is delightful , including Sandra Dee and Bobby Darrin , who sings the title song and also " Multiplication " at a night club . A great talent , his is a sad story of a gifted song stylist who didn't live to mine his full potential . It is during this film that he met his future wife , Dee . Hudson is handsome and fit and again shows his ability for comedy , and Lollabrigida gives an energetic , sexy performance . Their dance together in the nightclub is a high point . One of the posters mentioned that Hudson's films today are diminished because of his now-known sexual preference . I submit this is ridiculous . Straight people have played gay people for years , and vice versa . The fact that we may not be aware of it doesn't make it any less true . Hudson plays a straight man in this , and he's effective . When did it become a mandate that actors could only play themselves ? It's not called acting for nothing .
cute comedy	David Niven is an isolated concert pianist who is swept into the lives of apartment house residents in " A Kiss in the Dark , " also starring Jane Wyman . Niven is excellent as a man who knows no other world than that of the concert stage and the practice room , and his handlers like it that way . When an apartment manager visits him , Niven learns that one of his investments is The Cleopatra Apartments . One look at Jane Wyman in her shorts and Niven decides not to be an absentee landlord . This is a very entertaining comedy , and I agree with previous posters that there are laugh out loud scenes . Some of the comedy is provided by , of all people , Broderick Crawford as a subletter who works at night and sleeps - - or tries to - - all day . It's a different role for Crawford , and he does it very well . Wyman is very pretty and vivacious as an apartment dweller who falls for Niven , and the two have wonderful chemistry . Handsome Wayne Morris is her insurance salesman boyfriend . This isn't the most fabulous film you'll ever see , but it's a fun one .
good WW II movie	Bradford Dillman is a soldier chosen for a dangerous mission in " A Circle of Deception , " a 1960 film also starring Suzy Parker , Harry Andrews and Robert Stephens . The story is told in flashback as Paul Raine ( Dillman ) remembers his assignment after a visit by his ex-lover , Lucy ( Parker ) . In order to divert German troops from an attack site , Paul is chosen because according to his psychological profile , he will break under torture and give the Germans the information the Allies want them to have . Paul knows his mission is risky , but Lucy , an assistant to the captain ( Andrews ) who thought up this scheme , knows the entire story . She's enlisted to go out with Paul , since he seems interested , and evaluate if he's really the man for the job . She becomes a little more involved than planned . Filmed in black and white , this isn't a big budget movie , but it's good . Dillman was a young star then under contract to 20th Century Fox , but despite being both attractive and a good actor , with the studio system abolished , he found most of his success in television . Parker , one of the first supermodels , was a staggering beauty who was given several opportunities in Hollywood . She was lousy in every one of them . Like Grace Kelly , she had a cool , sophisticated look , and also like Grace Kelly , in person she had a fantastic sense of humor and a wonderful personality - and like Grace Kelly , she never got one role to showcase them . Though Dillman and Harry Andrew are both very good , it's Robert Stephens as the German captain who imprisons Paul that gives the most chilling performance . A brilliant stage actor , he's a knockout in this , and one wishes he had pursued more film work before his death in 1995 . He could have had an Oscar-level career . All in all , " A Circle of Deception " is very good , and the black and white helps to keep up the British wartime atmosphere . Dillman and Parker met during the making of this film , married in 1963 , had 3 children , and stayed married until Parker's death in 2003 . Her last work on film was in a 1970 " Night Gallery " episode , in which she looked absolutely gorgeous , but through the ' 50s , ' 60s ( and possibly into the ' 70s ) she was on every magazine cover and in every fashion layout imaginable . The torture scenes are not for the feint of heart - to be honest , I fast-forwarded through them . The rest of the movie is both interesting and suspenseful .
Fascinating combination of mystery , suspense , and comedy	" Trouble for Two " is a benign title that belies what an unusual film this is . Robert Montgomery plays a foreign prince who is approached by a beautiful , mysterious woman ( Rosalind Russell ) on board ship to London . She asks him to hold an envelope for her until they disembark , at which time she will meet him at the bottom of the gangplank . She never does . It turns out the envelope is full of blank paper . While in London , Montgomery meets Louis Hayward , who tells him and his aide ( Frank Morgan ) of the existence of a suicide club . The prince insists on accompanying Hayward there , over his aide's objections . There , in this exclusive club where people pay to die with another member's assistance so it looks like natural causes , he sees the mysterious lady again . . . This is a very intriguing story with twists and turns that will keep the viewer interested . Montgomery and Russell did five films together and make a good team . She's quite striking-looking and somber in this . Montgomery does an excellent job as the prince , a young man who can't resist the idea of adventure and who is willing to take even foolish risks . Louis Hayward's role is small but a different one for him . He looks heavier and softer . As the actor who first portrayed The Saint , he normally was quite suave and dashing . You have to pay attention during " Trouble for Two " - it moves fast . Based on Robert Louis Stevenson's story " The Suicide Club , " the script could have been stronger , but it's a good effort and a change from the usual fare .
stunning	It's rare to see a movie made with such tender loving care . Director Hallstrom gathered the best cast and crew he could find for this film . The cinematography is glorious - I can't believe Oliver Stapleton isn't up for every award in the world . Kevin Spacey turns in the best performance of his career as a brutalized man , Cate Blanchett is her usual chameleon self as his trashy girlfriend , Julianne Moore is perfection as the woman who helps him heal , and Judi Dench is funny and touching as his aunt . Hers is a role without a huge amount of lines but tons of substance . Only a master could have given the character such depth . The Shipping News has poignancy , humor and a great deal of beauty . What it has above all else is atmosphere - Hallstrom's feel for the Newfoundland shipping village , the simple lives led there and the friendships made is truly awe-inspiring .
A famous writer's love for his no-good son	Brian Aherne stars in " My Son , My Son , " the son being Louis Hayward in this 1940 film . Madeline Carroll , Laraine Day , Henry Hull , and Josephine Hutchinson also star in this saga that spans 20 + years . William Essex is an ambitious young man , determined to get out of the slums . He winds up helping a sick man and his daughter ( Hutchinson ) by delivering bread to their customers . After the man's death , he marries the daughter , a stern religious woman . Together they have a son , Oliver . William has a blind spot when it comes to the boy and is overly indulgent , even when it becomes evident that the kid is a manipulative cheat and liar . William is eventually widowed and reconnects with an artist , Livia ( Carroll ) , whom he met while doing research for a novel in the mines . Unfortunately Oliver is in love with her as well and considers this a big competition , although Livia is not in love with him . His behavior nearly drives Livia away . Oliver then has his way with a girl he grew up , an actress currently starring in William's play - and the daughter of Wiliam's best friend . By the time Oliver goes to serve in World War I , he has cut a wide path of destruction . " My Son , My Son " makes for an okay movie but has a very disappointing performance by Brian Aherne . Aherne , who by this time had been overshadowed by Errol Flynn , was capable of much better as he showed in " Merrily We Live " and other films . He was an accomplished stage actor as well . However , he did not seem very committed to this material . In a way , I don't blame him . The character comes across like an idiot letting this brat get away with what he did . The rest of the performances are very good , particularly from Hayward , who did this smooth con man type of character very well . Carroll is luminous as a woman desperately in love with William but frightened of what Oliver might do next . Laraine Day is lovely as Maeve , who harbors a secret love for William and whose life takes on tragic proportions . " My Son , My Son " is nowhere near as horrible as one of the reviews indicates ( in my opinion ) but it isn't great . It seems to have a tacked-on Hollywood ending as well .
Dig that swing !	With some great music as background , " My Love Came Back " is a very enjoyable film from Warner Brothers , starring Olivia de Havilland , Jeffrey Lynn , Jane Wyman , and Eddie Albert . de Havilland plays a promising violinist who catches the musical ear - but mostly the eye - of a benefactor ( Charles Winninger ) . de Havilland innocently lets him escort her to things that will further her musical education , having no idea that her new school scholarship comes directly from him . Mixups and misunderstandings result when she falls for Winninger's business manager , played by tall , handsome Jeffrey Lynn , who comes off in this as sort of an American Ray Milland . Meanwhile , her roommate , played by a vivacious , blond Jane Wyman and her fiance , the delightful Eddie Albert , try to drag her into their swing music band . Albert and Wyman , along with S . K . Szall and Spring Byington , make up a great supporting cast . de Havilland is a perfect sweet young thing , playing the comedy very earnestly . Her soft look is in contrast to Wyman , who's positively eye-popping as a blonde . It's hard to connect her with the same actress who would star as the deaf mute in Johnny Belinda , or for that matter , the dowager of Falcon Crest ! Lynn never made it to star status , partially because of World War II interrupting his career , but he enjoyed a long one anyway , as well as a career in real estate . One of the things that makes this film is the marvelous music , not only classical but swing . This is a movie that's well worth seeing and makes for good listening as well .
Disjointed film by Nicholas Ray	Nicholas Ray is a director whose oeuvre is somewhat erratic , and 1949's " Knock on Any Door " shows just how erratic it is . It stars Humphrey Bogart in his first film after leaving Warner Brothers , though it comes off like a Warner Brothers film made in the 1930s - it has a real " Dead End Kids " feel to it , particularly in the beginning . It concerns Andrew Morton ( Bogart ) defending a young man , Nick Romano ( John Derek ) whom he has helped in the past . Morton was too busy to defend Nick's immigrant dad on a charge for which he was not guilty , and Nick's father died in prison after some bad lawyering . Guilt for what happened to the boy's father keeps him in touch with the hoodlum and attempting to help him . Nick's family in reduced circumstances has to move to a bad neighborhood . Nick falls in with the wrong crowd and becomes a delinquent , his crimes growing larger and larger , culminating in the murder of a policeman . Nick's story is told in a series of flashbacks during his trial as Bogart attempts to show that society is guilty for the boy's fate . Of course one can only blame society so far . His family was in a better situation out west ; he could have joined them at any time . He had jobs and a loving wife , but he couldn't stay employed . He had the support of Morton , and he stole money from him . Sooner or later , a person has to take the help offered and decide to change , or nothing is going to do any good . There were scenes of reform school abuse , which perhaps could have been a film in itself and had more impact , as it was brutal and not at all rehabilitative . There was a strange plot device which seemed solely for the purpose of adding to the boy's troubles - his wife , ( Allene Roberts ) makes a decision at one point which comes out of nowhere and is very abrupt and probably went against her character . Bogart looks fantastic - tanned , healthy , and immaculately dressed in expensive suits . His down-to-earth delivery and excellent timing is always great to watch . He plays the part of a compassionate man / passionate lawyer beautifully . This film marked John Derek's debut . He was a true ' 50s hunk , with thick dark hair and smoldering eyes . His acting is adequate for the role , but not of the deeper quality of , say , James Dean . He really had no interest in stardom and turned his attention to wives and photography later on . Nevertheless , you couldn't ask for a more auspicious beginning . The character doesn't come off as very sympathetic - if that was the goal , it failed . I'm not sure it was Derek's fault , but more the fault of the script . All in all , watchable for Bogie , who is always a master and certainly a story that will hold your interest .
nice teaming of Russell and Stewart	Rosalind Russell and James Stewart are husband and wife in " No Time for Comedy , " a 1940 film also starring Charles Ruggles , Genevieve Tobin , Louise Beavers and Allyn Joslyn . It's based on the Broadway hit that starred Katharine Cornell and Laurence Olivier in one of his early lead roles in the U . S . This was the play , according to legend , that David O . Selznick arranged for Olivier to star in so he would be separated from Vivien Leigh while she was doing " Gone with the Wind . " Russell is the glamorous stage star Linda Paige who is starring in a drawing room comedy by one Gaylord Esterbrook ( Stewart ) . He's actually from the sticks , and the play is not without its problems . When the production loses its backer , Paige steps in and saves the show . Bumpkin Esterbrook becomes a lauded playwright and marries Paige . He writes comedies with starring roles for her . One day he meets Mandy Swift , a socialite who likes to , shall we say , take young men under her wing and mold them . She convinces Gaylord that he needs to write some serious drama . Since he's already doing some serious drinking , it stands to reason one should follow the other . Not having seen the original play , it's hard to say whether the film matches up to the original . At the time of the film , Spain was involved in a civil war , and all of Europe threatened by the Nazis ; war was imminent . The play is about a playwright who is agonized by his success in the genre of sophisticated comedies when the world is such a serious place . It's also about several years into a marriage when the bloom has fallen off the rose . The film " No Time for Comedy " is an uneasy mix of drama and comedy . Stewart , who normally plays a likable character , plays a country boy spoiled by success . He turns to drink and another woman , making him much less likable . Yet the audience is set up from the beginning to think he's going to be a nice guy . Russell , of course , plays the stage actress ( which she was ) beautifully . As Gaylord's suffering wife , she is dignified and sophisticated and you can see her broken heart beneath the veneer . Louise Beavers is fabulous as the maid who is not only an equal in the household but acts on stage as well . Part of the problem with " No Time for Comedy " is that nowadays , we know the importance of comedy in times of tragedy . In fact , it's always time for comedy , never more than when there's a dark pall over the world . Despite good performances , the movie seems dated today , as I suspect would the play .
fun pairing of Gable and Lamarr	Clark Gable and Hedy Lamarr star in " Comrade X , " a 1940 comedy from MGM also starring Eve Arden , Felix Bressart and Oscar Homolka . Gable and Arden are American journalists in Russia while the Russians search frantically for " Comrade X , " a reporter sending out uncensored stories to the United States . One man knows the identity of Comrade X - a bumbling valet in the hotel where many of the reporters stay ( Felix Bressart ) . He fears his outspoken daughter is in danger of being purged by the Russians like so many and blackmails Comrade X into getting her out of the country . Well , we've known from the beginning who Comrade X is - who else - and he reluctantly agrees to his assignment - reluctantly until he gets a look at the daughter ( Lamarr ) , who is driving a streetcar using the name Theodore . Women can't drive streetcars . Everyone is very good in this film , and Lamarr's staggering beauty and Gable's macho man are pluses . The supporting cast is great - Homolka is a government official who says his predecessor " met with an unfortunate accident " - as many of them do throughout the film . I have to agree with one of the posters here - the scene with the tanks is absolutely priceless , particularly when you realize that films didn't have the mechanisms for " special effects " as they do today . Lots of fun at the expense of good old Mother Russia .
Can't help falling in love with Elvis	Elvis Presley was in great shape when he made " Blue Hawaii , " which was a cut above the typical Elvis garbage films that Colonel Tom arranged for him to make later . This is a really fun film with some great numbers . I have always been partial to Rock A Hula - it's exuberant , it's sexy , it's Elvis . This film also features " Can't Help Falling in Love " and the " Hawaiian Wedding Song . " Angela Lansbury has a great turn as Elvis ' southern mother . This film , with its big budget and great soundtrack , laid the groundwork for the Elvis movies made later . Unfortunately , as Parker had negotiated a percentage of each film , it didn't take him long to realize that the faster and cheaper they made them , the more money for him and , by extension , Elvis . In fact , later on , the songs done in the films were not specifically written for the particular film - they were simply unreleased songs that were bundled into an album as the movie soundtrack . But when you see Blue Hawaii , don't dwell on any of that . Just enjoy the scenery and the young , healthy Elvis , with his whole post-Army life ahead of him . All 17 years of it .
Good film , good cast	Colin Farrell , Al Pacino and Bridget Moynihan star in " The Recruit , " a 2003 film directed by Roger Donaldson . Farrell plays a young man recruited by the CIA in the person of Pacino ; while training at Langley , he gets close to another trainee ( Moynihan ) . Once out of training , he's told she's an infiltrate from another country assigned to following her . As is often said in the film , nothing is as it seems , and both Farrell and the audience are bamboozled more than once . The film has many twists and turns , all of which add up to a very absorbing movie . A weary-looking Pacino is excellent as always , and Farrell is effective . This one keeps the surprises coming , so pay attention .
Familiar tale with a new cast	Leonardo DiCaprio is " The Man in the Iron Mask " and also King Louis XIV in this re-telling of the famous Dumas story . He is surrounded in a sumptuous production by a stellar cast that includes Gabriel Byrne , John Malkovich , Gerard Depardieu and Jeremy Irons . The oft-filmed plot concerns the twin brother of the cruel , selfish Louis IV who is guarded loyally by D'Artagnan . Phillipe , the twin , was taken from his mother at birth and once found by the King , imprisoned and placed in an iron mask to hide his identity . When the poverty and the uprisings become too much , Aramis ( Irons ) , who knows of Phillipe's existence , breaks him out of prison with the help of Porthos ( Depardieu ) and Athos ( Malkovich ) with the idea of having him replace Louis at an upcoming masquerade ball . It falls to Athos , who has just lost his son Raoul in war because of Louis ' lust for Raoul's fiance , to teach Philippe how to be king in a short time . Things do not go as planned . This tremendous cast and huge production make for absorbing viewing , different yet as entertaining as the Richard Chamberlain TV version and the Louis Hayward version in the 1930s . Here the emphasis is on the old Musketeers , which works well - Porthos who feels his age and misses the old lusts , the grieving Athos and Aramis , given an impossible job by Louis , which means that Louis must go ; and , of course , D'Artagnan , fiercely loyal to his King and insisting that he can be molded into a great ruler , despite evidence to the contrary . The acting is fabulous - there really isn't a standout among the four men as they are all so good . Leonardo DiCaprio creates two completely different characters with Louis and Philippe and does an excellent job . Though he was trending toward matine idol / chick flick territory , he pulled himself out to take on weightier roles - though there's no doubt this film was meant to bring in the teenagers . And what's wrong with that - a classic story once in a while won't kill them . Entertaining viewing .
Not mom and dad's anniversary party	Alan Cumming and Jennifer Jason-Leigh are Joe Therrian and Sally Nash , a successful novelist and actress throwing " The Anniversary Party " in this 2001 film written and directed by the two stars . Other guests include Kevin Kline , Phoebe Cates , Jennifer Beals , John C . Reilly , Parker Posey , Jane Adams and Gwyneth Paltrow . Cumming and Leigh play a couple celebrating their sixth anniversary , though they have been estranged and are just getting back together . Problems arise almost immediately - Joe has been hired to direct the screenplay of his novel and wants a young actress ( Paltrow ) to play a role everyone assumes is based on and intended for Sally . He invites the actress to the party , making Sally furious . Then the neighbors have to be invited ( John Benjamin Hickey and Posey ) because of an ongoing fight over Joe and Sally's dog Otis barking and enraging the neighbors . As the guests start to arrive , we see some interesting dynamics forming : a married couple ( Adams and Reilly ) who have just had their first baby and left him with a sitter ; she's a neurotic , nearly anorexic working actress and he , the director of Sally's latest film , is unhappy with Sally's performance ; a close friend of Joe's ( Beals ) who's a little too close to him and disliked by Sally ; a married couple ( Kline and Cates ) who bring their two children to the party ( Kline and Cates ' real-life children ) - he's Sally's costar and she gave up show business , etc . When the ingnue arrives with Ecstasy , the party takes a turn , and it's not for the better . This is an interesting film , helped greatly by the acting and the relaxed , almost improvisational feel of dialogue . Leigh and Cumming are cognizant in their writing and direction that this is Hollywood , where people are more self-absorbed and overdone than the norm . When Sally and Greta ( Cates ) have a huge discussion about child-bearing and Joe's inability to grow up , you can't take it seriously - they're both on Ecstasy and have the intensity of two high-schoolers , where everything is the end of the world . The scene is deliberately that way - they're on drugs . When Joe tells Sally he never considered her for the part in the movie because she's too old , we know it's a sore subject he didn't want to bring up . Meanwhile , the uptight , non-show biz neighbors watch the activity in amazement , the wife wanting to belong , the husband , a recovering alcoholic , afraid that she does . The film ends abruptly with nothing really resolved . The end of the film becomes a mini-version of " Long Day's Journey Into Night , " and , almost like that famous play , one gets the feeling that after this night of Ecstasy , overwrought emotions and devastation , it will all begin over again today . Everyone is excellent , and that's not to say they're particularly likable . Jane Adams , Mel of " Frasier " fame leaves you wondering if she'll make it to the baby's first birthday ; Kevin Kline , as usual , gives one of the best performances as a handsome leading man who " has a window " available for Joe's film ; Jennifer Beals gives her character a nice , Hollywood intensity , making the most of lines like " he's magnificent when he's with you . " Paltrow is perfect as the airhead ingnue , fawning all over Sally and saying exactly the wrong things ( " I've watched your movies since I was a little girl " ) and floating around on another plane . Riley , Posey , and the rest of the cast are uniformly strong . Cumming is surprisingly believable as Sally's husband . Greta refers to him as sexually ambivalent , and he pulls that off rather than seeming completely gay - he is most famous for his wonderful performance in " Cabaret " as the emcee - but it's obvious he's capable of more variety . The beautiful Jason-Leigh is sensational - she plays a woman who's a movie star at a time when the cameras aren't rolling , and with her interesting look and penetrating eyes , you can believe it . She's determined to make a go of it with her husband , but she has doubts - that's there too . She and Cumming pull out all the stops as the emotions and situations careen downhill . One quibble I have is the age issue of Sally being uncastable in a role calling for her to be in her twenties . I saw Jason-Leigh in Proof , where a big deal is made in the script of the character being 25 . No one in the audience , myself included , realized that Jason-Leigh was , in fact , at 39 , the oldest actress to have played it on Broadway . Even on film , she doesn't look 39 - in fact , in my opinion , though Paltrow was dressed more youthfully and wearing her hair younger , she looked much less vibrant than Jason-Leigh and , unlike Jason-Leigh , wasted . This was a conceit in the script that would have been better had the age of the character in Joe's novel been more like 18 . Everyone knows with the right lighting and the right cast around someone , they can easily look younger . All in all , a good movie showing the miserable lives of the rich and famous , something poor folk like myself never mind watching .
Taut noir directed by Ida Lupino	Ida Lupino , a talented actress , also pursued a successful directing career , and 1953's " Hitch-Hiker " is one of her best . Based on a true story , it stars Edmond O'Brien , Frank Lovejoy , and William Talman . O'Brien and Lovejoy are buddies , Lovejoy away from his family for the first time , and they're on route to Mexico on a fishing vacation . Doesn't quite turn out that way , as they pick up a hitch-hiker ( Tallman ) who is a notorious killer who has been robbing his kind victims and then killing them . The two friends never know when Tallman will decide to kill them throughout the long drive . This is quite a suspenseful and tense film , with good performances all around . Baby boomers will recognize Talman as the losing . complaining DA , Hamilton Burger , on Perry Mason . But he didn't just appear one day at the casting office ; his career up to then had been character roles in film with some television . He gives an excellent performance as a terrifying , volatile killer . Definitely his best role ; sadly , he succumbed to lung cancer two years after Perry Mason ended . O'Brien and Lovejoy , usually two tough guys in films , are great as ordinary men in an extraordinary circumstance . When Lovejoy sees a little girl , he thinks of his own daughter and hugs the child , crying " Vaya con Dios , " fearing that he will never see his daughter again . My only complaint is that there were endless long shots of the car driving down the road ; you could almost predict when they were coming up . It's a small criticism of a woman who help to pave the way for what few film directors we have today .
Funny Hope	In 1953's " Here Come the Girls , " Bob Hope is a pathetic chorus boy in a production around the turn of the century . The leads ( Arlene Dahl , Tony Martin ) want him out of the show , and his only friend is his girlfriend ( Rosemary Clooney ) . Finally , the producer ( Fred Clark ) fires him , only to bring him back immediately . A serial killer obsessed with Dahl goes after Martin and injures him badly . So poor Bob is put back in the show - this time as the lead - just until the serial killer ( Robert Strauss ) can go after him and , as far as everyone is concerned , hopefully kill him . Dahl pretends to be enamored of him , and Hope starts ignoring Clooney . This is very funny Hope , the energetic , cowardly , naive Hope that everyone loved in the ' 40s . Unfortunately , although it's a musical , we don't get to hear much from Martin and Clooney , neither of which have a tremendous amount to do . That's a shame . Hope , of course , couldn't play that youthful character forever ; eventually his films became stale with old jokes and a staid , wisecracking Bob . But here he still shines . The beautiful Arlene Dahl is his costar . She doesn't have much to do except look dazzling , never a problem for her . Look out for the young boy named " Bang Crosby " whom Hope meets along the way . Enjoyable film .
Hope as a coward , this time on the high seas	Bob Hope again plays his cowardly character in " The Princess and the Pirate , " a 1944 film from Samuel Goldwyn Studios . The film also stars Virginia Mayo , Walter Slezak , Victor McLaglen , and Walter Brennan . Hope plays Sylvester the Great ( who gives his last name as Crosby ) , a bad performer who becomes involved with an incognito princess , played by pretty Virginia Mayo . There's really no point in going through the story - it's fairly ridiculous , concerning a map and a treasure . It's really just an excuse for some gorgeous Technicolor escapist entertainment in the midst of World War II . Beautiful women ( the Goldwyn Girls ) and lots of comedy abound . Hope is a scream as Sylvester , impersonating a Gypsy woman and Captain Barrett ( McLaglen ) who has a hook for a hand . Toward the end of the film , both Barrett and Sylvester disguised as Barrett are in Barrett's quarters , unaware of one another , each leaving the room from time to time and making opposite pronouncements to the pirates . Very funny stuff . Hope is an absolute riot with that dry , offhand delivery of his and his facial expressions . He generally played an avowed coward , though a likable one , and this time is no different . Everyone does a great job in this , and I'm sure audiences , depressed by war news , appreciated it . Lots of fun and recommended .
A poor man's " Red Dust "	This time , just call Maisie " Congo Maisie " in this 1940 second entry into the " Maisie " series . Each episode of Maisie's fabulous life is done as a separate entity as if the previous one never happened . So don't get too attached to anyone . Maisie , stranded as usual , stows away on a ship that doesn't go the way she wants and , in fact , breaks down . She tags along with a rubber plantation manager ( John Carroll ) when he hikes to his old house where he worked as a doctor ( he's since forsaken the Hippocratic oath ) . Now it's the home of a doctor who does research ( Sheppard Strudwick ) and his wife ( Rita Johnson ) . " Congo Maisie " is chock full of adventure , with Maisie assisting in an emergency operation and , wearing a gown and a Carmen Miranda headpiece from her club act , fends off witch doctors . It's quite funny but as my sister yelled out to me hearing some of it , " Is that a politically incorrect movie you're watching in there ? " Uh , yeah . John Carroll is the new object of Maisie's affections . He talks a lot and uses a monotone that becomes grating real fast . I recall a photo of him where he was presented as a Gable wannabe . Forget it . Rita Johnson is absolutely lovely , and Sheppard Strudwick is very good . Fun .
Holmes in modern day	When Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson moved from 20th Century Fox to Universal , they left the Victorian era and entered wartime Europe . This film , " The Spider Woman , " is based on the Conan Doyle story " The Speckled Band . " Holmes fakes his death in order to investigate some diabolical murders that appear to look like suicides , hoping to force the criminals out into the open . He disguises himself as a Mr . Singh and appears at a gambling club , where all of the victims had played . There he meets his adversary ( Gale Sondergaard ) and , as he tells Watson , " the game's afoot . " This is an excellent entry into the series . The big finale takes place at a carnival shooting game where the targets are Mussolini , Lenin and Hitler , so the writers got their propaganda in . Rathbone is a great Holmes , and the character of Watson as essayed by Bruce comes off quite well . The way the part was written in the serial often made Watson seem like a buffoon , and Holmes was at times unattractively condescending to him . That seems absent here . Very good .
A sleeper directed by Elia Kazan	Fredric March is a " Man on a Tightrope " in this 1953 film also starring Terry Moore , Gloria Grahame , Adolphe Menjou , Richard Boone and Cameron Mitchell , Directed by Elia Kazan , this black and white film is about circus performers who and a daring plan to escape to Germany from Communist-controlled Czechoslovakia . The manager of the circus , Karel Czernik ( Fredric March ) is a seemingly weak man - in fact , his second wife ( Grahame ) detests him for it . When he's called before Communist authorities for one or another infraction committed by the circus , he's deferential and nervous . Behind all this , he has been planning the escape of the entire circus from Czechoslovakia for three years . Only a few people know - but when the Commmunists ask about a radio owned by Czernik , he realizes one of his friends is probably a traitor , though he can't accept it . He also has trouble accepting his daughter's ( Terry Moore ) taste in men ( Cameron Mitchell ) . I visited Czechoslovakia eight years ago . The thought of that beautiful country and those charming , stunning people having to live for so long under Communist rule is a heartbreaking thought . This film really brought it home . One thing immediately noticeable about " Man on a Tightrope " is the circus and the depressing Eastern Europe atmosphere , heightened by the black and white photography and the broken-down circus . Then there is the look of the people in the circus - these aren't actor's faces , these are the faces of real people . Kazan used a real-life circus , the Brumbach Circus , for background and performances . You can almost feel the dust and the oppression of working under Communist rule . Fredric March gives a wonderful performance as Karel , a true actor who appears to bow to the Communists and yet is no weakling . His love for both his wife and daughter is apparent , as is his determination to get out of the country and concern for the performers . Gloria Grahame is sexy and flirty as his wife , who has her eye on the lion tamer , until she realizes the stuff her husband is made of . Moore and Mitchell are convincing lovers . Adolphe Menjou , as a Communist official , is very good as the only one who pierces the act that March is putting on . Smart men bear watching , and so do nice men . Cernik is both . Apparently due to the political climate at the time , this film wasn't widely shown or publicized . I caught it on Fox Movie Channel - hopefully FMC will be on more basic cable in the country , and also hopefully Fox will bring this film out on DVD . It deserves to be seen .
okay	Bob Hope is a " Bachelor in Paradise " in this 1961 film also starring Lana Turner , Don Porter , Jim Hutton , Paula Prentiss , Janis Paige and Virginia Grey . Hope plays an author , A . J . Niles , whose specialty is the sexual practices of countries . When the IRS forbids him to leave the country , it's suggested that he concentrate on the U . S . He's sent to a development in California called Paradise and set up in a rental home . It's actually the home of one of the managers of the development , Rosemary Howard ( Turner ) , and she lives elsewhere for the time being . Keeping his identity a secret , Adam , as he is called , holds seminars and discussion groups for the women of Paradise on how to keep their marriages fresh . Some of his advice works ; some doesn't . Meanwhile , he's being pursued by the sexy but married Dolores Jynson , and he himself is after the beautify Rosemary . This seems to be a very popular film with viewers who post here . I didn't make all the connections with it that some did as I don't come from this kind of background , but I can well appreciate how it would resonate if I had . It's a pleasant enough film , and it is a lot of fun to see all of the ' 60s furnishings , colors and styles of hair and dress and to realize how mores have changed with the years . The cast is very good ( and very ' 60s ) as well . People probably thought Prentiss and Hutton were married as they were paired together so often due to Prentiss ' above average height , and it's always great to see Janis Paige and Virginia Grey . My favorite Bob Hope era is that of the 1940s , where he had great material well suited to him . His youthfulness and the cowardly character he played , along with the situations he got into always made his films sparkle . And what leading ladies - Madeline Carroll , Paulette Goddard , Dorothy Lamour , etc . Here he is teamed with glamorous Lana Turner who looks very beautiful in the film and has the right coolness and sophistication for the part . As for Hope , at the age of 58 , he doesn't have that boyish , enthusiastic , naive quality of the old days , and the jokes he's delivering are pretty stale . Unlike " The Private Navy of Sgt . O'Farrell , " " Bachelor in Paradise " is not a dud . Though it's dated , that's part of the fun , and it has some genuinely funny moments , a lively cast and that American icon , Bob Hope . You can love him or hate him , but you can't deny he was a remarkable entertainer to many generations .
cool film	" Dr . Kildare Goes Home , " made in 1940 , is a particularly interesting entry into the series . Kildare , made a staff doctor , realizes that his dad ( Samuel S . Hinds ) is exhausted from keeping up with his practice and wants to help him . He takes some doctors who can't find jobs and they start a clinic in one of Kildare Sr . ' s practice area . The idea behind it is that everyone pays ten cents a week for medical care . This will keep the salaries paid and support the work needed on the ill people . Also , the emphasis of the clinic is on prevention and staying healthy . This is health insurance today , which wants everyone to stay healthy and not need medical facilities . Instead of a dime , though , it's thousands per year . I did find that whole subject matter in 1940 fascinating . The next fascinating thing is that Dr . Gillespie goes to watch a rare operation done by a brilliant black doctor ( Jack Carr ) . Carr , a very well spoken actor , is uncredited in the film . This is a different kind of depiction of blacks than one is used to seeing in these old movies , and it's similar to " Crash Dive , " where a black member of the submarine unit is the same as everyone else . These things make " Dr . Kildare Goes Home " a cut above , and the story moves along with Kildare and Mary setting the date . I love the scenes between Mary Boyd ( Alma Kruger ) and Dr . Gillespie ( Lionel Barrymore ) the best . When he compliments her appearance , he says , " You must have lost 15 pounds . " She says , " I've gained eight . What do you want me to do that's illegal ? " Highly entertaining .
Kind of fun	Kay Francis is a " Play Girl " in this 1941 film that was yet another attempt by Warner Bros . to get rid of the expensive Francis , though none of their ploys worked . Here , they've lent her to another studio , RKO . Francis plays Grace Herbert , a woman who has lived her life as a gold-digger , except now she's getting too old to dig and no one wants to give her any gold . She meets a young woman , Mildred ( Ellen Daley ) and teaches her the gold-digging game , with the idea that the young woman will actually get married to someone wealthy , something that Grace never did . But Mildred's conscience takes a hit . One of the best things about this film is that one of the marks is a rich guy from Chicago , played by the very British Nigel Bruce . Just goes to show you the attention paid to the casting . It's not a great film , but Francis makes it more than palatable , and it's a pleasant way to pass the time . Worth seeing for Francis .
The piano man	Dennis Quaid struts around like a rooster in " Great Balls of Fire , " a 1989 biopic about Jerry Lee Lewis , one of the great entertainers . Discovered by Sam Phillips , the man who discovered Elvis and Johnny Cash , Lewis came up the ranks quickly and was poised to become the King of Rock ' n ' Roll when Elvis went into the Army . But the scandal that broke when it was revealed he was married to his 13-year-old cousin Myra ( Winona Ryder ) and was in fact a bigamist - which today would be shrugged off - just about ruined his career . Soon he was prone to violence on and off stage and imbibing in alcohol . I have always loved Jerry Lee Lewis ' music , but the only thing I knew about him was that he married his cousin - so that will show you where all the publicity was focused . I had no idea his cousin was Jimmy Swaggert ( played here by Alec Baldwin ) . I was struck by the qualities he had in common with Elvis - they both were highly-charged performers with so much energy a stage couldn't hold them , both completely original , natural talents inspired by music they heard in their communities , and both were discovered by Sam Phillips . What each one was most of all was just like one of the kids that he sang to , who could pulsate , dance and let their hormones run wild with the music . Lewis remains today an electrifying performer with an unmistakable sound . His high gear " Great Balls of Fire , " " Breathless , " " High School Confidential , " and of course , " Whole Lotta Shaking ' Going ' On " are unmatched . Now , how accurate was this film ? Jerry Lee himself claims he never acted the way Dennis Quaid portrayed him in his life , though others say Quaid was right on . It's a little like Scottish people hearing a Scottish burr on an actor and saying , we don't talk like that when they do . I will quibble with the depiction of Sam Phillips as a snake oil salesman who , according to this script , " lost Elvis . " Phillips didn't lose Elvis - his record company was too small to promote Elvis as he needed to be promoted , and Phillips badly needed the money Elvis ' contract would bring . Elvis , Vernon and Gladys Presley thought they had it good - no one dreamed Elvis could accomplish what he did - so Sam Phillips could have kept Elvis with Sun for a longer period of time , but rather than losing Elvis , he let him go . Quaid does an excellent job as a thrilling performer who perhaps isn't the most likable person off stage - in fact , might be a little sleazy - and Ryder captures the teenage silliness beautifully . Baldwin doesn't get to do much but proselytize . The most interesting thing about " Great Balls of Fire " is its relevance today . Rock ' n ' Roll was perceived as the way to complete degradation for teenagers and the performers were servants of the devil . Rap music is viewed the same way today . With rock ' n ' roll , the road to degradation was a sexual one - swinging those hips and getting all charged up could only mean trouble . Today , with rap , it's the message of violence against women and attitudes towards them , the use of violence and foul language . In between , we had the schools ruling that no one could have a Beatles haircut . Maybe someday it will occur to somebody that many things can destroy a generation - war and drugs being two - but music doesn't seem to be one of them .
Susan Clark in a wonderful performance	Before Susan Clark became famous for the sit-com " Webster , " she was a highly-touted TV movie of the week star and had a film career as well . In this Columbo , she is a mousy , albeit wealthy young woman who has lived her life under the thumb of her father , and after he dies , her brother ( Richard Anderson ) . She hatches a plot to kill her brother , who is interfering with her plans to marry an employee ( Leslie Nielsen ) of the family company but if anything could go wrong on the evening of the murder , it does . Columbo is brought in , and if things weren't clear to him when he first enters the house , they become so after the lady completely reinvents herself , taking over the company , getting a new hair color and hairdo , a fashion makeover , and a rather unattractive , aggressive change in attitude . There is a great performance by Jesse Royce Landis as the mother ( who greets her daughter by slapping her in the face and makes Columbo pay her exorbitant cab fare ) . It's a shame that Clark does nothing today , but I suppose , sadly , her age is a factor . Hopefully she's satisfied with her long marriage to Alex Karras and that's enough for her . But her fans miss her . If you're not familiar with her work , catch her in this Columbo episode .
Biography of a great star that could have been more interesting	For a man who captivated - - and is still captivating - - so many people around the world , programs about Tyrone Power seem to fall flat . I'm not sure why . I took part in the " Mysteries & Scandals " episode on Power , and from what I recall , there was no mystery and not much scandal . That's not a bad thing , but when doing the life story of an historic figure , one needs to hang one's hat on something . I think part of it has to do with the people who are interviewed , myself included . After reading Mai Zetterling's book , " All Those Tomorrows " and her fascinating chapter on Power , with whom she had a very intense affair from 1956 until 1958 , it's obvious that there was a lot more there than people commonly interviewed about him tend to discuss . The A & E bio portrayed a gorgeous , dazzling man who was well loved , still friends with his ex-wives , possibly bisexual or at least dabbled in bisexuality ( although no one ever really comes up with any evidence for that ) , and a man who died tragically at a young age and before the birth of his son . According to Terry Moore , Power wanted only two things in what had been a wonderful life - to have a son and to die " in harness . " Now , Zetterling's book describes a bitterly unhappy , disillusioned man who drank , took uppers , cursed his looks , complained that his ex-wives were milking him dry , that he was only proud of four films , and didn't know the meaning of the word " happy . " Zetterling's Power had a dark side - he was romantic , kind , gentle , generous , attentive , wonderful to work with , but he had some demons . So which is it , folks ? Well , you know , it's probably both , and it would be great if just once , someone would do a complete portrait of what must have been a fascinating and interesting man . Protecting an image is valiant - but behind images are real human beings , and what makes them popular or noteworthy enough to be images in the first place are all their wonderful contradictions . Tyrone Power had amazing charisma , entrancing everyone he met , it seems . He had a passion for life and a fear of death , he loved often , and he loved well , he was a caring father and lover , a wonderful if frustrated actor , a great and fun-loving friend , and a consummate professional . No matter what anyone blinded by his looks claims , he was never one-dimensional on film . It would be great if he weren't one-dimensional in his own biography .
A desperate woman will do anything for her man	So thinks Barbara Stanwyck in " Crime of Passion , " a 1957 film also starring Sterling Hayden and Raymond Burr . Stanwyck is newspaper woman Kathy Ferguson who , in the beginning , is going after the story of a crime being investigated by Doyle and Alidos ( Hayden and Royal Dano ) . Dano gives the newsroom a speech on the idea of " let us do our job " and Stanwyck is the only one who speaks up , stating , " And we're trying to do our jobs . " Alidos ' reply is a killer : " You should be home making dinner for your husband . " Do you love it ? Doyle and Kathy fall in love and get married a little too soon after they meet . Kathy , a woman who craves excitement and new adventures in life , is stuck with a bunch of vapid women she can't tolerate . Making things worse , her husband is a gentle and loving man but he has no ambition . And she's bored out of her skull . Of course , now that she's married , there's no question of her working . In an effort to help him , Kathy cultivates a friendship with the wife ( Fay Wray ) of Police Inspector Pope ( Burr ) and then has a flirtation with the inspector himself . It leads to problems ( that's putting it mildly ) . Stanwyck is terrific in a difficult role , that of a woman with more going on internally than even she knew ; Burr does a good job as a hard-nosed , cold police inspector . Sterling Hayden has never been a favorite of mine . To me he always comes off as a dufus . In " Crime of Passion , " he's excellent as a good man whose only ambition is to be happy and spend time with his wife . Alas , his wife didn't share his dream . This is a small movie , probably a B , directed by Gerd Oswald that is shot in black and white , probably reflective of what people were seeing on television by then . The twists and turns will keep the viewer off-balance and interested . not to mention the pervasive ' 50s attitudes toward women .
Upbeat , enjoyable , and fun	With just a bare bones plot , 2008's Mamma Mia manages to light up the screen , thanks to a great cast , great energy , great music , and great scenery . The Abba musical has been running on Broadway and touring for years . Meryl Streep plays Donna Sheridan , the owner of a hotel on a Greek Island . She's preparing for her 20-year-old daughter Sophie's ( Amanda Seyfried ) wedding . Unbeknownst to her , her daughter has invited the three men ( Pierce Brosnan , Colin Firth , and Stellan Skarsgrd ) , one of whom could be her father , to her wedding , hoping to figure out which one it is and have him walk her down the aisle . When Donna sees them , it rocks her world . The stellar cast also includes Christine Baranski and Julie Walters as Donna's best friends , who sang with her back in the day . My only problems with this film were - first , it's been a hit show for so long that the ages of the women no longer work unless you state upfront that it takes place in 1998 or thereabouts , as the women are supposed to be 50 year-old ex-hippies , placing them and their bell-bottoms in the ' 60s and early ' 70s , not the late ' 70s and ' 80s . My second problem , which I'm sure many people have commented on , is the godawful singing of Pierce Brosnan . Surely they could have done some mixing in the sound studio instead of inflicting that on a paying audience . Other than that , wonderful entertainment .
Life at Blair General as it was then	Growing up in the ' 60s , my Dr . Kildare was Richard Chamberlain , but my mother's Dr . Kildare was the attractive Lew Ayres . In the MGM serial , Dr . Kildare was called Jimmy by his nurse girlfriend ( later his wife ) Mary Lamont , played by lovely Laraine Day . His boss , Dr . Gillespie , was played by Lionel Barrymore . In this entry into the series , Kildare attempts to save the reputation of a neurosurgeon ( Sheppard Strudwick ) who has had a streak of bad luck , i . e . , his patients have died . When a patient makes it through surgery but appears to have become demented , Kildare administers insulin shock therapy , an accepted form of treatment until the 1950s to treat psychotic disorders . The treatment put the patient into a coma and upon awakening , saline was given as well as glucose to terminate the treatment . Insulin shock therapy had some efficacy in schizophrenia that was of less than 2 year duration . Kildare's explanation of how it worked and what it treated deviated somewhat from the above description . The subplot is Kildare's hesitance to ask Mary to marry him because it would entail waiting awhile , and his competition for her affections from the aforementioned doctor . Barrymore as Gillespie seems a lot more irascible around Kildare than he did when the series revolved around him later on . Lew Ayres created a huge hoopla when he became a conscientious objector during World War II , and MGM got rid of the Kildare character ; theaters were refusing to show Ayres ' films . Ayres did serve in the military as a medic on the front lines and resumed his career , winning an Oscar nomination for " Johnny Belinda . " He worked almost until his death in 1996 . But post-war , he only played Dr . Kildare on the radio in the early ' 50s . The very likable and excellent cast elevates the series , and this is one of the better Kildare films .
A delightful - and sober - Nick Charles returns to his hometown	It's 1945 , the trains are packed with people , Asta doesn't remain hidden under Nora's fur coat so Nick , Nora and Asta end up in the baggage car as they travel to Nick's home town . And Nick is drinking only cider - his father never approved of drink . Thus begins , " The Thin Man Goes Home , " made as the war was ending and a lot of people whose lives had changed were thinking about going home . Nick , it turns out , has an uneasy relationship with his doctor dad because he himself never became a doctor . When the inevitable mystery arises around a murder , Nora wants Nick to solve it to impress his dad . The fact is , the scripts of " The Thin Man " series never mattered . It was always the acting and interaction of William Powell and Myrna Loy , and here , as usual , they're great - loving , flippant , and funny . Since Nick is always falling on the floor or getting hit on the head , it's hard for anyone to believe he's sober . At a charity dance , in order to do some investigating , he gives his dance tickets to a sailor and Nora becomes his partner . The dance scene is hilarious as the sailor tosses Nora all over the place and swings her around with the kind of maneuvers you see in pair figure skating . The war is still on so the story involves espionage . A very young Gloria de Haven does nicely as a self-consciously over-dramatic young woman ; Harry Davenport and Lucile Watson are great as Nick's parents ; and the later blacklisted Anne Revere does a fine job as Crazy Mary . William Powell could read the phone book with class and humor ; Loy looks beautiful and their teamwork has never been better . Highly recommended .
short , light entertainment	" Raffles " seems like it was a quickie - it doesn't last very long and it has an abrupt ending . Nevertheless , " Raffles " features two dazzling stars - David Niven , well-cast as an upper class thief , and Olivia de Havilland as the beautiful object of his affections . One interesting thing about this film - which made me realize that I had seen it years before - is the early television in the inspector's office at the beginning of the movie . I regret not seeing the Ronald Colman version . In this one , Niven is charming , handsome , and debonair as a man who seems to steal as a lark and then somehow returns the merchandise , to the frustration of the police . At the film's start , he steals a valuable painting , sends it to his favorite retired actress , and has her return it for the reward money . But when he tries to steal a necklace to help a friend replace money he gambled away before an audit takes place , he runs into another crook attempting to do the same thing , and complications arise . There are some suspenseful moments toward the end of the movie , but all in all , it goes by too quickly , and the character of Raffles isn't sufficiently developed . It's almost as if the movie starts in the middle and ends before it's really over . De Havilland is absolutely beautiful , even if a couple of her hats are outrageous . She's really just doing an average ingnue role here . " Raffles " debuted in the U . S . just before " Gone With the Wind , " and she probably made it right afterward . Entertaining but disappointing .
Good B film	By the time " Brainstorm " was made , both Jeffrey Hunter and Dana Andrews had descended into B films . " Brainstorm " was one of them , costarring ' 50s starlet Anne Francis . Directed by William Conrad , it's actually a good movie about an engineer who falls in love with the unhappy wife of a wealthy man ( Andrews ) and concocts a scheme to kill him and get away with it by faking insanity . Hunter is very good in this dramatic role - he was a far better actor than some of his contemporaries but due to his personal demons , he never fulfilled his early promise . It's a shame because he played this kind of angry , edgy role very well , belying his staggering good looks . He gets good support from Andrews , Francis , and Viveca Lindfors , who plays a psychiatrist . There is one scene that may be unintentionally funny - when Hunter is in the asylum , one of the inmates starts singing the beginning of a song over and over again . Hunter finally screams , " Either finish that song or SHUT UP ! " Brainstorm is worth a watch , especially to see Hunter do a role deserving of his abilities , and one he no longer had an opportunity to play in A films .
fun Lifetime movie	I admit an affection for this type of film , where the ugly duckling returns to seek revenge on those who wronged her . I caught " A Face To Die For " on Lifetime . I'm not sure of its pedigree , but it's typical for that network , although better than most of their productions . Yasmine Bleeth was such a gorgeous young woman before some of her personal problems hit , and she's in top form here . In this movie , she's an ugly , scarred girl with a drunk mother and a gorgeous sister . Thinking a man is in love with her , she is conned into helping with a robbery , for which she is imprisoned . As anyone who has ever seen one of these films before knows , if you want the best plastic surgery , go to jail . The story goes from there . It's very entertaining , and it's always a pleasure to see the beautiful Bleeth .
enjoyable musical which reunites the 1936 cast members	Eleanor Powell , Robert Taylor , Buddy Ebsen and Robert Wildhack reunite for " Broadway Melody of 1938 , " not to be confused with " Broadway Melody of 1936 " which is better . The 1938 film also stars Sophie Tucker , Judy Garland , Robert Benchley and Binnie Barnes . Taylor is now a producer named Steve instead of Robert , and Powell is newcomer to Broadway Sally Lee . Instead of knowing Steve from Albany , she now comes from a farm . Wildhack is doing scientific work on sneezing instead of snoring this time , and Buddy Ebsen still dances but has actually quit show business . The plot concerns the usual getting the money for a Broadway show , with horse racing thrown in for good measure . The musical numbers are nowhere near as good as in the past , but we do have the young Judy singing her " You Made Me Love You " to Mr . Gable and " Some of These Days " belted out by Sophie Tucker . At 15 , Garland had a very mature voice and was adorable . What a gift . It was also a rare treat to see Sophie Tucker . Here she plays Judy's mother and runs a rooming house for actors . Charles Igor Gorin plays an opera singing barber and sings the Toreador Song and Largo al factotum very well . As you'll see , the horse thinks so too . Taylor looks fabulous and provides the eye candy and Powell's dancing is great . There are some cute bits in the movie as well . The finale is absolutely enormous . Good fun .
Slight , well acted ' 30s melodrama	Luise Rainer and Spencer Tracy are an affectionate couple in " Big City , " a small film from MGM , which is surprising , since it has two big stars in it . The happy world of Joe and Anna is torn apart when her brother is killed as a result of a war between the independent cabbies in New York and a large cab company . Anna is blamed and plans are made to deport her . Rainer and Tracy make a sweet couple ; one really believes they're in love . Tracy is wonderful . Rainer is beautiful with soulful eyes , and of course , she gets another telephone call as in " Hello , Flo " in " The Great Ziegfeld . " Rainer takes a lot of heat for winning two Oscars in a row and basically disappearing soon after , as if this was her fault . She was , and still is , a strong-willed woman who came up against Louis B . End of story . He's long dead and she's still alive as of this writing , at the age of 96 , and made a film in 2003 . So take that , Louis . This film was made at a time when you weren't supposed to see a woman's pregnancy , and though Anna is pregnant in the story , in fact , far enough along to be ready to give birth , from the look of her , the baby should have weighed half an ounce . The end of the film is a free-for-all featuring some of the great sports figures of the day , listed in the cast , including Jim Thorpe , Maxie Rosenbloom , and Jack Dempsey . Look for Ruth Hussey in a small part as the mayor's secretary .
Victorian mystery with one of the great screen pairs	When historians talk about the great screen pairings , one hears Tracy and Hepburn and Bogart and Bacall tossed around , as well as other male-female combinations . One of the truly great screen pairings of all time was Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre - the former a large , sinister-looking man , and the latter a small , sinister-looking man with a quirky voice . They made nine films together , and when I see their names in a cast list , I know not to miss the movie . " The Verdict , " made in 1946 , is a heavily atmospheric mystery set around 1890 , when Supt . George Edward Grodman ( Greenstreet ) inadvertently sends an innocent man to the gallows for a woman's death and loses his job . The man claimed he had an alibi , but the person wasn't found until after the hanging . After many years in service , Grodman leaves with a blemish on his reputation . Replacing him is his ambitious nemesis , Supt . John R . Buckley ( George Coulouris ) . Grodman begins to write the stories of his various cases , in the hopes that it can serve as a primer for police investigations . When Arthur Kendall is murdered across the street from him , Grodman is pulled into the investigation , since Kendall's landlady ( Rosalind Ivan ) summoned him to help her get into the room . Kendall's aunt was the murder victim in the case where the innocent man was hanged . Before Kendall was killed , he visited Grodman , along with Grodman's friend Peter Emmric ( Lorre ) who lives in the same house as Kendall , and a politician , Clive Russell ( Paul Cavanagh ) , who hates Kendall . Russell and Kendall come to blows outside of Grodman's house . Grodman now finds himself in a position of helping the man who replaced him . This is an very clever mystery , brought up a few levels by the acting of Greenstreet and Lorre . Paul Cavanagh and George Coulouris turn in good performances in smaller roles , and Joan Lorring is fine as a dance hall girl who was involved with Kendall . Though not a great beauty , she has a great figure and conveys a low class background . Highly recommended . With the Victorian times , the heavy fog , and the presence of Cavanagh and Coulouris , the film reminds one of the Sherlock Holmes movies .
Wonderfully old-fashioned love story	A woman and an amnesiac fall in love in " Random Harvest , " based on the novel by James Hilton . Hilton is also famous for his novel " Lost Horizon , " which was made into a very successful film - well , the first time around anyway . Greer Garson is a beautiful young music hall performer who saves an escapee from a mental asylum , " Smithy , " played by Ronald Colman , who suffered trauma as a World War I soldier . The two fall in love , get married , and have a child . En route to a job interview in Liverpool , Smithy is hit by a car and regains his memory - and doesn't know what has happened to him in the last three years . He returns home to his wealthy family and a young woman ( Susan Peters ) who is in love with him , with no idea that he has a wife and child somewhere . This is old-fashioned romance and heartache at its very best . Colman is too old for the role but he and Garson make a great couple . Garson has rarely been more beautiful . This is a very sweet story that really touches the heart . Susan Peters plays the young girl in love with Rainier - the Colman character's real name . She's very spunky , but because of Colman's age , this doesn't seem like much of a match . However , she received an Oscar nomination and was really on her way with MGM . Unfortunately , she was shot during a hunting accident three years later . MGM kept her going by having her write an interview column for one of the fan magazines . She worked occasionally from a wheelchair after her injury in film and on stage , but died in 1952 , in her early thirties . A real tragedy . " Random Harvest " is an opportunity to see this truly lovely young woman during the all too short height of her career .
gripping	What a cast ! Hepburn , Robert Taylor and Robert Mitchum ! Hepburn here is paired with Robert Taylor , a scientist , who seems to have some very nervous employees and a some sensitive areas , one concerning an absent brother , Michael . When Hepburn meets one of Taylor's old girlfriends , a very well cast Jayne Meadows , she becomes suspicious of Taylor's motives for marrying her - and suspicious about what happened to Taylor's brother . Hepburn gives her usual intelligent performance , showing a vulnerable , feminine side that is very appealing . There is a scene in a fitting room where she is absolutely stunning . The scenes between her and her father , played by Edmund Gwenn , were delightful and realistic , as she complains that Taylor could not be attracted to her . " Look at me , " she demands , " what do you see ? " Her father smiles and says " Beautiful " and kisses her . It's this type of gentleness coupled with good acting , underlying suspense and excitement that makes Undercurrent a very good - - and very underrated - ' 40s film . Taylor is handsome and enigmatic in his role . Somewhere along the way , he stumbled into playing bad boys , as he does later on in " Conspirator " as well , and these roles suit him . Hepburn once said that Spencer Tracy made her seem very feminine ; Taylor does too . I have to add that I did find the casting quite odd but inspired , with Hepburn and Mitchum cast against type , and Hepburn paired with Taylor . I wish we had seen more of this in Hollywood .
wonderfully acted and directed film	On the brink of World War II , a man believed killed in World War I returns in " Tomorrow is Forever , " directed by Irving Pichel and starring Claudette Colbert , Orson Welles , George Brent , Richard Long , and Natalie Wood . After her husband John's death in the first world war , Elizabeth ( Colbert ) finds out she's pregnant . She ultimately makes a new life for herself with Lawrence ( Brent ) , and together they have a daughter . Lawrence raises the son ( Long ) as his own . When " Dr . Kessler " ( Welles ) , a scientist working with her husband , first appears at their home , Elizabeth doesn't realize it's John , who never returned to the U . S . because of his crippling , debilitating war wounds . He has a young child with him , Margaret ( Wood ) , who it turns out is the child of his late doctor and his wife . This is a beautifully done movie in every respect , including Max Steiner's music ( though a little strong at times ) , and holds the viewer's interest throughout . Colbert is lovely as a tormented woman who has to deal with the prospect of her son going off to war as his father did - and perhaps never returning . Her scene as she comes downstairs and sees Dr . Kessler for the first time is wonderful . Something about him startles and unnerves her immediately , and it's apparent on her face . Two young actors who died too young - Richard Long and Natalie Wood - also appear in the " Tomorrow is Forever . " Handsome Long , who would find success in television , makes a good impression in his first film . Wood , a blond here , is absolutely adorable and very accomplished , speaking German and then English with a German accent . Orson Welles is an actor whose magnificent presence , acting technique , and voice allowed him to basically phone in most roles - his whole purpose in movie acting was to make money for his film projects - but obviously Irving Pinchot didn't accept a phone-in from him . Welles gives a very touching and believable performance as both young John and the older , ill Dr . Kessler . " Living in the past will not bring back what you had , " he tells Elizabeth , " only destroy what you have . " A wonderful , wonderful movie . Have a box of tissues nearby .
wild film	Spencer Tracy travels the seven rungs of hell in " Dante's Inferno , " a 1935 film costarring Claire Trevor and notable for a dance sequence featuring Rita Hayworth , still Rita Cansino . I actually hadn't realized Hayworth was in the film , but when I saw the dancer's smile , I recognized her immediately . Tracy plays a man who lucks into carnival barking as a result of meeting a man , played by Henry B . Walthall , who runs a concession known as " Dante's Inferno . " Walthall soon becomes Tracy's father-in-law , and Tracy becomes a successful businessman . He launches a huge , gaudy Inferno employing ruthless means to get the property . Though a wonderful husband and father , in his corporate world , he stops at nothing to get what he wants , including cheating , bribery , and ignoring possible dangers . The consequences are disastrous . The film has an obvious allegory , and I'm still laughing at a previous poster who noted that when Walthall goes through a book with Tracy and the seven rungs of hell come to life , everyone had great physiques so hell must not take chubsters ! It's true ! Other than hell's preference for perfect 10s , the effects are amazing - the Inferno concession , the images in the book that come to life , and the fantastic ship scene which uses the Inferno images to great effect . Spencer Tracy is excellent in his role , a tender dad , sweet husband and cruel businessman all at the same time . Claire Trevor is young and lovely and provides strong support for Tracy . A very interesting film and highly recommended .
Remember : You can't wear a beige shirt to rob a bank !	" Take the Money and Run " is an absolutely hilarious Woody Allen film , done in a quasi-documentary style , about a career criminal , Virgil Starkwell , who has a very unsuccessful career . His prison breaks don't go as planned , his robberies are a disaster and usually coincide with someone else's robbery of the same place , and his planning of a job would be fine if only he weren't talking to the police in the booth behind him . One nice perk of failure : while attempting to rob a young woman's purse , he falls in love with her ( Janet Margolin ) . Virgil does admit at one point thinking of foregoing robbery and taking up a career in singing . He doesn't mention the cello , which gave him his start in music - and crime . This is one of those laugh out loud even when you're alone movies of which there are all too few . But this is one . Over a tough , FBI-type narration , we watch Virgil's futile attempts at making money through crime , see his parents ( disguised ) interviewed , as well as his wife and the various police and investigators he meets along the way . It's amazing to look at this film and then look at " Match Point " done 35 years later and see the evolution of this brilliant man . Woody Allen is capable of rock-solid comedy as well as provocative movie-making . Although he's had a few blips along the way , one wonders what he'll think of next .
The more things change . . .	This is an excellent look at women in the pre-Code films . Narrated by Jane Fonda , it is extremely thought-provoking in this age of wardrobe malfunctions , hue and cry over a sexy Paris Hilton commercial , and Nicole Sheridan dropping a towel during a an ad on Super Bowl Sunday . I found this documentary comforting in a way - 70 + years later , we're still going through all the same stuff we did back then . The way things are going , we'll be back in 1933 before you know it . Fonda narrates with a lot of expression as she takes the viewer through pre-code movies showing prostitutes , women sleeping their way to the top , menage at trois , bisexuality , abortion , and unfaithful wives . If you're not familiar with movies done before Breen and Hays , this will be a revelation .
Sweet film , with Cary at his handsomest and best	Cary Grant is Dr . Praetorius , an unconventional medical doctor / professor / part-time conductor of the student orchestra who marries a pregnant , unmarried student ( Jeanne Crain ) in " People Will Talk , " a 1951 film also starring Hume Cronyn , Sidney Blackmer , and Walter Slezak . Grant first encounters Crain when she faints in his class . When she learns ( from him ) that she's pregnant , she clumsily tries to commit suicide after explaining that she could never tell her father ( Blackmer ) . In order to keep her from trying again , Grant informs her that her tests were switched with someone else's . By now - and it's been not very long - she's in love with him . After Grant visits the farm where she and her father live - run by her impossible uncle - they marry . The subplot is Hume Cronyn , as the weaselly Professor Elmwell , is desperate to get something on Dr . Praetorius ' past to discredit him . The best way to do this is to find out the past of " Shunderson , " ( Finlay Currie ) the old , usually silent man who is with Praetorius constantly . Grant is always handsome , but for some reason in this film , he seems even handsomer . Maybe it's because he was at such a perfect age for a man , 47 . His role is fairly serious but not without some wonderful scenes , including one where he , Sidney Blackmer , and Walter Slezak , who plays a friend , are running toy trains and they crash . Grant was the dispatcher , and he insists that he gave one man the signal beep , one the signal beep beep , etc . The argument is one of the best scenes in the film , to be topped only by the second last scene which is a hearing . The acting is fantastic , with people telling the craziest stories with perfectly straight faces . Crain is lovely as Mrs . Praetorius . Everyone does their roles to perfection - Finlay Currie's solemness makes him all the more delightful ; Hume Cronyn is hateful ; Walter Slezak is gregarious and bouncy , and Sidney Blackmer as Crain's sedate father gives no hint of his character of Roman in " Rosemary's Baby " some years later . Grant is a gem , his line readings as impeccable as his appearance . His confrontation with Hume Cronyn near the end is fabulous . This is a wonderful film that can't help but put you in a good mood . It's about humanity , it's very much of its time - and of our time , too . As an added bonus , the music ( conducted by Dr . Praetorius ) is great as well .
Spencer Tracy uplifts a familiar plot	An excellent performance by Spencer Tracy in " The People Against O'Hara " lifts this all too familiar plot line to a different level . Tracy is an alcoholic who , for the sake of his health and sobriety , becomes a civil attorney , only to be drawn back into criminal work when neighborhood friends need him to defend their son . The son is played by a pre-Gunsmoke , blond James Arness , and it was a pleasure to see him do something besides the one-note Matt Dillon . Diana Lynn does an excellent job as Tracy's protective daughter , and a pathetically young Richard Anderson is her patient fianc . Tracy's performance drives the film , which is really just an excuse for a character study , and who better to essay it . He beautifully shows the man's torment and loss of abilities . The ending is tense and suspenseful . There is a fine cast , including the above , Pat O'Brien John Hodiak , Eduardo Cianelli , and William Campbell ( who in real life was for a time married to Judith Exner , the woman who went public with her affair with JFK ) . I think Spencer Tracy is always worth watching , and this film is no exception .
It was a dark and stormy night	Dorothy Mcguire is a mute young woman in " The Spiral Staircase , " a 1946 film also starring Ethel Barrymore , George Brent , Elsa Lanchester , Gordon Oliver , Rhonda Fleming , and Kent Smith . Helen ( Mcguire ) , whose job it is to help care for the bedridden Mrs . Warren , has mutism brought on by the trauma of seeing her parents burn in a fire . In the house also are two half-brothers - Steve ( Oliver ) , who is involved with his brother's secretary ( Fleming ) and the older Professor Warren ( Brent ) . There have been a series of murders of young women with some sort of affliction - lameness , etc . , and Mrs . Warren wants Helen to leave the house with the doctor ( Smith ) who wants to cure her mutism and also marry her . She knows somehow that the killer is in the house and that Helen is in danger . While the story may be somewhat predictable , based on a novel and a Mary Roberts Rhinehart story , the direction by Robert Siodmak is not . The atmosphere , location and suspense are among the best you'll see in any film : the old , dark house , the stairs , and best of all , the rainy darkness . I personally thought the killer was rather obvious but it didn't spoil my enjoyment at all . Mcguire , whom I saw on stage in the ' 70s , was a wonderful actress who was brought to Hollywood originally to recreate her Broadway success , " Claudia . " Her role in " The Spiral Staircase " is a far cry from the lightness of the child bride in " Claudia " - she is pretty , courageous yet vulnerable , and a young girl in the throes of love . Helen is frustrated and unhappy that she's unable to speak but in a way , she's afraid to hope for a change . Yet from the beginning we see that Helen isn't afraid of anything - she really wants to see what's going on at the murder scene in the beginning of the film . Barrymore is in her typical role of the grand dame , and the rest of the cast is just fine , Lanchester hitting the right note as a maid who loves the bottle . The ending is fantastic . The whole film is fast-paced and portends danger around every corner . Truly one of my favorite films . Highly recommended .
Lots of action and good performances	Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington face off aboard a submarine in " Crimson Tide , " a 1995 film fearing George Dzunda , Viggo Mortensen , Matt Craven , James Gandolfini , and Rick Shroeder . It's obvious from this site that there are people who have a lot to say about Naval procedures as they were shown in this film . I can only comment on what I saw on the screen , but I do appreciate what these people wrote . In the beginning of the film , Lt . Commander Hunter ( Washington ) is made executive officer under Captain Ramsey ( Hackman ) on the submarine USS Alabama . The premise of the film is that there is a coup in the old Soviet Union , and a rebel group there has taken control of a Soviet sub base . The Alabama is on the alert , and exchange torpedoes with a Soviet sub . Unfortunately , during that altercation , a command received is cut off when damage occurs to a cable . The question then becomes whether or not to attack since no one is sure what the government communication is ordering . Hunter and Ramsey disagree on what should be done . Hunter wants to wait until they know what the order says ; Ramsey wants to fire . " Crimson Tide " is well structured and builds beautifully both in the story and in the relationship between Ramsey and Hunter . The tension between them increases slowly , neither man showing his true colors , but it keeps the viewer on edge throughout , as does the situation with the torpedoes . This makes for gripping , exciting drama . Washington gives a very cerebral and controlled performance as the young Hunter , who is well educated and well qualified , but new to battle . When it's time for him to show what he's made of , he does , and it's worth waiting for . Hackman as the seasoned commander is tough and edgy . You're not exactly sure what he's thinking , and right until the end of the film , he continues to surprise . Both men do excellent jobs , and there is fine support from Dzunda , Mortensen , Gandolfini and Craven . Rick Shroeder has a small but showy role . Though much of this may have been unrealistic , the real story is the conflict between these two men , each with their strengths and weaknesses . Since this war of temperaments is conducted by two master actors , " Crimson Tide " is not to be missed .
Great , great fun	Robert Taylor is a Broadway producer and Eleanor Powell is his ex-girlfriend from Albany who wants a chance in his Broadway show in " Broadway Melody of 1936 , " also starring Jack Benny , Sid Silvers , Buddy and Vilma Ebsen , June Keith , Frances Langford , and Una Merkel . The plot is thin , as it often is with a musical is all singing and dancing , so who cares . But this plot is extra fun - Benny , as a columnist , creates a fake French star , La Belle Arlette ( the name of his cigar ) to tantalize Taylor , who can't find a lead for his new show . When Taylor's secretary finds Benny's assistant , played by Sid Silvers , sleeping in Arlette drag with a cigarette hanging out of his mouth , she knows it's a hoax . In the meantime , Taylor refuses to give sweet , unspoiled Parker a chance and escorts her to the train to Albany . Soon afterward , he meets Arlette , a fabulous singer and tap dancer . The songs include The Broadway Melody . " " You Are My Lucky Star . " " I Gotta Feelin ' You're Foolin ' , " " Sing Before Breakfast , " " All I Do Is Dream of You , " " On a Sunday Afternoon , " " Broadway Rhythm . " " I Gotta Feelin ' You're Foolin ' " won the Academy Award for best dance direction . Funny thing about MGM - they let their non-singing leading men do their own singing and dubbed their non-singing female stars . Taylor actually sings in this , and , like Jimmy Stewart , his voice is pleasant enough . Taylor is stunning , no doubt in the film for box office . Powell is fantastic - great dancing - not just tap but ballet - and her comedy is wonderful . Have to say I LOVED both her disguise and disguised persona . For some reason , I much prefer this to " Born to Dance , " but don't ask me why . It was also a pleasure to see a young Frances Langford and Ebsen dance with his sister , who would soon retire . A real treat .
Excellent depiction of a relationship and its complexities	Another great Tom Wilkinson performance punctuates " Separate Lies , " a 2005 film also starring Emily Watson , Linda Bassett and Rupert Everett . Directed by Julian Fellowes , it's the story of a married couple , James and Ann Manning where the husband ( Wilkinson ) believes he and his wife ( Watson ) are happy together . An accident near their house on the night they have a party brings the police around . It is a hit and run that killed their maid Maggie's Bassett ) husband . James becomes suspicious of a neighbor , Bill Bule ( Everett ) when he sees some damage on his car . He confronts Bule , who admits he did it and promises to go to the police the next day . When James arrives home , Ann is angry that he is making such a big deal out of it and states that she was driving the car . Of course , James then isn't so eager to rush to the police . She suggests that they call Bule and tell him their decision . " Oh , f _ _ _ Bule , " James says . " Well , that's just it , " Ann says . " I am f _ _ _ ing Bule . " James ' devastation is just the beginning in this well-crafted drama . Without giving the plot away , this is a good example of how gender switching changes a story . Example of what I mean : Susan Smith drives her car into a lake and her children drown . She gets life in prison . What if the father had done it ? The chair . You'd be surprised how often the outcome would be different . The same is true here - if it had been James having the affair and doing the subsequent activities , viewers might feel differently about the story . If Ann were in James ' place , it would be shattering . As it is , it's tremendously sad . Tom Wilkinson is heartbreaking as a man blindsided by the woman he adores , and Emily Watson does a beautiful job as Ann , who , once she frees herself from her lies - her involvement in the accident and the happy marriage - knows what she has to do . Rupert Everett as Bule is very effective - indolent , uppity and ultimately in need . Everyone here is very civilized in their dealings with one another , and no one is all good or all bad . There are separate lies - James that his marriage is happy , Ann's as listed above - and there is one uniting lie - the accident , about which all parties keep quiet . It's enough for Ann that Maggie knows . In the end , all must deal with the separate lies that the single lie uncovered . Brilliant film .
Newman and Page - yowza !	Geraldine Page , Paul Newman , Madeline Sherwood and Rip Torn all recreate their Broadway roles for the film version of " Sweet Bird of Youth , " a 1962 film based on Tennessee Williams ' play and directed by Richard Brooks . Again and as usual , some bite has been taken out of the original story in order to get past the censors . Geraldine Page is the drunk , drugged and over the hill movie star Alexandra del Lago , who has picked up with a Hollywood gigolo , Chance Wayne and promised him a film career . At present she's escaping from what she perceives as a disastrous comeback . Chance returns with her to his home town , yearning for the respectability and success that has eluded him . Instead he runs into trouble from his ex-girlfriend's crooked politician father , Tom Finley ( Ed Begley ) and Finley's son , Tom Jr . ( Rip Torn ) who want him out of town because of what happened to Heavenly ( Shirley Knight ) . In the play , Chance has given Heavenly a venereal disease ; in the film , she's had an abortion . Chance desperately tries to see and speak with Heavenly , appealing to her Aunt Nonnie ( Mildred Dunnock ) , but it leads to more trouble than he bargained for . Page is a powerhouse as Alexandra , more glamorous than we're used to seeing her and as sloppy a drunk and druggie as you'll ever find . Alexandra's a selfish user , and she's got the technique down pat . The role of Chance , another selfish user , came fairly early on in the handsome Newman's career - he came very close to being typecast as these fast-talking amoral men . In those days , Newman struggled with a lack of emotional availability and these roles fit him beautifully . Thankfully he grew to encompass parts in films such as he had in " The Verdict " and became one of our greatest American actors . Madeline Sherwood , so effective in " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , " is equally good here as Boss Finley's girlfriend ; her scene with Begley in her hotel room is truly terrifying . Begley is fantastic , mean as dirt , as is Torn as his equally cruel son . And " Desperate Housewives " fans will be interested to see a slim , pretty Shirley Knight as Heavenly , a somewhat vapid role for such a strong actress . The DVD has a screen test for Chance by Rip Torn , who would later marry Page . He and Page perform a scene between Alexandra and Chance from the play - though the scene is in the film , it has been changed slightly . It's total stage acting , quite different from the film , but both are excellent , Torn giving Chance a lot of intensity . Though in those days he was very good-looking , he probably didn't come off as enough of a boy toy for the producers . It's a very interesting extra and well worth seeing , as is this somewhat watered-down " Sweet Bird of Youth . "
intriguing	Needless to say , after Sixth Sense , I watched this film with high expectations . Though it's no Sixth Sense , M . Night is one of the most interesting storytellers around . He manages to hold the audience's interest even with a rather slow pace which somehow didn't feel boring . This is a film about skewed perspective - we see constant images of things upside down . It's about opposites - comic book heroes and villains , ying and yang . And , as seems to be M . Night's trademark , it's about surprises . I'll take one of his movies over any overhyped junk any day .
oh , this was absolutely wonderful	This episode of " The Men Who Made the Movies " is fantastic because it features Raoul Walsh telling stories to students and talking with Richard Schickel ( with questions edited out ) about his life and career . He had a wonderful sense of humor , a great memory , and the students enjoyed what he had to say immensely . Walsh was a director kept very busy by Warner Brothers , and his descriptions of encounters with Jack Warner are hilarious . He talks about working with Bogart , Cagney , Flynn , George Raft , and all the tricks he played on them while shooting . There is a lot of footage from " White Heat , " " Gentleman Jim , " " They Died with their Boots On , " and also footage of Walsh as an actor playing John Wilkes Booth in a silent film . He also talks about discovering John Wayne for " The Big Trail " and picking the name Anthony Wayne for him , after a character in a book he liked . This was an invaluable episode . I wish IMDb had the Sam Fuller segment listed - perhaps I will try to add it myself - which was also excellent and featured the flamboyant Mr . Fuller talking about his work and life . We have some fine directors today , but these rough and tumble guys were from another era , and what they have to say is priceless . Worth every second of viewing .
not your typical sci-fi thriller	If you went to this movie expecting a typical sci-fi thriller , you doubtless left disappointed . If you went to this movie to see an M . Shamalayan Night film , you probably loved it , as I did . For me , the sci-fi aspects were a device to explore the lost faith of the Mel Gibson character , a man who had abandoned the ministry after a tragedy struck his family . The film asks the questions , are we alone in the world ( and he's not talking about aliens ) and is there such a thing as a coincidence ? In one particularly striking scene , as he talks with his brother , Gibson's bitterness comes through . I happen to think there's a place for spirituality in film and I love Night's take on it . I also like his old-fashioned type of film-making , the way he pays hommage to the greats and the way he surprises us . Night believes we don't listen enough , and if we do , there are messages abounding for us . I'd rather see this than a pretentious , dark , depressing film that pretends to say something .
a Dominick Dunne soap opera about the lives of the rich and powerful	Inconvenient Woman is a fabulous miniseries , based on the book by Dominick Dunne . Dunne took the plot partially from the Alfred Bloomingdale scandal . The movie is hot stuff , starring Rebecca de Mornay as Flo , the waitress who attracts the wealthy Jules , played by Jason Robards . Jules and his wife ( Jill Eikenberry ) are married in name only . Jules falls for Flo and sets her up in grand style . As the title suggests , Flo becomes inconvenient , particularly after Jules dies suddenly . The film is peppered with slimeballs , and they're all excellent , including Roddy Macdowell , Chad Lowell , Grant Cramer , and Alex Rocco . DeMornay is perfect casting as Flo . Peter Gallagher is the writer on whom it falls to tell Flo's story , and Chelsea Field is his love interest from a high social station . An Inconvenient Woman is entertaining , interesting , and sad . I loved it .
Bob Hope in a dual role	1951's " My Favorite Spy " stars Bob Hope , Hedy Lamarr , Francis L . Sulllivan and Mike Mazurki . Hope plays Peanuts White , a burlesque comedian , who bears a strong resemblance to a spy , Eric Augustine . When Augustine is injured , the government gets Peanuts to go in his place to Tangier with $1 million to collect some microfilm . Peanuts , like Hope's other characters , is a bona fide coward , but he goes after Harry Truman talks with him on the phone . ( " Oh , she's out on tour ? " Hope asks , referring to Truman's daughter Margaret , who at that time was pursuing a singing career . ) When Peanuts arrives in Tangier , he meets the woman with whom Eric was previously involved , the beautiful nightclub singer Lily Dalbray . She's under orders from the other side to get the microfilm , so she acts as if she's ready to resume things with Eric . Unfortunately , the real Eric escapes from the hospital and makes his way to Tangier , causing the situation to become even more confusing as everyone chases everyone else . Hope is very funny in this and does indeed create a second role in Eric Augustine , who has a much darker persona than Peanuts . There are some great laughs , my favorite scene being Hedy and Peanuts dancing in the hotel while his contact tries to get his attention . The part where Lamarr drives a fire engine while Hope hangs onto the ladder is funny as well . Hedy Lamarr was 36 or so at the time of the filming and looks glorious , particularly in the form-fitting white sequined gown she wears during her nightclub act . It's so unfortunate that in Hollywood , once a woman turned 30 , lead roles became so difficult to get . Lamarr was one of the most beautiful and glamorous women in film - at any age . She's basically straight man to Hope here and holds her own in what is a Dorothy Lamour part , right down to the nightclub act . She contributes to the foreign flavor of the film . This isn't Hope's best film , but it's still very good with some great bits and laughs .
Forget that it's supposed to be Perry Mason and love it !	" The Case of the Curious Bride " is one of the Perry Mason films of the 1930s that starred Warren William as Perry . Erle Stanley Gardner hated these films with a passion . His 1930s Perry in the books was a passionate young man given to intense speeches . He mellowed later on , of course , and it was Gardner himself who saw Burr at the audition for Hamilton Burger and said , " That's Perry Mason . " ( The original star of the series was supposed to be Fred MacMurray . ) So it's easy to see why Gardner despised everything about this particular Mason incarnation . Regardless of how Gardner felt , this film is a lot of fun , thanks to a breezy performance by Warren William , who flirts shamelessly with every woman who crosses his path and fools the DA time and time again . The dialogue is fast and witty , and Curtiz keeps the action going at a breakneck speed . Allan Jenkins is Paul Drake like you've never seen him - Perry calls him Spudsy - - and Della is the beautiful Clare Dodd . Margaret Lindsay is the woman Perry is defending , who comes to him with a marital problem , i . e . , the husband she thought was dead is alive - at first . Later , he winds up dead , in the person of . . . Errol Flynn in his first American appearance - and his wife is accused . Flynn doesn't have much to do except appear in flashback . For some reason , instead of Los Angeles , the story is set in San Francisco - more atmosphere , perhaps . William seems to have had the same approach to this character as he had for Philo Vance and the Sam Spade character he played in Satan Met a Lady , but he's so delightful , it doesn't matter . He always looks like he's having a blast , and the audience does too . Hard to believe that until he hit B movies in the mid-'30s , he generally played heavies , but he did , and played them well . When his leading man days were over , he continued in character roles until his death in 1948 . How great that we can see his talent now on Turner Classic Movies . This film is a great reminder that during the Depression , Hollywood gave audiences films that to enjoy and watch to forget their troubles for awhile . I'm not in the Depression per se ; I'm just depressed , but " The Case of the Curious Bride " put a smile on my face . It will yours , too .
Truly excellent filming of a classic	Jeremy Northam is " An Ideal Husband " who's about to get his clock cleaned by Julianne Moore in this gorgeous rendition of Oscar Wilde's play , also starring Rupert Everett , Cate Blanchett , and Minnie Driver . Northam is Sir Robert Chiltern , happily married to his lovely and adoring wife , Lady Gertrude ( Blanchett ) and guardian to his unmarried sister Mabel ( Driver ) . He is in Parliament and opposed to an Argentine canal project . Then he is visited by Mrs . Laura Cheveley ( Moore ) who tries to blackmail him into approving the project . She knows how he gained his wealth and position . If his wife finds out , she'll be devastated . In desperation , he turns to his bachelor friend Lord Arthur Goring ( Everett ) for help . Goring attempts to help , and for a while , it looks like he made things worse . This witty comedy is given wonderful direction by Oliver Parker , and the production is sumptuous . The actors all underplay , letting the brilliance of the material come through . Especially funny is the scene where everyone is in a different room of Lord Goring's house , with no one aware that the other is present . Most times , you'd see a scene like this with the host a frazzled mess , running around , trying to keep everyone quiet and hidden . Here , Everett never changes his expression and is unflappable , making the situation funnier . Highly recommended as the way a classic play should be filmed .
Funny , wacky comedy of the ' 40s	Claudette Colbert is a knockout who knows it . She wants the good life , which her inventor husband can't give her . So she leaves him , intending on marrying someone who can support her and finance his invention . Things don't quite work out . The opening of " Palm Beach Story " is a bizarre scene that only makes some sense ( and I'm emphasizing some ) at the very end of the film . It's certainly an original way to start a movie . There are some hilarious scenes in this film - desperate to get to Palm Beach for a quickie divorce , but with no money , Colbert accepts the invitation of the gentlemanly Ale and Quail Club to ride in their private train car as their guest and mascot . Unfortunately , the emphasis in this club is the ale and not the quail - shooting sugar cubes will do - also blowing out train windows , trashing whole train cars - you get the idea . Running from them , Colbert soon meets up with Rudy Vallee , who gives an absolutely delightful performance as a filthy rich man . He serenades her at one point , and it's great , hearkening back to his days as a crooner ! Mary Astor is his many times married sister , and when Colbert's husband shows , in the form of Joel McCrea , Astor sees her next mark . McCrea has a funny slapstick fall down a flight of stairs , but otherwise , doesn't have much to do except be angry and jealous of his wife . Colbert in her glorious clothes , Vallee , and a vivacious Astor upstage him a bit . A very funny film , produced during World War II to give America a much-needed laugh .
A sudser with two Bettes and one Glenn	Bette Davis is Kate and her twin Pat in " A Stolen Life , " a 1946 film which also stars Glenn Ford , Walter Brennan , Charles Ruggles , and Dane Clark . We first see Davis as the artist Kate visiting the family's New England cottage ( these people have homes everywhere ) . There she meets the drop-dead gorgeous lighthouse man Bill ( Ford , in his first role after the war ) . She falls hard . Then we find out she has a twin sister who is much less reserved , sexier , and who goes after what she wants . On her way to a lunch date , Pat sees Bill , who mistakes her for Kate . One look at him , and she's ready to play along . But really , who could blame her ? That day , Bill finds out that Kate is a twin , and that Pat turns him on - while he's only fond of Kate . Nature takes its course , and guess which Bette gets left out . This is a very entertaining movie with Davis creating two different characters . In the very beginning , you don't know Davis has a twin . She returns home and enters her room with the light off , and her sister starts talking to her from the other side of the room - with a perkier voice , so not even that gives it away . Slowly , we realize they're identical twins , and that she hasn't let Bill into the house because her sister is a man magnet . Glenn Ford is one film away from big stardom in " A Stolen Life " - - next , he would romance Rita Hayworth in " Gilda . " At 30 , he was stunningly handsome with the easygoing , gentle , and sweet manner that would hold him in good stead for the next 45 years . Truly an ideal leading man . He and Davis get excellent support from Charles Ruggles , in a nice performance as the girls ' cousin , and Walter Brennan , Ford's irascible lighthouse boss . Dane Clark's role is somewhat troublesome . In the John Garfield vein , he plays a rough , temperamental artist who teaches Kate to paint better and becomes interested in her , but his role drops off . The entire role could have been cut . Davis was 37 when she made this film , which she produced herself . With three years left on her contract , it was sadly her last hit at Warners . Deservedly so , because she is terrific in the dual roles . She would repeat this device later on in her career with " Dead Ringer , " and some of the plot points are reminiscent of that film . Wonderfully entertaining and a must for Davis and Ford fans .
Delightful light comedy	" The Mating Season " is a 1951 film that stars Gene Tierney , Thelma Ritter , John Lund , Jan Sterling , Miriam Hopkins and Larry Keating . Tierney and Lund play newlyweds Maggie and Val McNulty - she's a blue blood but broke , and he's up and coming in the corporate world . Val's mom Ellen ( Ritter ) owns a hamburger place but loses it and comes to see her son , only to find out he's getting married . Ellen makes her excuses and works until she has enough money for a new outfit . Then she calls on her new daughter-in-law - only to be mistaken as a maid hired to help with a party the couple is throwing . Ellen is a big hit , and , swearing her son to secrecy , stays on in the house . Then Maggie's arrogant , spoiled mother ( Miriam Hopkins ) comes to town to stay with Maggie and Val . Four becomes a crowd . This is a very sweet , funny film with wonderful ensemble acting and great characters . Tierney has her familiar hairdo ( which around this time she didn't always have ) and looks gorgeous . She's totally charming as Maggie . Lund does a good job as her harried husband , who wants to make good and has just a touch - a slight touch - of being a jerk . It's a weakness that we forgive him for later on . Of course , Ritter steals the show as Ellen , doing a role very familiar to her - a mouthy servant . Hopkins is bigger than life as Maggie's totally obnoxious mother , and Larry Keating is a delight as Val's boss ' father , who has better values than his son will ever have . Jan Sterling has a small part as Val's former girlfriend . As usual , she looks cheap and acts cheaper . Lots of fun - don't miss it .
very funny , with Edward G . Robinson heading a great cast	" Larceny , Inc . " is a 1942 film starring Edward G . Robinson , Broderick Crawford , Jane Wyman , Anthony Quinn , Jack Carson , Ed Brophy , Jackie Gleason and Henry Davenport . The idea behind this film consciously or subconsciously may have inspired Woody Allen's " Small Time Crooks . " Gangsters buy a luggage shop situated next to a bank in order to break through the wall into the bank vault ; instead , they find themselves dragged kicking and screaming into legitimacy . Edward G . Robinson is " Pressure , " an ex-con who at first tries to keep customers out of the store ( " if a customer comes in , blow him off " ) - but when he tells the young woman like a daughter to him ( Wyman ) that he's sincere , she starts working with a luggage salesman ( Carson ) on big promotions . Soon the store is jumping with customers . The merchants on the street ask for Pressure's support - the street is being torn up , and it's right before Christmas ; he becomes their hero . However , when an ex con comes into the store to borrow money , he realizes the store is a front for a bank robbery and goes back and tells a scary prisoner , Leo ( Quinn ) who escapes and decides to do the job himself . The funniest scene is the aggravated Robinson wrapping a suitcase when a customer asks for gift-wrapping . Robinson is hilarious - he could be doing Little Ceasar , he takes it so seriously , and he's all the funnier for it . Broderick Crawford did some comedy before " All the King's Men " - he's excellent as a dumb associate of Pressure's who's digging the hole to the bank . Jackie Gleason plays a soda jerk - and makes the most of it . Wyman and Carson don't have much to do , alas . The rest of the cast is uniformly delightful . This is a real gem - " Small Time Crooks " takes the basic plot and goes in another direction with it - both are wonderful films . Try and catch this one on TCM .
The home version of " The Poseidon Adventure "	Tom Hanks and Shelley Long star in this hilarious film about a couple who buy a million dollar home for $200 , 000 - only to find out it's going to cost close to a million to repair it ! Wood rot , raccoons in the dumbwaiter , a bad roof , bad plumbing , bad electricity - you name it , this house has it . Hard to choose the funniest scene - the staircase collapse or Hanks getting dumped in cement . The entire cast is excellent , from Maureen Stapleton , the former homeowner whose boyfriend is being deported , Hanks ' clients ( he's an entertainment attorney ) , the many workers who populate the house , or Douglass Watson , Hanks ' embezzler father who now lives in Rio . It would also be hard to choose the funniest line , but for anyone who has owned a home , probably the Shirks Brothers line when their team comes to repair the house - " Your name came up in a drawing - we work today ! "
stylish noir with Bogie and Bacall	Set in San Francisco , " Dark Passage " stars Humphrey Bogart as an escaped convict who was found guilty of killing his wife , and Lauren Bacall , as the woman who helps him . The Bogart character knows someone framed him for the murder and is desperate to get away from the police . To accomplish this , with the help of a chatty cab driver ( Tom D'Andrea ) , he has his face changed by plastic surgery . Though Bogart's distinctive voice is present throughout , the first part of the film uses the subjective camera , a la " Lady of the Lake . " In " Lady of the Lake , " the camera was at all sorts of odd angles and at one point , focused on a mirror where the viewer could see the face of Robert Montgomery . In this film , the camera is less obtrusive . Either that , or because it's an icon like Bogart , the viewer pictures him even though he's not on camera . After the plastic surgery , Bogart is revealed . The plot is okay , but it's really an excuse for great chemistry between the two stars , a rich atmosphere , and some wonderful cinematography . The idea of loneliness is everywhere ; it's in the bus station , it's in the isolated way that the Bacall character lives . And it's also about taking a chance and reaching out . Bogart gives a strong and honest performance , putting his strong presence to good use as he dominates the film even when only his voice is used . Bacall is at the height of her sultry beauty , with her luxurious hair framing a perfect bone structure , pouty lips , and sensuous eyes . She is absolutely fantastic to look at and listen to , and she imbues the role with vulnerability as well as a feeling of cold isolation and the loneliness she feels . The supercouple gets wonderful support from Tom D'Andrea , the Gillis of the Riley series I grew up with , Agnes Moorhead as a nasty friend of Bacall's , Bruce Bennett , and Houseley Stevenson as the excellent but borderline maniacal plastic surgeon . One almost expected thunder and lightning after he spoke . Very entertaining , highly recommended , and I loved the ending .
Just great	George Clooney , Brad Pitt , Matt Damon , Bernie Mac , Elliot Gould , Carl Reiner , Casey Affleck , Scott Caan , Shaobo Qin , Miguel Perez , and Livingston Dell make up " Ocean's Eleven , " a 2001 film directed by Steven Soderbergh . The film also stars Andy Garcia and Julia Roberts . This is a remake of the rat pack " Ocean's Eleven , " which I've never seen so I can't make comparisons . I suspect that this version has more emphasis on plot and the older one has more emphasis on the pack . The mastermind of a plot to rob Las Vegas ' Bellaggio Hotel vault of $160 million is Danny Ocean , a very recent ex-con who had lots of time on his hands in prison to plan it . With the help of his buddy , Rusty Ryan ( Pitt ) he recruits 9 people who specialize in a particular expertise to carry out the elaborate heist . Problems come in when Ocean , obsessed with his ex-wife ( Roberts ) , approaches her , to the annoyance of her present boyfriend , the owner of the hotel , Terry Benedict ( Garcia ) . He " makes " Danny by sending out a bulletin with Danny's photo to the hotel staff , which puts him out of his own plot at the insistence of Rusty . But Danny isn't one to exit easily , in either marriage or robberies . This is a fast-paced , tension-filled , exciting movie that's highly entertaining . The plot is completely improbable so you have to take it for what it is - fantastic fun . And you never know whether something is going wrong or if it's part of the plan . The chemistry between the actors , particularly Clooney and Pitt , is great , and there is some wonderful acting . Clooney is solid as Ocean , a passionate man of quiet determination ; Damon is terrific as an insecure participant ; Don Cheadle , sporting a Cockney accent , is hilarious as an explosives expert ; Elliot Gould is outrageous as their financial backer ; Carl Reiner is excellent as an older con man who can do accents . Just as they all contribute their different talents to the heist , they do so in this movie . This includes the acting in the smaller roles played by Bernie Mac et al - everyone is perfect . Andy Garcia is fabulous as Benedict - both elegant and scary , he whispers instead of shouts and stays in control for the most part . Megastar Roberts is wasted - she doesn't have much to do . Any actress could have done the role , but I guess the producers wanted an all-star cast . Highly recommended for blockbuster entertainment value and star power . Just don't look for it to be realistic .
Fascinating show on Lifetime	" There are more things in heaven and earth , Horatio , Than are dreamt of in your philosophy . " You have to approach " Lisa Williams : Life Among the Dead " with that attitude , or you'll hate it . Lisa , like Allison Dubois in Medium , sees and hears dead people . She's a real person ( as is Allison ) with a British accent , punk hairdo , sunny attitude and a husband and family . I don't have any idea how much the show is edited , but what appears on television is very interesting indeed , showing a strangely practical and paradoxically down to earth woman doing matter of fact , accurate readings for strangers on the street and others by appointment . How often she misses the mark , how many questions she asks , we don't know , again , because we don't know how much of the show is edited . Nevertheless , thanks to Lisa herself , this is a highly entertaining show , sometimes very touching and always fascinating . I have seen several episodes and then lost track of it . I hope Lifetime gets it on a set schedule .
Entertaining film with a top cast	Robert Redford , Sidney Poitier , Dan Ackroyd , Ben Kingsley , River Phoenix , David Strathairn , and Mary McDonnell star in " Sneakers , " a film about security guys who get involved in a scheme to steal for the government . Or so they think . Redford plays Martin Bishop , who has been on the run from the law since 1969 , when his friend Cosmos was caught hacking into some large bank accounts - like the Republican Party's , Richard Nixon's , etc . Bishop ( whose name back then was Brice ) was outside the building at the time and has been wanted ever since . Fast forward 20 + years and he's a securities expert in partnership with ex-CIA agent Poitier , Ackroyd , the blind Strathairn , and River Phoenix . The government wants them to get a black box invention from a Russian mathematician , promising to wipe Bishop's record clean . Except they turn out not to be the government . And the black box ? A decoder that can get into power plants , the Federal Reserve , and every other important place . This is a fast-paced , entertaining movie that has both funny and highly suspenseful moments . The story is way out there , the technical equipment is interesting and lots of it probably still holds up 16 years later , and the cast is great . I realize some of the comments are quite negative - I find " Sneakers " very enjoyable with great ensemble work and an intricate plot . Realistic ? Is Mission : Impossible ? If I wanted reality , I wouldn't be watching a movie .
Tremendous acting in a though-provoking story	Jack Lemmon and Zeljko Ivanek star in " Mass Appeal , " a 1984 film based on the Broadway play . It concerns a popular priest who is assigned a young , intense seminarian , Mark Dolson ( Ivanek ) . Dolson makes Father Farley question his values , his beliefs , and ultimately his courage to rock the boat . The conflict between these two men , exact opposites - one , Farley , who takes the easy way out every time - and Dolson , whose unabashed honesty causes constant difficult for himself - make for an absorbing drama . When Dolson's suitability for priesthood is at stake , Father Farley has to make a decision whether or not to ask his congregation for support , and in so doing , take a stand against a strictly by the book monsignor ( Charles Durning ) . The film throws a lot of Catholic beliefs into question , and I saw it at an interesting time in the Church's history , when priests are openly being accused of abuse of their ( usually male ) charges . This is also the subject of a play set in the ' 60s , the excellent Doubt . Abuse isn't the issue in " Mass Appeal , " but homosexuality in its way is , as the Monsignor suspects that two seminarians might be gay . When Dolson defends them , his sexuality becomes suspect also . Dolson's take is that it doesn't matter if the seminarians are gay or not - they are willing to take the vows of priesthood and live by them , as is he ( Dolson reveals his sexuality and past life experience during the film ) . One would be hard put to find better actors than Lemmon and Ivanek for their roles . Both are totally brilliant , giving full , deep characterizations of profoundly different men . Lemmon always cut to the chase , be it in drama or comedy . Missing are the technical machinations so many actors go through - all we see is an honest , naturalistic performance . The gifted Broadway actor Ivanek was still in his twenties when " Mass Appeal " was made . He holds his own with no problem against Lemmon . The rest of the cast is good , though the Durning character is a little too heavy-handed . An excellent film , wonderful script by Bill Davis that is both humorous and touching , with some beautiful music by Bill Conti . Underrated and recommended .
Delightful Henry Fonda with a new philosophy	A refreshing , funny film about a different kind of American dream - laziness . Dwight Dawson ( Don Ameche ) , peddling his success classes , launches a contest to find the laziest man in America . The plan is to turn the winner into an aggressive , driven success through his class and draw thousands of enrollees . The winner is Tad Page , beautifully portrayed by Henry Fonda . He's a happy man who feels that , though he's not rich , he has everything - he just wants the prize money to buy a fire engine for his town . He has no interest in taking Dawson's class . Then he falls in love - with Dawson's girlfriend ( Lynn Bari ) . This is a delightful movie about a man who has the true secret of life and is able to impart it to many he meets . As the original post indicated , it's a great life lesson and something to think about . The cast - Fonda , Ameche , Bari , Edward Everett Horton , are just great . The birthday party , during which Ameche and Horton try to keep Tad from realizing that Bari is Ameche's girlfriend - was especially funny . Highly recommended .
Late Gable comedy	Clark Gable quickly becomes " Teacher's Pet " in this 1958 film also starring Doris Day , Gig Young and Mamie van Doren . Gable plays gruff , self-educated reporter Jim Gannon who , after writing an insulting letter to a journalism teacher , is forced to go to the class by his boss . The teacher is Erica Stone ( Doris Day ) , and Gannon suddenly becomes very interested in learning . Using an assumed name , he impresses Erica with his natural talent for journalism , though he claims to be in the wallpaper business . He then learns that her father was a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist , and that she's being escorted around by a professor who hasn't got a thing wrong with him . This is a wonderful black and white comedy that Gable and Day perform beautifully and with great chemistry . Nowadays people comment on the age differences - I'm sure I didn't notice it the first time I saw the film , and it's one time where it doesn't matter . Gable gives us a fully-blown character , a man intimidated by his lack of education and therefore resentful of anyone who has one . In a wonderful scene between him and Nick Adams , who plays a high school dropout , he tells the young man that because of his lack of knowledge , " I've spent my life excusing myself from dinner tables and going to the mens room , and I don't want that to happen to you . " Day is a delight , relaxed , charming and beautiful . Her best scene is her imitation of Mamie Van Doren's nightclub act , singing " The Queen of Rock ' n ' Roll " to the embarrassment of Jim , who was seen with her by Erica and Hugo ( Young ) in a nightclub . Gig Young , who was nominated for an Oscar for his performance , is hilarious as superman Hugo , who believes drunkenness is nothing more than state of mine , speaks many languages , plays the bongos , and can exceed Jim's war service record . The confrontations between them are marvelous . In modern times , it's tough to find this intelligent kind of comedy anymore where there are actual characters who have their serious moments , but when one comes along , it's well worth it . " Teacher's Pet " is a great example of Hollywood at its finest - an excellent script , great stars in Day and Young , and a living legend , Clark Gable , doing what he'd been doing for thirty years .
Slice of American life at the start of the Korean war	" I Want You " is a 1951 film starring Dana Andrews , Dorothy McGuire , Farley Granger , Peggy Dow , Mildred Dunnock , and Martin Milner . The character that Dana Andrews plays , Martin Greer , is perhaps an extension of his character in " The Best Years of Our Lives " four years later . It's post-World War II , the men have returned , purchased homes , started families , and built businesses . Then troops begin to be sent to Korea and the draft letters start coming . The movie deals with the effect on a small-town family and the emotional exhaustion and recent memories of World War II . How difficult it must have been to go to war again , yet many did . Martin refuses to write a letter asking that one of his employees , whose father also works for him , be exempt due to being necessary to his business ; he begins an exemption letter for his brother at his mother's request , but he can't do it . In love with the daughter of a member of the draft board , Martin's brother Jack ( Granger ) believes that he is being drafted to put a distance between himself and his girlfriend ( Dow ) . " We both know the reason why my knee was exempt three months ago and isn't now , " he says to her father ( Ray Collins ) . When he suggests at dinner that rather than have people go into battle , the Army should just drop bombs , his sister-in-law ( McGuire ) throws him out of the house , causing bad blood between her and her in-laws . And it begins a domino effect : Jack and Martin's mother ( Dunnock ) goes home and trashes her living room , filled with war memorabilia supposedly brought back from battle by her husband ( Robert Keith ) but in truth purchased in pawn shops ; he spent the war as a general's orderly in a Paris hotel . What is fascinating is that some of the conversation sounds either like what one heard during the Vietnam days or hears today - one push of a button and we'll all be blown to bits and the desperation to get a deferment . Other parts are strictly Dark Ages : Jack's upper class girlfriend Carrie doesn't want to get married until she's 25 . She wants to travel , learn Japanese , and " maybe even get a job , " all of these things apparently not doable once she's married , the ultimate career goal . Most of the performances are excellent . McGuire gives a striking performance as a woman who lived as an army wife , and for whom the thought of her husband perhaps being asked to serve again brings up a lot of anger . " We've lived in this house two years , " she says . " Two years . Is that all the happiness people are allowed today ? . . . I don't want to be left alone anymore . " Dunnock's character is more restrained by equally effective in her disappointment in having to constantly say goodbye to her sons as they go to war . Matine idol Granger , at the time under contract to the producer of the film , Sam Goldwyn , always had a youthful and likable screen personality , though he was never much of an actor . Dow is fairly one-note as his girlfriend ; she doesn't bring enough warmth to the role . Dana Andrews brings heart to the part of Martin , a man who tries to live by his own conscience and with honesty . He's really the anchor of the film . Though Andrews had a limited range , what he could do was always very good and with a solid presence . The end of the film is extremely touching , in large part due to him . I was not bored by this movie . I found it very interesting . We've changed in this country and yet we have some of the same concerns . A good deal of the rhetoric sounded quite familiar . Recommended .
Before the sequels , before the parodies . . .	. . . there was 1970's Airport , an all-star soap opera in the sky that started a franchise of campy films and send-ups . It would be hard to say that " Airport " is the best of the series of " Airport " movies because in fact , it's the only good one . Based on Arthur Hailey's novel , it's led by a cast that starts with the likes of Burt Lancaster and continues on : Dean Martin , Helen Hayes , Jean Seberg , George Kennedy , Maureen Stapleton , Van Heflin , Jacqueline Bisset , Barry Newman , Dana Wynter , Virginia Grey , Jessie Royce Landis , Lloyd Nolan and Barbara Hale . Also , take a look at the seat behind Helen Hayes , and you'll see a blond Marion Ross from " Happy Days " ; she had just gone through a divorce and asked the director to give her something to do as a distraction . On the ground , Burt Lancaster fights a snowstorm and his wife ( Wynter ) ; Seberg is his assistant and in love with him ; Barbara Hale is his sister , married to the philandering pilot played by Dean Martin , who is cheating on her currently with flight attendant Jacqueline Bisset - she's just found out she's pregnant ; Arthur Kennedy is Petroni , who is an expert on planes and in charge of cleaning up the airfields ; Helen Hayes is a professional stowaway ; Van Heflin is a passenger with $250 , 000 in flight insurance and a bomb in his briefcase ; Maureen Stapleton is his wife , who realizes when a refund check arrives from the airline that her husband is en route to Rome and not Milwaukee ; Lloyd Nolan is the customs inspector who spots Heflin and thinks something is strange about him ; Barry Newman is Martin's copilot , and Gary Collins also works in the cockpit . There are several outstanding performances . Helen Hayes ' hilarious sweet little old lady with the heart of a conniver won her an Oscar a mere 39 years after her first one . Van Heflin , in his last film role , is appropriately seedy , scary and desperate as the would-be bomber , and Maureen Stapleton is wonderful as his wife , in an excellent part . George Kennedy captures the no-nonsense , much respected Petroni well . Dean Martin carries his relaxed style a little too far , not really absorbing the role of a pilot with a plane in crisis . Burt Lancaster is fine in a role that could have been played by any leading man of the time . Seberg , Bisset , Wynter and Hale provide glamor and beauty . For those who remember the old days of flying , Airport is a reminder of friends allowed to accompany one to the plane , paper tickets , smoking on planes and planes taking off as little as an hour late in a snowstorm . Thanks for the memories .
Falling in love again	This documentary , made by her grandson , focuses on the fabulous Marlene Dietrich's contributions during World War II and the way she was viewed by Germans and the rest of the world due to her activities during that time . These include her becoming an American citizen and entertaining American soldiers despite German efforts to get her back in Berlin and supportive of her own country's war efforts . According to Maria Riva's fascinating biography of her mother , one of Dietrich's main reasons for going overseas as a performer during the war was to reunite with her lover , French film star Jean Gabin . However , it's apparent that the artist soon fell in love with the soldiers and became much more than part of a traveling show . She donned fatigues , she sat and talked with them , flirted with them , sang with them , and visited them in hospitals . For the rest of her life , veterans were known to her as " my boys " when they flocked to see her in Las Vegas , Israel , or wherever she performed . Her experience was summed up in an antiwar song that was part of her concerts , " Where Have All The Flowers Gone ? " The documentary goes into Dietrich's early career in Berlin and just touches on her Hollywood success . There are interviews with her daughter , friends , and historians throughout , and the documentary is peppered with home movies , interview footage , and performances . It's a much less cynical look at Dietrich than is found in Riva's book , where , for instance , she describes her mother telling everyone at one point that she was going to Germany to get her sister out of Bergen-Belson , failing to mention that it was the town of Bergen-Belsen and not the concentration camp . The documentary also stays out of most of Dietrich's personal life , which is covered in great detail in her biography . It would all be superfluous here . This is the story of a great icon , her roots , and how the watershed experience of World War II changed her art .
Under-appreciated comedy	Brian Aherne is a hobo taken in by Billie Burke to be a family chauffeur in " Merrily We Live , " also starring Constance Bennett , Alan Mowbray , Bonita Granville , Tom Brown , and Clarence Kolb . The film is basically the same story as " My Man Godfrey " but I'm going to go out on a limb here and say it's funnier , though " Godfrey " had the serious undertones ( and William Powell ) that this movie completely lacks . Unfortunately for " Merrily We Live , " it came out at a time when the screwball comedy had had its day . It's so interesting now to see these true gems that suffered from bad timing . " Bringing Up Baby , " regarded today as a classic , also suffered at the box office . The family Aherne comes to work for is never boring . The matriarch , Emily ( Billie Burke ) , is bonkers . She's constantly picking up hobos and hiring them . In the first scene , the last bum in residence has stolen all of the silverware so the family is using all kinds of devices as utensils in order to get through breakfast . The younger daughter Marian ( Bonita Granville ) spends most of her time fooling around with the chimes so that when the harried butler Grosvenor ( Mowbray ) tries to ring them , they fall apart . Grosvenor , by the way , keeps his bags packed and ready to go at all times and leaves in disgust at least once a day . When Marian isn't making Grosvenor's life miserable , she's hitting people up for money in exchange for information . Mr . Kilbourne ( Kolb ) drinks to escape . Jerry , the older daughter ( Bennett , who is 19 years older than Granville ) seems to be the one who keeps things together . Then she falls for Aherne . The last scene in this film should be regarded as the ultimate in screwball . It's one of those things you laugh out loud at even when you're alone . It was commented that Bennett was too old for the role - 34 . She definitely was playing a woman in her twenties , but given that Burke was 53 , Tom Brown ( the son ) was 25 , and Granville was 15 , the ages work out , and those age gaps exist in families . In those days , it was not uncommon , as in my own family , for a woman to have 9 pregnancies and only have three living children spread far apart . Bennett didn't have the best role but she was believable and beautiful . She was almost at the end of her " A " picture leads by 1938 . Tom Brown doesn't have much to do but is very good . Mowbray is terrific , as is Kolb , as a man who knows more about what's going on than he pretends . Patsy Kelly plays one of the house staff , and she gives a stagy and loud performance . She's seen to better advantage elsewhere . Burke is a delightful dingbat . Granville is energetic bordering on hyper , as she always was , and she's perfect as the mischievous daughter . Aherne is very handsome and makes not only a great hobo but a great butler . This was definitely one of his finest roles , and he handles it elegantly . " Merrily We Live " is a real treat , another lost treasure of the ' 30s .
Strange title , good movie	Susan Hayward is a determined , talented and ambitious woman in " I Can Get it for You Wholesale , " a 1951 film which also stars George Sanders , Dan Dailey and Sam Jaffe . The title comes from the novel but the actual plot is only very loosely taken from the book . The beautiful Hayward plays Harriet Boyd , a dress model in a small business in New York's Garment District . She talks the owner ( Sam Jaffe ) into putting up some money and going into business with her so that she can launch her own line . She gets the top salesman ( Dan Dailey ) to do the same , and she manipulates her own sister into offering insurance money for Harriet's share in the business . Harriet's ability and drive get the business going , and she's all work . Though Danny Sherman ( Dailey ) is in love with her , she gives him the brush-off . The two eventually stop speaking when Danny catches having dinner with a wolf-like buyer ( Harry von Zell ) . One night , at a big buyer's dinner , she meets J . F . Noble , the head of Noble's Department Store , probably comparable to Saks Fifth Avenue . She wants to launch a line of gowns , which will mean getting out of her contract with her partners . Noble wants more than Harriet's gowns ; he wants Harriet as well . This is a very good drama with fine performances from everyone involved . Hayward , of course , carries the film as a driven woman who ends up having to question not only what she really wants but her own ethics and sense of responsibility . Sanders is great as the elegant Noble , representing , in a way , the devil , who knows Harriet's heart but wants her to sell her soul . Sam Jaffe is perfect as the grandfatherly boss , and Dan Dailey steps out of his dancing shoes and proves himself a good leading man . Highly recommended and a must for Hayward fans .
Great performances and direction highlight this prison film	" Brute Force " is a 1947 film directed by Jules Dassin with a wonderful cast that includes Burt Lancaster , Hume Cronyn , Charles Bickford , Whit Bissell , Richard Hoyt , Howard Duff , Jeff Corey , Ann Blyth , Yvonne Decarlo , and Ella Raines . Lancaster et al . are in a prison overseen by a humanitarian warden , but his enforcer ( Muncey ) is another story . He doesn't believe in anything but discipline and beatings . The worst thing that can happen to a prisoner is to be dispatched to work in the drainpipe with its filthy conditions and foul air . Lancaster and his buddies , however , think they can use their latest assignment to their advantage and break out . On the wall of their cell is an image of a beautiful woman , and to each man , she represents the woman he left behind - for Lancaster , it's the crippled Ann Blyth , for Bissell , the greedy Ella Raines , for Duff , an Italian woman ( DeCarlo ) he met during the war . Richard Brooks wrote an excellent , compelling script that makes us care about these men , even though they're criminals , and want them to succeed . One of the main reasons we want them to succeed is the incredible performance of Hume Cronyn . Cronyn underplays and makes Muncey the iron fist in the velvet glove . He speaks softly , almost caressingly . Be invited to his office , with the classical music playing , a large picture of himself , and artwork , and see what happens to you . Not pretty . An absolutely brilliant portrayal of a sadist by one of the greats . The hunky Lancaster gives a compelling performance as a desperate man who will do anything to escape . The ending will knock your socks off . Don't miss it .
Truly excellent	In " Owning Mahowny , " Philip Seymour Hoffman proved before his Oscar win that he is one of the great actors of his generation , playing a compulsive gambler who embezzles millions from the bank where he works . Mahowny is a fascinating character . He's a slob who drives an old car and is obviously cheap . He has a girlfriend ( Minnie Driver ) whom he loves , but in whom he hasn't confided very much . In fact , he lies to her , as he lies to everyone . His god is gambling - not money , just gambling . As Frank Perlin ( Maury Chaykin ) , one of the guys who takes his action attests , " He just wants to have the money to lose . " We watch Mahowny get in deeper and deeper , creating false loans and stealing from his clients . He becomes a VIP at an Atlantic City casino where he is given the best of everything and offered even more - but he's not going to do anything that takes away from his time at the tables . Unbeknownst to him , the Feds are interested in some of his associates and become curious about this Mahowny guy , thinking he may be in on a drug racket . This movie will keep you hooked throughout . Hoffman is brilliant and even sports a Canadian accent ( the film was made there and the real Mahowny is Canadian ) . Hoffman comes from my home town , and as we are close to Canada , he is familiar with the accent . He fits right in . The rest of the acting is uniformly good , with the standout being the remarkable John Hurt as the casino owner who wants Mahowny to keep throwing money at the casino and will do anything to keep him there . The insight into the gambling world is amazing - and may keep you away from the tables the next time you're in Vegas or Atlantic City .
Baltimore teens dance and battle segregation in the ' 60s	Ricki Lake plays Tracy Turnblad , a short , chubby teen with big hair who loves to dance in " Hairspray , " a 1988 John Waters film starring Divine , Deborah Harry , Sonny Bono , Ruth Brown , Jerry Stiller , and Mink Stole . " Hairspray " has now been immortalized on Broadway as an enormous , energetic , fabulously entertaining musical which kept the conceit of a man playing Tracy's mother , again with great success . " Hairspray " is highly exaggerated in parts , which makes it extra funny , and Waters captures ' 60s Baltimore beautifully . Corny Collins , who is the Baltimore Dick Clark , would like nothing better than to integrate his television show , but blacks are only permitted to dance one night a week . The van Tussles are for segregation - that would be Sonny Bono , running for office , his wife Harry ( on stage the former Miss Baltimore Crabs , in the film Miss Soft Crab ) . Harry's hairstyles are fantastic - HUGE - her last hairdo is in the form of an enormous loving cup . When Tracy's friend Penny takes up with the son of an outspoken black woman , Motormouth Mabel ( Ruth Brown ) , her hysterical mother has her kidnapped and put in the hands of a psychiatrist ( Divine as a man ) who tries to torture her to stop liking black men . It's so outrageous it's funny , and that's where Waters shows his talent . When Tracy gets a contract modeling for a plus-sized woman's shop , the owner's live ad on Corny's show begins , " Tubby , tubby , 2 x 4 , can't get through the kitchen door . " It's this madcap treatment that keeps any of this from being remotely offensive . All the performances are delightful , and there's a nice turn by Pia Zadora as a black-haired beatnik chick . " Hairspray " has a lot of warmth that emanates from Tracy and the Turnblad family , and the mood stays upbeat throughout the entire film as the characters dance through life , Tracy with an overlay of blonde hair over her dark flip . Great music , great fun . " Hairspray " in any version is wonderful .
lovely film with a great cast	Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant on paper , I suppose , look like an odd pairing , but they were absolutely marvelous together , and " Holiday , " directed by George Cukor , is no exception . Hepburn plays the unhappy , bored , but bright Linda in a dysfunctional , upper crust New York family . Her brother , Ned ( Lew Ayres ) is a miserable drunk , and her father controls the family with an iron hand and the ethic that money is their god . Their mother , who was like Linda , is deeply missed by her . Linda adores her younger sister , Julia , but has idealized her and doesn't see that she has the same upper class values as their father . When Julia brings home her fiance , Johnny Case ( Grant ) , it is immediately obvious to the audience ( and later to the characters ) that Johnny fell for the wrong girl . " Holiday " is a film filled with heart , poignancy , and some warm humor provided by Johnny's friends , played by Edward Everett Horton and Jean Dixon , who come up against the society crowd at a party . Hepburn gives a beautiful performance as a young woman who wants to break free , and Ayres is heartbreaking as a man who can't . Grant , of course , is in the kind of role he did best in his early career , a young man from the wrong side of the tracks who is an independent spirit . He does some great gymnastics in the film , and he and Hepburn have a wonderful moment where she stands on his shoulders , and they fall into head rolls . Really marvelous stuff . The only problem I have is that the character of Julia , the younger sister , is so uptight and shallow , it's amazing that Johnny fell for her at all . Since they met while she was vacationing in Lake Placid , the audience must assume that out of the family home , she was more fun and playful , but when she comes up against her father , she falls right in with him . Hepburn and Grant worked together in " Bringing Up Baby , " " The Philadelphia Story , " and this film - actually , three films in a row - plus " Sylvia Scarlett . " One wishes they had appeared together even more . They had great chemistry .
Entertaining story of Francois Villon and Louis XI	Ronald Colman gets his wish in " If I Were King , " a 1938 film also starring Basil Rathbone and Francis Dee . Colman plays the vagabond poet Francois Villon , who is overheard by the disguised King ( Basil Rathbone ) criticizing His Highness and talking about what he would do if given the chance . He and his entire party are arrested , and Louis makes Villon the Lord High Chancellor . Villon gets to work immediately and elevates the king's reputation among the people . He opens up the stores of food at the palace and gives it to the citizens - they have no food because the city is being held by the Burgundians . The sentences he passes out to anyone arrested are merciful and fair . It seems as if he has succeeded . But what the King has failed to inform Villon is that he is only Chancellor for a week - and he has that week to convince the French army , who are refusing to fight the Burgundian army , to do so and win . " If I Were King " is a great deal of fun , and Ronald Colman is delightful as Villon . But first , in response to a previous post , a word about accents . The previous poster asks if there was a vocal coach available , as there were people speaking in British and American accents - no French accents . Hollywood often confuses the accent issue of films set in foreign lands by casting one or two people who have some type of accent while the rest do not . The rule in acting is that no accent is necessary when doing a film or a play set in a foreign country . Why ? Because the people of that country are not speaking English . They are speaking their own language . They are NOT walking around France speaking English with a French accent . This is why when actors perform Russian plays , or Hollywood did films set in Nazi Germany , Budapest , Spain or anywhere else , the actors did not have to use an accent of that country . An accent would only be necessary if a German were in America speaking English , for instance . To get back to the cast , led by the wonderful Colman , Basil Rathbone is excellent as the hated Louis , and Frances Dee is lovely as Katherine de Vaucelles , who falls in love with the Lord High Chancellor . Someone complained because Errol Flynn did not play this role . Flynn would have been marvelous , as he was a very charismatic actor , but I think Colman is marvelous . His Louis is not only energetic and charming , but highly intelligent , and Colman is able to shade the role in a way that Flynn , who tended to be much more superficial in his characterizations , could not . An enchanting film , highly recommended .
Excellent film from William Wyler	Frederic March , Martha Scott , Humphrey Bogart and Arthur Kennedy are just a few of the people who endure " The Desperate Hours , " a 1955 film , based on the stage play and directed by William Wyler . On Broadway , the play was directed by Robert Montgomery and starred Karl Malden in the Bogart role and Paul Newman played his brother , here played by Dewey Martin . The film also stars Gig Young , Mary Murphy , Richard Eyer , and Robert Middleton . Having just seen Bogart in the 1936 " The Petrified Forest , " it was interesting to see him still taking hostages 19 years later - and in fact , looking like he'd spent the last 19 years on the run from the law . He was clearly ill during the making of this film . Though Dewey Martin looked 30 years younger than Bogie , he was in fact only 20 , making the fact that they were brothers a tiny bit more plausible . I also had recently seen " The Star Witness , " a 1931 Warner Brothers film with a similar plot , which won an Oscar for best original screenplay . By 1955 , it wasn't original any longer , but the execution of the story is compelling . Martha Scott is a housewife , Ellie Hilliard , alone in her suburban home when three escaped criminals ( Bogart , Martin and Middleton ) take over the place . Glenn Griffin ( Bogart ) wants to murder the Deputy Sheriff ( Arthur Kennedy ) who put him in prison , and he needs to wait for the delivery of some money to make good his escape . Dan Hilliard ( March ) and his daughter Cynthia ( Murphy ) walk into the situation , followed later by the Hilliard's little boy ( Eyer ) . You'll be wondering why the son isn't knocked off - by his parents - given the trouble he causes . The money is delayed , and of course , the police have no idea where the gang is , as Griffin has put his car in the Hilliard garage . So the hours turn into overnight . Although March and Cynthia are allowed to leave the house for work , and Cynthia has to keep a date with her boyfriend ( Young ) , they're too terrified to say anything for fear the mother and boy will be killed . Basically the gang as well and the family become prisoners as the hours drag on . Wyler gives us lots of frightening and suspenseful moments as the tension builds in the house , and he never lets the pace drag . Supposedly he made March and Scott do a goodbye scene for take after take because he thought March was " acting " and wanted to tire him out . An accomplished stage actor of the old school , March consistently had a great presence but didn't always emotionally connect with his characters - he does here . March and Bogart make powerful adversaries , March hitting just the right note as an angry father afraid for his family , but not afraid to talk back to Griffin . Bogart's Griffin is shrewd and admires brains and bravery in others ; the family impresses him with their guts . Bogart is marvelous in the role - though tired out , his character is determined to keep the gang together and free ; he's resentful of the middle classness of the family and how out of place he and his gang are in a nice home . Unlike his Duke Mantee in " The Petrified Forest " , Bogart's Griffin doesn't seem to have a sense of the hopelessness of his situation until the very end ; also unlike Duke Mantee , he has a vulnerability that he demonstrates at the end . Robert Middleton gives a scary performance as a witless member of the gang , and Martin , as Hal , displays Hal's disillusionment with the situation , his attraction to Cynthia , and the realization that he can never have someone like her if he continues down his brother's road . Gig Young is somewhat wasted as Cythia's boyfriend - it's unnecessary star casting . Martha Scott does a terrific job as the harried wife and mother . The wonderful Arthur Kennedy gives another good performance as the sheriff determined to catch Griffin . Highly recommended for its suspenseful story , fine direction , and top performances .
a Christmas classic	I watch this movie every Christmas with my sisters , and have for about 30 years . I absolutely love it . Obviously . It's a beautiful story with the gorgeous Loretta Young , Cary Grant , and David Niven - what more could you want ? The only giggle nowadays is all the stand-ins required for ice-skating and harp playing , but I can overlook that . Monte Wooley , Elsa Lancaster and James Gleason are supporting players . You really couldn't ask for a better cast to tell the story of Dudley , an angel who falls for a mortal - and reminds her husband of what's really important in this world . Karolyn Grimes , who plays Young and Niven's daughter , makes appearances occasionally and talks about this film and " It's A Wonderful Life . " She looks like Meryl Streep now . She says that Grant played with her all the time between scenes . If you want to get into the Christmas spirit , or hold onto it - this is one for you .
Warner's answer to GWTW	Bette Davis is a southern belle whose aunt ( Fay Bainter ) calls her Jezebel in a moment of supreme disappointment . This is a 1938 film also starring Henry Fonda , George Brent , and Donald Crisp . Bette is Julie Marsden , a brat engaged to Preston Dillard ( Fonda ) . She soon loses him for what appears to be the second time when she wears a red dress to a ball where all the women are in white . Press goes to the north and returns with a wife ( Margaret Lindsay ) . Julie sets out to win him back , with a bad result . " Jezebel " has many similarities to " Gone with the Wind " - the south , the red dress , the manipulative , strong young woman , her obsession with a man and the disapproval by the family of her actions . The period is the 1850s ; the place is Louisiana , where there is an outbreak of the dreaded yellow fever . Although the film is similar to " GWTW " it stands on its own . It doesn't have the sweeping scope of GWTW . It's the story of one woman's love for a man and the effect it has on those around her . There are some striking scenes : the dance sequence , when Press and Julia are the only ones on the dance floor due to her being in red ; and the end is very striking . Bette Davis is great in the title role . Under William Wyler's direction , it's a restrained performance . It's a good thing because she's appearing opposite the master of underplaying , Henry Fonda . All of the women look stunning in their gowns , Davis in particular . As with Scarlett and Ashley , we don't really know what the attraction is between Julia and Press , and the script doesn't tell us . Fonda seems a little on the dull side for a lively girl like Julia . Donald Crisp turns in a powerful performance as Dr . Livingstone , and George Brent is very good as the elegant Buck Cantrell . Highly recommended . One of Davis ' best .
The effect of war	Naval men watch their ship sink as they cling to a raft and remember the lives they left in " In Which We Serve , " a 1942 film starring Noel Coward , John Mills , Celia Johnson , and Bernard Miles . The story takes place in World War II and shows how the war affected the British soldiers and their loved ones . Noel Coward also wrote and co-directed this film with David Lean . Like Coward's Brief Encounter , there are no glamorous movie star types . This is the story of the common man bound together by war and by their ship . Coward is Captain Kinross , who has a wife ( Celia Johnson ) and two children . John Mills is " Shorty , " a seaman who falls in love while on leave , gets married and has a short honeymoon . Bernard Miles is Walter Hardy , a happily married man whose wife hates having him go away . Each man reflects on his story in flashback . The impact of " In Which We Serve " must have been very powerful when it was first released . The announcement of war by the Prime Minister which comes over the radio is met with a chilling silence that the audience feels along with the men . The devastation of a blackout , the impact of the bombs at sea are very real . " In Which We Serve " is the story of a ship , the HMS Torrin , but we learn quickly that a ship is about its people , united in one cause and who share a special camaraderie . The captain's final speech to his men is highly emotional , all the more so because it is so restrained . All of the acting is top-notch . Someone commented that Coward seemed stiff . I think his role called for a certain formality . Hard to believe John Mills was ever that young . Celia Johnson , in her first film role , is wonderful . Coward obviously had no problems attracting the best actors to the film , as every person fits his or her role perfectly . Like many classics , despite changes in film technique , the core story remains compelling , especially today with so many soldiers in Iraq . In one scene , the camera falls on some of the seamen as they go to their stations to do battle . Each man was carefully chosen to show his extreme youth . It was a terrible time for the world , but somehow the film is strangely uplifting . A no-miss .
Important film , important message	" Crossfire " is a justifiably famous 1947 noir that's a murder mystery with a strong message . It stars Robert Young , Robert Mitchum , Robert Ryan , Sam Levene , and Gloria Grahame , and is strongly directed by Edward Dmytryk . We witness the murder in shadow at the beginning , and for the rest of the film , Young , as the detective , Finlay , in charge of the case , seeks to figure out which of three soldiers is responsible for the death , and just as important , why . The victim , Joseph Samuels ( Sam Levene ) is someone the soldiers meet in a bar ; they go up to his apartment to continue their visit , and Samuels winds up dead . I don't know about 1947 , but seeing " Crossfire " today , one knows who did it and why the minute we see the suspects . I don't suppose it was so apparent back then , as these actors were just getting started . Nevertheless , the film packs a big punch with its powerful acting , good direction , violence , and unsparing anti-Semite language . The characterizations are vivid , including that of Gloria Grahame in a smallish role - she's a woman who meets Mitchell ( George Cooper ) , one of the suspect soldiers , in a bar and can provide him with an alibi . The big performance in the film belongs to Robert Ryan , but everyone is excellent . Robert Young especially is effective as a tough but intelligent police detective . Mitchum is very likable as a soldier trying to help his confused friend Mitchell , a lonely man unsure if he still has feelings for his wife . Truly excellent , and a must see .
Two men out to destroy one another	Ben Affleck is a lawyer and Samuel L . Jackson is a man trying to do the right thing in " Changing Lanes , " a 2002 film also starring Toni Collette , Sydney Pollak and Kim Staunton . Affleck is attorney Gavin Banek , late for court , when he has a car accident involving Doyle Gipson ( Jackson ) , who is also on his way to court to protest his wife taking his children to live way across the country . Not wanting to mess around with insurance companies , Banek offers to write Gipson a check . Gipson , however , is a recovering alcoholic and has made a commitment to do everything in a " clean " way . He wants to trade insurance cards . Banek can't be bothered and gets into his car , leaving Gipson standing on the highway in torrential rain , although he asked Banek for a lift . When Banek gets to court , he finds he does not have the power of authority necessary to prove that an elderly man knew what he was doing when he fired his board and assigned the law firm to administer his trust . He realizes that he left the folder at the scene . Gipson arrives to court too late to speak on his behalf and finds the Judge has made a decision against him . Banek is desperate to find Gipson and get his document back , since he has only until the end of the day to file it with the court . And Gipson ? Well , he just isn't in the mood to return it . Thus begins a war with each man having the goal of total destruction of the other . Despite other comments on this board , I truly enjoyed this film and found the hard lessons learned by both men as the result of a random accident very interesting . Banek is encouraged by an ex-girlfriend ( Collette ) to question the power of authority and the role of the law firm in administering the trust ; Jackson comes up against his own acting-out behavior , rage , and as his ex-wife says , addiction to drama . " Changing Lanes " is about changing one's path in life from a crooked road to a straight one . It's about values , and it may not be to everyone's taste . The acting was excellent , the film had a fresh feel to it , and I found it thought-provoking . Recommended .
If you love horses , this is the film for you	Loretta Young , Richard Greene and Walter Brennan star in " Kentucky , " a 1938 film about a longstanding dispute between two families , horses and the Kentucky Derby . Well directed by David Butler , the film was made in beautiful color . The film begins during the Civil War , when young Peter watches as the Yankees take the thoroughbred horses from the Goodwin farm and kill his father when he tries to stop them . He never forgets that the Yankee Dillon family is responsible and 75 years later ( as Walter Brennan ) still hasn't forgiven them . Now in his 80s , he lives with his son , his wife and daughter on the farm where they train and breed thoroughbreds . The farm is in trouble , and when his son can't get a loan from the bank ( presided over by his Dillon contemporary ) , he dies , leaving Sally ( Young ) his heir . Everything is sold off except for one horse , which is ruined for racing one night when Sally has to ride in the rain to get a doctor for her mother - the road is blocked by a tree so she can't drive . However , due to a bet Dillon and Goodwin made , Dillon has written a note offering any two-year old on his farm to Goodwin . Sally claims the horse for her father , a horse chosen by Uncle Peter . The younger Dillon ( Greene ) , angry with his family , gives Sally a false name and offers to train the horse for her . The two fall in love . Were it not for World War II , Richard Greene today might be on the list of stars of the classic era . He was getting the star buildup by 20th Century Fox and would have been a rival for Tyrone Power , but when war broke out in England , he returned to serve his country , losing all his career momentum . With his wavy black hair , widow's peak and dazzling smile , the handsome Greene resembles Robert Taylor in this film and is a good pairing with the beautiful Loretta Young . The great performance comes from Walter Brennan . Someone posted that he was 38 playing a man in his 60s . No , he wasn't . The film clearly states that it's 75 years since the Civil War , making Uncle Peter , who was about 10 when the soldiers arrived , nearer to 85 . Brennan pulls it off . He won an Oscar for his performance . The film boasts some exciting racing scenes as well as a good story . Brennan gives a great performance , and the romantic stars are attractive , but the true stars of " Kentucky " are the most magnificent horses you've ever seen . Although the trivia section of IMDb doesn't state it , those horses must have come from some thoroughbred farm . It's not only horses , but beautiful foals and colts . If you like horses , this movie is a no-miss . The animals are jaw-dropping , even better looking than Richard Greene and Loretta Young .
Technicolor adventure starring Tyrone Power	Tyrone Power is one hot Castilian as the " Captain from Castile " which costars Jean Peters , John Sutton , Cesar Romero , Thomas Gomez , Jay Silverheels , and Lee J . Cobb . Power is at his swashbuckling , heroic best as a man who flees with his family during the Spanish Inquisition to the new land , Mexico , along with Cobb and Peters . She's in love with Power . Tough acting assignment . The villain , whom Power believes he has killed , is played by John Sutton , an instrument of the Inquisition who winds up in Mexico as well after killing Power's young sister . The entire cast is great - and the scenery ! A live volcano , no less ! The music ! Sensational . A first-class production all the way . Power really didn't like doing these roles , but the public demanded them of him , and he is dashing and romantic throughout . Romero makes a fantastic Cortez . It's really difficult to single anyone out because they're all so good . John Sutton was beyond evil . Jean Peters had an interesting career at Fox . Here she is quite young and effective . Even when she was moved into second rate films , it seems as if she was always given the heavy acting role , so it's obvious that her talent was recognized by the studio . I believe that during the period in which the film was made , Power was involved with Lana Turner . Lucky woman , even if she did lose him to Linda Christian later on .
World War II film set in Paris	Paul Henried and Michele Morgan star in " Joan of Paris , " a 1942 film also starring Laird Cregar , Thomas Mitchell and May Robson . Henried is a Frenchman wanted by the Gestapo who escapes to England and joins some British pilots . Flying into France , they are all shot down and separate . Henried , who plays Paul Lavallier , ends up hiding in the rooms of a caf waitress Joan ( Morgan ) , whose patron saint is Jeanne d'Arc . Joan and Paul fall in love , and she , with the help of a priest ( Mitchell ) get messages to the other pilots about plans for escape . All the while , a man trails Paul , and the Gestapo , headed up by Funk ( Cregar ) watches in hopes that he will lead him to the other men . " Joan of Paris " marked the U . S . debut of Paul Henried and Michele Morgan , a lovely French actress . Henried is photographed very well and is excellent as Paul Lavallier , and Morgan plays the sweet , courageous and devoted Joan beautifully . The movie is very atmospheric ; the black and white photography employs great use of shadows and darkness . This is one of those films the studios cranked out that one doesn't hear much about , right up there with one of my personal World War II favorites , Escape - though this isn't quite as good . " Joan of Paris " has the advantage of attractive leads , great atmosphere and some marvelous performances , a standout being Laird Cregar as the suave but evil Funk . Unfortunately , Cregar would die at the age of 28 , two years after this film . A huge man , a fine actor , and an out of the closet gay who wasn't afraid to bring gay overtones into a role , he was the chief villain at Twentieth Century Fox , actually scheduled to play Waldo Lydecker in " Laura . " What a loss , as is obvious from this film . May Robson , in a small role , is also a standout . Alan Ladd plays one of the fighters , and instead of being a stalwart , hardboiled detective , he's allowed to act . Though his role is a small one , he makes an impression . All in all , a wonderful film that TCM showed on Paul Henried's 100th birthday . Hopefully they will show it again .
All hail Klaatu !	" The Day the Earth Stood Still " is a timely , fun science fiction film from 1951 directed by Robert Wise . It has a great cast : Michael Rennie , Patricia Neal , Hugh Marlowe , Billy Gray , Sam Jaffe , Lock Martin , and Frances Bavier . It concerns the aliens Klaatu and Gort ( a 7'7 " actor discovered working as a doorman at Graumann's Chinese Theater ) who come to earth to talk to world leaders about their acquisition of atomic power and what it may mean to other planets . Klaatu is met with violence and distrust , but eludes his captors . He is helped by a woman ( Patricia Neal ) and her young son ( Billy Gray ) who live in the rooming house where Klaatu is hiding under the name of Mr . Carpenter . This classic movie has few special effects - certainly nothing like we would see today . It's a very simple story told in a straightforward way , but it remains timely as countries perceived as our enemies acquire not atomic power but nuclear power . Klaatu wants the world to live in peace and respect . Though it hasn't happened and probably isn't going to , it's still a worthwhile goal and is why the film remains on favorite lists . Klaatu barada nikto !
great early Columbo	Laurence Harvey stars as a win at all costs chess champion in " The Most Dangerous Match , " one of the original Columbo episodes . Harvey , number one at the game only because of the illness of the Russian champion ( Jack Kruschen ) the year before , panics when he plays a practice match with Kruschen and realizes that this year , he will lose his title . He then plots to get rid of his opponent , only to run afoul of the sloppy lieutenant on the case , Columbo . Harvey is wonderful in the role , a perfect villain for Columbo because he is so opposite - - arrogant , beautifully spoken , and immaculately dressed . He's also brilliant , but he doesn't recognize brilliance in someone posing a greater threat to him than the deceased chess champion - Columbo . Very entertaining .
lovely movie	I saw this film many years ago and remembered nearly all of it . It was a real treat to see it again . Dorothy McGuire recreates her stage role in a wonderful screen debut as Claudia , the guileless child bride of Robert Young . Her naivet gets her into some difficulty with an amorous neighbor ( Reginald Gardiner ) and her attachment to her ailing mother ( Ina Claire ) is a concern to her husband . McGuire and Young make a charming screen couple - she is all energy and he is more deadpan - it's a nice contrast , and the two characters are obviously very much in love . Ina Claire turns in a warm and touching performance as Claudia's mother . McGuire sparkles in this role , particularly in the transition when Claudia is forced to grow up almost overnight . Of course , she went on to have a great career that spanned nearly 50 years in film . It's easy to see why when you watch " Claudia . " This was followed by a sequel , " Claudia and David . "
A duchy wages war on the U . S .	" The Mouse that Roared " is a very funny 1959 film starring Peter Sellers in three different roles , and he's brilliant in all of them . The supporting cast includes Jean Seberg and Leo McKern . A tiny , backward duchy's sole support is wine imported to the U . S . When a copycat comes in and destroys their income , the powers that be decide to wage war on the U . S . - well , they decide to declare war on the U . S . Then they plan to surrender . After all , after the U . S . is involved in a war , don't they come in with money , food and supplies to rebuild the country they were against ? In their medieval costumes , armed with bows and arrows , the country's motley group of soldiers head for the U . S . via ship . Once there , unable to find anyone to surrender to - everyone's underground because of a bomb test - and those who see them take them for outer space aliens - they take the creator of the powerful Q bomb , his daughter , and some policemen hostage . With the bomb , which looks like a football , they then control the world . It's a great concept , with two soldiers fighting over which one is going to get the Empire State Building ( " I saw it first . It's mine . " ) , and a display for the hostages on duchy soil that includes the orchestra playing " Frankie and Johnnie . " Sellers ' roles are that of Gloriana XII , the reigning duchess , Baron Montjoy , the prime minister , and Tully Bascomb , the shy , unwilling army commander who falls in love with the inventor's daughter ( Jean Seberg ) . He creates three completely different characters , all totally believable . Jean Seberg , who came to such a tragic end , is exquisitely beautiful but possibly one of the worst actresses ever to hit the screen . It's hard to believe someone gave her Joan of Arc - she could barely get through this . I remember her being much better in " Moment to Moment " and " Airport " and of course , she had a huge hit with " Breathless . " Here , up against the talents of Sellers , she's just saying words with false emotion . However , she's so beautiful , you can't take your eyes off of her , so she certainly makes a successful object of Tully's affections . All in all , a wonderful farce with a serious undertone . Highly recommended .
Very good ' 40s film overshadowed by a shot to stardom	" Four Daughters " introduced John Garfield to audiences , and that is what is remembered most about this film today . Unlike some actors who appear in several films before their screen image gels , Garfield established his immediately , with a cigarette hanging out of his mouth and talk of the fates being against him . It's actually the story of four girls , their widowed musician father ( Claude Rains ) and their various suitors , one of whom , Felix , is played by handsome Jeffrey Lynn . He's the one they all have a crush on , but he's in love with Buff ( Priscilla Lane ) . Then she meets ne'er-do-well Mickey Borden , who falls for her as well . When Buff realizes that one of her sisters is in love with Felix , she leaves him at the altar and marries Mickey . This is a fairly formulaic story given life ( and sequels ) by the acting . Garfield has already been mentioned , but Priscilla Lane was by far the strongest of the daughters , the most interesting , and the best actress . Jeffrey Lynn was a fresh and good-looking leading man , and this film got him off on the right foot with Warners . However , true stardom was not to be . Like many others of the era , he went into the service , and when he came out , he had a Bronze Star but not much of a career . He later went into television and real estate . Claude Rains is warm and wonderful as the patriarch . So popular was " Four Daughters " that it inspired " Four Wives " and " Four Mothers , " as well as reuniting much of the cast again in " Daughters Courageous " where the actors played different characters . Very enjoyable , a nice remembrance of simpler and probably happier times , and a chance to see John Garfield in his first film .
emotional film	Yeah , I think I went through a box of tissues on this one . This is a beautiful film about a family ruled by the mother's ( Lesley Ann Warren ) MS . Her husband ( Tom Skerritt ) and daughter are devoted to her , but the daughter is growing up and aching to have a life of her own , including college . The daughter has a great deal of guilt because she believes that by being born , she made her mother's MS worse , which her mother assures her is not true , explaining that she was determined to have a child no matter what the consequences . Finally , it seems to be the best thing for the Warren character to go into a full time care facility . There she meets other people like her whom she finds inspirational and understanding . On the outside , her husband has fallen in love with Marg Hellenberger . The denouement of this film is very powerful . I won't apologize , but I will say it's probably a total chick flick . All the actors did a wonderful job - Warren is effective , Skerritt is his usual vital self in a very sympathetic role , and Hellenberger is also sympathetic and warm as his love interest . You can't hate or resent anyone in this movie . Very well done and very compelling .
A man's ambition , and the women who love him	Laurence Harvey wants " Room at the Top " in this 1959 film also starring Simone Signoret and Heather Sears . Directed by Jack Clayton , the story concerns a young man , Joe Lampton ( Harvey ) , sensitive about being from a low British class , who wants to marry the boss ' daughter ( Sears ) for her money and position . She's part of a small amateur theater company , so he joins . There he meets an older woman , the unhappily married Alice Aisgill . The two drift into an affair and fall deeply in love . Two things stand in their way : Joe's ambition and Alice's brute of a husband . This is , to put it simply , a devastating story that will stay with you long after the film is over . The movie belongs to Signoret , so sexy , so beautiful , so sad - she's perfect . Her vulnerability , her frankness , her coolness , and her deep unhappiness will shatter you . She deserved her Oscar hands-down . Harvey is magnificent as Joe . He's handsome , sexy , greedy , bitter , evil , and utterly determined to punish the upper class because he was born poor . The last scene is a knockout . I haven't seen the sequel - I can only imagine ! Heather Sears does an excellent job as the whiny object of his affections , and Hermoine Baddeley , as Alice's friend , gives a marvelous performance . She was not only a top bawdy comedienne but a brilliant actress . Signoret was one of the great film presences , and if you see Room at the Top for no other reason , see it for her . The entire film is a knockout .
Nice noir	Ed Harris and Madeleine Stowe are underneath the temperamental " China Moon " in this 1994 film also starring Benicio del Toro . Harris and del Toro are Kyle Bodine and Lamar Dickey partner detectives with a Florida police department . One night at a bar , Kyle meets Rachel Munro ( Stowe ) and falls for her immediately . She's unhappily married and has photos of her husband ( Charles Dance ) with another woman . He doesn't know this at the time , and tracks her down . They start seeing one another . When her husband winds up dead , Kyle helps her to cover it up . Though the plot is derivative , this is a classily done film with terrific acting , sensual love scenes between the two leads , an easy pace and beautiful photography . It reminded me a little of " Body Heat . " The plot won't be hard to figure out , but be prepared for a couple of twists . Ed Harris gives a forceful performance as Kyle , and del Toro is understated as Lamar . When the camera rests on Stowe , she's flawlessly beautiful , and what clothes ! She gives an effective performance and has a nice chemistry with Harris . " China Moon " is a small , meticulously done movie with loads of talent behind it . The story has been told many times , but somehow , if it's done well , it's always good for another encore .
It's good news	Peter Lawford , June Allyson , Joan McCracken , Ray McDonald , and Patricia Marshall star in " Good News , " a 1947 MGM musical about life at Tait University . Allyson is Connie Lane , working her way through college and living in a sorority house when she meets the big man on campus and star football player , Tommy Marlowe ( Lawford ) . It looks like love , but he's been after the flashy , uppity new girl ( Marshall ) who's only interested in a man with money . When she thinks Lawford has it , she turns her attentions to him , and he cancels his date with Allyson to the prom - on the night of the event . Had I been Allyson , the story would have ended right there , but this is 1947 and a movie , and it's a wonderful one - energetic and fresh , with good music and fabulous dancing from Broadway star McCracken and McDonald . " Pass the Peace Pipe , " a politically incorrect song by today's standards , is one of the best numbers . Allyson and Lawford make a great couple , and seeing Lawford so young and handsome , dancing and singing is not only a revelation but sad . He's terrific . Look for an unbelievably young Mel Torme in a small but showy role . Delightful - don't miss it .
True-life story expanded	Die-hard " Unsolved Mysteries " fans will remember the wonderful story told by a man named Fritz about a Christmas eve in the German woods when he and his mother were visited by American soldiers seeking to get out of the cold . It was a lovely story if you just stopped there , but German soldiers soon arrived and wanted to get out of the cold as well ! The mother insisted that everyone lay down their weapons and have a Christmas dinner , and they did so . One of the soldiers was wounded , and the soldiers on the other side helped him . They all spent the night with no incident , realizing that on whatever side you were on , you were still a human being . Well , if this didn't have all the makings of a movie , what does ? The story , of course , has been vastly expanded to include some conflict and some insight into the personalities involved . In real life , there wasn't intense communication since there were language barriers . This is a Christmas story that embodies the true meaning of the season in every sense of the word , all the more poignant because it's true . The performances are all wonderful . In real life , Fritz , who emigrated to America and became a baker , was looking to connect with the GIs he had met . The show found one of the old soldiers in a nursing home , and as he and Fritz reminisced , it was obvious that to both of them , the incident happened yesterday . This movie is highly recommended . It's about a remarkable woman who understood the term " peace on earth . "
A blind man has his eyes opened	Arthur Kennedy is Larry , a man blinded in WW II battle in " Bright Victory , " a 1951 film that also stars Peggy Dow , Julia Adams , James Edwards , Will Geer , Jim Backus , and Larry Keating . Kennedy plays a southern racist whose life plan of marrying his high school sweetheart ( Adams ) and joining her wealthy father's business comes into doubt when he is shot and his optic nerve shattered during combat . The film takes the viewer through Larry's training with other blind soldiers as he learns to adjust to a sightless life . One of the men , Joe ( Edwards ) is black and is his best buddy until Larry makes a bigoted remark ( and uses the n word for extra emphasis ) . A fellow soldier points out to him that from now on , he probably won't want to ask someone's race and religion before deciding if they pass muster . This sets Larry thinking . He meets a sympathetic young woman , Judy ( Dow ) , who falls for him but has to let him go home to the life he has there . But when Larry returns to his family , he finds that because he's changed , the world around him has changed , too . This looks to be a B movie but Kennedy received an Oscar nomination for Best Actor , and the acting in the film is A quality , as is the script and direction . Kennedy is excellent and does one thing , I believe intentionally , that is remarkable . At least to these ears , he has no southern accent in the beginning of the film . When he returns home , you start to hear a southern accent in his voice . Now , some might say that Kennedy's southern accent was in and out - I don't believe that was the case . He did what a lot of people with an ' acute ear ' do - he picked up the accent of those around him . As a blind man , of course , his ear would even be more acute , and in several scenes , he is shown to have a unique " radar " ability for " feeling " when he is near a building , which is considered by the Army to be a unique gift not shared by many . It would then be in character for him to easily fall in and speak with the same intonation as the accents around him . Kennedy , of course , went on to have a strong career as a character actor ( and receive more Oscar nominations ) while one of the bit players in the film , Rock Hudson , who is fairly bad even with a couple of lines , hit the superstardom jackpot . Fortunately , Hudson improved greatly before being handed leads . Julia Adams is lovely ( and strongly resembles actress Connie Selleca ) as Larry's frustrated girlfriend , and Dow is sympathetic as the girl left behind . After a few more movies , the very pretty Dow quit her film career to marry and subsequently raised five children . Will Geer , Larry Keating , and Jim Backus , three strong character actors , appear in this film as well . " Bright Victory " is an excellent movie and well worth watching , particularly for the complicated personality created by Arthur Kennedy .
very good wartime spy film	A good-sized budget , wonderful stars , a good script and excellent direction by Harold Bucquet make for a top-notch British film , " Sabotage Agent , " made in 1943 and starring Robert Donat , Valerie Hobson , and Glynis Johns . Donat plays a British soldier sent to destroy a poison gas the Nazis are making in Czechoslovakia . There , posing as an Iron Guard member , Jan Tartu , he draws attention to himself as a loud dresser and a ladies ' man while trying to infiltrate the underground . The severely asthmatic Donat goes all out in this one , playing his Tartu character to the hilt , preening and raising his arm as he says " Heil Hitler " every other minute , it seems . He definitely mines the humor in the role . His costar is the beautiful and elegant Valerie Hobson , who rooms in the same house as Tartu . Her family has lost everything and now seemingly consorts with Nazi generals , hoping to feather her nest . Glynis Johns plays a young girl who lives with her mother in the conscripted house , but she also works in the factory where " Tartu " is assigned as a guard . When she is caught at sabotage , his work is threatened . The film uses newsreel footage of London being bombed , and the laboratory set is quite interesting . A very exciting and well-acted film , highly recommended .
Beautiful musical fantasy about Paris and love	Gene Kelly is Jerry , an " American in Paris " in this 1951 film directed by Vincente Minnelli and also starring Leslie Caron , Oscar Levant , Nina Foch and Georges Guetary . Jerry is one of Paris ' many starving artists though he's a happy one , in a neighborhood where he knows everyone and has formed many friendships with fellow artists . Then he is " discovered " by an older patron ( Nina Foch ) who wants him for more than his art . Jerry , however , has fallen in love with his friend Henri's ( Guetary ) girl Lise ( Caron ) , though he doesn't realize that she is involved with Henri . Lise falls for Jerry , too , but feels a strong commitment to Henri . The beauty of Paris begins to fade . This is a beautifully directed film photographed in color , and some of it is really eye-popping . With Kelly and Caron as the leads , there is lots of great dancing to the Gershwin tunes , with Kelly at his exuberant , athletic best and Caron , introduced in this film , shown dancing a variety of styles from sexy to sublime . Levant is there with his dry quips and wonderful concertizing on the piano , and Guetary , an exciting singer , performs " Stairway to Paradise " and gives out with some great high notes in " By Strauss . " As the glamorous , lonely patron , Nina Foch is excellent , managing to evoke sympathy in a normally unsympathetic role . Reading through some of the comments on the board , I find them disturbing . " An American in Paris " is a vibrant , colorful musical with magnificent dancing and songs that capture the way of life everyone believes exists in France - the romance , the cafs , the fun of poverty and the beauty of the city of Paris itself . It isn't Ibsen . It isn't meant to be realistic ; it is meant to be charming , and in that , it succeeds . It doesn't need a script like The Grapes of Wrath ; it needs a script to get from song to song and give us feeling for the characters , and in that , it succeeds . There is a complaint that Jerry's interest in Lise is shallow . In film noir , a woman and a man's eyes meet , and they're instantly joined at the hip , and we accept it . We can't accept in a musical that Jerry saw Lise and fell for her ? My suggestion ? Take a film on the level it's presented and don't try to make it something it's not . So often on this board , people complain that a film didn't do this and didn't do that when it was never supposed to do this or that . Maybe it was supposed to do just one thing - entertain . And in that , " American in Paris " succeeds as well or better than just about anything else .
very good adaptation	I had the pleasure several years ago of seeing Lindsay Duncan and Alan Rickman on Broadway in Noel Coward's durable comedy , " Private Lives , " and they were magnificent . I admit I had low expectations for a film version . I was pleasantly surprised that , though scenes were added and changed , the film keeps the tone of the play . I actually saw part of this movie when I was about nine years old . James Card of the George Eastman House introduced it on a weekly old film program . To a nine-year-old , it seemed very foreign , given its age . Strangely , I have always remembered the line , " We're married in the eyes of heaven " - from that TV showing ! And sure enough , my memory was correct - that either says something about Montgomery's line reading , or that I had no understanding of what the line meant , or I have a weird memory . Not sure . I thought the two stars , Robert Montgomery and Norma Shearer , portrayed the couple excellently . Shearer is so often criticized for her acting , but I'm sorry , I've seen her in some very good performances , although I grant you , she was a movie star first and foremost . The couple also has great chemistry . I understand the apartment in Paris was changed to attract the German market , which eliminated the great part of the maid . In the end , the film is very enjoyable and the play , of course , set the stage for many ripoffs . I agree with another of the comments , it would have been fabulous to have Coward and Lawrence preserved on film .
hilarious	" Operation Petticoat " brings Tony Curtis and his idol , Cary Grant , together for a very funny film directed by Blake Edwards . Curtis , of course , does a great Cary Grant impression in " Some Like it Hot , " and working with Grant was a dream come true for the 34-year-old actor . And nothing about the experience disappointed him or the audience . The film also features Dina Merrill , Gene Evans , Dick Sargent , Arthur O'Connell , Madelyn Rhue , Virginia Gregg and Marion Ross . The film is shown in flashback as the submarine Sea Tiger is about to be junked . Grant , as Lt . Cmdr . Matt Sherman , looks at his log book and reminisces to a time when he was trying to get the Sea Tiger back into the war after his sub is nearly destroyed in an air raid . However , it is next to impossible to get supplies . Assigned as a replacement officer to the Sea Tiger is one Mr . Holden ( Curtis ) , a wheeler-dealer who got into uniform so he could meet the right people . Though he maneuvered a country club job as an aide to an admiral planning to go to Manila , the war intervened , and the admiral cancels his plans . Holden gets the Sea Tiger assignment . He promises that he can get supplies and presents one of his band of merry men , Ramon Gallardo , a prisoner whom he promises can travel on the sub . " But he's a Marine , " Sherman objects . " There isn't a thief , pickpocket , or fence in the islands that doesn't know , love , and respect him , " Holden answers . Holden gets supplies by any means necessary , including taking pipes from the bathrooms , part of the major's office wall , etc . He also manages to rescue five nurses who were stranded on an island , disrupting the entire sub . Though he finally confines Holden to quarters , Sherman realizes soon enough that if you can't beat ' em , join ' em , and calls on Holden for help again . " Operation Petticoat " has some hilarious moments , including Holden's stealing of a pig for New Year's dinner and the subsequent confrontation with the owner and military police on the sub , where Sherman and Holden refer to the pig as " Hornsby . " Unable to get the right color paint , the sub is painted pink and nearly bombed by a U . S . ship . Cary Grant is wonderful as the commander , authoritative , and then authoritative but frazzled as he is haunted by one of the nurses , a Jonas ( Joan O'Brien ) who causes disaster for him whenever she shows up . Tony Curtis is equally good , and he does not play the role for comedy ; rather , he has the comedy come out of the character - a former street kid , ambitious to marry money , with his own agenda in the Navy . The rest of the cast is very good , with pretty Dina Merrill being the love interest for Curtis , only to learn that he's already engaged to a wealthy woman . Arthur O'Connell is funny as the frustrated mechanic as nurse Heywood insists on helping him run the ship , at one point using a girdle to connect some of the parts . " Operation Petticoat " is a real treat - a very funny film with good direction , script and acting all around .
Good documentary on a colorful actor	Errol Flynn has always been grist for story mills - his off-screen life was as outrageous as his on-screen antics , so it's no surprise that a documentary about him appears from time to time on Turner Classic Movies , which owns the Warner Brothers Library . What made this Flynn story particularly interesting was the input from the family , ex-wives Patrice Wymore and Nora Eddington , and daughter Rory . They described him as a robe and slippers man who loved his home . That may come as a surprise to some people , but you can't booze and womanize , and it's clear from photographs that he loved his three children . The documentary fails to mention the death of Sean Flynn , probably because it happened after his father's death . The other element that puts this biography one step above is the interview with Olivia de Havilland , who speaks quite frankly about the attraction she and Flynn had for one another and how the romance was never to be . de Havilland's affection for Flynn , spoken of so emotionally when she was in the U . S . to receive an award at the time of her 90th birthday , is an indication that there was more to Flynn than young girls , drugs , and liquor . The classy de Havilland obviously saw something special in him , beyond the physical . The film clips from Robin Hood , Captain Blood and Flynn's other films are fun to watch . He was unique in that while other actors did musicals , dramas , comedies and adventure films , Flynn primarily did adventure films throughout his career . He was a tremendous natural athlete with great flair and charm , born to play the Robin Hoods and Captain Bloods . He could have been excellent in comedy , but his attempt didn't catch on . The problem for Flynn was that while others at Warners could act the big roles and play comedy as well as Flynn , no one at Warners was as adept at playing swashbucklers . This frustrated him , as a similar situation frustrated Tyrone Power at Fox , though Power had many more opportunities to do different types of films than did Flynn . The wonderful thing about this documentary is it debunks Charles Higham's Nazi premise ( which had already been debunked ) and , as one poster mentioned already , the homosexuality / bisexuality assertion is ridiculous . Flynn's big problem was underage girls . It's certainly possible that he experimented with the opposite sex under the influence - probably everybody did ! Why this is considered noteworthy is anybody's guess . Flynn was embarking on a career as a character actor at his death , and again , like Tyrone Power , he would have been happy with the meatier roles that supporting roles offer . Neither man lived to fulfill that potential . Flynn had a particular heartbreak in a film version of William Tell that was never finished and IRS problems . The end of his life was a sad one for someone with so much charm , beauty and humor .
Hitchcock on Hitchcock	One of the segments of " The Men Who Made the Movies " is on Alfred Hitchcock , concentrating mainly on his sound films . It would be impossible in the time allotted to give appropriate time to all of his great films , but there is some impressive footage to be had from " Saboteur , " " North by Northwest , " " Notorious , " " Shadow of a Doubt , " " Psycho , " " Frenzy , " and " The Birds . " My favorite Hitchcock films are those of the ' 40s and ' 50s - I've never seen " The Birds " because the whole idea scares me to death . I always felt Hitchock took a turn with " Psycho " into the horror genre that held no appeal for me ( though I do like " Psycho " ) . The star of this segment , of course , is the man himself , sitting calmly behind his desk and continuing to talk in the same measured tones after frightening scenes like the one shown from " The Birds " or " Frenzy . " He's so right on - " Frenzy " is frightening because the killer sounds so reasonable ; a " villain " has to be attractive , ergo , Joseph Cotten in " Shadow of a Doubt , " etc . One of my favorite Hitchcock moments is one so subtle it is never mentioned : In " Shadow of a Doubt , " the younger children won't sit next to Uncle Charlie . Hitchock knew that children's instincts , unspoiled by socialization , are always correct . In business , people used to talk about " thinking out of the box . " For these early filmmakers - and Hitchcock goes back to the silent era - there was no box . They created the whole thing . There were no rules . When there finally was a box , i . e . , the box they put the camera in to keep it immobile after sound came in , Hitchock took the camera out , and , as he put it , " The sound man walked off the set . " There is a lot of footage of Hitchock being interviewed available and several documentaries , but somehow , I never get tired of him .
Smoke and mirrors	Jodie Foster searches for her missing daughter on board a flight from Berlin to America in " Flightplan , " a 2005 film also starring Sean Bean , Peter Sarsgaard and Greta Scacchi . Foster plays Kyle Pratt ( the name kept though the character in the original script was a man ) , an aviation engineer who is bringing her husband's body back to the U . S . after he fell off of a building . When she awakens from a nap , her daughter is gone . After a search and a check of the flight manifest , the crew breaks it to her that her daughter was never on the plane , and in fact , died with her husband . Kyle's anxiousness soon leads to hysteria , and it's beginning to affect the other passengers . An even-tempered air marshall , Carson ( Sarsgaard ) is put in charge of her , but Kyle becomes increasingly out of control . She breaks away from him and , using her abilities , she sends the oxygen masks into the cabins and kills the power so she can continue to search the plane . The plot is not particularly new - in " So Long at the Fair , " Jean Simmons loses her brother , only to be told he did not accompany her ; in " Dangerous Crossing , " Jeanne Crain is a newlywed with a husband nobody saw . And this film brings Foster's " Panic Room " to mind - a woman and her daughter in bad circumstances . And , like " Panic Room , " " Flightplan " has some plot holes so large , it makes Swiss cheese look like solid rock . However , like " Panic Room , " as entertainment goes , it's first rate if you just go along with it and don't think about it too much . It's better than " Panic Room " in that this time , the plot takes place on a two-story 474 aircraft that is gynormous and spectacular . The suspense and tension is non-stop , plus it has a ferocious performance by Foster . She captures perfectly the various stages of such a traumatic situation . First she looks around the plane casually , then more thoroughly . She talks to the crew , she becomes nervous , then frantic , then aggressive - and then she just about goes out of her mind . Who wouldn't . Foster likes these girl power roles ; she does a great job with them and on top of it , always comes off as super-intelligent . Many actresses who play attorneys , doctors , scientists , yada yada - sometimes come off a little too dumb for their professions . Not Foster . She is ably surrounded by Sean Bean as the captain who fights to keep his temper once Kyle has lost hers , Greta Scacchi as a gentle psychiatrist who tries to help Kyle ; and Sarsgaard , who , though his face betrays nothing , you can read his mind . I was surprised to see the talented actress Stephanie Feracy , who has been around for years , playing a flight attendant . There has to be one helluva portrait in her closet . She looks amazing . You can analyze movies like this , " Panic Room , " " Oceans Eleven , " " Mr . and Mrs . Smith " and absolutely hate them because of the liberties and loose ends and stupidities - or you can get into the emotions of the characters and the excitement . I usually choose the latter ; it saves a lot of angst . I leave that to the characters .
Matthau and Lemmon directed by Wilder in a Wilder script - who can ask for anything more ?	When a cameraman is knocked over during a Cleveland Browns game , the sharks move in - or should I say shark - in the form of " Whiplash Willie , " his brother-in-law , in " The Fortune Cookie , " a 1966 film written and directed by Billy Wilder . Lemmon plays Harry Hinkle , a television cameraman , who is involved in a freak accident during a football game , when he is knocked over by " Boom Boom " Jackson . As soon as his brother-in-law , attorney Willie Gingrich ( Matthau ) hears that Harry suffered a compressed vertebrae in his youth ( from jumping off of a garage roof without opening his umbrella ) , he warns his hospitalized victim not to get well . He has a paroled dentist come in and shoot him up with drugs so that he can pass the insurance medical tests , puts him in a wheelchair , a collar , and a corset , and takes him home to recover . Meanwhile , the insurance company has a camera on him and his apartment bugged . Harry's tramp ex-wife ( Judi West ) , an aspiring singer , comes back to him as soon as she smells money to jump-start her career . The guilt-stricken Boom Boom becomes his servant . Boom Boom's football game suffers , and he turns to drink . Whiplash Willie , in the meantime , is negotiating a $200 , 000 settlement . Insurance fraud and ambulance chasers are still very topical . One has only to look at the number of commercials for attorneys telling you an accident is worth big bucks . Leave it to Billy Wilder and partner I . A . L . Diamond to write such a witty , cynical script about a man with a conscience up against a man who will stop at nothing to cheat the insurance company . Walter Matthau is an absolute riot as Willie , and won the Academy Award for his performance . Willie is an obvious cheat who knows all the angles and is able to get around them . Lemmon is great as a lonely man who goes along with the subterfuge with the carrot of his ex-wife returning dangling in front of him . Ron Rich gives a natural , sympathetic performance as Boom Boom , the devastated football player . The script is very witty and the performances are great . Billy Wilder was one of film's greatest writers and directors , and in " The Fortune Cookie , " he shows he's still got what it takes .
Takes up where " Fruhlingssinfonie " left off	Katharine Hepburn is Clara Wieck , Paul Henried is Robert Schumann , and Robert Walker is Brahms in " Song of Love , " a 1947 film directed by Clarence Brown and also starring Henry Daniell and Leo G . Carroll . " Song of Love " covers the marriage of Wieck and Schumann , while " Fruhlingssinfonie " ( Spring Symphony ) , which stars Nastassia Kinski as Clara , ends before the couple's marriage . The latter makes much more of a feminist statement . In that film , the well-known Clara Wieck realizes that upon marrying Schumann , there will not be room for " two pianos " as she puts it , and that her career , in fact , is over . While it is true that Schumann wanted a traditional wife and that in those days , it said bad things about a husband that let his wife go out and earn money , Clara Schumann did indeed continue her career up until 5 years before she died . Though there are some dramatic liberties taken with the script , much of it is true . As Schumann mentions in his conversation with Clara's father , he did live with the Wieck family for a time . Clara did take her father to court . Brahms was probably not in love with Clara , but the two were very close friends , and he did take care of the children as shown in the film . " Song of Love " is a little vague on Schumann's illness . Nowadays it is suspected to be syphilis that was treated with mercury ; another suspicion is that he was bipolar . But as the film documents , he became quite ill , indeed hearing the the note " A " in his head . There are also reports that Clara and Brahms destroyed his later works because they demonstrated the disintegration of his mind . In fact , one or two pieces were destroyed , but many were put into the repertoire . And Clara did indeed promote his music in concerts throughout her life . The glorious music of Schumann and Brahms is played throughout the film , and the performances are first-rate . Katharine Hepburn gives a beautiful characterization of Clara - strong , devoted , intelligent and gentle . Robert Walker is a warm , charming Brahms , and Paul Henried is excellent as the depressed Schumann . Schumann , Brahms , Liszt , Chopin - once composers roamed the world as dinosaurs did . Now composers are dinosaurs . Our technologically-based society is not conducive to producing great music or art , though musicians and artists now have a variety of technological advances at their disposal to incorporate into their work . Somehow it's not the same . Let " Song of Love " take you back in time . I highly recommend " Fruhlingssinfonie , " another beautiful film on the subject with a slightly different point of view . If you can , get it with subtitles rather than the dubbed version .
" What are the 39 steps ? "	" The 39 Steps " is the film that set Hitchock on his road to international stardom . Starring Robert Donat and Madeline Carroll , the movie is suspenseful as well as charming and filled with all those marvelous Hitchcock touches . The film begins in a music hall - the Hitchcock " ordinary " i . e . safe place . We are treated to a performance by that master of knowledge , " Mr . Memory " and see Richard Hannay ( Robert Donat ) in the audience . Then a shot is fired , and in the confusion and frenzy to get out of the theater , a woman attaches herself to him . She's obviously terrified of something - when they get to his apartment , she plasters herself between two windows . She tells him a wild story - she's an agent en route to Scotland . She's trying to keep important information from leaving the country . When she winds up dead in the middle of the night , Hannay takes her map of Scotland and sets off . Meanwhile , back home , he's wanted for her murder . An ordinary man , a victim of circumstances , and for Hannay , they haven't even begun yet . Once on the train , he meets Pamela ( Madeline Carroll ) and starts kissing her when the guards come around . She turns him in . He escapes . Once in Scotland , he gets another Hitchcock lesson - evil lurks in a small town and hides behind respectability . Eventually he runs into Carroll again and this time , they become handcuffed together in the Scottish countryside . Robert Donat is a very attractive Hitchcock hero / victim and Madeline Carroll is lovely as the Hitchock blonde . She's cool but feisty when she has to be . They have a nice repartee . You'll see bits of Hitchcock's other films in this - there are strong reminders of " Sabotage " here as Hannay gets help along the way ; he and Carroll are assumed to be a couple ; Pamela wants to turn him over to the police ; the honorable citizen is a traitor . The Macguffin here is the 39 steps . Like the neo-Nazis in " Notorious , " the 39 steps are but an excuse for a great story . And when Donat yells out , " What are the 39 steps ? " you're going to ask , after enjoying the entire film and not being bothered by them at all - yeah , what are the 39 steps ?
classic entertainment	The last time I saw this movie was probably the late ' 60s , when I watched it on television with a group of friends . I just saw it again on DVD , and it's as much fun as I remember it . In 108 minutes , I wouldn't be surprised if 90 minutes was music , and what music ! One Irving Berlin song after another , sung by either Alice Faye , Don Ameche , Ethel Merman , or Jack Haley . A young Merman , with a sexy figure , really pops in this film with her exciting belt voice . A thinnish plot surrounds the songs . It's the story of a classical musician ( Tyrone Power ) who forms a swing band and , because of the song " Alexander's Ragtime Band " takes the name Alexander for himself and the Ragtime Band for his group . The movie takes us loving , losing , and playing music through World War I and into the swing era , though there's not a gray hair to be found among our heroes . Ameche and Power were friends before either one of them was signed by 20th Century Fox , and with Faye , they made " In Old Chicago " together plus this film - and both Faye / Ameche and Faye / Power made other films together as well . The three work very well as an ensemble . Faye is especially lovely in this . She sings in a commanding contralto , wears some great fashions , and is appropriately feisty , low-class , or classy as the part demands . As lovely as she was , though , she's no competition for the most gorgeous one in the movie , Tyrone Power . He's pretty darn breathtaking in that tuxedo of his . He could have conducted me anywhere . Monumentally entertaining music and plenty of eye candy - highly recommended .
Just when you think Rita Hayworth couldn't be more gorgeous . . .	she is - this time in " You Were Never Lovelier , " a 1942 film starring Fred Astaire , Adolphe Menjou , and Xavier Cugat along with Hayworth . Menjou plays Eduardo Acuna , the father of four daughters in Argentina , and according to tradition , the girls must marry in order . Second to be married is Maria ( Hayworth ) . Unfortunately , in this case , the two younger daughters have suitors and Maria has no interest in marriage or in any of the dozens of men who have tried to win her heart . Her father hatches a plan to send her orchids and letters from a secret admirer . Then he plans for the secret admirer to disappear , hoping that she'll then turn to an ordinary man . When he has a dancer , Bob Davis ( Astaire ) who is trying to get a job in the club deliver the orchids , Maria thinks that Davis is her secret admirer . The two wind up falling in love , which doesn't fit in with Dad's plans . Hayworth's first entrance in this is as she gives her sister something for her wedding . She's so gorgeous it's ridiculous . It's said that during the making of Blood & Sand , Tyrone Power was so enamored of Hayworth that he couldn't stop staring at her ( and in fact , she's one of the few women who could match him looks-wise ) . Not surprising . What's wonderful about this film is that Hayworth wears fabulous gowns and dances with Fred Astaire . They make a terrific pair , and Astaire loved working with her . When they dance to " I'm Old Fashioned , " it's as if they're floating on a cloud . She seems to bring out a sweet side to Astaire's acting , and the character he plays is less sure of himself than the Astaire roles usually are . And of course , he dances like a dream , with a wonderful audition solo for Menjou . For this writer , there were many beautiful women in Hollywood . But two were the complete movie star package with superior beauty , personality , and raw sex appeal - Rita Hayworth and Ava Gardner . Rita , with her wonderful dance talent , probably has a slight edge . It's tragic that her personal life was so sad and that she herself was such a troubled woman . It just doesn't seem fair to be that sensational and that miserable at the same time . This is a lovely , romantic film produced specifically for the World War II audience - while we're not going through World War II today , most of us are depressed enough that we could be , so it's still a great watch .
Very good noir that probably fell victim to the code	Robert Young as a philanderer - that should tip you off that " They Won't Believe Me " is going to be unusual . Before finding success as a warm dad and a kind doctor on television , Young often played romantic roles , earnest roles , or the uptight boss . Occasionally , though , the role of someone with a criminal mind would sneak in . Here , Young plays a man who marries a woman for her money and then cheats on her constantly - though he always goes back to the comforts of home . After dumping one woman , portrayed by Jane Greer , he picks up with a secretary in his securities firm , a young Susan Hayward - he leaves her , too , but has second thoughts . The result is a very interesting drama , told in flashback . This is an excellent movie with a surprise ending that probably was insisted on to satisfy the code . The acting is very good all around . Young comes off as just slimy enough without being offensively so ; Hayward's gold digger is glamorous , sexy , and conniving ; and Jane Greer , in the most sympathetic role , looks fabulous and is her usual marvelous self as a woman who can't help loving this man , even with his flaws . Rita Johnson is very good as Young's attractive and determined wife . All in all , I really enjoyed " They Won't Believe Me . " Very entertaining .
A bookie / cashier becomes involved in the ' 50s Red Scare	Woody Allen is " The Front " for blacklisted television writers in the 1950s in a film also starring Zero Mostel , Herschel Bernardi , Andrea Marcovicci , and Michael Murphy . Several of the film's participants - director Ritt , writer Bernstein , actors Bernardi and Mostel , were themselves blacklisted . Woody's character , Howard Prince , has moments of humor , but " The Front " is a drama , and a very good one . Prince agrees to front for a writer-friend and later takes on other blacklisted writers for money . Then comes the day that Prince himself is subpoenaed by the committee , and he has to make a decision about where he stands . Along the way , Howard falls in love with a principled woman , Marcovicci , who becomes disgusted with the blacklist and quits her television job , and a pathetic comedian , Zero Mostel , who claims to have marched in a May Day parade and subscribed to a communist newspaper because he had a crush on a girl . Then he watches his career shrivel up . I grew up in the ' 50s and remember the Red Scare very well , as in school we were always told that the Communists were coming . In Hollywood and Washington , it was believed that the Communists were here infiltrating our government , films , and television . Whether it was true or not is a separate issue from the persecution and hysteria that took place . Actress Lee Remick , for instance , was blacklisted because she went to a funeral of someone who had been accused of being a Communist . John Garfield , Kim Hunter , Gale Sondergaard , Mady Christians , Larry Parks - just a few of the actors blacklisted . There are many examples of people whose careers and lives were ruined because they had once attended a meeting to see what this political ideology was all about , or had a friend who was a Communist . Land of the free indeed .
Pure delight	Peter O'Toole shows Audrey Hepburn " How to Steal a Million " in this 1966 caper film directed by William Wyler . The film also stars Eli Wallach , Hugh Griffith , Charles Boyer , and Fernand Gravey . Hepburn plays Nicole , the daughter of a renowned art collector , Bonnet ( Griffith ) , who in fact is not a collector but an expert forger . He has lent his famous Cellini Venus to the Paris Art Museum , only to find out that before it can be insured , there will be a technical test to assure its authenticity . Since it's a sculpture , and the chemical makeup was different from the material in the 14th century , the forgery will be easy to detect . In order to help her father , Nicole Bonnet contacts Simon Dermott { O'Toole ) whom she caught when he broke into the house she shares with her father , and asks him to steal the Venus from the museum . In the ' 60s , caper films were all the rage , and it would be hard to miss with two such beautiful and sophisticated stars as Hepburn and O'Toole . Their chemistry is great , the caper is clever , and the dialogue is witty . The supporting cast is excellent ; someone said Eli Wallach was miscast as an obsessive collector . Originally Wyler cast George G . Scott , but he was replaced when he arrived on the set late . Scott would have been more tycoon-like . Like bubbly champagne , " How to Steal a Million " tickles and delights throughout . Highly recommended .
Excellent example of film noir at its best	Full of atmosphere and heat , " Out of the Past " is a classic film noir , directed by a master , Jacques Tourneur . Although considered only an above-average B movie at the time of release , it's doubtful anyone thinks of it that way today , as it is superior to many " A " films . With a top-notch cast and a deceptively easy pace that belies the tension and danger underneath , " Out of the Past " makes for an intriguing , absorbing film . Robert Mitchum and Jane Greer make a great pair - both are sultry , sexy , hard to read , and gorgeous . I found Greer's performance quite interesting . In the beginning , she appears quite warm , frightened , and sincere , as opposed to , say , Lizabeth Scott in " Dead Reckoning . " When she turns hardboiled , it's subtle , with only a change in her eyes and voice , when she comments that Fisher isn't going to say anything to anybody . I love the way Mitchum sizes up women . He absolutely smolders , and 40 years later , in " The Winds of War , " he was still smoldering . Kirk Douglas is appropriately edgy in his supporting role as Whit . Rhonda Fleming has a small role , but no one that incredibly beautiful was going to go unnoticed for long . What a wonderful film , what a perfect example of a genre .
The first of the series , and one of the best	" The Thin Man " introduces film audiences to the Dashiell Hammett characters Nick and Nora Charles , portrayed by one of the great screen couples , William Powell and Myrna Loy . MGM was very surprised when the film , for which they had no ambitious plans , became a huge hit and even garnered four Oscar nominations . This Nick and Nora have very little to do with Hammett's Nick and Nora , and it's just as well . William Powell and Myrna Loy created a lively , fun , loving couple that's all their own . The two actors worked better together than probably any other team - they're the non-dancing Astaire and Rogers . Loy's entrance into this film - she's dragged by Asta into a bar while she's balancing Christmas gifts and ends up flat on her face - is one of the best . Nick is pretty much smashed through most of the movie - people drank a lot more in those days . Powell manages to be elegant , funny , smart , warm , and do slapstick - sometimes all at the same time . Asta has a helluva time keeping up with them . A very pretty Maureen O'Sullivan costars as a young woman whose father is missing and then is suspected of killing his ex-wife - that's for starters . He seems to be on a killing spree . Though Charles hasn't been involved in detective work in four years , she begs him to help her . After a visit from the police in the middle of the night , Nora asks Nick , " Are you going to take her case ? " " Take it ? " Nick asks , reaching for the booze . " I'm in it ! " Highly recommended for first-class chemistry , wit , humor , a good mystery , and overall enjoyment .
Joan at Warner's - she ROCKS	For the young Joan Crawford , MGM was the perfect studio . All that gloss , rags to riches , Gable , and gowns . But MGM had a hard time with actresses as they aged and the old formulas weren't working anymore - Shearer , Garbo , and Crawford being three such examples . The other two quit , but Joan went over to Warner Brothers and revived her career . It was a good move . I love the Crawford films at Warner's . They were grand potboilers enlivened by her presence . Possessed is post-war , and after the war , the new rage was psychology . This movie is full of it . I'm not sure the diagnosis and terminology is correct in the film , but in layman's term , Crawford plays a total whack job . As her story unfolds to a doctor , she's a nurse taking care of Raymond Massey's wife , and she's seeing Van Heflin on a casual basis . When she falls in love with him , Heflin announces he's restless because of the war and is taking off . And that's when Joan takes off - emotionally . She becomes completely obsessed with him , and this leads to hallucinations , hysteria , and finally a psychotic break . She has able assistance by Heflin , who pops in and out and gets involved with Crawford's stepdaughter ( Crawford is now married to the widower Massey ) . When the movie begins , she's wandering the street saying " David , " which is Heflin's name in the movie . One of the posters suggested Tyrone Power for this role . I'm all for him in any movie , and it's true , the presence of a big star as David would have elevated the film to a grander status . As it is , it's an excellent vehicle for Crawford , who runs the gamut of emotions . Raymond Massey is stoic and solid as Crawford's new husband , and the lovely Geraldine Brooks , who died too soon , plays the stepdaughter . Her youthful vivacity is in sharp contrast to Crawford's borderline insanity and makes for great watching . Heflin , as the object of all the possession obsession , is smooth and detached . But make no mistake about it . This is Joan Crawford's show and she makes the most of it . The script will keep you interested , and you won't be able to take your eyes off of Joan descending into madness .
Delicious Audrey	Audrey Hepburn is a chauffeur's daughter who sets her sets her sights on the playboy of the manor ( William Holden ) in " Sabrina , " a 1954 comedy directed and written by Billy Wilder and starring the above plus Humphrey Bogart as Linus , Holden's brother . Holden plays David - and he's the man Sabrina has loved from childhood . When she returns from studying cooking in Paris , she's grown into a beautiful , chic young woman , and David notices her for the first time . Because David is engaged to a " suitable " woman and fearful of him causing yet another scandal with a woman , Linus tries to distract Sabrina by making a play for her himself . All the actors are superb , of course , if the casting is a tad odd . As usual , Hepburn is playing opposite men many years her senior - Holden by 11 years and Bogart by 30 . People often ask the reason for this occurring again and again with Hepburn . The answer is easy . Though she is actually of the Tab Hunter-Robert Wagner era , which is the first group after the Golden Age of Hollywood , Hepburn was a much bigger star and much more sophisticated than anyone of her generation of actors - as big and sophisticated , in fact , as stars of the golden age . Therefore , she was always cast with equals . Can you see her costarring with Tab Hunter ? No . Sabrina is a perfect role for her - gamine , sophisticated in her Givenchy gowns , wide-eyed with that amazing smile . Bogart wanted Bacall in this role - she was too worldly to play Sabrina . Originally the Bogart character was to be played by Cary Grant , which makes a little , if not a lot more sense . Holden's hair was dyed blond to give him a younger appearance . At 35 , he is disarmingly handsome , very charming and quite funny . He and Bogart don't look much like brothers . A bigger problem , in my opinion , is that Hepburn and Bogart don't really click , as good as they both are in their roles , and they are great . When Wilder was asked about how difficult Bogart was , he shrugged it off . " Didn't he make fun of your accent ? " the interviewer pressed . " Oh , everyone did that , " Wilder said . " It doesn't matter . All was forgiven " - and he made reference to Bogart's dreadful death from esophageal cancer . I know many will not agree , but the only downside of this film for me was the ending - without giving anything away , I just didn't buy it . However , it is highly recommended and a wonderful movie . You might not share my feelings about the ending , which will make it even more enjoyable . Wilder told a story about not having the script finished and asking Hepburn to stall for time in filming the office scene where she pretends to be holding a board of directors meeting . " She would say she forgot a line . . . " Wilder recalled . " You see , what Marilyn did naturally , Audrey had to work at . "
Do do that hoodoo that you do so well !	Kate Hudson is a home care worker helping out an elderly couple in " The Skeleton Key , " an intriguing horror film also starring John Hurt and Peter Sarsgaard . Not being a horror fan myself , I was fascinated , scared , and intrigued by this movie . Under the direction of Ian Softley , the story moves fast and keeps you interested . Hudson plays a young woman who goes to a secluded old New Orleans home to help Gena Rowlands care for her ailing husband , played by Hurt . If this hadn't been a movie , she would have gotten out of there immediately , but since it was , she stayed . She discovers an attic room that is hiding some disturbing secrets and starts to investigate the history of the house and some of the voodoo / hoodoo paraphernalia she finds . If you like this kind of thing , you'll love " The Skeleton Key . " If you don't , you'll probably still like it . It's not a slasher film , but a solid story with an excellent cast . Heartily recommended - but I wouldn't watch it alone .
Excellent film , excellent direction by Litvak	Anatole Litvak directed the 1959 film , " The Journey , " starring Yul Brynner , Deborah Kerr , Robert Morley , E . G . Marshall , Anne Jackson , and Jason Robards . The film takes place during the 1956 Hungarian uprising and concerns a group of travelers having problems getting out of Budapest because of political problems in that part of the world . They are put on a bus to Vienna , but the Russians , led by Major Surov ( Brynner ) confiscate their passports and hold them for questioning . One of the passengers is Paul Fleming ( Robards ) , posing as an American but in reality a Hungarian freedom fighter , whom the major believes is being smuggled out of Hungary . In fact , Lady Ashmore ( Kerr ) is hiding him . She becomes the focus of the Major's romantic attentions . Very good film that conveys the tension and hassle of the Cold War , and all of the performances are wonderful . Brynner is particularly excellent as the passionate Major who isn't all bad , and Anne Jackson gives a realistic , powerful performance as a pregnant woman who doesn't want her child born in a Communist country . Good script , good director , good cast - there should be more films like this . Highly recommended .
Great send-up of manager versus labor union relations	A young man ( Ian Carmichael ) works too fast and causes problems with the labor union in " I'm All Right Jack , " a 1959 British film directed by John Boulting . Boulting actually lost a suit against a labor union . This is his revenge . Stanley Windrush ( Carmichael ) is from a wealthy family and , after returning from the war , he wants to be in business . It's arranged for him to work at his uncle's firm as a laborer , against the wishes of his aunt ( Margaret Rutherford ) and work his way up . Unfortunately , Stanley just doesn't get it . At first he's suspected of being an efficiency expert designed as an employee , something the whole factory fears . Then he inadvertently does his job in front of an efficiency expert . It's found that he works faster than the other employees . This infuriates the union , who - again - go on strike , which they do every couple of weeks . It takes Stanley a while to figure out what's going on , but he does , in time for a television talk show . This film is known today for the brilliant performance of Peter Sellers as the shop steward , whose politics , he says , are private . He's fabulous . The film also features Terry Thomas , also very funny , and other excellent actors , such as Dennis Price and Richard Attenborough . Having worked in theater and read up on a recent Broadway strike , Boulting doesn't miss much . When Windrush asks why a bunch of men playing cards aren't working , in fact , unions often have quotas of how many people have to be hired , whether they're needed or not . Many people , of course , misses the point of unions . If people treated each other like human beings , we wouldn't have needed unions in the first place . However , " I'm All Right , Jack " understands , as Windrush's impassioned speech tells us . As long as I'm okay , I don't care what happens to you . It's an unfortunate if honest message . Don't miss this one .
Good performances heighten World War II romance	Tyrone Power is a man with a secret when he falls in love with upper class Joan Fontaine in " This Above All , " a 1942 film that also stars Thomas Mitchell and Gladys Cooper . Fontaine plays Prudence , a young woman from a wealthy British family who joins the WAFs . One night , a fellow WAF asks her to double date with her and her soon to be fiance , and there , in the darkness of a blackout , she meets Clive Briggs ( Power ) , a very complicated young man who's not in uniform . The two fall in love and go on holiday together , and it is while vacationing that Prudence realizes that Clive has seen battle . She finally wrenches his secret out of him . This is a really lovely , dark film based on the book of the same name . Unlike the movie , the book is filled with sex so there , it disappoints . Thanks to the code , the couple have adjoining rooms , and Prudence tells her father , " We've done nothing to be ashamed of . " It's somewhat frustrating - I mean , it's Tyrone Power in the next room , and you're not sleeping with him ? Despite this , the performances are wonderful . Fontaine , with her soft , elegant beauty , is totally believable as both a compassionate and a passionate woman . Power's almost ridiculous beauty of the 1930s , that ethereal perfection that outshone his female costars , has been replaced by 1942 with the wonderful handsomeness that would carry him through the ' 50s . His looks - and the roles given him by his studio - caused him to be underrated as an actor . Here , however , he's the Larry Darrell of " The Razor's Edge " gone over to the dark side - troubled , pensive , sometimes cold , with moods that change abruptly - and he's excellent in what is a very different kind of role for him . One never loses what's Clive's about . For instance , Clive resents and hates the upper class . When he walks into the office of the commanding officer he begged to see and hears him making social plans on the telephone , his face changes , and you realize that this is the type of person that he detests . If only Mr . Zanuck hadn't been so enamored of Power's voice that he discouraged him from doing accents . There's no doubt , if his fooling around in " Rose of Washington Square " and suggestion of an accent in " Lloyds of London " are any indication , that he could have done a British accent without any problem were it demanded of him . But according to " Memo from Darryl F . Zanuck , " the studio head had very rigid ideas about his most important star . One poster thought this would have been a good role for Olivier - I disagree . Olivier would not have been as convincing as a common man as Power was . This is a propaganda film , of course , so Fontaine has a big monologue about England and what it means . It's a little melodramatic but appropriate given the times and the subject matter . This is a minor point in a film rich with characterization and atmosphere . When Clive and Prudence first meet , they catch a glimpse of one another while a cigarette is being lit - it's terribly romantic and sweet , as is the entire film . Highly recommended .
Colman , Grant and Arthur - how can it miss ? It doesn't .	Cary Grant is Leopold Dilg , " The Talk of the Town , " in this 1942 film also starring Ronald Colman and Jean Arthur . The outspoken Digl is framed for arson and murder and escapes from prison . He ends up in the home of a schoolteacher he's known since childhood , Nora Shelley . She's preparing her home to be rented the next day - except the renter , an attorney named Professor Lightcap ( Colman ) shows up right then . Since Leopold has a bad ankle , Nora lets him hide in the attic . Though Lightcap wants peace and quiet to write a book , things don't quite happen that way . Nora insists on being his secretary / cook - because she has to take care of Leopold - and every time Lightcap turns around , there's Nora's mother , the police looking for Dilg , furniture deliveries and a delivery of all of Nora's clothing - before he agrees to hire her . Nora and Dilg's attorney Yates ( Edgar Buchanan ) attempt to drag the brilliant ivory tower attorney into the unfair assumption of guilt of Dilg , but Lightcap refuses . His type of justice , it seems , is all on paper . He doesn't want to get involved with any real people . Leopold , posing as the family gardener , gets into some heated discussions with him , and at Leopold's urging , Nora gives Lightcap special attention . But is any of it enough to make him cave and help Digl ? This is a grand comedy with very serious undertones . Who would ever expect two of the most elegant men in film history , Grant and Colman , to be facing off in a comedy , no less , where one of them is very definitely NOT elegant . Grant is terrific , a truly great actor who rarely let his audience see anything but the famous " Cary Grant " persona . Here , he's a man of the people with a clumsy walk and casual clothes . His pantomime to Nora through his attic window of wanting something to eat is hilarious . The bearded Colman plays the role of a stuffy professor very straight . Lightcap is barely able to stand the chicanery of Nora's household at first , as he has a strict routine . Fast forward and he's flirting and dancing with a smart-mouthed beautician ( Glenda Farrell ) in order to pump her for information about her boyfriend . His acting , particularly his courtroom speech toward the end of the film , is magnificent . Arthur plays Nora as a dizzy , confused and nervous woman , completely thrown as a landlord , a friend and a woman by the appearance of Leopold and the brilliance of Lightcap , as well as his admiration of her . She's torn between the two of them - and keeps the audience wondering . Really a must-see for the lesson that true justice must be not read , not preached , but lived and for the wonderful characterizations and direction by Stevens .
A date movie that's lots of fun	Will Smith is " Hitch , " a love doctor of sorts who counsels men on how to get the woman of their dreams . He's very successful but stays out of relationships himself . Then he meets the beautiful Sara ( Eva Mendes ) , a gossip columnist , and starts to fall in love himself . This is a very well done movie . Smith is utterly charming and likable as a sincere man who creates opportunities for men who otherwise might not meet anyone , let alone a dream girl . One such man is Albert , madly in love with a Paris Hilton type , Allegra Cole ( Amber Valletta ) , who has all of her investments at the accounting firm where he works . After a lot of coaching from Hitch , Albert gets his chance with Allegra . One of the funniest scenes in the film is Hitch showing Albert how to dance - except Albert seems himself as an expert . Another great scene is Hitch teaching Albert the ins and outs of the kiss at the door . Not only did I think Hitch had some great advice , I think it is a fine film with some very good performances , particularly by Smith and a toned-down Kevin James . They are very well directed here . Eva Mendes does a terrific job as a reporter who becomes Hitch's love interest , who herself is trying to track down this love doctor after what she perceives as wrong advice hurt her good friend . A very funny script . Highly recommended .
an emotional extravaganza that reaches across time	I had the privilege of seeing the restored version of this film , to the accompaniment of a live orchestra under the baton of Carmine Coppola , in Los Angeles ' un-air-conditioned war memorial . Despite uncomfortable seating and terrible heat , the experience of this four hour movie remains a watershed for anyone who attended . To think that because of the invention of sound , this masterpiece was partially destroyed by Abel Gance in a fit of depression , is heartbreaking . More shocking is that Gance's invention of Cinemascope - of which today only the end of the film retains in its triptych screen effect - was lost to filmgoers until its reinvention years later . Obviously true art can't be hidden forever , and Gance did live to see Napoleon take its rightful place in cinematic history . Though it is many years later , I can still remember the tears and the ovation when the black screen with the white signature , " Abel Gance " , signified the end of the film . A compelling and great work of art .
Terrific	Remade in 1987 as " No Way Out , " the 1948 film " The Big Clock " is a wonderful suspense film starring Charles Laughton , Ray Milland , George MacCready , and Maureen O'Sullivan , directed by O'Sullivan's husband , John Farrow . Earl Janoth ( Laughton ) , the owner of a publishing empire , is a quiet , enigmatic tyrant who loves clocks and has them all over his buildings throughout the country , including a big one in the lobby . The clocks everywhere run together on naval observatory time . Janoth's right-hand man , Steve Hagen ( MacCready ) does his dirty work for him . When Janoth kills his mistress ( Rita Johnson ) , Hagen cleans up the mess . Janoth is sure he saw someone in the hall when he arrived at his girlfriend's apartment , and feeling that the man can identify him , wants him found and eliminated . He orders his executives to get the man , telling them the person they want is involved in a war contract scheme . One man , George Stroud ( Ray Milland ) , who is heading up the investigation , isn't fooled . He knows that he is the man Janoth is looking for - - and why . " The Big Clock " is a great cat and mouse story , with Stroud ducking people who saw him in various places with the mistress on the night she was killed . He also attempts to leave the building to find a cab driver when someone who can identify him is standing at the exit with security people . Milland does an excellent job of being both cool and panicky , and Laughton's underplaying makes the character of Janoth all the more deadly . Maureen O'Sullivan is delightful as the long-suffering Mrs . Stroud , who's never had a honeymoon because of her husband's work . Elsa Lanchester is hilarious as an artist whose painting figures into the story . My only complaint is that the ending is a tiny bit abrupt , though very amusing . A really wonderful film for suspense-lovers , Hitchcock-like , and highly entertaining .
Effective adaptation of DuMaurier novel	Richard Burton falls for his uncle's widow in " My Cousin Rachel , " a beautifully produced 1952 movie starring Olivia de Havilland in the title role . Burton is Philip Ashley , whose beloved uncle Ambrose moves to Italy for his health , marries a widow , and dies of a brain tumor . . . or did he ? Philip is very suspicious of his uncle's wife and the doctor she brought in to care for her husband , Rainaldi . de Havilland plays the widow Ashley who comes to visit Philip and quickly makes him regret his doubts , as he falls madly in love with her . This is a highly atmospheric , well acted film with a very intriguing story that keeps the viewer guessing as to the true character of Mrs . Ashley . Is she a greedy , conniving seductress / killer , or a warm , loving woman ? Several movie stars have demonstrated the ability of doing period pieces realistically , and Richard Burton was definitely one of them . Handsome , romantic , and boyish in appearance , with a wonderful voice and fine acting ability , he brings Philip to life with a passionate performance . Olivia de Havilland is magnificent as Rachel - hers is a subdued , gentle performance that gives nothing away as to Rachel's true character or motivations . The attraction between the two is entirely believable . The final moments of the film are its best . Highly recommended .
Introducing George and Marion Kirby , ghosts	A dead couple is determined to loosen up their friend in " Topper , " a 1937 comedy starring Constance Bennett , Cary Grant , Roland Young , and Billie Burke . Cosmo Topper ( Young ) is a bank president whose wife ( Burke ) has him on a strict schedule and , though unhappy , Cosmo complies . When bank stockholders George and Marion Kirby are killed when their car crashes into a tree , the two become worried about what St . Peter will have to say to them . They were , after all , two fun-loving , hard-drinking , partying kooks . They decide they must do a good deed before approaching the pearly gates so they make loosening up Topper their project . This is a wonderful film that inspired the Leo G . Carroll TV series with real-life marrieds Anne Jeffreys and Robert Sterling as Marion and George . The special effects in the 1937 film are groundbreaking and ingenious . Mores have changed over the years - driving drunk is no longer acceptable . I'm afraid George and Marion would be heartily disapproved of today . Nevertheless , they're a gorgeous , glamorous couple and the real stuff of fantasy . Bennett only has a couple of years of big stardom left and , with his second billing , Cary Grant is still on the ascent . They're both hilariously madcap , Grant blasting into a stockholders ' meeting and trying to take notes , and Bennett flirting with poor Topper in her silky voice . Roland Young is the perfect Topper - henpecked , confused , and a nervous wreck . He's a man dying to break free of his shackles , and he's always envied George and Marion's lifestyle , even though it killed them . His frustration and unhappiness make him sympathetic , and the audience is with him all the way . Very enjoyable , with some effects that were eye-popping in 1937 . Don't miss " Topper . " It's a classic .
Very good war drama	" Sahara " is a 1943 film starring Humphrey Bogart , directed by Zoltan Korda , and intended as a propaganda film during World War II . It succeeds . Bogart is a Sgt . Joe Gunn , and after Tobruk falls in North Africa , he leads a tank unit into the desert . He's joined by French , South African , British , and Sudanese soldiers . They come up against a group of Germans that want the water well where the tanks are stationed . Besides Bogart , the great cast includes Bruce Bennett . Lloyd Bridges , Dan Duryea and J . Carrol Naish , and they all do an exemplary job . What I like best about this film is the atmosphere - the sun beating down , the dryness , the filth - you're thirsty just watching it . It was films like this that probably kept people in the U . S . going during the war , I imagine . World War II has been highly romanticized , but despite the pretty songs , there wasn't anything romantic about it . Since there are no women in this film , there's nothing romantic about " Sahara " either . Very good work .
Hitchcock's favorite film	Hitchcock claimed that Shadow of a Doubt was his favorite movie . There is one funny story about it , which is that after making great efforts to find the perfect house in Santa Rosa , California in which to make the film , the family was so excited , they had the place painted - which wasn't what he wanted . Nevertheless , the house still stands in Santa Rosa today . This is a wonderful film about The Merry Widow killer , a visiting uncle , and the adoring niece named after him . Hitchcock believed that villains had to be attractive , not slimy - otherwise , how could they con anyone ? So he chose Joseph Cotten , who is charming and smooth as Uncle Charlie . Theresa Wright is excellent as the young niece living in Small Town , USA , who is about to learn a hard life lesson . There are several things I love about the film : One - the bizarre murder plots concocted by Henry Travers , who plays Wright's father , and his friend , played by Hume Cronyn . As they discuss abstract killings , there is a murderer in their midst . Another thing , much more subtle , demonstrates Hitchcock's tremendous knowledge of human beings . None of the little children want to sit next to Uncle Charlie . Pure spirits , children always know when someone isn't quite right . MacDonald Carey is one of the investigating detectives who has a lovely scene with Wright at the end of the film . One of the comments for this film stated that World War II is never mentioned . Not directly - but watch the end of the movie again .
entertaining artifact of the ' 30s	A radiant Claudette Colbert stars in this first version of " Imitation of Life " along with Louise Beavers . The movie seems more earthbound and realistic than its more well-known , glamorous Ross Hunter remake . The stories differ as well . In this version , Colbert is not an aspiring actress , but a saleswoman who enters into business with Beavers , who , though it's her pancake recipe , for some reason is entitled to only 20 % of the profits . As a black friend of mine described this story , " Claudette Colbert steals Louise Beavers ' pancake recipe but allows her to live in her home . " Not actually true as the Beavers character refuses to take any money or establish herself in her own home , and Colbert must bank the money for her . Sadly , this seems to be because the Beavers character has accepted her downtrodden role in life . Some of the dialogue by today's standards is truly shocking and , let's face it , politically incorrect as well as downright insulting to Afro-Americans . For this reason , it is an interesting look at life for blacks in those days and makes a disturbing statement . However , the affection the women have for each other , the confidence-swapping friendship , the fact that they do go into business together , and their daughters ' friendship speak of things that transcend race and make a wonderful , contrasting statement . There are excellent performances by Ned Sparks and Warren William . William is another interesting artifact of the time , the mustached , elegant leading man in the tradition of John Gilbert that went out of style eventually . In real life , the beautiful black actress , Fredi Washington , who played Peola , refused to " pass " and lost out on a huge career , as she was told by producers that , if she passed for white , her star would shine as bright as the biggest stars of the day . Because she did not play white characters , Fredi Washington had to darken her skin with makeup in films so that she could play blacks . Hallie Berry can thank Washington for her career along with Dorothy Dandridge .
Powerful film	" Shine " purports to tell the story of David Helfgott ( Geoffrey Rush , who plays the adult Helfgott ) , a promising pianist who overcame mental illness , with the help of his wife , and returned to performing . The 1996 film is actually a fictionalized version of Helfgott's life - but even had it not been based on a true story , it remains a powerful , intriguing film . David is the child of German migrs who now live in Australia . His father Peter ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) is a self-taught pianist who teaches David his same love of piano and classical music . There is love there , but as portrayed in the movie , Peter is a rigid man who gives his son mixed signals . He drives his son to succeed as a pianist , teaching him that winning is everything , and yet , when David has opportunities that would take him away from the family , Peter won't permit it . The reason for this is that Peter and his wife lost relatives in the Holocaust . Peter is also given to physical abuse toward David when he loses his temper . David finally gets away from him and attends the Royal Conservatory in London , where , with the help of his teacher ( John Gielgud ) , he wins an important competition but then suffers a severe nervous breakdown . The rest of the movie deals with the road back , which leads him home to Australia and to his wife , Gillian . Gillian is actually his second wife , though the first marriage isn't mentioned in the film . The dominant performances belong to Rush and Mueller-Stahl . Rush does a brilliant job of showing us the likable but stuttering David who stutters and speaks rapidly and repetitively , expressing himself through music . Mueller-Stahl as the tortured Peter is fabulous , a man who is both monstrous and to be pitied . In a small role , John Gielgud of course makes a fine impression as an elderly teacher , a wonderful pianist himself , who believes in David's talent . The best scene is David playing Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto # 3 - Helfgott's own recording of the piece is used - and the aftermath . What I missed in this film is music - there was a lot of talk about David's promise , but until the Rachmaninoff not much playing . Helfgott's work today has been deeply criticized for being - well , lousy . A review in The New York Times of one of his concerts is horrible . The reviewer , however , mentions that Helfgott occasionally showed vestiges of excellent technique . I think it's safe to assume that his playing nowadays is more erratic than it was in his earlier years . There are several examples of Helfgott's playing in the movie : " La Campanella , " " Hungarian Rhapsody No 2 In C Sharp Minor , " " Flight of the Bumble Bee , " Rachmaninoff's " Prelude In C Sharp Minor , Opus 3 , No . 2 , " the previously mentioned Rachmaninoff 3 , and Liszt's " Sospiro , " and it is all quite stunning . Rush does the fingerings himself . One of the comments also claims that Helfgott's wife has Helfgott perform on no medication so that he'll seem crazy - it's common for performers on medication for mental problems to have to cycle off of it before performing . I don't think the commenter has any idea what he's like on his medication - certainly in the film , he acts strangely . " Shine " is highly recommended for its fantastic performances , beautiful music , and its inspiring story .
Absorbing 20th Century Fox melodrama	Gary Merrill is the stranger making the phone calls in " Phone Call from a Stranger , " a 1952 film directed by Jean Negulesco and also starring Shelley Winters , Keenan Wynn , Michael Rennie , Beatrice Straight , Craig Stevens and Bette Davis . Unable to forgive his wife for an affair , David Trask gets on a plane , where , due to the plane being late and an unexpected stopover because of bad weather , he becomes friendly with three passengers : a performer ( Winters ) , a salesman ( Wynn ) and an alcoholic attorney ( Rennie ) and hears their stories . The salesman seems a happy man with a knockout for a wife ; the performer has a horrid mother-in-law , a former vaudeville star with whom she competes , but she loves her husband ; and the attorney has resolved to go to the DA and admit responsibility for an accident that happened a few years earlier which has destroyed his marriage . When the plane crashes , Trask is the only survivor of the four . He visits each of the victims ' families to pay his condolences and possibly put some matters right . Then he learns from one of the family members the importance of putting his own life back together . This isn't a particularly big-budget film - it's in black and white ; some of these actors were under contract to Fox ; others are not huge names with the exception of Davis . Her role is short but worth the entire film , though all the performances are very good and the stories heartfelt . The attorney's family story is heavy drama , with the son believing his mother drove his father away . The performer's family story is the comic relief as the mother-in-law right out of hell gets her comeuppance . And the tear-jerker is the scene with the salesman's wife . Davis is often criticized for being overblown and mannered , and yet she was always capable of giving a restrained performance as she does here and also did in " All This and Heaven Too " and " Watch on the Rhine . " There are other treats as well . Shelley Winters is pretty and vivacious in a wonderful role for her , Keenan Wynn is excellent as the loud salesman , and as the attorney , Rennie is an appropriately sad and reflective figure . Gary Merrill is very likable as Trask . Though he never really made it to big star status , he was a dependable actor , very handsome and masculine . Of course he and Davis had sparks in " All About Eve " - so much so that they got married in real life - and there's a nice chemistry between them here as well . It's nice to see them when they were happy together . They also did a very good British film together , " Another Man's Poison . " My only complaint is the at times overpowering musical score . Very entertaining and highly recommended , especially for Davis fans .
Two prisoners on the run	" The Defiant Ones " is a truly great film starring Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier , both of whom earned their money and deserved their Oscar nominations in this exciting and moving film , beautifully directed by Stanley Kramer . Marlon Brando was to star in the movie but when it didn't happen due to Kramer having to wait for Poitier to finish a film , Curtis , complete with nose putty ( which he often relied on to make himself less handsome ) took over and showed what he could really do with a good role . Curtis and Poitier are prisoners . John , called Joker , and Noah , being transported when an accident on the road frees them . Though they have no love for one another , they're handcuffed together . Joker uses the ' n ' word and calls Noah " boy " - in fact , the racism in the film is rampant all the way through . At one point they wind up at a farmhouse where a horny woman ( Cara Williams ) lives with her son , and , freed from the cuffs , the two can separate ; the Williams character wants to go with Joker and take her car , and Noah can go through the swamp and get a train that goes by every day . But all the running , the filth , the wet , and nearly being lynched has caused a change to occur in both men . A very compelling movie , a little dated today , but it still holds up . Lon Chaney Jr . is excellent as a man who runs a turpentine work camp , and the other actors in the film are very good as well . Curtis said the men didn't have to be black and white , they just had to be two people who didn't like one another and were forced to survive together . That's true . Wonderful story starring two truly great actors .
Poor Barney Dunn !	Woody Allen is at his absolute best performing his wonderful script , " Broadway Danny Rose , " also starring Mia Farrow . Allen plays a low-level talent agent / manager with clients like a one-legged tap dancer , a bird act in which one of the birds is eaten by a cat , a blind xylophonist - you name it . And he's devoted to every one of them . He also happens to have one marginal talent who is fortunate enough to ride the crest of the nostalgia era - Lou Canova - whose hit song in the ' 50s was " Agita . " But Lou won't perform his big gig at the Waldorf unless his mistress Tina ( Mia Farrow ) is in the audience , and Tina , a cheap-looking blond , is angry with him because he was spotted somewhere with a cheap-looking blond ( which could be his wife ) . Danny moves heaven and earth to get her to what should be Lou's breakout performance , and runs afoul of Tina's old boyfriend , the connected Johnny . Tina is at a party at Johnny's house when Danny finds her . Mistakenly thinking he's lost Tina to Danny , Johnny drinks iodine in an hilarious scene where his mother puts a curse on Danny - using the word feared by Italians worldwide - MALOCCHIA . You have to watch the film to see where Barney Dunn fits in . There's no other word to describe this film but hilarious . The movie opens with a conversation in a deli between some comedians , including Corbett Monica , Jackie Gayle , Sandy Baron , etc . , reminiscing about Danny Rose . " Broadway Danny Rose " is the most New York thing you'll ever see , from the deli scene , Lou's appearance on the Joe Franklin Show , and an appearance by Howard Cosell . Not to be missed .
Claude Rains takes his turn as the Phantom	Claude Rains is " The Phantom of the Opera , " a 1943 film also starring Nelson Eddy and Susanna Foster . This version is really a variation on the Leroux , but is enjoyable in its own right . It is filmed in color , and some of the singing is magnificent . In this version , Rains is Claudin , a violinist with the opera company who has been informed that he is being discharged due to a problem with his hand . He has very little money - most of it goes toward voice lessons for his protge , Christine Dubois ( Foster ) , though she does not know the identity of her benefactor . He decides to sell his composition , and a publisher takes it - but steals it and puts his own name on it . Claudin has acid thrown in his face when he goes to the publishing company . In severe pain , he runs into the sewers of France and takes up residence so that he can coach his protge . Eventually he prepares her to take over as the opera's leading lady . There is a insinuation in this film that Claudin may be Christine's father - all we know is that the two come from the same French village . Christine's love interest , Raoul , is still Raoul but the head of the police is added as a suitor . As for the music , it's somewhat unique . Film composer Edward Ward wrote one pieces for the film , Lullaby of the Bells . For the other " operatic " music , he adapted Tchaikovsky's 4th Symphony and Chopin's Nocturn in Eb . Hearing them sung is interesting , to put it mildly . There is also , finally , a scene from a real opera , Marta . As usual , the opera business is treated a throwaway , with no attention paid to the fact that the " diva " is in an entirely different vocal category and Christine could in no way substitute for her . Foster had a pretty coloratura voice except for some shrill high notes . At the end of the Chopin piece , the camera moves in for a full close-up of Foster , wearing different makeup , shrieking out a high note - probably an Eb above C - using her whistle register . Nelson Eddy possessed one of the great baritone voices . He was always a much better singer than actor , never very relaxed before the camera . But when he opens his mouth to sing , he's glorious . Foster makes a pretty and sweet Christine . Rains brings great pathos and warmth to the role of the Phantom . He's wonderful and very touching . A very entertaining film , beautiful to look at , with some light moments and lovely music , making this a really good take on " The Phantom of the Opera . "
Chaplin's last American film	" Limelight " was film great Charlie Chaplin's last American film , and it did not have a wide release in 1952 . At that point , he was under suspicion of being a Communist . The film won an Oscar in 1972 because it didn't play a theater in Los Angeles when it was released . Chaplin plays a has-been clown , Calvero , who lives in a rooming house . He discovers one of the other residents , Terry , after she has attempted suicide . He learns that she's a ballerina who believes she can't walk and therefore can never dance again . Her ailment is more psychological than physical , and with his help , she starts walking and dancing once more . Since her room has been rented out , she continues to live with Calvero and , though she is much younger than he is , falls in love with him and wants to marry him . Calvero realizes her love is gratitude , and that if she'd let herself , she would realize that she is in love with a young composer ( Sydney Chaplin ) . When a new ballet is produced , Terry plays a dying woman , and Calvero plays one of the clowns who entertains her . When Calvero mistakenly believes he's going to be replaced in the ballet , he disappears out of her life . This is a very lyrical film with a lovely performance by a young Clare Bloom and beautiful work by Chaplin . Calvero is a man whose time has passed , perhaps like Chaplin , an old clown who wants one more moment in the limelight . At age 63 , the remarkable ballet-like ability of Chaplin's body is still present and can be seen during some of his clown bits . As an added treat , Calvero does an act with a partner played by Buster Keaton . Chaplin's heyday was the silent era , and the beginning of this film is silent - it was the genre where he was most comfortable , though he did some marvelous sound films . " Limelight " seems highly personal in its discussion of art and laughter and applause , and an older person observing someone whose life is before them and imparting what wisdom he can . It's a simple story , but Chaplin makes it something great .
A swindler falls in love with his mark	Cary Grant is " Mr . Lucky , " a 1943 films also starring Laraine Day , Charles Bickford and Gladys Cooper . Grant plays a self-serving swindler named Joe who takes the identity of a dying man who's 4F so that he won't have to go into the service . The name he takes is that of a Greek man , Joe Bascopoulos , but the name will bring him more than just a 4F classification . Needing money to get his gambling ship started , he sees an easy mark in Dorothy Bryant ( Day ) , one of the administrators of a War Relief Fund . He uses his considerable charm to persuade her to let him run a casino night as part of the organization's big fundraiser . The plan is to use cash boxes with false bottoms and take off with nearly all of the money . Just one hitch - Joe has fallen in love with Dorothy . This is a slightly different role for Grant - he plays a real low-life and at that , one with no style . One of the running jokes is his rotten ties and inability to tie them right . Grant is perfect in the role , as well as incredibly handsome . But it's only a slightly different part - like Tyrone Power , who tried so hard to change his image in 1947 with " Nightmare Alley , " Grant tried too , and like Power , was sabotaged by the producing studio . In Power's case ( who actually would have done well had Zanuck let him have more traditional Cary Grant type roles ) , he was allowed to make the film and play a low character , but his studio , 20th Century Fox , did not publicize the film nor release it widely . In Grant's case , he'd happily accept a role - such as this one or his part in " Suspicion " - only to have the script changed so that he's not a total heel . It had to be frustrating for these actors who were capable of so much more than they were allowed to do . Lovely Laraine Day is just right as the young , rich Dorothy who passionately believes in helping the war effort . Day had an air of sophistication that lent itself well to these wealthy society girl roles . " Mr . Lucky " is beautifully photographed in black and white , with lots of interesting shadows and fog . The film also has some very funny moments - Grant learning to knit is just one . This is a very good movie and somewhat of a departure for Grant , a cousin to his role in " Suspicion . "
Fascinating piece of history	" Anders als die Andern " ( Different from the Others ) is a 1919 German film starring Conrad Veidt that was pieced together and shown at one point on public television . About a law on the books that makes homosexuality a crime , it had a very short run in Germany before being pulled , and people who attended the movie were harassed . The lead is played by a German actor familiar to American audiences , usually for portraying a bad guy , Conrad Veidt . Despite dying in 1943 , Veidt had a nearly 30-year career in films . Here he plays possibly the first gay character in cinema who , with such a law in place , is a target for a blackmailer . A very interesting film with a wonderful performance by Veidt . Only part of the movie remains , but it has been put together as well as can be expected - it is , after all , a mere 87 years old . It's amazing how relevant some of the material in it remains today .
Oh , no , they can't take that away from me	" Shall We Dance " is for this viewer one of the great Astaire-Rogers films , even if some of the comments don't agree . I love it because of the glorious Astaire dancing . One of my all-time favorite numbers of his is " Slap that Bass " in which Astaire dances to the rhythm of machines . Oh , those pirouettes ! Amazing . I rewound and watched it twice more . Astaire plays a ballet dancer named Petrov . In real life , Astaire was loathe to do ballet because he was self-conscious about his large hands . Who's looking at his hands ? Petrov falls hard for singer Linda Keene ( Rogers , who else ) and arranges to follow her on the same ship to New York . Everyone has a great time , including the comic relief , Eric Blore , Edward Everett Horton , and Jerome Cowan . One of the best scenes occurs as Horton and Cowan smuggle a dummy of Linda ( from a number she never did ) into Astaire's stateroom to photograph the two together and prove they're married ( they're not . And Blore getting arrested and telephoning to get bailed out of the Susquehana jail is wonderful . But " Shall We Dance , " like the previous Astaire-Rogers pairings , isn't about the plot , it's about the music and dance . What music , what dance . George and Ira Gershwin's score includes " I've Got Beginner's Luck , " and " They All Laughed , " both sung by Astaire , " Let's Call the Whole Thing Off " ( sung and danced by the pair on roller skates ) , " They Can't Take That Away From Me " ( sung by Astaire ) , and the music later becomes a ballet sequence with Astaire and Harriet Hoctor . Astaire and Rogers dance to " Shall We Dance " after Astaire sings the number and the two reprise " Let's Call the Whole Thing Off . " You can't beat " Shall We Dance " for pure escapism , breathtaking dance , and great songs .
Get him to the church on time !	Bobby Mauch and Billy Mauch are " The Prince and the Pauper , " a 1937 film based on the Mark Twain story . The film also stars Errol Flynn and Claude Rains . When Tom , the pauper , is caught by the guards , the young Prince sees a playmate in him and invites him in . They change clothes so that the Prince can go and get his dog from the kennel for their next game , but he's caught by the cruel guards who think he's the pauper . This leaves the hapless Tom stuck in the palace as a prince who is about to become king any minute . He has a protector forced upon him , the Earl of Hertford ( Rains ) , who does not have the best interests of the English people in mind . While he's in Tom's world , Prince Edward gets a good look at the horrible way the English people are forced to live because of bad laws . Eventually he meets Miles Hendon ( Flynn ) who saves him from Tom's wretched father . The question is , once Hendon is convinced that he's in the presence of the true King , can he get him to the coronation before the beggar is crowned ? This is a wonderfully fun movie , filled with the meanest of the mean in Alan Hale as a palace guard , Barton MacLane as Tom's father , and the diabolical , unfeeling Earl . All are very convincing . The twins are delightful . As for Errol Flynn , he's as dashing and charming as ever as he wields a sword and rides a horse . A great cast and a marvelous film for the whole family . Highly recommended .
Fabulous cast , fabulous swordfight , great direction	John Cromwell directed , David O . Selznick produced , and Ronald Colman , Madeline Carroll , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , and David Niven star in the 1937 film " The Prisoner of Zenda . " That's really all any viewer needs to know . Rudolph Rassendyll ( Colman ) , King Rudolf V's identical cousin , is asked to impersonate the kidnapped future king ( Colman ) at the coronation . Otherwise , the crown goes to his younger brother . This is a top-notch film with a great performance by Ronald Colman in a dual role , something he was called upon to do during his career several times . Colman was an smooth actor of great charm . One of the comments ( from a man , of course ) asked if he was supposed to be handsome because if he was , the commenter couldn't see it . Just an opinion : Colman was good-looking in the style of actors in the early to mid-thirties , but it was his gentle quality , beautiful speaking voice , and fine acting that put him over with female audiences . Here his fianc is the gorgeous Madeleine Carroll , and they make a wonderful couple . Douglas Fairbanks Jr . is one of my favorite actors , and he performs the villainous Rupert with panache , creating an excellent character . Raymond Massey is another villain , Michael , and he's very good . David Niven is in a small role - he's on his way up as a younger Colman - in fact , he was supposed to play Colman's brother in Lost Horizon . The end of the film is total action with a magnificent swordfight . Don't miss this version of Prisoner of Zenda .
entertaining	This was a great script from the prolific Larry Cohen , who wrote episodes for " Columbo , " " Arrest and Trial " ( a forerunner of " Law and Order " ) and episodes for Kraft Suspense Theater and " The Defenders . " He has also written feature films . I'd love to see this film again - I wish it would come out on video . It stars Richard Boone as a newly-blinded actor and Suzanne Pleshette as his teacher . Though the Boone character puts on a big show for Pleshette of refusing to accept his blindness , he coldly and calculatedly trains himself to act as a seeing man so that , in disguise , he can get rid of his wife and her lover . It's a suspenseful story , a fascinating character-study and all around great entertainment . For some reason , this kind of TV movie fare has gone out of style and been replaced by women at risk films , rather slow-moving versions of Robin Cook and Mary Higgins Clark novels and the like . But we mystery buffs old enough to remember the ' 70s remember - with nostalgia - this kind of film .
fun film , good acting	Nicholas Cage is " Guarding Tess " in this 1994 film starring Shirley MacLaine , Austin Pendleton , Edward Albert , Richard Griffiths , and James Rebhorn . Shirley MacLaine is a much beloved ex-first lady who has Secret Service protection , and one of her protectees , Doug Chesnic ( Cage ) is thrilled when his round of duty is over . However , Tess makes a request of the president ( her husband's vice president ) to let Doug stay on a little longer . Annoyed , Doug starts standing up to her more , bringing on himself the wrath of the President of United States , who's sick of hearing from her . Doug and Tess finally start bonding - she in a way she could never do with her own son - and then something happens that threatens both of them in different ways . I love Nicholas Cage in comedy - " Honeymoon in Vegas " comes to mind - and he has some hilarious moments in this as Tess and his situation become more aggravating to him . He does a terrific job . Shirley MacLaine is wonderful as Tess - feisty , annoying , vulnerable , and sad . This is a very sweet and funny film and not at all cloying . It's a little contrived ; however , the performances really make it a good rental .
Tennessee Williams again brought to the screen	" Summer and Smoke " is another Tennessee Williams southern drama that , after debuting as a play , was made into a film and later an opera . Set earlier in the 20th Century , it's the story of repressed passion , unrequited love and desperation . Geraldine Page stars as Alma Winemiller , the uptight daughter of a minister . She teaches voice , sings a little , and lives with her father and an insane mother ( Una Merkel ) . Alma , since childhood , has been in love with the young doctor next door , John Buchanan ( Laurence Harvey ) , the son of a doctor and a playboy . Buchanan has recently returned to town and is still a reckless playboy . Now he's involved with Rosa Zacharias ( Rita Moreno ) , a girl from the wrong class and the wrong side of town . On the evening that something could have happened between Alma and John , she runs from him . One night , while a wild party is going on at the Buchanan house , Alma goes next door and learns that Rosa and John are going to be married . Upset , she calls John's father ( John MacIntyre ) at the hospital and urges him to return home . The result is tragedy . This is a very powerful and poignant story of two people , one interested in earthly pleasures and one focused on the soul and spirit . Neither one is entirely right or wrong , but it creates a chasm between them . When each realizes what the other has been saying , it's too late for them . Geraldine Page , who played this role to great acclaim on stage , brings her magnificent portrayal to the screen . The role was based on Williams ' sister , who eventually went insane . If physically Page is a little less delicate looking than one imagines Tennessee Williams ' female characters , her portrayal contains all of the fragility of the role . The final scene between Alma and a salesman , played by Earl Holliman shows the shocking contrast between Alma in the beginning and at the end of the film . Geraldine Page gave us all too few gems on films , as she concentrated on the stage . We have to savor what we have . Laurence Harvey is very handsome and desirable , but probably a little too refined for the role of John . The role needs someone whose sexuality is less ethereal and more earthbound . Una Merkel is excellent as Alma's mother , a truly disturbed and frightening woman . Very good film based on a Williams play , worth seeing for the wonderful Geraldine Page and its thought-provoking story .
A musical fantasy about Maria Callas and Zefferelli	Fanny Ardant plays the great diva Maria Callas in " Callas Forever , " a 2002 film directed and co-written by her friend , Franco Zeffirelli . In the film , the " Zeffirelli " character , Larry Kelly ( Jeremy Irons ) has an idea for adding to Callas ' body of work . He wants to film her in the various opera roles she played , only instead of using her present voice , which seems ruined , he will dub her with her old recordings . The first opera is to be " Carmen . " Now to convince Callas , who has isolated herself in her apartment since a disastrous concert tour and the death of Aristotle Onassis and will see no one . But Larry persists and finally gets her to agree . This is not a biography or a character study but more a fantasy - the first fantasy being that Callas would have admitted anyone into her apartment in the first place . " Callas Forever " is more a " what might have been " if , at the end of her life , Callas had been able to come out of herself and explore her great artistry once again . The movie is beautifully produced and filled with Callas ' most glorious singing , as well as a re-enactment of the scene where Tosca kills Scarpia in " Tosca . " Fanny Ardant does a fantastic job as Callas . Her features are softer , but she has the mannerisms , the personality and the clothes that would make anyone who just saw a photo of her realize she was playing Callas . Ardant plays her as the sad , still temperamental diva who , completely alone , is asking herself what her life was all about , and were any of her goals worth it . She is a woman who felt , in fact , older than her years as she grieved for the man he loved and his betrayal of her . Though the story Zeffirelli tells is not a true one , some of the emotions are certainly correct . Callas was completely devastated when Onassis left her - and he left her with nothing , not even friendship . Having the emotional maturity of a 12-year old due to her mother favoring her sister , growing up fat , etc . , she allowed Aristotle to call all the shots and use her , breaking her both emotionally and spiritually . When he realized he had made a mistake by marrying Jackie , he came back to Maria - and she took him back . ( They used to call Jackie " the widow . " ) She once poured out her heart to writer John Ardoin on tape , and it is probably the most pathetic transcript ever . To compensate , she tried to sing again , but she'd lost both her nerve and her voice . It's doubtful that her voice was gone . Callas had always had vocal problems , and as singers age , they lose some of their top notes . If she had been able to trust someone to realign her voice , she could have done well in a different repertoire such as Carmen and Eboli , even if she had just recorded them . Maria Callas was a beautiful , gifted woman who thought that a career would give her the love she never received as a child - and it didn't . If you've ever seen the photo of her taking her bow as Norma and looking over at Aristotle in the box , she's absolutely radiant , she's on top of the world . She's in love and enjoying her life for the first time . It breaks your heart because that time in her life , like " Callas Forever , " was only a fantasy .
A blond Olivier takes on the Prince of Denmark	Laurence Olivier is " Hamlet " in this 1948 version of Shakespeare's play . The film , directed by Olivier , also stars Eileen Herlie , Jean Simmons , Norman Wooland , Felix Aylmer , Stanley Holloway and Terrence Morgan . Olivier's Hamlet on stage , of course , was very famous and modeled after John Barrymore's portrayal . Not as athletic as Gielgud's portrayal , Olivier's Shakespeare work was notable for the fact that he didn't " sing " the text , but rather said it realistically . For his film version of Richard III , he deliberately made the setting look false , making the point that , if you gave the audience a realistic-looking setting , they would then ask , " Why are these people talking so funny ? " Similarly , for Hamlet , the castle is a stark , huge affair , standing in the midst of fog , and unusual camera angles are used to make some stunning shots . The text of the play is heavily cut , and two characters , Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are indeed dead - they don't exist here . The cast is good - it can't compare with Olivier's Richard III cast seven years later - but it's Olivier's show , and he's tremendous , giving a thrilling performance . As many times as I've seen Hamlet , I'm always impressed at how many famous phrases have come out of it . But with such a compelling story and such beautiful writing , it's no surprise . Outrageous fortune indeed .
Surprisingly good	Kathleen Beller made a couple of very good suspensers back in the ' 80s . This was one - also known as " Soon , Amy , Soon " ( at least I think so ) - I saw this when it first aired and just caught part of it again recently . It's great fun , about a young heiress being stalked by a man in a ski mask . However , he never seems to be around when she tells someone about it , so everyone comes to the conclusion that she's delusional . This includes her stepmother ( Mariette Hartley ) and her psychiatrist ( Keir Dullea ) . There are a couple of neat twists in this , and the viewer will remain interested throughout thanks to the good script and the fast-paced direction by John Llewellyn Moxey , an old pro . " No Place to Hide " is a great flick to see some cold wintry evening - one often sits down to watch a suspense or mystery movie only to be disappointed - you won't be this time .
More death and destruction at the hands of Inspector Clouseau	" The Pink Panther Strikes Again " is an apt title for this hilarious 1976 film starring Peter Sellers and Herbert Lom . In this story , Dreyfus , driven mad by Clouseau , escapes from the mental asylum . Determined to destroy Clouseau once and for all , he kidnaps the inventor of a Doomsday device along with his daughter . This machine makes buildings disappear without a trace , and can do the same to people and whole countries . The world has 7 days to kill Clouseau or Dreyfus , who has already used it to destroy the United Nations in a dazzling display of power , will turn it on the world . When the inventor says something about using it on Clouseau , Drefus replies that to Clouseau , this doomsday machine would be as effective as a water pistol . Yes , it's true , the man is a menace with an uncanny way of killing and trashing anything around him and walking out unscathed . There are too many funny bits to go into , but Clouseau trying on his hunchback disguise and overinflating it so that he floats outside is great ; Clouseau attempting to get into the castle is wonderful ; there's the drag club scene , the scenes with Olga ( Lesley-Anne Down ) - well , the movie will keep you laughing . And , if you're like me , it's just what the doctor ordered .
It's all in the game	Tom Ripley is at it again , this time in " Ripley's Game , " a 2002 European production starring John Malkovich , Dougray Scott , Ray Winstone , and a host of European actors and actresses , all very good in their roles . Ripley at the beginning of the film is involved in an art scam with a partner , Reeves ( Winstone ) . It doesn't go down quite as planned . The film picks up three years later in Italy where Tom is living la vida loca , fabulous house , gorgeous musician girlfriend , best cook around . He overhears himself being insulted by a picture framer , Jonathan Trevanny ( Scott ) while at a party . Later , Ripley's old partner appears and wants some people rubbed out , and Ripley suggests Trevanny . Knowing human nature as he does , he's pretty sure Trevanny will do it and in Ripley's world , a man's soul is fitting revenge for an insult . However , Reeves wants more than one job done . Ripley then becomes a little more involved than he wanted . The character of Tom Ripley is a fascinating one , and he is played to complete perfection here by John Malkovich who manages to capture both Tom's charm and even kindness as well as his dangerous side . Though he lacks Matt Damon's boyish charm , this is Ripley later on , and Tom has added to his survival skills . For Ripley , it's all part of the game . " The Talented Mr . Ripley " was a very disappointing film with great scenery and some incredible absurdities ; this film is not without some absurdity but here , because of the director and Malkovich's handling of the material , the absurdity of the scene on the train would almost be funny if the reality of it wasn't so gruesome . In " The Talented Mr . Ripley , " stupidity was played stupidly , such as Tom pretending to be David while Philip Seymour Hoffman was in the next room . I found this film much better , much more suspenseful and compelling . I hope Malkovich has another chance to play Ripley .
Low expectations but high results	Reba McEntyre is one of those crossover stars who doesn't seem to be able to miss , no matter what she tackles . First , she took over for Bernadette Peters in " Annie Get Your Gun " and received rave reviews from New York critics , who probably were - excuse the pun - gunning for her . Then this comedy series came along on the WB channel . I'm always a little leery of sit-coms , particularly the off-network ones . Sometimes I think they pander to the lowest common denominator . Well , Reba blew that concept out of the water in her very funny show about the ultimate in dysfunctional families . In the beginning , Reba and her husband ( Christopher Rich ) were going through a divorce after he made his dental hygienist ( Meilissa Peterman ) pregnant . As the show went on , the new wife considered Reba her best friend , and Reba couldn't get rid of her no matter what . Reba's daughter Cheyenne , in the beginning , was unmarried and pregnant by an unbelievably dumb high school football star ( who later becomes Reba's business partner ) . Cheyenne marries him and moves in with Reba . At one point , she's furious that Reba is going to be substitute teaching at her school . " Do you realize how embarrassing it will be for me if you teach in my school ? " Cheyenne asks . " You're walking around that school unmarried and pregnant , and I'M going to embarrass you ? " Reba shoots back . She also has a daughter and a son who have their own issues in the ensuing six years . Over the show's run , it dealt with many subjects in a warm , touching and funny way , including alcoholism , teen pregnancy , depression , dating after divorce , infidelity , a child wanting to move in with the other parent , smoking - all the time mocking the idea of " trailer park trash . " These are real people with the usual sets of problems that befall a strong single mother . Nothing ever feels contrived or fake . Bottom line , they are all devoted to one another , and that's what makes " Reba " a good series . The very pretty McEntire is a marvelous comedienne with great delivery , and she's beautifully supported by Rich , Peterman , Steve Howey , Joanne Garcia , and Scarlett Pomers . You can't help but love all of them . A well-structured , well cast , well written and well directed show . You really can't ask for more .
The original and the best	" Nothing Sacred " has been remade in whole or part many times but no version comes close to the original 1937 screwball comedy starring Frederic March and Carole Lombard . Directed by William Wellman with a script by Ben Hecht , Nothing Sacred is more topical today than it was then . There's been a good deal written on this board about the political incorrectness of it : racism , drunkenness , physical abuse , stereotyping . It's true , there's something to offend everyone . Instead of judging everything by today's enlightened standards , I prefer to notice that yes , things were different in the past and then move on to the wonderful , witty script , the very modern topic , the great performances , the early , muted color , Lombard's outfits , the old airplane and the scenes of New York as it was in all its glory in the 1930s . March is Wally Cook , a reporter in hot water for writing about the Sultan of Brunai who in reality is a regular Joe working in New York with a wife who identifies him while he's making pronouncements . Wally goes to Vermont to hunt down a story about a woman dying of radium poisoning and finds her in the person of Hazel Flagg ( Lombard ) . Hazel has just gotten some very bad news from her doctor ( Charles Winninger ) - she's not dying . The diagnosis was a mistake . She had hopes of taking a trip out of Vermont that was offered to her and asks the doctor to keep the new diagnosis of health quiet . Soon after , she meets Wally , who wants to bring her to New York for a last fling at the expense of the paper , which will follow her until her last poisoned breath . Hazel agrees and takes the doctor with her . At first , she has a blast with only the occasional twinge of guilt . Then a German specialist is brought in and blows Hazel's scam all to hell . One of the comments had it right - this story predates reality shows by something like 63 years . Hazel , like so many today , is an ersatz celebrity , famous for being famous . What will never change is milking a subject for profit until it's dry . Nothing Sacred has some hilarious scenes and great lines , including the big fight scene in the hotel when Wally tries to make Hazel seem ill by forcing her to fight with him in order to sweat and raise her pulse rate . The nightclub scene is a riot . Lombard is beautiful and wears some stunning outfits and gowns , a gift to Hazel from the newspaper . She was a very adept actress with a wonderful sense of comedy . How sad that she is in a film about dying young and would do so five years later at the age of 34 . She and March do a great job together - he's normally not known for his comedy but does well here . He approach to Wally is serious and he plays Wally's intensity and affection for Hazel for all it's worth . Connelly as his editor is fabulous , as is Winninger as the doctor who drinks his way through New York . Nothing Sacred has been a musical , Hazel Flagg , and remade as Living it Up ( with Jerry Lewis as Homer Flagg ) . Most recently , the general plot was reworked as Last Holiday . See the original in the screwball comedy genre which is , alas , no more .
excellent noir	" Force of Evil " was a film done under the banner of John Garfield's production company which he formed with other actors , each of whom was to appear in a film . The company had a distribution deal but the company they were working with went bankrupt and distribution had to be found elsewhere . The timing was perhaps not the best - Garfield would be dead in four years and the director / writer Abraham Polansky blacklisted . The company eventually died with only a few films made . " Force of Evil " is the story of two brothers , Joe and Leo - Joe is a shady lawyer and Leo is a shady businessman who runs a numbers bank . He wants nothing to do with Joe , whom he sees as the real crook of the family . He resents Joe for his success . Joe and his cronies are planning to rig the lottery so that when the number everyone has bet on hits , it bankrupts the smaller operations , thus making them ripe to be gathered up under one large concern . Joe doesn't want Leo to lose all his money , so he tries to warn him . This is a beautifully written film that is well acted and full of a tough , grimy New York atmosphere . Wonderful shots of Wall Street and a beautiful ending at the George Washington Bridge . Both Garfield and Thomas Gomez as the brothers give riveting performances . Gomez is sloppy and full of anger ; he may be in a shady business , but he pays off on his customers ' bets , and he gets by . Garfield is dapper , handsome , and mystified as to why his help isn't appreciated . He's both book and street smart , but he channeled his talents in the wrong direction looking for the kind of success the law-abiding world could never give him . Marie Windsor is on hand as the cool boss ' wife who thinks that Joe could warm her up . Joe doesn't want her . Their scenes are electric . This is truly a no-miss and a film ahead of its time , the kind of thing that Scorcese would have made later on . It's a pity that Polansky's talent and Garfield's would be gone so quickly , one artistic death by blacklist and the other from a weak heart that couldn't withstand a real-life force of evil .
Excellent film but not everybody's cup of tea	George Clooney is " Michael Clayton " in this 2007 film about a man with the somewhat thankless job of putting out fires for his legal firm . There are several plot lines , making this film more interesting and complicated than many that have been released in recent years . People will be disappointed in it for that reason . However , its denseness is what makes it absorbing as the audience attempts to figure out what's going on . It also makes the movie a little uneven , particularly after the opening sequence . It's one of those films you have to stick with if you want a payoff . Michael Clayton has the burden of problems in his job and in his own life . He's a compulsive gambler just for one . He has a thief for a brother who destroyed a business he and Michael were partners in and left Michael in terrible debt . Michael also has a young son and is trying to cope with a deterioration in his relationship with his ex-wife . The main problem Clayton is assigned to concerns a billion dollar corporate case , over which the senior partner , Arthur Edens ( Tom Wilkinson ) has gone bonkers , literally , having discovered evidence that the firm they represent , U / North , had blatant disregard for human life . The corporate attorney for U / North is Karen Crowder ( Tilda Swinton ) , who will stop at nothing to keep the unbalanced Eden from exposing them . The most interesting thing about the film is the juxtaposition between Eden and Clayton as it asks the question - what's more important , your principles or your job security ? Edens can no longer sacrifice his principles , and it drives him mad ; Michael hates his job but , faced with enormous debt , believes he has to suppress his true feelings . The character of Karen , on the other hand , doesn't bother herself with these big questions . She has to win at all costs . The acting is fantastic , Wilkinson having the hardest role and also the most thankless . He's crazy but there's a reason for it . George Clooney is magnificent , the camera unforgiving on his face as it shows his sadness , his cynicism and his exhaustion . This is a star whose persona we know is full of humor , outspokenness , elegance and charm , yet here he foregoes the star qualities and buries himself in depression . Swinton is brilliant - the emotions in her final scene are quite amazing and , having witnessed something similar myself - right on . A dark , complicated , character-driven , uneven film , the kind you don't see much of anymore .
beautiful story and film	What a wonderful movie ! I had never heard of it and had no idea what it was . It's a lost treasure , it seems . " Enchantment " is the story of two generations , and a very special love . The narrator is the house they lived in at various times . When the movie begins , David Niven is an old man , Rollo , during World War II , and he is living alone in the house with the man-servant with whom he grew up , Leo G . Carroll . His niece , in the service , comes to stay with him and soon meets a wounded soldier ( Farley Granger ) who has a connection to the house . Rollo's story , and the story of his sister , brother , and the little girl that came to live with them , Lark , is told in flashbacks throughout the film as they grow up and Rollo and Lark fall in love . After a flashback , the camera focuses on the fireplace , or some other object , and we are brought back into the present , with the fire still burning or the book still in the bookshelf , and we are back with Rollo and his niece in the present day . It is a seamless way to tell the story and very poignant . David Niven is wonderful as Rollo but the surprise performance for me was by Jayne Meadows as his selfish , sharp-tongued sister Selina , who always resented Lark . She is excellent . Farley Granger and Evelyn Keyes are the present day young loves , and they give very sweet performances . Gigi Perreau as the small child Lark is heartbreaking . The ending of the film is very striking . My only criticism would be that it seemed as if the character of Rollo aged 50 years instead of about 30 . Don't miss this marvelous film .
A small town family during WWII	Nothing much happens in " The Human Comedy , " and yet , everything happens in this gentle 1943 drama based on a story by William Saroyan and directed by Clarence Brown . It stars Mickey Rooney , Van Johnson , Frank Morgan , James Craig , Marsha Hunt , Fay Bainter , Donna Reed and Dorothy Malone . The main focus is on the Macauley family , and the opening and closing narration is by their late patriarch ( Ray Collins ) who initially introduces the audience to the family and to the town of Ithaca , California . With oldest brother Marcus away fighting in World War II , it falls to Homer ( Rooney ) to add to the money his brother sends their mother ( Fay Bainter ) by getting a job in the local telegraph office after school . There , he finds himself sobering up the drunken man who runs the telegraph ( Frank Morgan ) and delivering telegrams - sometimes singing , sometimes from the War Department informing a family of a death . Homer has to grow up fast and ponder some serious issues . There are others besides the Macauleys - kind Tom Spangler and his upper class girl ( Marsha Hunt ) - Tom is nervous about meeting her parents . Then there is Tobey ( John Craven ) a soldier with no parents and no real home who is befriended by Marcus while in the service . " The Human Comedy " is filled with delightful scenes of innocence , goodness , sadness , mischief , tragedy and humor . One night , Bess Macauley and her friend Mary are on their way to the movies when they meet three lonely soldiers on leave ( one of whom is Robert Mitchum ) and invite them to come along . When the men leave them , the girls get a kiss on the cheek ; the youngest Macauley , Ulysses , finds himself alone when the other boys leave after watching a live ad for a drink - is the man a real man or a huge wind-up toy ? When he leans over and scares the heck out of Ulysses , Ulysses finds out and runs for his life . The scenes of Marcus and his fellow soldiers shows us the youth of these men , their fears , and their homesickness ; the scenes of the people at home show us what not having any young men around is like for a small town - the worry and the loneliness as they keep things together so their sons and fathers will have something to come home to . Mickey Rooney , one of the screen's great talents , gives a subdued yet emotional performance as Homer . Frank Morgan is very good as the pathetic Mr . Grogan , and Van Johnson is likable as Marcus . The rest of the cast follows suit - everyone is excellent . Was a town ever like this ? Possibly , in a gentler time . The Human Comedy reminds us of old-fashioned things like responsibility , letter-writing , and prayer , and that love is eternal . A very warm movie . Highly recommended .
True-life story of a rebel	Robin Williams is " Patch Adams , " a real-life doctor who founded the Gesundheit Institute . The film also stars Monica Potter , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Bob Gunton and Harve Presnell . Richard Kiley has a small role at the end . Patch Adams is a young man who , after his own experiences in a mental hospital , wants to help others by connecting with them as people and employing laughter . He starts medical school and is dismayed to find out that students have no exposure to patients until the third year . He starts entertaining the children in the cancer clinic , reaching out to an angry man with cancer , and eventually starts a small clinic with the help of friends , including fellow students . One student , Corinne ( Potter ) , is a cold fish , but eventually takes to Patch and his methods , and helps him in his work . Meanwhile , back in medical school , the head of the institution ( Gunton ) wants him out . This is a highly sentimental film that will not be for everyone . It's very old-fashioned not only in its message but in the Frank Capraesque way it's done . That being said , I really liked it , and I loved Williams ' warmth in the role of Patch . Though a true story , its theme of a passionate man going up against the establishment is a familiar one , but there's nothing much new under the sun - it's the execution that makes it or breaks it . It's a wonderful film . By the way , I still think Monica Potter is Julia Roberts with a blond wig .
enjoyable , vintage 20th Century Fox musical	20th Century Fox pulled out all the stops for this Technicolor musical , " The Gang's All Here , " directed by Busby Berkeley . There is a song at least every few minutes , wonderful singing , dancing , and comedy galore , and an absolutely threadbare plot . The story is of no consequence - the music is the thing , along with Carmen Miranda's gaudily-costumed numbers and delightful butchering of the English language . This film was made to bolster spirits during the war and to sell war bonds , which is dealt with in part of the plot . I can't imagine anyone walking out of the theater with anything but a smile on their face . Alice Faye is lovely and sings beautifully in her contralto , her main number being " A Journey to a Star . " Miranda's big number , of course , is the classic " The Lady in the Tutti Frutti Hat " with the fabulous illusion at the end . Charlotte Greenwood gets to dance in " The Jitters " and she , Edward Everett Horton , and Eugene Palette provide excellent support . Benny Goodman's band is a standout , and I've always been a sucker for Benny's smooth , relaxed singing voice . Busby Berkeley's numbers are spectacular , particularly the finale - but somehow , I can't see it being done on someone's lawn ! I agree with one of the posters , these Fox musicals need to be packaged into a collection and put out on DVD . They're too much fun to miss .
A good look at ' 80s greed	Oliver Stone's " Wall Street " was released a couple of months after the big stock market crash of 1987 , when a wealthy friend of mine had to rush home from Paris to assess the damage . Another friend said to me , " It's nothing but high-class gambling . " Stone captures the Wall Street greed and the multimillionaire young men who populated the brokerage houses back in the ' 80s before they started folding . Everything was about making money ( which hasn't changed much ) and having all the external trappings of success and happiness . We heard a lot about the " yuppies " back then , who were a lot different from the beatniks and the hippies , both of whom in their own way went against the system . The new youth , however , reveled in " the system , " and capitalism was their god . The character of Bud Fox , portrayed by Charlie Sheen , is just such a young man , struggling to make it in the brokerage world . Ambitious , he worms his way in to see a major wheeler-dealer takeover king , Gordon Gecko ( Michael Douglas ) . Gecko gives Bud a try and teaches him about the good life , insider trading , spreading buys to other brokers , wiring money to an offshore account - all the time keeping his own hands clean . Gecko even sends an ex-girlfriend ( Darryl Hannah ) to keep Bud company . It takes a while , but when Gecko dupes Bud into helping him take over the airline where his father works , Bud realizes he was a patsy . This is a good movie that really captures the atmosphere of those times when I lived in New York - everyone was buying co-ops and condos and playing the stock market . As Bud learns , money isn't the only way to measure success , and greed and heartlessness aren't for everyone . Charlie Sheen gives a very good performance - he's well cast as is , of course , Martin Sheen as his wise father who has a different set of values and recognizes Gecko's motives even if his son doesn't . Michael Douglas is perfect as a complete bastard - and don't kid yourself , these types exist in abundance . In fact , I can't even say the Gecko character is exaggerated . He's a total slimeball . Darryl Hannah is fairly lousy as the girlfriend who is falling for Bud but whose future success is tied to Gecko . Martin Sheen is the only one who's really a likable character , so the film has a certain coldness . So does Wall Street , especially if you happen to be on the losing end .
Sweet film about the immortality of love	" A Guy Named Joe " is a beautiful , sentimental , tear-jerker of a film starring Spencer Tracy , Irene Dunne , Van Johnson , Lionel Barrymore , Ward Bond , James Gleason , and Dom Defore . Tracy is Pete , a fighter pilot in World War II involved with Dorinda ( Dunne ) , a female flier . Apparently pilots whose " number is up " emit some kind of dead man walking spirit , because Dunne recognizes the signs and wants Pete to return to the states with her and teach fledgling pilots . She's so desperate that he agrees , but he's called for one last mission , and the inevitable happens . Before he knows it , no one can see him or hear him , he's escorted around heaven and earth by Barry Nelson , and assigned to be an angel for a young pilot ( Johnson ) . For all the warmth of this film , it was fraught with problems behind the scenes . Van Johnson was in a horrid car accident before he finished filming . The actors said they wanted to wait for him rather than see him replaced . That story may or may not be true , as the scar on his forehead is only visible in a couple of scenes ; there can't have been much left to film . The second problem was that Spencer Tracy kept coming on to Irene Dunne , which made her furious , and she complained to the front office . She never worked with him again , which is a pity , because they made a charismatic screen couple . Spencer Tracy is fantastic as a cocky pilot who comes down to earth only when he dies . His scenes as he stands behind Dunne telling her what he should have said to her while alive are very tender . Dunne is excellent as always - strong yet vulnerable , and she gets to sing " I'll Get By " in her lovely soprano . Johnson , in his breakthrough role , is good-looking , boyish , and likable . One of the nicest thing about " A Guy Named Joe " is some of the lighting effects - the silhouette of Dunne as she says goodbye to Pete ; the look of his plane in the distance when she first arrives - these really add to the sense of foreboding . Strangely , when viewed today , " A Guy Named Joe " is a feminist movie in more ways than even it knew . Dunne is a female pilot and proves her mettle in a dangerous mission . But more than that , consider the fact that she becomes involved with Johnson in the film and was 18 years his senior ! She was 45 when this movie was released , and Johnson was 29 . The age difference is obvious . Good for her - playing a lead at that age while employed by Louis B , no less , and having a younger love interest ! Mayer is the man who booted out Joan Crawford and didn't make any noise when Garbo and Shearer left . If your eyes aren't moist at the end of " A Guy Named Joe , " it'll be surprising . Much loved by Steven Spielberg ( who remade it ) , and a lot of other people , it still touches the heart today and reinforced to wartime audiences that the spirit of their deceased ones continues on , with love the tie that binds .
Brilliantly acted , moody psychological drama	" Night Must Fall , " which was originally a play by Emlyn Williams , contains three fantastic roles for actors , and as a film , it has been beautifully cast , directed ( by Richard Thorpe ) , and photographed . Set in an English cottage in a village that borders a forest , Rosalind Russell lives with her horrid , verbally abusive aunt . Along comes Danny , basically brought into the household to be spoken to about a promised marriage to one of the maids in the house . Danny is a sexual opportunist , a murderer , and a psychopath who can hone in on what each person he meets needs and wants . He soon becomes charmingly indispensable to the aunt . The Russell character senses his black soul but is attracted to him nonetheless , and he knows it . What transpires is an intriguing mystery and psychological drama . Robert Montgomery was a wonderful actor , adept at many kinds of roles but most often cast in the light comedies so often made in the ' 30s . Here he is fantastic - a charming , frightening liar with a huge ego who thinks his crafty mind will win in the end . Russell gives a beautiful , underplayed performance as an unhappy young woman , dating a man she's not sure she loves , attracted to this stranger and to the possibility of something interesting happening to her . Dame May Witty is great as an abrasive shrew . This is one of those gems - and doesn't Hollywood know it , they've remade it enough - but it's a real tour de force for the right actors . A winner .
Don't Give Up on Us , Baby	Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson are " Starsky & Hutch " in this 2004 take-off of the 1970s buddy cop TV series that had special appeal to pre-pubescent girls . Angry Captain Doby ( Fred Williamson ) is back as is Huggy Bear ( Snoop Dog ) . Even the striped-tomato red car is back . In this film , Starsky is straight as an arrow and Hutch is not above stealing money out of perp's wallet or committing a robbery and claiming he was undercover at the time . The two become reluctant partners and go after a drug dealer ( Vince Vaughn ) . There are many great ' 70s songs , discos , and Afros that go from one side of the street to the other . There is also no lack of S & H's famous undercover characterizations and disguises . And the ending will bring a big smile to your face . Owen Wilson singing " Don't Give Up on Us , Baby , " David Soul's lighter than air hit tune , was a highlight of the film for me . Interestingly , the characters seem to swap personalities when compared to the series , where Hutch was the concerned straight arrow and Starsky was the more laid back rule-breaker . As a bit of trivia , Soul moved to England and began doing a lot of theater , appearing as Jerry Springer in " Jerry Springer - the Opera " not so long ago . He has long championed many humanitarian causes . Glaser , of course , became a director and an AIDS activist , his wife being Elizabeth Glaser , who lost her life to the disease along with their daughter . Back in the ' 70s , both men received a lot of publicity for their various demands and star attitudes . Life has a way of straightening out your priorities , I guess . If you remember the series and the ' 70s , this is a fun film , and if you don't , I suspect it's fun anyway . If you are a die-hard , serious fan of the original series , this isn't the movie for you if you're planning on taking it seriously .
Anne Baxter meets the rumpled detective	I have a special fondness for this particular Columbo episode , though I'm not sure why . It is very good , but there have been other Columbos that have moved a little faster . This one has a few interesting twists to the plot , but what is most enjoyable is the presence of Anne Baxter as a movie star , Nora Chandler , from Hollywood's golden age who now stars in a TV series . Kind of like Loretta Young , but with an entirely different persona . Mel Ferrer guest stars also , as does the lovely Pippa Scott . Scott plays Baxter's secretary , and Ferrer is a gossip columnist who seems to have some real dirt on Nora . He's also courting Scott , which Baxter is tremendously unhappy about . Nora is also getting some pressure from the studio . Nora has a cottage on the grounds with a fountain in the back - her late husband , Al , actually ran the studio . The present bosses want to sell off parts of the land , but Nora won't sell . Falk and Baxter are funny together . He's initially starstruck - though I can't really agree with one poster on this board who thinks he wasn't onto her . He calls his brother-in-law George and has Nora say hello to him , and there is another cute scene with Edith Head . It's a fascinating story , made special by Baxter and her chemistry with Falk .
fab Columbo with a dramatic turn by a comedy master	Dick Van Dyke is a photographer whose artistry gets in the way of the murder of his wife in " Negative Reaction , " an excellent Columbo episode . Van Dyke is married to Antoinette Bower , who is such a bitch , Van Dyke doesn't care if he gets caught for murdering her or not . Nevertheless , he goes to great lengths to set things up perfectly . But he doesn't count on the man in the raincoat . There is a hilarious bit in which Columbo goes to a soup kitchen to try to find a homeless man who witnessed the murder of Van Dyke's accomplice , whom Van Dyke has also killed . The well-meaning nun , beautifully portrayed by Joyce van Patten , gives Columbo some soup and tries to find him another coat , believing him a bum ! I dearly love Falk as Columbo , and this is a great episode where he unmasks a murderer who was just a little too artistic for his own good .
poignant film , Nelson and Jeanette's best	" Maytime " is , I believe , the most popular film of that very popular singing team of Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald . The story , based on the Romberg operetta , tells the story in flashback of a beautiful young opera singer ( MacDonald ) , under the wing of her teacher ( John Barrymore ) who in spite of herself falls in love with a baritone ( Eddy ) though she's promised to marry her teacher . She chooses loyalty and career over true love , with tragic results . This isn't the most feminist film you'll ever see , as the elderly Miss Morrison ( MacDonald ) tells her story to a young woman who wants to throw her boyfriend over and pursue her career in New York . Nevertheless , it's the setting for a touching tale and gorgeous music sung by MacDonald and Eddy . MacDonald was beautiful and a fine actress , and she had parts of her voice , particularly the middle range , that were absolutely beautiful . Her high notes and singing technique - well , not so great . Some of it was the way female singers were taught to sing " white " high notes - backing off of them and straightening the tone , and part of it was the unsophisticated recording devices . The difference in placement between her voice and Eddy's , who sang a frontal placement all the way up , is remarkable . The montages show the great female star singing Trovatore and Wagner - not with that lyric coloratura voice , she wasn't . Eddy sings magnificently throughout , though he was never the presence that MacDonald was . Have some tissues ready . It's a lovely story , and the acting is very good . MacDonald is very touching and Barrymore is appropriately villainous and also underplayed , for those who think he was a big ham . It's one of those films you'll always remember , especially the ending , and that's what the film is about - remembrance .
Powerful portrait of a pathetic man and a worse President	Anthony Hopkins is " Nixon " in this chilling 1995 Oliver Stone film , which also stars Joan Allen , Bob Hoskins , James Woods , Ed Harris , David Hyde Pierce , Powers Boothe , Paul Sorvino , E . G . Marshall , Madeline Kahn and David Paymer . The film tells the story of Nixon from his childhood in Whittier , California , with a very religious Quaker mother ( Mary Steenburgen ) , a tough father ( Tom Bower ) and his brothers , two of whom would die young . The film continues with Nixon's rise to power as a Congressman , his great success with the Alger Hiss case , his Senate win , his vice-presidency , his loss of the 1960 Presidential election and later the bid to be Governor of California , and rising like a phoenix from the ashes to become President in 1968 and be elected for a second term by a phenomenal landslide . And Watergate . And resignation . Oliver Stone is a director who is known to play footsie with the truth , so one can only guess at the veracity of the depiction of Nixon's uneasy relationship with his wife ( Joan Allen ) . Some of the White House scenes , I'm assuming , were adapted from the now famous ( or should I say infamous ) tapes that Nixon fought so fiercely to keep from going public . The scene with Kissinger where Nixon asks Kissinger to pray with him is described in detail by Kissinger in print and is accurate . It's one of the saddest scenes in the film . Stone gives us the portrait of a man with self-esteem so low that , in order to be near Pat when he first met her , he drove her and her boyfriends on their dates because he had a car and the guys didn't . He considered himself an outsider everywhere he went ; he compared himself unfavorably to Kennedy and thought reporters hated him because he hadn't gone to the right schools and grew up poor . His self-loathing made him paranoid , hate just about everyone else and play dirty to get what he wanted . As the White House transcripts show , he had nothing but contempt for artists , blacks , Jews and gays . There is no mention in the film of his complete ruination of Helen Gahagan Douglas , actor Melvyn Douglas ' wife , by labeling her a Communist when he ran against her for the Senate in 1950 . He set the cause of women in politics back a good 30 years and destroyed the career of an intelligent , capable human being . As hateful as Nixon was , and he was pretty hateful , Stone nevertheless attempts to give us a well-rounded and somewhat sympathetic portrait . Had it been anyone else , it might have worked . Anyone who lived during the time of Watergate and Vietnam has a hard time buying Nixon as a victim of circumstance . I sat in a bedroom on Pinckney Street in Boston with my best friend and watched Nixon resign in 1974 . I can remember that at the time , we laughed because he made very little sense . From the window , we could hear the cheers coming from Boston Commons . Thirty-four years later , my same best friend and I , now 3000 miles away , watched the re-enactment of the resignation in " Nixon , " and it was no longer funny . Nixon was indeed a pathetic person , and Anthony Hopkins captures him magnificently , his discomfort in certain situations , his resentments , his fears . A brilliant , complex portrait . Joan Allen is excellent as Pat Nixon , a devoted wife and a very unhappy woman . The President's Men are all well acted , and Paul Sorvino as Kissinger is remarkable and almost unrecognizable . Part of Nixon's problem was a generational one - men of his era , and even the era following , did not seek help to work out their problems . They carried their childhood hurts and baggage with them throughout their lives and never got past any of it . I heard Nixon speak in the 1980s , and he was absolutely fantastic . Funny , insightful , compelling , with great timing , he gave an excellent speech to an appreciative audience . Another time , I heard a tape recording of an interview with him . After the interview , he began to speak with a reporter he knew personally . The reporter was very respectful , and Nixon was very human and very friendly . Probably by the time of these two incidents , he had at last made some peace with himself . Oliver Stone is a controversial director , but I like the detail of his films , his follow-through of a story and the questions that often arise as a result of viewing one of them . In " Nixon , " he chose a man who participated in two very dark times in America's history - the Communist witch hunts and Watergate , and he has made an excellent and absorbing film chronicling the man and his times . Nixon made phrases like " off the record " and " expletive deleted " part of the lingo . He made the careers of Woodward and Bernstein and because of him , many of his associates got big fat book deals , acting jobs , and jail sentences . Nixon thought that opening China and bombing the hell out of Vietnam and Cambodia should make up for the President of the United States becoming a felon . He was wrong , as he was about so many other things .
Great performances , great singing highlight the story of Ruth Etting	Doris Day portrays singing great Ruth Etting in " Love Me or Leave Me , " a 1955 film costarring James Cagney and Cameron Mitchell . The film tells the story , somewhat fictionalized , of Etting's rise to fame in the 1920s and her association and marriage to Marty " The Gimp " Snyder , a Chicago gangster . In the story , Etting is highly ambitious , and Marty helps her career after picking her up in a dance hall and realizing he's not going to get anywhere . He's hoping for the big prize - i . e . , Ruth - at the end of the rainbow , but though she's grateful , she's never going to be THAT grateful . Finally , he becomes so angry that he rapes her ( this is suggested in the film but the scene was cut by the censors ) . She marries him , though she's in love with a pianist , Marty Alderman . This film was made about five years before Ross Hunter glamorized Doris and made her the # 1 box office star in a series of comedies , three of which were with Rock Hudson . Before that , she was a pretty woman with a sweet , smooth voice and sturdy acting ability . And nowhere does she demonstrate all three qualities as she does here . And throw in a sensational figure in some stunning gowns to boot . Doris ' Ruth is a young woman who looks and acts like sugar but has the determination of steel underneath . She speaks softly but has the glint of ambition in her eye . Day's voice and style are nothing like Etting's , but the producers and director weren't looking for an imitation . Doris looks and sounds fantastic , singing a huge amount of music , including " Ten Cents a Dance , " the title song , " Chasing the Blues Away " and many others . Cagney gives an extremely powerful performance as Marty , a pushy little man with a huge insecurity and a passion for Ruth . It is a fully fleshed out portrayal of an abusive , possessive man that you can hate and pity at the same time . Cagney deservedly won an Oscar nomination for the role of Marty . He and Doris ' contrasting acting styles mesh beautifully as well . Though there were liberties taken with the Etting story , if you read her bio , it sounds just like the film . Did the movie have a ' 20s and the ' 30s feel to it ? Not really . But it doesn't matter . The film is in color and has a rich look , and what a score . What actors . A must see .
Very good show starring Jeff Goldblum	I admit to a soft spot for Jeff Goldblum , a wonderful actor whose career has spanned theater , film , and television . Years ago , he and Ben Vereen had the series " Tenspeed and Brownshoe , " which was a flop . I remember loving it especially because of Goldblum's quirky delivery . The show was a little ahead of its time and even five years later would have done much better . Here's Goldblum again , here as a thoughtful police detective who , in the genre du jour since " Sixth Sense " sees dead people . And , like Medium's Allison Dubois , he not only sees them but he talks to them as he tries to figure out the identity of their murderer . In this case , however , the dead are only in Raines ' imagination and only know what he knows . Because of this , they change throughout the episode , as he begins to see different facets of their lives and personalities . Though the show has a dark quality , it contains a lot of humor . " Maybe she saw him naked and laughed , " Raines suggests as one motive for a murder . " It always comes down to penis size , doesn't it ? " the female officer observes . " Pretty much , " Raines and his captain answer in unison . It's offbeat , downbeat , quirky , and a welcome addition to television . I hope it continues .
A man terrorizes a lawyer's family	Robert Mitchum seeks revenge against a witness who helped put him in prison in " Cape Fear , " a 1962 film starring Gregory Peck , Polly Bergen , Martin Balsam , Telly Savalas , Lori Martin and Barrie Chase . Mitchum , in probably his best role , plays the psychotic Max Cady , a man with an easy smile and laid back attitude who is pure evil . He is determined that Sam Bowden ( Peck ) , whose testimony in an assault case sent him up the river for 8 years , will pay for what he did via his family - his wife , Peggy , and his young daughter Nancy . Bowden is a distinguished attorney and gets some help from a police chief ( Balsam ) , but apparently during his time in stir , Cady studied the law . He goes so far and no further by being a menacing presence who does nothing . When Bowden takes the advice of a detective ( Savalas ) and has Cady beat up by some thugs , Cady gets the law on his side , and Bowden faces disbarment . His only hope is to catch Cady in the act . He comes with an elaborate plot to catch Cady before Nancy and Peggy are hurt . This is an excellent drama with a pivotal performance from Mitchum , who is fantastic as the disgusting Cady . Peck is very good , though perhaps too measured , as Bowden , and Polly Bergen lets out all the stops , particularly in her final scene with Cady , some of which was improvised by Mitchum . My only complaint is the predictability of Cady killing the family dog . Every time there's an animal in this type of film , you know it's doomed , and it gets tiresome . Someday perhaps a writer will be able to come up with something to replace this tired clich . The beautiful Barrie Chase , the sensational dancer who performed with Fred Astaire on his television shows , has a nice role here as Cady's pick-up ; Lori Martin , who resembles Elizabeth Taylor and played her role in the TV series " National Velvet " is the daughter here . She is a mix of good looks , innocence , and youth which makes her particularly attractive to Cady . All in all , a tense , well-paced film with some genuinely terrifying moments and a genuinely terrifying performance by Robert Mitchum , which really makes the movie .
Eddie Felson's back	" Twenty five years ago , my career ended before it had even really started , " Eddie Felson tells Vince , a young pool shark . No longer the cocky man he was in " The Hustler , " Eddie ( Paul Newman ) in 1986 is retired from pool and a successful investor . When he spots hot-shot Vince ( Tom Cruise ) , he decides to invest in him and take him on the road , with the goal of Vince winning a big pool tournament in Atlantic City . Along the way , Eddie confronts what he was and is no more and looks at the dreams he let die . When Vince is too foolish and strong-willed to take his advice , Eddie makes an important decision . Though not as strong a film as " The Hustler , " " The Color of Money " is still an excellent film with a great cast led by Newman , at the peak of his " older man " good looks and the brilliant acting he's always had . And , as usual , he tells you everything you need to know about a character . It's clear that he was content with his life and his attractive girlfriend ( Helen Shaver ) until he saw Vince . Then the old restlessness and competitiveness came creeping back into his blood . Seeing Tom Cruise in 1986 is startling since today , the lower half of his face has changed drastically due to plastic surgery . Here he conveys the raw , youthful energy that helped make him a star . Like many successful movie actors , he has a wonderful physical agility . His pompadoured Vince is a short-tempered , jealous , talented ingrate who can't help showing off . Cruise is very effective , as is Mary Elizabeth Mastroantonio as his sultry , beautiful girlfriend in another role she made memorable in the ' 80s . Beautifully directed by Scorcese , " The Color of Money " shows that it's never too late to follow your dreams and , with the right actors and the right script , you can do a good sequel even 25 years after the original .
Only for those with nerves of steel	By the end of " Berlin Tunnel 21 , " I had no nails left , having bitten all of them off during this very tense and exciting 1981 TV movie . The stars include Richard Thomas , Horst Buchholz , Kenneth Griffith and Jose Ferrer . Thomas plays an American soldier in 1961 who has increasing trouble getting to see his girlfriend in East Berlin now that the wall is up - he approaches engineer Buchholz about building a tunnel under one of the abandoned buildings in East Berlin . Joining them are a well-known artist ( Griffith ) and two young men trying to get loved ones out of East Berlin . The situation is fraught with tension with Buchholz trusting no one and Thomas trusting everyone ; traitors emerge , the tunnel starts to fill with water , and they are discovered by the owner of the building ( Ferrer ) . Then the families start to chicken out about leaving East Berlin . " I lost all my courage in the war , " one man says . The fear and oppression under which these people lived is accurately depicted as they are afraid to hope any longer . Filmed in West Berlin , the atmosphere is perfect - dark streets , dilapidated buildings , overcast weather - it all really adds to the tension . The performances are uniformly excellent . The always wonderful Richard Thomas plays a determined young man who will not let anything stop him from achieving his goal ; where he is relaxed , Buchholz is pessimistic , angry and tough . The two work well off of each other . Ferrer is in his usual type of role - cold and dictatorial , but this time , his character has some sensitivity as well . The most emotional work comes from Kenneth Griffith who gives a very touching performance . The European actors - Ute Christensen , Jacques Breuer , Robert Freitag , etc . - are all excellent . Very well written by John Gay and directed by Richard Michaels , " Berlin Tunnel 21 " is a well above average TV movie that deserves at some point to be released on DVD .
Exceptional	" Marvin's Room " is a 1996 film that stars Meryl Streep , Diane Keaton , Leonardo DiCaprio , Hume Cronyn , Gwen Verdon , Robert DeNiro and Dan Hedaya . Just goes to show you the kind of cast a star can get , even for a little film . Little film , big emotions . " Marvin's Room " is about two sisters who haven't been in touch for 20 years . Diane Keaton is Bessie , the sister who stayed home and took care of her elderly relatives - her father , Marvin ( Cronyn ) , who is bedridden and non-verbal , and her dizzy but sweet Aunt Ruth ( Verdon ) . Meryl Streep is Lee , the sister who got out of Dodge ( Dodge being Florida ) , got married , had kids , got divorced , and is about to get her cosmetology license . When Bessie is diagnosed with leukemia and is told she needs a relative's bone marrow , she calls Lee . Lee packs up the kids and drives to Florida so they can all be tested . The film begins with Lee's son Hank ( DiCaprio ) burning down the family dwelling and getting arrested . It's an understatement to say he's angry with his mother , blaming her for the divorce . He forms a bond with his Aunt Bessie , and doesn't want to leave . His mother vehemently doesn't want to stay . In their big confrontation , Bessie accuses Lee of being selfish in not staying and sharing the burden of taking care of their family . " I took care of my family , " Lee reminds her . " I had a husband and children , and I never heard from any of you people . " This is one of those family dramas that hits home , and with the boomers now in the position of taking care of their parents , it's even more relevant than it was 13 years ago . Each member of the cast gives an honest and realistic performance . As the smoking , no-nonsense , nothing can touch me Lee , Meryl Streep is marvelous . I have to admit that I am not always a fan of hers , only because I can sometimes see her making acting choices . Lee is one role where she just IS the character . Keaton is excellent as the softer , warmer , more nurturing Bessie , who sublimated many of her own dreams . As the rebellious teen , Leonardo DiCaprio gives a wonderful performance as the confused Hank , who discovers family he knew nothing about . There are two sisters , and there are also two brothers - Robert DeNiro , who plays Bessie's doctor , Dr . Wally , and Dan Hedaya , the doctor's slow brother Bob who works in Wally's office . Bob isn't much help , but Wally seems to tolerate him with no problem . He's family , and Wally's responsibility . One scene that really cracked me up - Aunt Ruth loves soap operas , and when we first see her , she's watching a soap opera scene with veteran soap star John Callahan ( All My Children ) and Kelly Ripa . It's hilarious . I mention it because later on , it comes into play . Jerry Zaks ' directing is excellent . Just have a box of tissues nearby . It's a story about a family , with lots of love underneath the problems .
Excellent historical drama	1937's " The Life of Emile Zola " is an overly long but nevertheless wonderful film about the great writer that focuses mainly on his involvement with the Dreyfus affair . Paul Muni is Zola , who as a young man challenged authority through his books . This part of his life is condensed . Later on , with fame and wealth , he becomes somewhat complacent until the Dreyfus affair . It is then that he publishes his famous treatise " J'Accuse " in which he charges that Dreyfus was framed and falsely accused by the military . Zola himself is then put on trial . This is fascinating history , even with some dramatic license taken . In those days , however , Hollywood was skittish about anti-Semitism - a major part of the Dreyfus case - so it is only touched upon when we see him listed as " Jew " and one of the officers speaks of " a man of his class " becoming an officer . The same thing was done in " The Mortal Storm , " which takes place in the Germany of the 1930s , making no mention of Jews or Nazis , even with Frank Morgan arrested as a " non-Aryan . " The end of the film is just plain untrue ; the two events depicted did not coincide as shown here . Paul Muni does a wonderful job as Zola - he ages very well and , as usual , disappears into the character he creates . This is a different style of acting than what we see today , but for the most part , Muni was an effective actor . Gail Sondergaard has a surprisingly sympathetic role as Mrs . Dreyfus , and she manages to be softer than she is in other films . And Josef Schildkraut as Dreyfus - well , he's nothing short of magnificent in a small role which made him the first foreign-born actor to win an Academy Award . Again , like Sondergaard , he is often the villain . Here , he touches your heart with his sympathetic portrayal of a man unjustly accused and left to rot on Devil's Island . A very impressive film with excellent performances , not what we're used to seeing nowadays , which makes it all the more valuable and important to see . As a point of trivia , both Richard Dreyfuss and Julia-Louis Dreyfus , despite the different spelling of their names , are both related ( distantly of course ) to Alfred Dreyfus .
Not an easy film - neither was the Cold War	Richard Burton is " The Spy Who Came in from the Cold , " in a 1965 film also starring Claire Bloom , Oscar Werner , Sam Wanamaker and Peter van Eyck . It's told in the days of Checkpoint Charlie , East and West Berlin , and spies . There are still spies ; the rest have gone with the unification of East and West Berlin once more . Burton plays a British spy named Leamas who is at the end of his career . He takes an assignment to bring down an East German spy named Mundt and have him exposed as a traitor . Actually , it's a double whammy ; Mundt is actually a spy who has infiltrated the East German ring and is unfortunately under suspicion and about to be exposed . So Leamas is to expose him and then be proved a liar so that Mundt's position is secure . To come to the attention of the East Germans , Leamas is to pretend he's an alcoholic ( and how much pretending this involves is up to the audience - maybe none ) , out of his job , and just out of prison after beating up a grocer ( which he does so he can get arrested ) . He is naturally recruited by East German agents - first initially approached by a gay man who claims to represent a charitable organization . Though it's not stated that the man is gay , the dialogue makes no mistake about it . Hello ' 60s . Bit by bit he is introduced to the East German ring . " The Spy Who Came in from the Cold " is based on a John LeCarre novel . Unlike James Bond and his imitator Austin Powers , there is only one woman , played by Claire Bloom , who is an avowed Communist with whom Leamas becomes involved . There are no fancy spy instruments , no tuxes , no glamour , no fun . What the film offers more than anything is atmosphere - and it's a rotten one , chronically without sunlight , filled with depressing streets , dank alleys , and old buildings . One feels the chill in the air and the lack of true friendliness or warmth in this colorless world . It's depressing for the characters and equally depressing for the audience . That's the point . The acting is superb . Oskar Werner plays a Jew named Fielder , and as one of the greatest actors to ever appear in film , he doesn't disappoint . ( As a bit of trivia , Werner had a connection to Hollywood's Golden Era as the husband of Tyrone Power's stepdaughter Anne . ) The beautiful Bloom is wonderful as an idealist doomed to disappointment . Peter Van Eyck is appropriately brutal as Mundt . No one really makes a wrong move . Richard Burton was nominated for an Oscar for his performance as Leamas . What a strange year that was , with Lee Marvin winning for " Cat Ballou " probably playing a role he could do in his sleep , while Burton lost for this and Olivier lost for " Othello ! " One might think the Academy would have been embarrassed , but no - later on , they gave an Oscar to John Wayne instead of Burton , Peter O'Toole , Dustin Hoffman or Jon Voight . This is not to negate the presence and talents of Wayne and Marvin , which were considerable . But it does say something sad about the Academy Awards that Richard Burton went to his death with 7 nominations and no Oscar . He is truly magnificent in this role as an empty man who keeps in control despite seething anger underneath and whose stares say more than any script could . In many ways Burton never lived up to his potential as an actor . His marriage to Elizabeth Taylor brought him a fame and stardom he could never have dreamed of growing up as a poor child in Wales , but it kept him from doing more theater . Had he lived , he would have done more stage work , moved into different roles in film , and taken his place alongside actors such as Sir Anthony Hopkins . As it is , he has given us some truly great performances - Shannon in Night of the Iguana , George in Virginia Woolf , and Leamas being three of his best . " The Spy Who Came in from the Cold " makes a depressing statement . Don't watch it if you're feeling down . If you're feeling strong , you'll find it fascinating .
edgy , violent ' 50s noir	I have to admit , I have always found Ralph Meeker sexy , and he is hot as all get-out as Mike Hammer in " Kiss Me Deadly . " He's very Brandoesque , and in fact , followed Brando as Stanley Kowalski in Streetcar on Broadway . He makes a tough Mike Hammer in a tough movie that doesn't let up on the violence or the sexual innuendo . I was never sold on Spillane himself as Hammer and I actively hated Stacy Keach in the TV series , which seemed a little too macho and chauvinistic for the times . In the black and white ' 50s , it feels just right , if a little more brass knuckles than other films in the genre . Hammer spends the movie trying to find out the secret that a hitchhiker ( Cloris Leachman ) was killed for , and all she's left him is a clue , " Remember Me . " As people die to the left and right of him , Hammer can only hope he's left standing by the end of the movie . The ending was very tense and exciting , although I don't believe it was very realistic . At that point , it almost takes on the ambiance of a horror film . Robert Aldrich gives the film a very fast-paced direction and wonderful atmosphere . Leachman is " introduced " in this film , and she's recognizable immediately . Gaby Rodgers as Lily gives what can only be described as a bizarre performance . Leachman is really the only likable , sympathetic character in the film . Of note is the early version of an answering machine , which I either saw in one other film , or I saw this movie before - but it's great , an old reel to reel tape recorder mounted on a wall . One thing I wondered about - when Hammer is being followed at night , the clock says 2 : 15 , so one assumes it's 2 : 15 a . m . But it seems like everyone is awake - when he gets to the apartment house , the landlord is cleaning the room out and an old man is bringing in a trunk . The clock is in several shots - it says 2 : 20 also , I believe - so it's not a mistake . Hmmm . Perhaps I missed something , so distracted was I by steamy Ralph Meeker .
beautifully made drama with a staggering performance by Olivier	Not for nothing is Laurence Olivier heralded as one of the greatest actors of our time , and if ever a film proved it , it's " Carrie , " an adaptation of Theodore Dreiser's " Sister Carrie . " Dreiser is the man who brought us " An American Tragedy , " remade as " A Place in the Sun . " Poor Dreiser - he must have been one miserable human being to write such stories of man's desolation . " Carrie " is the story of a distinguished man , George Hurstwood ( Olivier ) who runs a large Chicago restaurant , and how his obsession with a beautiful young woman , Carrie ( Jennifer Jones ) destroys his social standing , his reputation , and his life . Miserable in a loveless marriage to Julie ( Miriam Hopkins ) , George meets Carrie while she is living with a salesman , Charlie ( Eddie Albert ) . One thing that the film points out is that there were so very few opportunities for women in the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th . After losing her job due to injury at a shoe-making factory , Carrie drifts into friendship and then is seduced into a relationship with Charlie . She is never comfortable with the arrangement and wants to get married . Very naive and inexperienced at life , when she falls in love with George , she expects him to marry her , not realizing that he's already married . An angry , vicious Julie goes to George's boss with the tale of her husband's immorality . After a confrontation with his boss and Julie , George panics , takes money he intended to give to the restaurant owner , and runs away with Carrie . Thus , he becomes a fugitive . But his troubles are just beginning . William Wyler skillfully directed this film , which has one of Olivier's best screen performances as George . " I want love ! " he screams at his wife . " And I intend to have that before I die ! " Desperate , obsessed , weak , but proud , Olivier gives a fully fleshed-out portrayal of a man at the end of his rope whose great passion - in a more devastating way - will ruin his life almost as surely as his suppression of passion would have . How he wasn't nominated for an Oscar is a true mystery ; it is one of the all-time great film portrayals . He will break your heart . As Carrie , Jennifer Jones is excellent as an unhappy young woman who , because of poverty , innocence , and George's determination , is dragged into a downward spiral . She is dazzlingly beautiful and one can see her grow from a vapid , victimized girl into a woman who hides her resentment and has a strong resolve . Jones has been criticized for being passive in this part - but it's a passive role . She's a young country girl in the big city at a time when society was totally male-oriented and most doors were closed to her . She is the cause of George's destruction , but not on purpose . George is such a weak man that the only type of person he could ever dominate would be someone like Carrie - and finally , he isn't even able to dominate her . Hopkins was a master at playing a shrew , but more than that , she was a brilliant actress who knew the art of playing period pieces , as she demonstrated so admirably in " The Heiress . " Eddie Albert is good in the familiar role of a likable salesman , but it had an added twist - this one had ulterior motives , but he was so smiley and gregarious , you almost couldn't believe it . Well worth seeing but have a box of tissues nearby . You'll ask yourself , too , how Olivier and the film could have been overlooked at Oscar time .
interesting and sad	This wonderful documentary gives some great insight into the life , career , and film technique of Steve McQueen . It left me feeling very sad as I heard the different people in the program discussing him , particularly his first wife , Neilie Adams , and his third wife , Barbara Minty . Despite being a tough guy on the screen , McQueen was a generous man , a loyal friend , a good father , and , despite their problems , his ex-wife seems genuinely fond of him . I think my favorite story was the one Suzanne Pleshette told , of him ordering two steaks in a restaurant in case he wanted another one . She said , " Why don't you just eat one and order another one if you want one ? " He answered , " What if there isn't another one ? " The film clips show his evolution as an actor and star but also his ups and downs as a human being . He fought very hard to live . It's really a shame he didn't .
Helen Mirren reprises Jane Tennison	Jane Tennison gets caught up in a Bosnian massacre in " Prime Suspect 6 . " In this episode of the powerful series , two sisters are murdered and Jane , who promised the second sister that she would be safe , is determined to bring the killer to justice . She believes that a man now living in London was responsible for a massacre in Bosnia and was recognized by one of the sisters , whom he raped when she was 12 . Thinking they were dead , he tortured her for information about the whereabouts of the second sister . It turns out that what Jane knows and what she can prove are two different things , and her hands are tied all the way . Jane is her usual self - tough , controlled , and with a terrifying vulnerability underneath . Refusing retirement , she bucks the system blatantly , and if the subject matter weren't so serious , some of her actions would be funny . And who better to play this complicated woman than one of the greatest actresses of our century , Helen Mirren . With one look , she tells the viewer that no , she is not going to be able to stay alone in her Bosnian hotel room . Listening to her father talk about liberating the Belsen concentration camp , her emotion is palpable but she cannot take his hand . That scene , by the way , is probably the best in this episode . " Prime Suspect 6 " is of the same high quality as all the other " Prime Suspect " episodes and will not disappoint .
Big and beautiful	Everything about the latest James Bond flick , " Casino Royale , " is big and first-rate . Humongous action sequences , glorious scenery , a tense plot , a to-die-for Bond , incredibly beautiful women , and villains beyond evil . Daniel Craig is Bond , and when you get a look at his body , watch out . Not to mention those turquoise eyes . He's a tough Bond with less of a sense of humor and less relaxed than some previous 007s , but he fits the 21st century very well . This " Casino Royale " is far superior to the 1967 episodic film which had huge problems including actors who refused to be in the same room with one another during scenes , different writers writing dialogue for the same scene that didn't match , things like that . This version is an actual story , with Bond going after a financier of terrorists , Le Chiffre , in order to take all the money in a poker game . Things don't work out as planned ; Bond is nearly killed right at the poker table , among other situations . And the terrorists want the money being gambled away - enough to kill and torture for it . " That's quite a body count you've been stacking up , " M ( Judi Dench ) tells Bond . Indeed , he's taking people out right and left and acting like a renegade . Bond , with his loose sexuality and attitude toward women isn't exactly a modern hero . Here , with the excellent performance of Daniel Craig , he comes closer than he has in a while to being a Bond for this century .
Adorable film about a theatrical couple	A very young Bette Davis is again paired with Leslie Howard , this time in a delightful , frothy comedy about battling theatrical costars . Supposedly the couple was based on Lunt and Fontanne , but I suspect there's a little influence from " Private Lives " as well . Howard is a riot as the outrageous , narcissistic actor who can't stop getting women to fall in love with him , and Davis is a beautiful spitfire as his costar / fianc . Olivia deHavilland is the sweet young thing in this and she's lovely as a starry-eyed woman who thinks she's in love with Howard . Eric Blore is Howard's hapless manservant , and he's hilarious . This is such a wonderful , witty movie , the kind , alas , that had its heyday in the ' 30 and ' 40s and is no more . The beginning scenes , with the two on stage in Romeo and Juliet , whispering insults , is especially funny . It's great to see such a young Davis and deHavilland , too , and Leslie Howard in comedy . This movie is a treasure , not to be missed .
lots underneath the surface here	This is a terrific movie that reminds one what we lost when Debra Winger slowed down her movie-making . She gives an honest , heartfelt performance as an investigator chasing a woman who marries rich and whose husbands wind up dead every time . The widow then remakes her appearance , gets a new identity , and dupes another man . Only Winger is convinced that this trail of murders is the work of one woman . Eventually she catches up with this black widow ( Theresa Russell ) and the two hang out together in Hawaii . The Russell character likes the danger - she knows Winger is after her , and after trying to kill her during a scuba dive , saves her at the last minute . My favorite scene with Winger is the one in which she almost tells Nicol Williamson the truth about his bride . She stands and stares at him - she knows he's going to die , she knows he won't believe her - you can see every thought in her head until , regretfully , she leaves . Theresa Russell has the right detachment for this role . One suspects the character is a real man-hater and is , in fact , attracted to Winger . Winger is admiring of Russell's constant flirtation with danger . This is a complex relationship that the two play out . The finale is not up to the standard of the rest of the film , but I still highly recommend it .
Great Rita musical	Rita Hayworth is right there where she should be - as a " Cover Girl " in this 1944 Technicolor film also starring Gene Kelly , Phil Silvers , Eve Arden , Lee Bowman , and Otto Kruger . Rita plays a beautiful showgirl , Rusty , working at a small club owned by the man she loves , Danny ( Kelly ) . Each Friday they go out for oysters with Genius ( Silvers ) , the club comedian . They all hate oysters , but they're looking for a pearl . When they find one , all three of them will have good luck , they believe . Rusty auditions and wins the role of cover girl for a magazine - she starts off ahead of the other contestants because the magazine owner ( Kruger ) sees a resemblance between Rusty and the girl he once loved , who turns out to be Rusty's grandmother . Once she becomes the cover girl , the world opens up for her and her dreams of appearing on Broadway come true . Danny wants her to have her success , but at the same time realizes he's lost her . " Cover Girl " has exuberant dance numbers and songs by Jerome Kern , with Rita dubbed by Martha Mears . Rita is at her best playing both Rusty in the present and her grandmother in the past . For such a sexy , desirable , gorgeous woman , she was apparently very insecure and always under the thumb of domineering men . None of this ever showed on screen , nor did the fact that she didn't want to be a movie star . She is one of the true goddesses and brought everything she did to life . Gene Kelly is in a serious role here , but gets plenty of chances to dance and sing . Phil Silvers is very amiable and funny as the in-house comic and best friend . This is a very good movie with no dull spots . The only problem I had is the idea that Rusty has to choose between a successful career and the man she loves . When supermodel Jinx Falkenberg , who plays herself in the film , speaks of getting married , she's warned by her boss not to , that she's too necessary to the modeling business . We're not told if Rusty continues with her career or goes back to work at Danny's - but all signs seemed to point toward the Brooklyn club . Why couldn't she have had both ? Nevertheless , you can't beat " Cover Girl " for top entertainment , beautiful color , lovely music , great energy , fine performances , and its most fabulous asset , the glorious Rita Hayworth .
Lots of wind and skin	Jon Hall , Dorothy Lamour and an excellent cast are all caught in " The Hurricane , " a 1937 film and the first to win a Special Effects Oscar . The original novel was written by Jon Hall's uncle . On the island of Manakoora , Terangi ( Hall ) and Marama ( Lamour ) marry amidst a happy celebration , though their happiness will be short-lived . Terangi must deliver cargo to Tahiti , though Marama has a premonition about the trip and warns him not to go . While in Tahiti , he gets into a barroom fight and is sentenced to 6 months in prison . The governor of Manakoora , DeLaage ( Raymond Massey ) , despite the urgings of his friends and his wife ( Mary Astor ) refuses to ask for Terangi to be brought back to Manakoora and put on parole . Unable to endure a life with no freedom , and desperate to get back home , Terangi continually attempts to escape . Each time he does , 2 years are added to his sentence until he has to serve 16 years . At last , Terangi escapes and makes his way back to his island , where he meets his daughter for the first time . Knowing that DeLaage will capture him and return him to Tahiti , islanders prepare to help the family sail to another island . But a hurricane ( actually a typhoon ) strikes . Besides those mentioned , " The Hurricane " also stars Thomas Mitchell as the French doctor on Manakoora , C . Aubrey Smith as the local priest , Jerome Cowan as Terangi's captain , and John Carradine as a sadistic prison guard . The effects are astounding and are a no-miss , particularly considering it is 1937 ! The tremendous winds , the rising waters , the trees falling , buildings collapsing - all magnificent . John Ford did an excellent job of directing this film , which has racism as its underpinning - the prison sentence was the result of a so-called dark man hitting a white man ; and DeLaage's patrician and cruel attitude has racism at the base of it . I disagree with one of the comments that states that Hall was a white-skinned movie star trying to pass himself off as a dark man ; Hall's mother was Tahitian . Dorothy Lamour , exotic and beautiful , has very little to do in this film except look frightened and lovely - you can count her lines on one hand . Hall , a total hunk if there ever was one , has more to say and do but one is so distracted by his face and physique that it becomes difficult to pay attention to anything else . The acting burden falls to Mitchell , Massey , Astor , Carradine , and Cowan , who are terrific . Ford isn't known for his tales of the sea , but obviously he was good at everything . He wouldn't see water again until the 1950s . Lamour carried on the sarong tradition in better roles , and Hall worked into the mid-'60s ; at the age of 65 , dying of cancer and in excruciating pain , he shot himself . Highly recommended as a feast of skin and brilliant special effects .
Charming and sweet movie , but don't look for any horror	In " Curse of the Cat People , " the beautiful child , Ann Carter , who looked so much like Veronica Lake , plays Amy , the daughter of the now-married Oliver ( Kent Smith ) and Alice ( Jane Randolph ) from the film's predecessor , " The Cat People . " This is a sweet film about a lonely young girl's fantasy life , showing her to be a highly imaginative and creative child . Unfortunately for Amy , she's the child of two complete duds . Her father , former husband of Irena , sees in his daughter an eerie mental and emotional resemblance to his late wife , and it makes him nervous . He gets even more nervous when Amy sees a photo of Irena and claims Irena is her " friend " who has been meeting her . He has burned all the photos of Irena except for one photo that shows him and Irena together , looking happy , though one wonders a ) why he kept it since he told Irena he was in love with Alice and was thinking of having her , Irena , committed ; and b ) when exactly were they happy ? They couldn't even consummate the marriage because she was afraid of turning into a vicious cat . Irena's appearances are interesting but to my mind , it's left open as to whether Irena was actually talking to the child or not . We probably are supposed to think it's Amy's imagination , but I like to keep an open mind . After all , Amy gives her a pin and Irena puts it on her cloak - anyone ever find said pin ? It is strange , though , that now she's singing in French instead of Serbian , and there is no sign of the cat stuff . If you remember " The Cat People , " there was a scene at the wedding celebration where the exotic , cat-eyed actress Elizabeth Russell greets Irena in Serbian as " sister . " ( Actually , Simone Simon dubbed the Serbian . ) In " Curse of the Cat People , " Russell plays Barbara , the daughter of an old actress whom Amy visits . It doesn't seem like Russell is playing the same character because her mother is not Serbian . Nice to see her , though , and at least in this film , she receives a credit . " Curse of the Cat People " is a good film , but you'll be disappointed if you go in expecting another " Cat People . " Take this lovely movie on its own merits , and feel sorry for Amy - with Oliver and Jane as parents , she's going to need all the help she can get .
Despite an " absence of malice , " a man's life is nearly ruined by a reporter	1981's " Absence of Malice " stars Paul Newman and Sally Field . Directed by Sidney Pollack , it tells the story of Michael Gallagher ( Newman ) , the son of a dead mob boss , who is being squeezed by the District Attorney because he may know something about the death of a union leader , which has never been solved . When the head of the organized crime strike force , Elliot Rosen ( Bob Balaban ) deliberately leaves Gallagher's file on his desk so that reporter Megan Carter ( Field ) can read it , Gallagher finds himself named as a suspect under investigation for the murder . The union workers will no longer work in his liquor warehouse , and he starts losing clients . Over his objections , his alibi ( Melinda Dillon ) comes forward and she , too , becomes the victim of naive reporter Carter . After this incident , Gallagher forms his own agenda . This is a wonderful movie with two great stars . Many movie stars ' dazzling personas would render them not believable as the hardworking owner of a liquor warehouse . Despite having a dazzling persona and dazzling looks , Paul Newman is completely believable as a business owner and a loyal man who just wants to be left alone . Newman is always , always , completely present in the characters he plays - one never feels like he or she is watching Paul Newman . This is just one of his great gifts . Field , who plays a woman used by Rosen and finds herself attracted to Gallagher ( like who wouldn't ) is excellent as she surveys the damage she's done and weighs her own ethics against the job she so desperately wants to do well . " Absence of Malice " is a powerful statement against the newspaper industry which today still has merit . It is well directed with wonderful performances , not only from Newman , Field , Dillon , Balaban , and Luther Adler ( his last film ) but toward the end of the film by Wilford Brimley , who does an amazing job with his one scene . This film brought another nomination and another loss for Newman , who should have many Oscars on a shelf . Highly recommended .
Excellent look at the granddaddy of sports scandals	David Straithairn , D . B . Sweeney , John Cusack , Charlie Sheen , James Read , Don Harvey , Gordon Clapp and Michael Rooker are " Eight Men Out " in this John Sayles movie about the throwing of the 1919 World Series by the Chicago White Sox . It's another pathetic story of how money can corrupt even usually honest people . The film shows that part of the reason the players caved was that their boss , Charles Comiskey ( Clifton James ) underpaid his team and worse than that , was a welsher , making unkept promises to get good performances out of the players . Sadly , Buck Weaver ( Cusack ) refused to throw any games but was accused anyway , and spent the rest of his life trying to clear his name . " Say it ain't so , Joe , " spoken by a young boy to Shoeless Joe Jackson , demonstrates the hero worship these men enjoyed from the public - which is one reason why they were found not guilty . An independent commissioner , however , banned them from baseball for life . John Sayles has done a terrific job both on the screenplay and in his direction of these fine actors . Though this was a low-budget movie , it looks like a big studio film all the way , and the dramatization of the events keeps you hooked : the casual way Lefty Williams ' wife's life is threatened if the next game isn't lost ; the poor circumstances under which Buck Weaver and his wife lived - just think of the players today ; Joe Jackson putting an X on his witness statement , unable to write and many other moments . Sayles takes his time leading up to the actual trial , giving great detail about what led up to the throwing of the games . So many screenwriters today have lost the art of the build-up - not Sayles . Getting to the point in the first five minutes isn't as important to him as character and story development . It's rare , and he's to be commended . Standout performances come from David Straithairn as pitcher Eddie Cicotte , who would never have gone along had not Comisky reneged on his bonus . Straithairn is one of the finest actors today , and his guilt , suppressed anger and unhappiness permeated his performance all the way through the film . John Mahoney is great as Gleason , the manager , who can't hide his disappointment but in the end , sticks up for his players ; Michael Lerner as the disgusting Arnold Rothstein , portrayed as a discourteous man who likes to throw his large weight around ; and of course , John Cusack , who has heartbreak reading on his face as he desperately tries to play his best game while his teammates seek to throw it . The players never saw all of the money they were promised . Instead of going into the record books as outstanding players , they went in as crooks , all for a couple of thousand dollars . They learned the hard way that some things - - such as your reputation and honesty - are more important than money . Unfortunately , some of today's players still haven't learned that hard lesson .
Excellent , exciting film	Frank Sinatra rides " Von Ryan's Express " in this 1965 film also starring Trevor Howard , Sergio Fantoni , Edward Mulhare and Adolfo Celi . James Brolin has a small role . Sinatra plays an American Colonel named Ryan who is put in an Italian prisoner of war camp , where he meets the English prisoners , led by the tough Major Finchan ( Howard ) . Ryan makes some bad deals with the Italian commandant ( Celi ) for better conditions and earns the name " Von Ryan " from his fellow prisoners . The group eventually attempt escape but are caught and put on a train . Von Ryan devises a plot to take over the train from the Italians and head for Switzerland . There are some very exciting and suspenseful scenes in this film that will have viewers glued to the action . Sinatra and Howard are very good and believable in their roles as is Sergio Fantoni , an Italian who betrays the commandant , and Celi , the commandant himself . The showiest and most fun role belongs to Edward Mulhare , who plays a priest in the prison who knows German and therefore has to pass himself off as an officer . His scene where he speaks toughly and with great authority to the Germans and faints once out of their sight is great . The only offputting thing if you know German is that he uses the formal " Sie " case instead of " Du " which would have been more appropriate when speaking to underlings . " If one man escapes , it's a victory , " Major Fincham says . The two officers set out to see that everyone escapes , but there are some problems along the way . The film uses a real train and railroad , which is a plus , and while a good deal of the film isn't very realistic , one goes along with it . Truly excellent and involving .
Stunning film	" Girl with a Pearl Earring " is a 2003 film based on a novel by Tracy Chevalier which invents the story behind Johannes Vermeer's famous painting of the same name . It stars Scarlett Johansson , Colin Firth , Tom Wilkinson and Judy Parfitt . Johannson plays Griet , a maid who comes to work in Vermeer's ( Firth ) household and soon becomes fascinated by both the artist and his work . Soon Vermeer is teaching her a few things about art and having her mix paints . Suspected of being the philandering artist's lover , Griet is hated by the family and disapproved of by the rest of the staff . Finally Vermeer has her pose in secret for him , wearing one of his wife's pearl earrings . There is an unspoken , unconsummated love between them , complicated by Vermeer's lustful patron , Pieter Van Ruijven ( Wilkinson ) who wants Griet for himself . There isn't a lot of dialogue in this film but there are emotions and breathtakingly beautiful scenes , each one recreating a painting of a Dutch master . Emotions and thoughts are conveyed by facial expressions , by body language , and by silences . This is a magnificent film to look at . Scarlett Johansson does a beautiful job as Griet , a humble servant who , although she can't read ( as Vermeer's wife points out ) has an appreciation for Vermeer's work that his wife can never have . It's a performance stripped of Johansson's usual sexiness but the sensuality remains . Colin Firth makes a romantic and complicated Vermeer , and Wilkinson is excellent as the loathsome Van Ruijven , who has tremendous power over the artist . Judy Parfitt is very effective as Vermeer's insecure wife . A gorgeous film , cinematically nearly perfect ; the script perhaps doesn't live up to the glorious cinematography but " Girl with a Pearl Earring " is a treat just the same .
Excellent and suspenseful	Glenn Ford is an FBI agent ; Lee Remick is the victim of someone she's never seen in " Experiment in Terror , " directed by Blake Edwards and also starring Stefanie Powers and Ned Glass . Remick is very effective as a plucky bank teller who's approached from behind and told to steal money from the bank where she works . The only thing she can tell the FBI is that it's a man who has heavy , asthmatic breathing . Ross Martin plays the criminal . He's a thief and murderer ; he also is in love with a Chinese woman and is paying for her son's operation . Her terrorizes Remick and her sister ( Powers ) . Martin really died too soon . He was a wonderful actor , and this was a great role for him . Glenn Ford is a dream FBI agent , and why do I think there are no FBI agents like this ? He's gentle , kind , and concerned , not to mention handsome . He has a nice chemistry with Remick . There are some great scenes in " Experiment in Terror . " One of the best takes place in the apartment of a woman who makes mannequins ; and several take place right at the beginning , when Martin accosts Remick and later surprises her in her home . The scene in which he kidnaps Stefanie Powers is downright scary . Powers is unbelievably young here , but she was a good actress even then and gives a convincing performance . The big scene takes place in Candlestick Park which several posters have written about . Not having their expertise , I won't . I really love the atmosphere Blake Edwards created in this film , and I love the casting of Ford , Remick , Martin , and Powers . This is a fine film , definitely worth a watch if you want to see how good movies are made . Suggested rather than shown violence , no special effects , black and white - yet it still works .
delightful story of a tired ghost and his cowardly family	Margaret O'Brien tries to help one of her long-dead ancestors in " The Canterville Ghost , " a 1944 film also starring Charles Laughton , Robert Young , and Frank Faylen . Jessica de Canterville's ( O'Brien ) family owns a castle which is being used to house soldiers during their stay in the area . The castle has a very famous ghost named Sir Simon de Canterville ( Charles Laughton ) whose father had him imprisoned inside a wall for cowardice centuries earlier . Simon roams the castle , looking like the Cowardly Lion in royal costume . The only way he can rest for eternity is if a relative performs a courageous act in his name , i . e . , by taking his signet ring and wearing it when he does the brave thing . Alas , the entire family for centuries has run the other way when danger appears , so Simon isn't having any luck . When six-year-old Lady Jessica de Canterville realizes that one of the soldiers is related to her , she begs him to help poor , tired Simon . This is a wonderful movie , buoyed by the presence of Margaret O'Brien , surely one of the most adorable children to ever hit the screen . She's a fine actress , too - very sincere and natural . Although Mary Astor wrote in her diary that she was terrified of O'Brian during the filming of " Meet Me in St . Louis , " it's kind of hard to believe . Charles Laughton turns in another masterful performance as Simon , who scares people because he thinks that as a ghost , it's what he should do . He's a riot . As Cuffy Williams , the soldier related to Jessica and Simon , Robert Young is very good as a man who begins to doubt his own courage . " The Canterville Ghost " is loads of fun for the entire family , with plenty of comedy and some nice lessons , one of which is , when you really want something , you often need patience until you achieve it .
excellent Preminger	Jean Simmons meets the man of her dreams just as he walks into a nightmare in " Angel Face , " an Otto Preminger film released in 1952 . Simmons is excellent as a beautiful young woman who hates her wealthy stepmother , adores her father , and is obsessed with an ambulance driver , played by Robert Mitchum , who comes to the family home when it appears Diane's stepmother tried to kill herself . Although the victim claims that someone tried to kill her . . . Mitchum brings a perfect touch of ne'er do well and untrustworthiness to the role . He has ambition , he has a job , but he's a jerk to his girlfriend ( Mona Freeman ) and seems more than happy to take up with Diane when she pursues him . Simmons , though not as striking as Vivien Leigh , has a similar look - she's petite , with a beautiful figure and facial structure , and gorgeous eyes . Her performance as Diane is right on - even the cynical Mitchum character can't quite figure her out , even when he thinks he has . She keeps her stepmother off-balance , too . There are some wonderful touches - when she walks into her father's house toward the end of the film , without any dialogue , one knows she can no longer live there . The ending is breathtaking . This Preminger film has the pace lacking in " Fallen Angel , " which is another character study of a sort .
Very good and effective drama from Warner Brothers	The dead victims of a London bombing and two suicides are on a ship headed - well , they're not sure - in " Between Two Worlds , " a 1944 film starring John Garfield , Sydney Greenstret , Paul Henried , Eleanor Parker , Edmund Gwenn , Faye Emerson and George Coulouris . The suicides , a married couple played by Henried and Parker , are the only ones at first who realize they're dead , but the others find out soon enough . Then they learn that " The Examiner " will be coming on board to evaluate them and decide their final destination . The film employs a stark set for the ship , and it works beautifully as the tense passengers wait to learn their individual fates . The acting is marvelous all around . Eleanor Parker reminded me very much of Gene Tierney - at first , I didn't recognize her until I heard her voice . She and Henried are excellent as the only two people who have chosen their destinies . Parker's role especially is written almost melodramatically so at times , she seems over the top , but the story seems to call for it . Greenstreet , with his powerful presence , makes a good examiner . Faye Emerson is lovely as an actress who made a lot of wrong choices , and John Garfield is strong as a belligerent no-good whose life didn't add up to much . During World War II , it's not surprising that people were giving a lot of thought to the afterlife . After World War II , there were all kinds of films about people come back to earth and angels walking among us . The view of " Between Two Worlds " is that each of us makes our own heaven and hell on earth , that in the end , we sow what we reap , and that love is stronger than any other force . I loved it .
Excellent adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play	Gwyneth Paltrow is a young woman trying to find out who she is in " Proof , " a 2005 film also starring Anthony Hopkins , Jake Gyllenhaal and Hope Davis . As mentioned already , there are shades of " A Beautiful Mind " in this story of a formerly brilliant mathematician ( Hopkins ) and his troubled , isolated daughter ( Paltrow ) . The film goes back and forth in time , keeping the audience wondering about the outcome of the story . The basic premise is that after Catherine's father dies , a student ( Gyllenhaal ) finds a notebook among his papers with a mind-bending , phenomenal mathematical proof . The story goes from there , with a subplot of Catherine's sister Claire , who is completely divorced from the life that Catherine and her father led , wants to sell the family home and bring Catherine back to New York with her . As a further subplot , Catherine finds herself attracted to her father's student . Though this is a wonderful film that does not stray too far from the script , and the performances are wonderful , Catherine's announcement , which changes the entire story , comes in the play at the end of Act I and produced an audible gasp from the audience . This is missing here ; not only that , the line was changed and almost thrown away . Also , at the end of the play , Catherine talks about her father in a short , emotional monologue - one of the most touching parts of " Proof " - that is also missing . Of course , if you haven't seen the play , you won't miss these omissions . Mary Louise Parker originated this role on Broadway , replaced by Anne Heche and finally Jennifer Jason Leigh . Catherine fits Paltrow as if it was written for her , though she could never bring the quirkiness to it that Parker could . Paltrow shows us all of Catherine's hangups and fears - that she is too much like her father and will inherit his insanity and that if she opens up to someone , she will be hurt . Better to dress like a grunge , pull your hair off your face , slump , and fold your arms across your chest than live . With the world she had with her father gone , it's time to go out into a new one - but can she - can she accept her own abilities and allow herself to love ? It's a beautiful performance , highly emotional and compelling . Hopkins of course is magnificent as Robert , Catherine's father , who in the film is sometimes dead and sometimes alive . You'll have a hard time gaging his mental state because Hopkins gives Robert's character great conviction and intelligence . Toward the end , there is a heartbreaking scene , in flashback , between Catherine and Robert , where the audience finally understands what's been going on . Gyllenhaal is very attractive and energetic but doesn't seem quite geeky enough to be a major in mathematics . Hope Davis does a great job as Claire , the detached sister who tries a bit too hard and can never be on Catherine's wavelength ; in fact , she seems to doubt Catherine's mental and emotional stability . Truly a lovely film and powerful in its own way . But I can't forget seeing it in a live theater and hearing the audience gasp at the end of Act I . Wish there were a way to recreate that in a movie .
wonderful film about a Hollywood producer and his victims	Lana Turner , Dick Powell , and Barry Sullivan play three victims of an ambitious producer ( Kirk Douglas ) in " The Bad and the Beautiful . " This 1952 film sports great direction by Vincente Minnelli and a top-notch cast , including the above and Walter Pidgeon , Gloria Grahame , Gilbert Roland , and Elaine Stewart . Kirk Douglas was never better or more handsome than as producer Jonathan Shields , who manages to alienate a lot of people he meets on his climb up . The story begins after he's lost everything , and his old boss , Pidgeon , brings Shields ' old partner , Barry Sullivan , an old lover , Lana Turner , and a writer , Dick Powell together to ask them to work with Shields one more time to restore his reputation . With them on board , Pidgeon can raise the funding for the proposed film in seconds . But none of them will ever work with Shields again , and each one , in flashbacks , tells Pidgeon why . The acting , the plot , the dialogue , and the music are all great . What's interesting is that the film takes us behind the scenes of making a movie and working at a studio , which is fascinating as well as entertaining . The only problematic scene is an hysterical Lana driving in the rain - again - as she did in " Portrait in Black . " I've seen this scene shown at parties for laughs . It's over the top and campy . Other than that , there's not a wrong step . Lana is gorgeous and convincing as a down and out bit player turned star , a sort of Diana Barrymore , with a famous drunken father . This is an entertaining and absorbing film with Kirk Douglas at the top of his game in a role that seems tailor-made for him .
Greer lets her hair down	Greer Garson is again teamed up with Walter Pidgeon in the delightful comedy , " Julia Misbehaves , " which also stars 16-year-old Elizabeth Taylor and a very adorable Peter Lawford . Taylor and Lawford are a subplot in this film , which mainly concerns Garson as Julia , an entertainer , showing up to attend the wedding of the daughter she hasn't seen since infancy . Because of the breakup of her marriage and her transient lifestyle , she left the child with her husband's family . This is a fun movie with some great scenes , the best of which is an acrobatic act featuring Julia . It is hilarious . Cesar Romero makes a game attempt at a Cockney accent , and is very good as Nicky , the head of the act who is interested in marrying Julia . Nigel Bruce is a man conned out of 6950 francs by Julia , and Lucile Watson is Julia's disapproving mother-in-law . Pidgeon plays Julia's husband , who hasn't seen her in years , but on encountering her again , realizes what he's been missing . Wedding plans don't go as expected once Julia is in the house . A very pretty Elizabeth Taylor gets her first screen kiss from Lawford , and they make a charming couple . But this isn't their film , it's Garson's , in a different type of role for her . She is up to the task . Over the years , perhaps due to some of the sentimental movies she made and being raked over the coals by Pauline Kael , Garson's reputation has suffered . However , she is terrific in " Julia Misbehaves , " and this entertaining film is well worth seeing .
Superbly told story of the great soprano	Like others commenting on this film , I saw " Interrupted Melody " many years ago , and it left a deep impression on me . I found when watching it again that I had retained so many of the scenes in my memory . " Interrupted Melody " tells the story of Australian soprano Marjorie Lawrence ( played by Eleanor Parker ) , who was stricken with polio at the height of her career . The singer then has to find the courage to reclaim her will to live , her voice , and her career . This is one of the few films , including anything of Lanza's , where entire arias and / or operatic scenes have been performed - and correctly . Singing for Ms . Parker is dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell , whose voice also acts . In the beginning , when the young Marjorie is in a vocal competition , Farrell takes her powerful chest voice out and instead carries her middle voice down to the low notes , giving the impression of a young , untrained singer . Truly inspired . This has to be the high point of Eleanor Parker's career . I had a chance to see her nearly 30 years ago in a preview performance of " Pal Joey " - regretfully , there were many problems and she and her costar left the show before it opened . It was a shame , because Parker's Vera was wonderful . Here , she plays the young Marjorie with energy and determination , capturing the soprano's nervousness at being away from home when she goes to school in Monte Carlo . Later , she plays the perfect diva not afraid to state what she wants . Finally , she's the crippled Marjorie with no will to live , finding solace entertaining wounded soldiers who are worse off than she is . All through the film , she looks absolutely stunning , and her lipsyncing in Italian , French , and German is perfect . The music is glorious - " Tristan und Isolde , " " La Boheme , " " Samson et Delilah , " " Carmen , " " Il Trovatore , " ( the fastest I've ever heard it ) , " Madama Butterfly , " " Don Carlos , " and " Gotterdammerung " - truly a feast for the ears with Eileen Farrell's magnificent singing . Some have questioned whether or not Lawrence actually sang both mezzo and soprano roles . Lawrence did sing " Carmen , " which can be sung by a dramatic soprano . Also , Lawrence probably started out as a mezzo - it was not until she trained in Paris that her upper range was extended . She sang Wagner , Strauss , Puccini , and Verdi in the big opera houses . " Samson and Delilah " was perhaps done for the film so we could see Eleanor Parker being sexy and seductive in a gauzy costume . The thing is , Lawrence's specialty was Wagner and you can't only have heavy Wagner scenes throughout a movie . The glamorous soprano did her own dancing in " Salome , " and played the immolation scene in " Gtterdmmerung " by riding her horse into the flames as Wagner had intended , making her one of the few , possibly the only , soprano to do this . She also did Thais , which calls for sex and beauty - it was the role Susan Kane bombed in during " Citizen Kane . " Glenn Ford plays Lawrence's husband , Dr . Thomas King , and the marriage of a successful opera star and fledgling pediatrician is realistically portrayed with all its difficulties . In real life , Tom King was an osteopath and a Christian Scientist . Ford has a background role much of the time , but also some very dramatic moments and some romantic ones . His gentle , easygoing style fit the character well . A very young Roger Moore is Marjorie's manager-brother . If you love opera , or if you love a story of courage and the power of the human spirit , this film is for you . Have a box of tissues nearby - the ending is very powerful .
Dated but highly enjoyable comedy	In a unique bit of casting , Bette Davis and Robert Montgomery star in " June Bride , " which also stars Fay Bainter , Mary Wickes , Tom Tully , and Barbara Bates . Davis and Montgomery haven't seen each other since he ran from their relationship three years ago , and now he is going to be working for her on the woman's magazine she heads . The two of them , plus Davis ' staff , travel to Indiana to cover a wedding . With Montgomery on the story , however , things take a drastic turn . There are some wonderful scenes in the movie , including Montgomery's hilarious drunk scene and a conversation about a bust which totally confuses the man of the house , played by Tom Tuly . And there's great banter between two pros , Davis and Montgomery . If recollection serves , Davis did not enjoy working with him . The rest of the cast is terrific . Davis didn't do many comedies , and in a way , it's a shame , because she was always good in them : in " It's Love I'm After , " " The Bride Came C . O . D . , " and this film , she proved that she was as at home in comedy as she was in drama . Here she looks sophisticated and more glamorous than in many of her later films and expertly underplays the role of a steely professional - a jab instead of a stab , quiet forcefulness rather than shouting . In the ' 30s , ' 40s , and ' 50s , older working women were always portrayed as unmarried , tough , devoted to their careers , and loveless . This dates the film , as does its ending , not revealed in this comment . A saving grace is that the Davis character enjoys male companionship occasionally . Robert Montgomery is , as usual , excellent , and very funny in the offhanded , smooth way he had . He and Davis play off of one another very well . Although this is a marvelous film , its message is similar to many - a man should wear the pants and the woman belongs in the kitchen . Sadly , it brings " June Bride " down a few notches in this writer's estimation , but it's still worth seeing .
Bogart and Edward G . face off in a Florida hotel	Humphrey Bogart is a man disillusioned by war who comes up against a gangster and his mob in " Key Largo , " a 1948 film directed by John Huston and also , starring Lauren Bacall , Clare Trevor , Edward G . Robinson , and Lionel Barrymore . James Temple ( Barrymore ) runs the Largo Hotel on Key Largo with his daughter-in-law , Nora ( Bacall ) . Frank McCloud ( Bogart ) , is paying Temple a visit to tell of his son's bravery and death in his regiment during the war . Though the hotel is closed for the season , there are people there who seem anxious that McCloud leave immediately . Since a hurricane is brewing , Temple agreed to shelter them , not knowing who they are - a gang of thieves , led by the notorious Johnny Rocco ( Robinson ) who are awaiting a shipment of some kind . Soon Temple , Nora , and Frank are held hostage until the storm passes and the men can get their shipment and leave . Ultimately they expect Frank to sail them to Cuba . A storm rages outside and inside in this film , with Robinson playing an abusive tough guy who is terrified of the weather . Besides his lackeys ( Thomas Gomez , Harry Lewis and Marc Lawrence ) , his drunken girlfriend , Gaye Dawn ( Trevor ) accompanies him and is at his beck and call though he's horrible to her . Like Rick in " Casablanca , " Frank doesn't want to stick his neck out for anyone , which disappoints Nora who believes in fighting for what's right . Frank holds onto his resolve as long as he can , but like Rick , while his mouth says one thing , his genetic makeup causes him to do something else . Bogart , of course , could have played Johnny Rocco as well as he does Frank McCloud and been equally convincing , just as Robinson could be evil incarnate and turn around and play Dr . Ehrlich . Both are magnificent actors of the golden era , though their techniques are quite different . Where Robinson would grow a beard , assume an accent and a gentler tone playing " good " people , Bogart plays Frank just as he would have played Johnny or a lawyer for the poor in " Knock on Any Door " - yet the results would be vastly different . With Bogart , internalization of a role gives him uncanny timing ; you don't know how he's different - he just is with a mere tweak of his screen persona . The most telling thing he does as Frank is , when Barrymore thanks him for telling him about his son , he extends his hand - instead of shaking hands , Bogart sandwiches Barrymore's hand in both of his - a tender gesture from a supposed tough guy . Lauren Bacall has a role that could have been played by any ingnue in Hollywood , taking part in the film because of both Huston and her husband . She's neither sexy nor glamorous in this . In fact , she looks like she's not wearing any makeup . She comes off as very feminine , vulnerable , and beautiful . She doesn't hold back her anger - when she spits at Johnny , you want to cheer but are afraid for her as well . Barrymore is excellent as a man humiliated by the realization that he's helpless against these goons . Acting kudos , however , go to the showiest role , that of Gaye Dawn , for which Claire Trevor won an Oscar . Gaye is a former singer successful in clubs - when Johnny makes her sing for a drink , she describes with pride and wistfulness her gowns , her lighting , and her act - it's one of the most pathetic scenes ever , this broken-down lush singing flat with the remnants of a great sound . It's a terrific performance , full of anger , desperation , and finally bravery . " Key Largo " isn't the most exciting film ever made , but it's a rich character study which will keep the viewer absorbed . And years later , it even inspired a song : " We had it all Just like Bogie and Bacall Starring in our old late , late show Sailing away to Key Largo . " For film aficionados , Bogie is indeed the stuff that dreams are made of .
Thriller starring Goldie Hawn and John Heard	Adrienne and Jack meet , fall in love , marry , have a child , and live in a wonderful New York apartment . Then Jack is killed in a car crash . Slowly , things start to unravel for Adrienne in " Deceived , " a 1991 film starring Goldie Hawn and John Heard . This is a highly derivative movie concerning fake museum pieces , fake identity , and a double life , but it manages to be exciting and occasionally scary . As other people have commented , there are plot holes aplenty . Hawn and Heard are both marvelous in their roles , Hawn for a change in a serious part . She shows she's as talented a " straight " actress as she is a comedienne . The final big scene will keep you on the edge of your seat , and the climax of it is a knockout . This could have been one of the great movies if the script had been tighter because it is very well directed and performed with some excellent camera work and great music . Despite script holes , I still found it entertaining . I wouldn't have minded paying good money to see it in the theater , and it makes a riveting rental .
lovely film , lovely stars	You can't get much higher on the star ladder than Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman , and these two are reunited for the light comedy , " Indiscreet , " based on the play " Kind Sir . " It's about a successful actress in London who's through with men and suddenly becomes very interested in them again when she's introduced to Cary Grant . He could sure shake me out the doldrums , too . The trouble with Grant is that he's a married man . . . he says . Bergman is charming and quite funny . I especially love the phone call when Grant calls up from the lobby - all for the benefit of the apartment staff - and she makes faces , rolls her eyes and indicates that this charade of " oh , well , just come up for one drink then " is only for the sake of her reputation - meanwhile , she's found out about a charade of his own and is ripping mad at him . She plots to get even with him - and what a plot ! I love the way this film was done - these two are having an affair but it's only assumed , never actually shown . Grant is his usual stunningly handsome , elegant self , and few actors had his turn of a phrase or panache . He and Bergman , as in Notorious , make a beautiful , magnetic couple . This is not a laugh-out-loud comedy , but it is a delight . This film was remade for TV with the gorgeous Lesley-Anne Down and Robert Wagner , but it wasn't the same without the stars and Stanley Donen's touch .
Terrific series	" Spooks " is called " MI-5 " in the U . S . and is seen somewhat irregularly on the A & E Channel . It's a fantastic series about a spy organization in the U . K . , and some of the episodes are so suspenseful , they'll have you jumping out of your seat . This is a very well written and well acted series , always intriguing and always absorbing . My only complaint is the same complaint I have with a lot of shows from Britain - I have a terrible time getting some of the dialogue . Somehow I always manage to follow the story , but I've had the experience where whole conversations go by and I haven't understood a word . The British believe in " natural noise " - i . e . , they allow in background noise , and it's difficult for the ears to adjust first to the varying accents and then noise we're not used to in American TV . Nevertheless , I still love MI-5 or Spooks and wish the episodes were shown on a more regular basis . For a time they were some years ago , and it was great to look forward to them .
powerful and unrelenting film	" I Want To Live " is a powerful albeit fictional account of the Barbara Graham case . Graham was accused of murdering a Mrs . Monahan along with two male colleagues during a robbery . In the story , they had her take the rap for the murder , figuring a woman would never be given the death penalty . They figured wrong . Not only did she get it , but we see her get it in agonizing detail at the end of the film . This was tough stuff for 1958 . Susan Hayward does a great job , although I have to admit that my favorite performance of hers remains " I'll Cry Tomorrow . " Nevertheless , she sinks her teeth into this role . Barbara Graham in real life was on her fourth marriage and apparently involved sexually with her two compatriots - she was in the nude when she was arrested with them at their hotel . She also was a heroin addict . Though the film allows you to believe that she was present during the killing but didn't actually do it , the real Barbra Graham supposedly did confess to the warden of the prison . No matter how you feel about the death penalty , or Barbara Graham's guilt or innocence , this film will have a powerful effect on you . You won't forget it .
Detailed documentary about the great studio	" MGM : When the Lion Roars " is a 1992 documentary hosted by Patrick Stewart . Shown in three parts on Turner Classic Movies , it tells the story of the monolithic studio from its beginnings , taking us through the influence of the great Irving Thalberg , after his death , during World War II , after the war , the growth of television , and MGM's eventual demise . All of the studios had a particular look to their films and a strong point of view . MGM was known for its huge array of stars , its opulence , its classy musicals , and its family entertainment , especially under the aegis of Louis B . Mayer . Even its " B " movies , such as Dr . Kildare , had " A " movie quality . The studio's main problem was its lack of foresight and lack of awareness that the audience changed over time . The belief was that television was a fad , for instance - major error . And all the studios suffered when the courts broke up studio ownership of the movie theaters . The documentary is highly entertaining , filled with interviews , scenes , and musical numbers . Stewart voices the incorrect information that Jean Harlow died because her mother's religion didn't allow her to have treatment . Jean Harlow died of kidney disease , for which there was no cure , no transplant , no dialysis . She had plenty of medical attention , but there was nothing anyone could do once she developed the disease . Very enjoyable and well worth seeing .
a very funny comedy , helped by a great performance	Rex Harrison is a temperamental conductor and Linda Darnell his younger , adoring wife in " Unfaithfully Yours , " also starring Lionel Stander , Rudy Vallee , and Kurt Krueger . Harrison and his wife are so much in love , it's sickening . But thanks to interference from his brother-in-law ( a subdued Rudy Vallee ) , Harrison begins to believe that while he was out of town , his beautiful wife ( Darnell ) was consorting with his secretary , Tony , played by blond , handsome Kurt Krueger . As he conducts the orchestra in concert that evening , Harrison imagines several scenarios - one in which he kills his wife and cleverly frames Tony for the murder ; one in which he pays her off ; and one where he challenges Tony to a game of Russian roulette . Of course , when he actually tries to carry them out , things don't go as he imagined . This is a hilarious movie , with Harrison absolutely magnificent - and I might add , totally unlikable . One wonders if Darnell will stay with him once the bloom is off the rose . Lanky and sure of himself , though not particularly handsome , Harrison has a certain magnetism , not to mention a snappy way with a line . " Will I see you tonight at the concert ? " Vallee asks him . " Yes ! " Harrison yells . " I'm generally there on the nights when I conduct ! " His last scene alone in the apartment is a scream , mainly because Harrison doesn't go for laughs but takes the whole thing very seriously and in character . Darnell is beautiful and appropriately cloying . Edgar Kennedy , as a classical music loving detective , has a wonderful scene with Harrison . I haven't seen the remake , but I noticed its voting average is lower than the original's . I can imagine Dudley Moore being quite funny , but this role , with its arch egotism , was tailor-made for Harrison .
Arnold has a baby	" Junior " is a very funny 1994 comedy directed by Ivan Reitman and starring Danny de Vito , Arnold Schwarzenegger , Pamela Reed , Emma Thompson and Frank Langella . DeVito is Larry , a doctor and Ahnold is Alex , a scientist - the two are working on a pregnancy drug for women . When the FDA refuses to accept it , Alex loses his lab to Diana ( Thompson ) who feels terrible about it and offers to let him share the lab with her . Stuck as to how to get the drug pushed forward and gain the attention of a pharmaceutical company who will invest in it , Larry comes up with the idea of impregnating Alex in order to get data , but only for the first trimester . Alex , however , bonds with the fetus and wants to continue to term . Obviously the plot makes for some very funny moments . My favorite is Alex dressing like a huge woman and going to stay in a sanitarium for pregnant women , explaining his appearance by saying that while doing sports in Germany , he took steroids . The cast is great , and the direction is fast-paced . " Junior " is a funny gender bender about a man feeling a woman's emotions . It's very character-driven , and the actors play it straight , making it all the funnier . Seeing Arnold pregnant is a sight to behold and not one easily forgotten . Highly recommended .
theater and mystery combined with ' 40s glamor	" The Velvet Touch " is a wonderful film starring Rosalind Russell as a glamorous Broadway star , Valerie Stanton , who accidentally kills her boyfriend-producer . The movie's dialogue is sophisticated and so is its New York theater atmosphere - the parties , the clothes , the rivalries , and the lush theater itself which looks like the real thing , but is an elaborate set . Russell's costars include Sydney Greenstreet , Claire Trevor , and Leon Ames . Greenstreet's portrayal of the clever police detective is excellent , and you can see where he would get on Russell's frayed nerves . Trevor , as a rival of Valerie's , gives a marvelous performance . There is a clever juxtaposition between the film's plot and the play in which Valerie Stanton is appearing , Hedda Gabler . I've always considered this movie an unsung gem .
interesting , early Columbo	Dale Kingston ( Ross Martin ) is a TV personality and art critic who knocks off his uncle in order to inherit his art collection . In order to do so , he enlists the help of a bedazzled , untalented art student , whom he promises to help with her career . The two make it look like a robbery , Kingston intending to frame his uncle's ex-wife ( and heir ) , played by Kim Hunter . It might have worked , but guess who's assigned to the case . This is very entertaining , and of course , the original Columbos like this one were the best . A couple of the plot points are similar to the pilot for the series , which starred Gene Barry . Dangling the prospect of marriage , Barry uses his girlfriend in a plot to kill his wife . Ross Martin was an effective actor who died too young , and he's marvelous as the critic , and Kim Hunter is fabulous as the frail , ditsy , ex-wife . One of the posters seemed to know her from Planet of the Apes . She has a few other credits , including the role of Stella in the original " Streetcare Named Desire , " which she repeated in the film version and won an Oscar . She would be blacklisted during the McCarthy era , but she overcame this and continued her career . Her testimony to the New York Supreme Court in 1962 against the publishers of " Red Channels " helped pave the way for clearance of many performers unjustly accused of Communist connections .
Oh perfect love	Olivia de Havilland is traveling with her daughter in Italy when romance strikes in " The Light in the Piazza , " a 1962 film based on the novel by Elizabeth Spencer . The story was also made into a highly successful Broadway musical of the same name . De Havilland's costars include Yvette Mimieux , Barry Sullivan , George Hamilton and Rossano Brazzi . Because her adult daughter has the mental age of 10 , Meg Johnson ( de Havilland ) keeps very close watch over Clara ( Mimieux ) , a beautiful blonde who , despite her impairment , is very much a woman and attracting a lot of attention in Italy . ( This is extremely realistic - blondes do great over there . ) In Florence , Clara is pursued relentlessly by an enthusiastic suitor , Fabrizio . His parents ( Brazzi and Nancy Nevison ) approve of the relationship . What's waiting for Clara back home is an institution , though a good one , that her father ( Sullivan ) is insisting upon in hopes of rekindling his lost relationship with his wife . Meg is in a dilemma and makes a bold decision . Set against the magnificent backdrop of Florence and with a beautiful performance by de Havilland , " The Light in the Piazza " is a marvelous film and the story of a perfect love . Though Meg is protective of Clara and always with her , when she sees that her daughter has a chance at a normal life , she lets go - giving both of them a chance at a life they're missing . One can argue the ethics of Clara's decision but given the Italian scenario : servants in the home , the constant attention of the in-laws , the place of the wife in the home , I believe that Clara will be happy with this loving family . She is mentally impaired due to an accident but that doesn't make her a slow or impaired 10-year-old - she is , in fact , very bright , mastering Italian with ease , and she has all the normal , healthy feelings of a woman . If she has a child's outlook on laughter and fun , that is something to be prized . The most telling moment for me in the film was when Clara asks her mother to read to her " one last time , " knowing that her husband is not going to like the kinds of stories Meg reads to her . Then the camera shows one of her beloved stuffed animals on the floor . Clara knows her life is changing ; she's in love and ready for it . De Havilland , one of the truly great film actresses , was 47 at the time of the filming and very attractive . She conveys not only the needed maternal qualities but a womanliness and uncommon strength . " I made the right decision , " she whispers at the wedding , looking at her lovely , serene daughter . " I KNOW I did . " She will always be available to Clara - but now , she will be available to the rest of her family as well . Yvette Mimieux does a fine job as Clara , capturing her childishness very well . Hamilton is in his element in the light role of Fabrizio - he wasn't really capable of much more , and this suits him . Rosanno Brazzi is very charming , sexy , and funny as Fabrizio's father . But the film belongs to de Havilland's anchoring performance . This is a well-directed film , beautiful to look at , with a very touching story . Highly recommended .
The Marx Brothers continue at MGM	" A Day at the Races " follows the smash Marx Brothers hit , " A Night at the Opera , " their first film at MGM under their advocate , Irving Thalberg . Thalberg took the brothers on after they left Paramount . He insisted on stronger scripts , a love story , musical numbers , and that the brothers try their bits out in front of a live audience to see what got a laugh and what didn't . Many people prefer the Paramount films ; they probably are funnier , with the exception of " A Night at the Opera , " my all-time favorite . At MGM , the characters the Brothers played were also softened . Here , Chico and Harpo are trying to help the beautiful Judy Standish ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) , who is trying to keep her sanitarium afloat . To that end , to please a wealthy hypochondriac , Mrs . Upjohn ( Margaret Dumont ) , Dr . Hackenbush ( Groucho ) is brought in so that Mrs . Upjohn will stay at the sanitarium . Hackenbush doesn't mention that he's a veterinarian . On the romantic side , Judy's boyfriend ( Allan Jones ) has invested in a horse , High Hat ( with Harpo as the jockey ) and is hoping he wins the big race so he can give Judy the money . The most famous bit in this film is the Tutsi Frutsi ice cream sketch , which is a riot . Then there's the physical exam of Mrs . Upjohn and the horse race , both hilarious . Jones sings beautifully , but the best music is the big gospel number and the accompanying dancing - just wonderful . I was fortunate to have been around during the huge Marx Brothers revival in the 1970s , and as a result , I saw a lot of their films in revival houses . They really need to be seen with an audience ; the pace is better , for one thing , because laughter comes when it's supposed to , and there's no beat for the laugh . At Paramount , MGM , or RKO , the Marx Brothers are always funny even if the scripts aren't always top drawer . Highly recommended .
" They abide and they endure . "	Charles Laughton and producer Paul Gregory worked together on several theatrical projects , one of which was the highly successful " John Brown's Body , " which starred Tyrone Power , Judith Anderson and Raymond Massey . For " Night of the Hunter , " Laughton brings his considerable directing talent to the screen with astonishing success . The story centers around a misogynistic , phony fire and brimstone preacher named Harry Powell ( Mitchum ) who kills widows and takes their money . While in prison for an offense , he learns that his cellmate , Ben Harper ( Peter Graves ) , who is about to be hanged for murder , has hidden the $10 , 000 he stole . Powell goes to the town where Ben lived and courts Harper's widow ( Shelley Winters ) and marries her . She and Ben had two children , John ( Billy Chapin ) and Pearl ( Sally Jane Bruce ) . Though Powell is told that Ben , filled with remorse , tied a rock around the money and sank it , Powell believes that John knows where the money is hidden . And he wants it . This is a towering film with a fine script , excellent performances , great direction and some of the most beautiful cinematography in film history . It's absolutely captivating . It takes one right into the nighttime silence of the country , and the figure of Powell in silhouette on his horse will fill you with fear , just as it does the children . Not to give anything away , but the shot of Shelley Winters - and you'll know it when you see it - is breathtaking . Laughton manages with " Night of the Hunter " to give the audience not only horror but love , warmth and peace as well . Much of this is provided by the beautiful performance of Lillian Gish , as a woman who takes in the children after they run away . Much of her dialogue is close to poetry ; she's a no-nonsense but gentle presence who knows her mission on earth and intends to fulfill it . Originally the role was to be played by Jane Darwell , but Laughton replaced her with Gish at the last minute . In the scenes where Gish holds a shotgun , he wanted a more frail presence coming up against the power of the devil . Though I admit to finding Pearl a little bit annoying , Billy Chapin is wonderful . There's a stillness about his performance and a look in his eyes that says more than any action could , and his reaction in one of the final scenes , when the stillness finally breaks , is magnificent . As for Robert Mitchum , this was probably his greatest role . I liked him best with the family ; I thought he seemed an obvious phony as a preacher , and I questioned why only Lillian Gish and Walt Spoon ( Don Beddoe ) realize it . Mitchum does a fabulous job of showing Powell's suppressed anger ; he almost vibrates with it . " Night of the Hunter " can be classified as a horror film , but a ) it's not a genre I like ; and b ) I was crying at the end . I found it very touching and satisfying . It's a drama with horror elements - - and images you will never forget .
Fantastic film with a stunning performance by Angela Lansbury	Soldiers are brainwashed , and one is programmed as a killing machine in " The Manchurian Candidate , " a 1962 film starring Laurence Harvey , Angela Lansbury , Frank Sinatra , James Gregory , and Janet Leigh . This amazing movie was withdrawn from theaters because of the Kennedy assassination , and it was finally put back into circulation . It is a true masterpiece that turned out to be sadly prophetic . Laurence Harvey is a soldier who wins a medal of bravery for saving the lives of his platoon in Korea , all but two members - except it's all a great big lie . In truth , the entire platoon was flown to Manchuria , and a new way of brainwashing is used on them . Harvey is chosen to become a killer , and he gives a demonstration of his cold-blooded abilities by killing two members of his platoon . When the soldiers return to civilian life , two of them are plagued by terrible dreams of the incident , one being Frank Sinatra , and the army investigates . Deciding that brainwashing by the Russians was involved , the problem becomes how to deprogram Harvey . . . and what is his assignment . The film is not without its flaws , and it's a tribute to it that it still manages to remain a masterpiece . Laurence Harvey's accent wavers from American to British , finally settling on British . The identity of the character played by Janet Leigh , a young woman who meets Sinatra on a train , is never explained - was this perhaps cut from the film ? Critic Molly Haskell felt that two of Harvey's killings were " too much to recover from " - they did seem unnecessary . The acting is superb , with the two greatest performances given by Angela Lansbury as Harvey's mother and James Gregory as her Joseph McCarthy-like senator husband , who sees Communists everywhere . Lansbury , a mere one year older than Harvey , is perfect as a mother right out of hell , and the incestuous scene toward the end is chilling . From this to Jessica Fletcher - thank God Broadway knew what to do with this master talent . As her puppet husband , Gregory gives an excellent performance as a boisterous fool . Sinatra is very natural in his role , and though Janet Leigh isn't around much , she's very good . Harvey , always a fine actor , is remarkable as a cold , unlikable , angry man who changes when he finds love , only to find that he is a servant to horrendous programming - and came from the body of the devil incarnate . A great achievement by director John Frankenheimer , and a no miss .
Olivia enters the vortex	Olivia DeHavilland gives another standout performance in " The Snake Pit , " also starring Leo Genn , Mark Stevens , and Celeste Holm . In line with the interest in psychiatry after World War II , Darryl F . Zanuck , always at the forefront of social issues , produced this film , directed by Anatole Litvak . DeHavilland plays a troubled , often disoriented woman with unexplained mood swings who winds up in a state mental hospital with no memory of her new husband ( Mark Stevens ) . She becomes a patient of Dr . Kik ( Genn ) who patiently works with her to try and get to the core of her problem , and to do so , employs several rounds of electroshock therapy . Together they uncover suppressed memories . One thing that's noticeable about the films of the golden age is their mastery of the art of the build-up , while today , screenwriters get to the point in the first 10 minutes of the film . " The Snake Pit " is very modern in this way , starting on a high note and working backwards into what brought this woman into the hospital . Given the story , it's very effective . It also keeps you guessing because the conditions at the mental institution , as well as the behavior of some of the staff and the patients makes one suspect something sinister is going on - kind of a " Shock Treatment " scenario . It takes a while to realize that Dr . Kik is on the level , a concerned and committed doctor . The film is beautifully done , and who can forget the overhead " snake pit " shot toward the end of the film . The song " Going Home " sung by one of the patients at a dance is one of the best moments , as are the harrowing scenes of the electroshock therapy and the bath with the covering over it that DeHavilland is put into - the feeling of being trapped and having no control is pervasive throughout the film . With the advancement in medications today , one aches for the characters , trapped in illnesses often not understood or treatable . Olivia DeHavilland is sympathetic and heart-wrenching as Virginia , a woman panicked by behavior she can't recall or can't control . When backed up against the wall , her voice changes and becomes harsh ; she almost seems like a split personality . One believes every second of her torment . Leo Genn strikes the exact right note as Dr . Kik , a perfect combination of gentleness , concern , and professionalism . His scene at the dance and his final scene with DeHavilland are very touching and especially the last moments bring me to tears . Mark Stevens gives a sensitive performance as Virginia's handsome and loving husband who is loyal to her throughout her ordeal . There has been much progress in mental disease and removal of much of the stigma . " The Snake Pit " reminds one of a more primitive time . Wonderful performances , direction , and a good story make this a true classic .
Geena is fantastic !	Geena Davis , Samuel Jackson and Craig Bierko star in " The Long Kiss Goodnight , " a 1996 film that had a woman in the Arnold Schwarzenegger role for a change . Maybe that's why some people didn't like it , but I loved it . I thought it rocked , and I thought Davis did a terrific job as Samantha , an amnesia victim living with her husband and child and working as a school teacher . After a horrible accident , elements of her old self start to emerge - a facility with knives , strange behavior - and then people start trying to kill her after she appears on television in a holiday parade . A detective who's been trying to dig up info about her ( Jackson ) has found out some information - and Samantha has to leave her family and go on the road with Jackson in search of her true self . Gradually , all of the danger that she's in forces her old self to completely emerge - Charley Baltimore , government assassin . This film will keep you glued to the TV . It packs in a lot of action , a lot of excitement , and a lot of suspense . It also has some wonderful performances . Craig Bierko plays the most evil man who ever lived , I swear - and this guy was the Music Man on Broadway . Samuel L . Jackson is excellent as the detective who had no idea what he was getting into . And Davis is incredible - a sweet mom one day , with flowing locks and a radiant smile - to a cold-blooded , foul mouthed killer the next , with short blond hair and artillery . As someone mentioned here , the script treats this not as amnesia but as a real split personality . Davis and Jackson are dynamic together , playing off one another beautifully . I mustn't forget the great comedy embedded in this film and the witty dialogue . The sound track is great . The plot is also fascinating , given that this was made in 1996 . The premise is that a government agency , in order to get more funding , is going to launch a terrorist attack , killing 4 , 000 people and blame it on the Muslims . References are made to the World Trade Center bombing in 1993 . Doubt this film would be made today . Apparently this bombed at the box office . They say most films are made for 15-year-old boys in Thailand . Maybe they don't like seeing a woman in charge . For people who complain it's not a plausible script , right , and I suppose all of Arnold's were . Don't miss it . Geena makes The Terminator look like a wimp .
Lovely underrated musical	Betty Garrett and Janet Leigh star in " My Sister Eileen , " a 1955 musical also starring Jack Lemmon , Bob Fosse , Tommy Rall and Kurt Kasznar . This is not the musical " Wonderful Town " but it has delightful music by Jule Style . It's the story of the Sherwood Girls , Ruth and Eileen , who come to Greenwich Village from Ohio to " make it " - Eileen as a performer and Ruth as a writer . The two are conned by a landlord ( Kasznar ) into renting ( for a whopping $65 a month ) a basement apartment that shakes like crazy during subway construction . Not to mention , with their window placed the way it is , they may as well be living in the street . The Ruth character is based on the writer of the original story , Ruth McKenney . Eileen is the freshly beautiful blonde who always has men swarming around her ; in comparison , the pretty , funny and stylish Ruth feels like a plain Jane . She sublimates by being dedicated to her career until she meets a publisher ( Jack Lemmon ) and falls for him . He's interested in her story , " My Sister Eileen , " and she's so insecure , she tells him that she is the sought after Eileen - it's another aspect of her personality , she says . The Greenwich Village aspect makes the film as the movie captures its atmosphere perfectly and gives a real feel for the New York of the 1950s . Betty Garrett is great as Ruth . Her singing and acting are both wonderful . Surprisingly , though it's the title role , the part of Eileen really isn't much . ( Sadly , the real Eileen died very young . She married writer Nathanael West and died with him 8 months later in a 1940 car accident . ) Janet Leigh is pretty and sweet , putting over the necessary naivet as Eileen , plus she gets to show off her singing and dancing . Fosse , who also choreographed , and Tommy Rall are suitors of Eileen and do some fabulous dancing . Dick York has a small but showy role as a young man in Ruth's and Eileen's building . Jack Lemmon , in an early role , is slightly miscast as the sophisticated publisher but is very likable . Well-directed by Richard Quine , it's a shame that " My Sister Eileen " hasn't gotten more attention . It's pretty to look at and to listen to with wonderful , vibrant performances . Check it out .
Charming documentary , charming studio	" Forever Ealing " is the story of a small studio in England that had people behind it with big dreams . In its heyday , Ealing Studios produced some of the truly great British films , including " Dead of Night , " " The Ladykillers , " " Lavender Hill Mob , " " The Man in the White Suit , " " Kind Hearts and Coronets , " and many others . This documentary gives us a history of Ealing . A lot of the studio's earlier work before Michael Balcon took over won't mean much to Americans because many of the important celebrities who worked there did not have big careers in American film : Gracie Fields , Googie Withers , John McCallum , George Formby . Other names are more familiar : Alec Guinness , Peter Sellars , Joan Greenwood , Sir John Mills . Particularly fascinating was Ealing's work during the war years , and also the work that went behind the group shot of all of the Alec Guinness roles in " Kind Hearts and Coronets . " Probably the most delightful was the accounting by Googie Withers of her co-star , John McCallum , proposing marriage while the wedding of Elizabeth and Phillip was broadcast on the radio , and the subsequent photo used by the newspapers . Narrated by Daniel Day-Lewis , the documentary features perspectives by John Landis , Martin Scorcese , and others . Very good .
Strangers meet - one is very sorry	What a wonderful , tense , exciting work Hitchcock's " Strangers on a Train " is ! It is also a great testament to the talent of Robert Walker , who came to a sad end the very year this film was released . His Bruno Anthony is brilliant - demented , angry , fussy , charming when necessary , and scary as hell . But there are other wonderful performances in this film - there isn't much point in me telling the story , as many reviewers on this board have done so already . Patricia Hitchcock gives a delightful performance as Anne's sister ( well portrayed by the lovely Ruth Roman ) and makes us wish she had made more films ; Farley Granger , in a role intended for William Holden , is boyishly handsome and likable as tennis player ( soon to be politician ) Guy Haines ; and there are two Hitch favorites , Leo G . Carroll and Una O'Connor , in supporting roles . The finale is one of the most thrilling Hitch ever did , and even after repeated viewings has one squirming in one's seat . I viewed both the British and American versions . The homoeroticism so slightly suggested in the British version was toned down in the American initial meeting of Guy and Bruno by playing the dialogue faster , and for the American version , Hitchcock tacked on an ending suggestive of the beginning of the film , bringing it full circle . I admit that I actually prefer that to the British ending ( which is the second-last scene in the American version ) . But I like the British scene where Guy and Bruno meet on the train better . Actually , it doesn't matter which one you see - it's a great movie .
A drifter is the catalyst for a lot of small town shake-ups	Hunky drifter Hal ( William Holden ) arrives in a small Kansas town , disturbing the status quo in " Picnic , " a 1955 film based on Wiliam Inge's play and directed by Josh Logan . It co-stars Kim Novak , Susan Strasberg , Rosalind Russell , Betty Field , Cliff Robertson , Arthur O'Connell , and Verna Felton . It's Labor Day and time for the big annual picnic . Beautiful , 19-year-old Madge Owens prepares to attend the picnic with Arthur ( Robertson ) , a young man from a wealthy family . She fights with her jealous , nerdy sister , Millie . And she's warned by her mother ( Field ) that with each passing year she will become less marketable as a wife . She's advised to solidify things with Arthur . Renting a room from them is Rosemary , a schoolteacher - what one called " an old maid " back then . A brittle loudmouth , she's doesn't have not much use for her boyfriend Howard , but he's taking her to the picnic . When Hal jumps off the train to look up his old college friend Arthur , he innocently becomes a catalyst for change . In one way or another , he manages to arouse emotions - mostly sexual - in nearly everyone he meets . A braggart who gives his loose-ends , wandering life a romantic spin , he's hoping Arthur's dad will give him a job . Then he sees Madge . " Picnic " is a beautiful story about loneliness , settling for what you can get , love , frustration , and dreams left behind . Madge is sick of being the pretty one , Millie is sick of being the smart one , Rosemary is sick of being an old maid , Arthur is sick of not being a winner in his father's eyes . " Picnic " contains some memorable scenes , the best remembered being the classic " Moonglow " sequence when Madge shuns tradition and gives into her womanly feelings in one of the most erotic scenes ever filmed . William Holden is too old for the role for Hal ( his classmate , played by Cliff Robertson , is 29 ) but his casting is excellent . Virile , oozing with sex appeal and good looks , Hal turns a lot of heads when he's shirtless and when he flashes his gorgeous smile . In Madge , he sees his last chance to make something of himself ; with her as his inspiration , he can do anything . Gorgeous in lavender , Kim Novak's Madge is every man's dream , and as she makes evident in her scenes with Robertson , she isn't sure this is all there is . When she meets Hal , he awakens feelings in her she's never had . Betty Field does a beautiful job as Flo Owens , a woman who's life has been one of disappointment but hopes for a good marriage for Madge . Susan Strasberg as the geeky Millie is superb - tomboyish , with feelings for things other than English literature held inside . The main characters all believe their lives are on a set path . No one believes this more than Millie . " I will be living in New York and writing books no one reads , " she announces to her sister . But it's she who convinces Madge that for the fearless , life doesn't have to be set in stone . Arthur O'Connell is effective as Rosemary's boyfriend - though he normally goes along with her , he can be tough when necessary . The scene where he's completely overcome by the town's women and can't get a word in is a classic . Arthur's afraid of change , but his life is going to change by unanimous female consent . One of the best performances comes from veteran Verna Felton as Mrs . Potts . Her final scene with Flo Owens is so poignant as she talks about what it's meant to her to watch Flo's daughters grow up while she cares for her invalid mother . When she meets Hal , it's as if her whole existence comes alive once again . " There was a man around , and it was good , " she says . Felton essays a wonderful , wise woman with an understanding of life and love and makes the role shine . The problematic role is that of Rosemary . When people say that Picnic is dated , they're perhaps speaking of Rosemary , an old maid whose sexual desires become unbearable once she sees Hal and witnesses Hal and Madge together . " Every year I keep telling myself something will happen , " she tearfully tells Howard . " But it doesn't . " What's dated is the implication that an unmarried woman must be unfulfilled - the concept is dated , but it fits into ' 50s middle America - and don't kid yourself , step out of a big city and there are plenty of people who still feel this way . Rosemary's big confrontation scene with Howard is magnificent acting , but I frankly found Russell over the top in parts of the movie . Some of it is the character , some is not enough attention to directing her . Rosemary might be annoying , but she is also an object of pity . When you wish she'd just stop talking and leave , there's a problem . " Picnic " doesn't tell us about the rest of these peoples ' lives . The final scenes are really just the beginning . Though both Hal and Madge want to build a real life together , one wonders if they can , and if love and passion are enough to carry them through hard times . One suspects that Madge will one day return to Kansas , sadder but wiser . Hal will always have wanderlust , always put the best spin on marginal situations , and never really hold down a good job . Rosemary will be able to put on an act that she has what she wants , but that's all it will be . Without the competition of Madge , Millie may just surprise herself by blossoming , allowing the womanly part of her in , and have some opportunities in the big city that are more than career-based . In fact , of all of the characters , she perhaps has the best future in front of her . A slice of ' 50s life , thought provoking , excellent characterizations - Picnic is one of the best films of the ' 50s with two of its brightest stars . Highly recommended .
Imagine this being made today	Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger filmed the opera " Tales of Hoffmann " in 1951 , to stunning effect . Offenbach's opera is the story of three loves of the poet Hoffmann ( Robert Rounsville ) and epitomizes the struggle between art and love , as he is transformed as a poet by each failed romance . The story begins in Nuremberg as Hoffmann watches the object of his affections , Stella ( Moira Shearer ) dance a ballet . During the intermission , he goes into a tavern and tells the customers about his three major affairs . Opera singers , with two exceptions , dub the stars , who are mostly from the ballet world , several will be familiar from The Red Shoes : Moira Shearer , Ludmilla Tcherina , Robert Helpmann , Lonide Massine , and Frederick Ashton . Only Hoffmann , Robert Rounsville , and Antonia , Anne Ayars , do their own singing . The rest of the vocals provided by Dorothy Bond , Margherita Grandi , Monica Sinclair , Joan Alexander , Grahame Clifford , Bruce Dargavel , Murray Dickie , Owen Brannigan , Fisher Morgan , and Rene Soames . Both the singing and dancing are absolutely magnificent , the beautiful Shearer dancing much better than she did in The Red Shoes several years earlier , and Powell and Pressburger fill the opera with fantastic effects and colors . My favorite is Shearer's doll ballet sequence , with the magnificent coloratura singing of the Doll Aria by Dorothy Bond , a discovery of Sir Thomas Beecham , who conducts the orchestra . Tragically she was killed in a car accident the next year ; she deserved to be one of the most famous sopranos who ever lived . There are a couple of problems with this incredible piece . It's done in English , which due to the tamber of the high soprano voice , can make it difficult to understand . So people who know the opera would probably enjoy it the most . Secondly , it's not paced very well - there are some very draggy sections ; some of the chorus work could have been cut . The overall effect for the eyes and ears is fabulous , but " The Tales of Hoffmann " leaves one depressed for how far we've fallen culturally in this world . Imagine mounting this film today . How many people would attend ? Five ?
Portrait of an icon	For a man who exudes sex appeal , Paul Newman was remarkably appalled when his wife , Joanne Woodward says in an interview on Biography : " We weren't married when we made the Long , Hot Summer . That led to some interesting situations in hotel rooms , etc . " " There was no need to mention THAT , " Newman replies . That's just one aspect of this interesting profile of Paul Newman , a man of infinite contradictions : a somewhat remote person who brings tremendous emotion to his work , a family man who looks like a rogue , a great humanitarian who doesn't give autographs or lower his sunglasses to show off his blue eyes , and one who enjoys race car driving ; a huge movie star who takes his work very seriously and himself not seriously . Newman is often compared or put up against Brando . The two entered films around the same time , both were antiheroes , both were method actors and students of the great Stella Adler . But Brando had an easier road to stardom than Newman and given roles that Newman would have loved an opportunity to play ; instead , he was stuck with " The Silver Chalice . " His first real chance came with the role of Rocky Graziano in " Somebody Up There Likes Me , " a film intended for James Dean . In the long run , Newman was harder working and in this writer's opinion , more versatile , exhibiting an ability to do comedy as well as drama . There is also something much more Everyman about Newman - while I can't quite picture Brando as Hud , I can sure picture Newman as Terry in " On the Waterfront . " This is in no way to downplay Brando's greatness or his magnificent screen portrayals . Each man should be allowed his special place in film . This bio focuses on Newman's twisted road to stardom and his original intentions to teach at Kenyon University to support his family ; meeting Joanne Woodward while they were both in Picnic on Broadway ; their eventual marriage ; Newman's evolution as a star , actor , and humanitarian . Old friends and coworkers such as Tom Bosley , Eva Marie Saint , and Angela Lansbury speak of him in glowing terms . He is seen in early television roles and also a screen test for " East of Eden " with James Dean . " Kiss me ? " Dean asks , improvising . " Not here , " Newman says with a grin . His life has been made up of family , hard work and challenges - he seems to excel at everything he does . Though he can exude a certain coldness , when children from one of his charities walked on stage at the Kennedy Center Tribute to honor him and Joanne , he was wiping away tears . An actor of tremendous emotional power , any biography of Paul Newman will leave you appreciating him even more .
early Sellars	" Only Two Can Play " is a slice of life comedy made in 1962 . Based on a novel by Kingsley Amis , it concerns an assistant librarian , John Lewis ( Peter Sellars ) who has a chance at a better position and a raise , contingent upon him sleeping with the council chairman's wife ( Mai Zetterling ) . He has a beautiful if exhausted wife at home ( Virginia Maskell ) and children , and the confines of his home are a little tight and chaotic . Lewis attempts to make a go of the affair , with humor and poignancy as the result . This is a very well acted film , and a very satisfying one . Sellars wasn't a huge star yet , but all the elements are there . Mai Zetterling , primarily remembered today as a director , was a marvelous actress and very sexy . In her book , " All Those Tomorrows " she describes her experiences living with Tyrone Power and being madly in love with him for several years . That was some life she had . This was the last film Virginia Maskell would make for a time - she married after this movie and did very little until 1967 . Sellars tried to get her replaced in the film , but the director refused . It seems odd , because she was very good . After the birth of a child in 1967 , she became acutely depressed and ultimately overdosed on antidepressants . A sad end for a fine actress . The rest of the cast is excellent as well . A very good film , well worth seeing .
I walked with a zombie	Bob Hope made some wonderful , fun movies in the ' 40s , and " The Ghost Breakers " costarring Paulette Goddard , Paul Lukas , Willie Best , and Richard Carlson is a prime example . Anthony Quinn has two small double roles in an early appearance for him . Hope is a radio gossip who talks about the mob and sometimes upsets them ; Goddard is a woman who has just inherited a castle in Cuba . The two intersect at a hotel after a shooting which Hope thinks he committed . He ends up in her trunk and therefore , in Cuba with her , along with Lukas , Best , and Carlson , an old friend of Goddard's . The castle is supposedly haunted , and some mighty strange things occur while Hope and Best investigate . This is a great haunted house mystery with Hope letting the zingers fly at a rapid pace . There was something about the younger Hope that is terribly appealing . He brings a boyishness and an energy to these ' 40s roles that was lost later on . Goddard is beautiful and lively , Lukas excellent as the mysterious Parada . Though there is some political incorrectness , Willie Best and Hope spar as equals . The film keeps a strong atmosphere , with the scenes of thunder and lightning in the beginning especially effective . And that haunted castle - yikes . Call a ghost breaker !
Gable , MacDonald , and Tracy as San Francisco topples around them	As in the ' 70s , disaster films were all the rage in the ' 30s , with " Hurricane , " " The Rains Came , " " In Old Chicago , " and , of course , 1936's " San Francisco " which certainly sent the other studios running to destroy anything they could . The film stars Clark Gable , Jeannette MacDonald , and Spencer Tracy as three citizens of that beautiful city on April 18 , 1906 , when the big earthquake struck . Gable plays Blackie Norton , a quintessential role for him - a tough , charming rogue who runs The Paradise Club . MacDonald is the lovely and talented Mary Black who arrives there looking for work , and Spencer Tracy is Father Tim , who is Blackie's conscience ( so he ignores him ) and Mary's moral compass . Mary is torn between two loves - her love for Blackie and her love for opera . Burley ( Jack Holt ) wants her contract from Blackie so he can star her at the Tivoli Opera , but in all things , she suppresses her own desires so that she can stay with Blackie . She finally does leave but returns . . . only to leave again after an ugly confrontation between Blackie and Father Tim . Things get a lot uglier at an annual contest - and that's when the chandelier starts moving back and forth . It's amazing what the films in the pre-computer age were able to do with special effects because the earthquake in " San Francisco " is dazzling , spectacular , and downright scary . Given the horrors of and Katrina , one is drawn into the devastation and suffering as people search for loved ones , watch their houses fall , go crazy , and see their beloved city dynamited because there's no water to stop the raging fires . 70 years later , it's all way too close to home . As good as he always was with Gable , Spencer Tracy did not have much of a role as the good father , but he's excellent . MacDonald poses a problem . Normally , she plays a diva or spitfire , and she did those roles beautifully . But Mary Blake is a modest and religious woman who speaks softly and sublimates her own desires for the man she loves . It doesn't ring true , and it doesn't work opposite the volatile Blackie of Gable's . If Mary had been more like other roles she played , MacDonald probably would have had good chemistry with him . As it is , they don't make much of a couple . Her singing is pretty until she hits the opera stage - with the combination of the tinny sound system in those days and the way women were trained on high notes then , the end result isn't good . She sings " The Jewel Song , " which she often did in concert , the finale of " Faust , " and " Sempre Libera . " MacDonald was a lyric coloratura and suited to the demands of the opera stage in the ' 30s , but today she sounds dated as standards have changed . This is a great film to see to appreciate the artistry of the early technicians . The effects in " San Francisco " hold up against anything that came 40 years later . The ending is pure Hollywood hokum , but very stirring . It gave this viewer goosebumps . Don't miss Hollywood at its very best .
The original " You've Got Mail "	James Stewart and Margaret Sullavan bicker at work and unbeknownst to one another are falling in love via mail in " The Shop Around the Corner , " a 1940 comedy directed by the great Ernst Lubitsch . There was no one quite like him ; Billy Wilder once complained that something was " like Lubitsch but it isn't Lubitsch . " Well , this is , and it's delicious . Set in Budapest , the story concerns two people , Alfred Kralik and Klara Novak , who work at Matuschek's gift shop . They don't get along . Meanwhile , they've both answered a personal ad and are writing to each other . They work with the trouble-making slimeball , Vadas ( who else but Joseph Schildkraut ) , the pleasant and helpful Pirovitch ( Felix Bressart ) and Pepi ( William Tracy ) . There is a subplot , which is the saga of Matuschek himself ( Frank Morgan ) who has suddenly becomes cold toward Alfred . James Stewart could be pretty sexy in these romantic roles . Maybe it's just me , but he softens his voice and looks right into the woman's eyes - quite disarming . Tall and boyish , he's adorable playing against Margaret Sullavan , with whom he worked 5 times . She's very funny , always sounding polite , upbeat and lofty even when she's insulting Alfred . She's especially funny when making unfavorable comparisons between Alfred and her pen-pal . " Oh , but you don't understand , Mr . Kralik . A man like you wouldn't . . . " Both were capable of such heavy dramatic roles and yet could turn around and do a light comedy with no problem . Frank Morgan gives a very touching performance and Felix Bressart is sweet and likable as Pirovitch . Schildkraut is hilarious - one isn't sure if it's his lines , his delivery , or the direction - it was probably all three . My favorite is when he says to Matuschek , " I saw your new dining room table . It's lovely . It must be especially beautiful in the evenings at dinner parties with the candles lit . . . Stunning . " Sounds like nothing yet he's great . This can't possibly be compared to the remake , " You've Got Mail . " After all , it isn't Lubitsch .
Nice look at the evolution of the gangster film	" Public Enemies : The Golden Age of the Gangster Film " is an extensive look at the gangster film from the very early days of the silents and follows its evolution through the Depression , World War II and beyond . And of course , no gangster film documentary would be complete without the genre's great stars , shown in various scenes and in one amusing outtake : Edward G . Robinson , James Cagney , Humphrey Bogart , George Raft , and Paul Muni . " Public Enemies " demonstrates what a great match Warner Brothers was for this particular type of film and talks about some of the producers and directors influential in getting these movies onto the screen : Darryl F . Zanuck , Jack Warner , William Wellman , Raoul Walsh , Michael Curtiz . It's a fascinating look at the effect that various happenings had on the gangster movie : the advent of sound , Prohibition , the Hayes Code , the Depression , WW II , interest in psychiatry , and talks about the melding of the crime film with the film noir . There are interviews with authors and film critics like Leonard Maltin and Molly Haskell , but also old interviews with Edward G . Robinson , Virginia Mayo , Joan Leslie , Raoul Walsh , William Wellman , and Joan Blondell that are great to see . Highly recommended .
Amazing film , amazing Chaplin	Charlie Chaplin is " The Great Dictator " in this 1940 comedy-drama also starring Paulette Goddard , Reginald Gardner , Henry Daniell and Billy Gilbert . Chaplin has the dual role of a Hitler-like dictator , Adenoid Hynkel ( " Hail , Hynkel " ) ( all the countries are fictional , and the party logo is one X on top of another ) and also a war veteran , a sweet barber who looks like Hynkel . There are some truly hilarious parts of this film as well as some truly dramatic ones . The barber trying to keep from falling out of a plane is just one ; the nonsense German Hynkel speaks ; the barber shaving one customer in time with the music , playing to Chaplin's silent film strengths ; Hynkel's dancing with his world globe , which is really a huge balloon . The serious parts take place in the Jewish ghetto where the Jews are persecuted by Hynkel's men - Jew is written on the store fronts , and the soldiers are violent . In such stark contrast to the comedy , these scenes make a strong impression . The ghetto never knows what to expect - when Hynkel is trying to get a loan from a man named Epstein to attack and take over Osterlich , he has his soldiers lay off the Jews so as not to upset Epstein . Eventually the barber winds up in a concentration camp but escapes and is mistaken for Hynkel . Under Chaplin's direction , none of the film seems to be played for comedy . Hynkel himself is a buffoon , but he means it . The most amazing part of the film for me was the very end , when the Barber gives a speech as Hynkel . It's absolutely brilliant and very timely . The beautiful , radiant Goddard , looking at the sky , hope in her eyes , is not something I'll ever forget . Highly recommended . Made in 1940 , the U . S . had not entered the war and Europe's problems were just beginning . Alas , the barber's speech wasn't reality .
And yet ANOTHER great performance by Paul Newman	Paul Newman is " Nobody's Fool " in this 1994 film also starring Jessica Tandy , Bruce Willis , Melanie Griffith , Dylan Walsh and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Newman magnificently portrays Sully , a 60-year-old man living in a small town in upstate New York . He has a bad knee ; he's suing his boss , the hard living Carl Roebuck ( Bruce Willis ) for back wages ; he flirts with the boss ' wife Toby ( Melanie Griffith ) ; he rents from his old school teacher Beryl Peoples ( Jessica Tandy ) who depends on him ; he plays poker and drinks at the local bar ; and he plays the Trifecta every day . When his son Peter ( Dylan Walsh ) comes to town , Sully has to come face to face with the man he abandoned as a child , as well as his ex-wife . ( The scene where he sneaks out of her house as everyone screams at each other is a riot . ) He gets to know his little grandson , bonding with him as he never did the boy's father . Sully , who in his own way has been taking care of a lot of people in town - and driving some other ones crazy - learns the importance of a family connection and what it entails . A marvelous script , a marvelous cast , great direction by Robert Benton - " Nobody's Fool " is a small movie with a big message about life . Newman portrays Sully with all of his complexities . He's more a son to Beryl than her own son . He takes care of his workmate Grub ( Pruitt Taylor Vance ) as he never did his own son . He is there for Toby as she talks about Carl's infidelities , but he was never there for his own wife . What's most wonderful about the script is how character-driven it is and how all its messages come out of the characters . The audience is not beaten over the head with them . When Sully speaks bitterly about his late father , he turns to Peter and says , " That's what you'll say about me when I'm gone . " " You were gone , dad , " Peter says . " I've already said it . " Yet the two men try , without ever verbalizing that they are trying . He's there for Tandy , without a sentimental scene . Tandy is excellent as a woman who fears the loss of her independence , and fans of Nip / Tuck will get a kick out of seeing Dylan Walsh as he was 14 years ago with his mop of hair . He does very well in his role . Bruce Willis is amazing - relaxed , funny , cheating with a smile . Philip Seymour Hoffman , before stardom hit , has a hilarious role as a policeman trying to nail Sully and not having much luck . You can't really call what Newman does acting because you won't catch him doing it - he just IS Sully . He creates an unforgettable character in this must-see film .
another wonderful Monte Markham performance	Either Monte Markham has good taste , or he was lucky in the TV movies in which he was cast . He's certainly made some gems : Visions of Death , Death Takes a Holiday , and The Astronaut . The Astronaut pairs him with Susan Clark , a major actress of the ' 70s . This film is based on the same idea as Capricorn One . In Capricorn One , the astronauts have to fake a space landing for the government . In The Astronaut , the astronaut doesn't make it back , so the government plants a look-alike and returns him to the man's wife ( Clark ) . Because of the story and strong acting , this is another film that sticks in the minds of people who saw it , and another one I wouldn't mind seeing again .
stunning film about Clara Wieck	And who , might you ask , is Clara Wieck ? Well , if she hadn't married Schumann , she might have been much more famous than he . Her pianist abilities were thought to be equal to or greater than those of Franz Liszt . I had the privilege of seeing this film in New York City in a small theater , subtitled . A friend of mine rented it and , unlike one of the posters , his film was dubbed in English . I am glad I got to see the German version . This is a beautiful film with a feminist bend to it , being the story of a brilliantly talented young woman exploited by her father and Schumann , who becomes her husband . Kinski is absolutely wonderful and beautiful . Also , her piano fingerings are great . There is an interesting line at the end , where Wieck says , talking about her home with Schumann , " I hope there will be room for two pianos . " Of course there weren't , and she was forever known as Clara Schumann . The film doesn't go into the fact that Clara Schumann did have a career after marriage , however , and a good part of her relationship with her husband revolved around their mutual passion for music . She had 8 children but managed to compose and do concert tours , often with her husband , until he was institutionalized . After Schumann's death , with the help of Brahms , she continued to do concerts though plagued by various ailments . Try to see this film in German with subtitles if at all possible .
a 4F returns home a war hero	Preston Sturges wrote and directed the 1944 film " Hail the Conquering Hero , " which stars Eddie Bracken , William Demarest , Ella Raines and Franklin Pangborn . Bracken is Woodrow Truesmith , whose father was a famous war hero . Woodrow , however , is 4F because of hay fever . Discharged and depressed , he sits in a bar delaying going home . He confesses the truth to some marines he meets in a bar , and they decide to accompany him home to back up the story he told his mother - that he's in a hospital overseas due to war injuries . When he arrives home , he has a hero's welcome . Later there's a statue and a song . Then the town wants him to be mayor . Sturges ' gift was coming up with wacky plots , while others of the era could create wacky situations within a plot . This one is pretty outrageous . As Woodrow feels more and more guilty , the public adulation becomes bigger and bigger . It's a strong message about people believing what they want to believe and their need for a hero . Bracken plays his role very seriously and lets the situation and the lines get the laughs . His character looks and feels trapped . Ella Raines plays his ex-fiance , and she's very beautiful - a cross between Jeanne Crain and Gene Tierney , she gives a very sweet and sincere performance . She was a very underrated actress and beauty who for some reason never reached the top tier of stardom ; today she is remembered for some wonderful film noirs in which she appeared . William Demarest is very funny as the marine helping to keep the story alive - at any cost . I enjoyed " The Lady Eve , " " The Palm Beach Story , " and " Sullivan's Travels " better , mainly because of their casts , but for Sturges fans , this is a must see .
psychic phenomenon , satanic worship and more	Leonard Nimoy stars as a race car driver with psychic visions in " Baffled ! " also starring Susan Hampshire , Vera Miles , Rachel Roberts , and Jewel Blanch . After the Nimoy character reports on television that he had a vision that caused him to lose control of his race car during a competition , he is visited by Susan Hampshire . She is a student of psychic phenomenon and believes he should follow up on what he saw - a manor house in England , the phrase " It's Wyndham in Devon , dear , " and a familiar-looking woman who is need of help . He agrees to join her after he has another vision which is much stronger - - and scarier - than the previous one . The two of them end up at a manor house which has been turned into a sort of resort hotel . There , they meet the woman of the vision - an American film star who is waiting for her ex-husband , her young daughter , and some rather strange characters . Judging by what happens at the end of this entertaining movie , " Baffled " seems to have been a pilot for a TV series . The stars - Hampshire and Nimoy - are delightful , and the story is an interesting one that manages to tie in not only psychic phenomenon but a satanic element as well . Vera Miles does an effective job as a woman anticipating a reunion with her ex , Rachel Roberts is terrific as the owner of Wyndham , and Jewel Blanch is very good as Miles ' daughter . This intriguing story will hold the viewer's interest , and it is immensely helped by the likability of the main characters .
A sports agent finds the high road steep	Tom Cruise , before his chin implant , is " Jerry Maguire " in this 1996 film also starring Renee Zellweger , Cuba Gooding Jr . , Jay Mohr and Bonnie Hunt . Beautifully directed by Cameron Crowe , the film tells the story of a hotshot sports agent who writes a piece about the ethics of being a sports agent , encouraging a smaller client list and more personal service . He then passes it out to the rest of the agents in the firm , SMI . It goes without saying that he's fired , but before he goes , he asks if there is anyone who wants to go with him as he sets out on his own . A single mother , Dorothy ( Zellweger ) , inspired by his missive though partially blinded by the stars in her eyes , says yes . Jerry ends up minus his fiance ( Kelly Preston ) and stuck with one client ( Gooding ) that no one is particularly interested in , a football player whose mantra is " Show me the money ! " But no one is . As he struggles to make a lucrative deal for his client , Jerry has to also deal with his personal life - Dorothy and her love for him , which he can't really return , her mistrusting sister ( Hunt ) and Dorothy's son ( Jonathan Lipnicki ) whom he adores . This is a fast-moving film with wonderful performances and lots of warmth , humor and honesty . Jerry learns quickly that when it comes to money , he's friendless , that there's very little loyalty and lots of liars . Tom Cruise is excellent as a young man trying to find his way through a labyrinth of a client with a bad attitude , no money , a hasty marriage and staying with the principles in his manifesto . Zellweger , in her career-making performance , is sweet and touching as Dorothy . Gooding has the most flamboyant part and makes the most of it as an athlete who has to learn that in order to have someone show him the money , he has to show a little heart first . A great movie , highly regarded for a reason , with a soundtrack to match . Highly recommended .
Interesting documentary	Martin Scorcese waxes poetic over one of his favorite talents , Val Lewton , the producer of cult classics such as The Cat People , The Seventh Victim , I Walked with a Zombie , etc . Lewton's unique outlook on life was present in all of his dark films , which were actually B horror movies with some heavy messages . The most interesting of these for me was The Cat People , which I first saw as a child , and Curse of the Cat People , which I saw recently , and these were my main reasons for watching this documentary , that and the fact that Nazimova was his aunt . I confess that I saw The Seventh Victim and either I wasn't paying attention or I'm thick or both , but I didn't get it . I'm not a horror person so I definitely wouldn't be able to get through anything else of his . Of interest was the fact that he started off in movies working for David O . Selznick , so he learned from a master . The other interesting thing is that not much is really known about Lewton himself , evidently a very private person . Like many artists , he wasn't fully appreciated while he was alive - which wasn't long . He died when he was 46 . The Cat People remains one of the most fascinating movies ever made , and it was good to hear one person comment that the Kent Smith character seems like a really nice guy but actually isn't - - my feelings exactly ; and what a treat to see the child Veronica Lake lookalike , Ann Carter Newton , all grown up , and hear what she had to say about making The Curse of the Cat People . Viewers should find this interesting , and if you like the genre and aren't familiar with Lewton's work , you will be inspired to see it .
lovely Hallmark type of film	I caught this movie on Lifetime , but it had the Hallmark network feel to it . Sometimes this type of film can be overly sentimental , but I found this one to be wonderful as it emphasized the importance of taking time to love one another . Maureen O'Hara , at 80-something and looking great , plays a schoolteacher who becomes involved in the life of a former student and his wife . As a woman whose great love ended before the relationship could fully develop , she imparts what she has learned to them about what's really important in this world , and what really stays with those we leave behind when we go into the next one . O'Hara is really inspirational . Her voice and acting are strong and her no-nonsense portrayal keeps " The Last Dance " from being cloying in any way . You really grow to love this woman and all she stands for . The flashback scenes are well cast . A nice movie to catch , especially around the holidays .
Charming film	Actor / director / writer Gregory Ratoff often did Lubitsch-like films - " Cafe Metropole " is one and this one , 1940's " I Was an Adventuress " is another . Light and delightful , the film stars Vera Zorina , Eric von Stroheim , Richard Greene and Peter Lorre . Zorina , Stroheim and Lorre are partners in crime - practicing the old bait and switch of the fake necklace that someone says is not fake after all but worth a fortune . The targeted sucker overhears the conversation and buys what he thinks is a real necklace from the unsuspecting woman . He pays way too much for a fake but not as much as the sale price of the real thing . Of course , when he tries to sell it , he's told it's a fake , but the thieves have left town . All goes well until Tanya ( Zorina ) , posing as Countess Vronsky , meets handsome , charming Paul Vernay , whom she attempts to set up for a con but ends up falling in love with him . She breaks with Polo ( Lorre ) and Andre ( von Stroheim ) , marries Vernay and takes up her ballet career again . After several months , Polo and Andre need her to return , but they can't find her . When they do , Andre moves in for a shakedown . This film is lots of fun all the way with some marvelous performances . Von Stroheim and Lorre make a great team - one , Teutonic and committed , the other , an apologetic kleptomaniac with a heart . Zorina certainly had one of the most interesting faces in film , beautiful yet strong , and she's wonderful as Tanya . Her dancing was lovely , with the exception of her very distracting arms . Richard Greene was getting the big star buildup at 20th Century Fox when war was declared in Europe , and he returned to England to serve his country . Handsome with a to-die for accent , he just might have given Tyrone Power a run for his money , at least in some of the lighter roles , as I suspect he didn't have a large range . As it was , Greene became best known in this country for his TV series " Robin Hood . " Here he exhibits warmth and sophistication as Paul Vernay . Look for this film on Fox Movie Channel - you won't be sorry .
A great cast enlivens the southern tale of four friends and a secret	Ellyn Burstyn , Finnoula Flanagan , Shirley Knight and Maggie Smith hold " The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood , " a girlhood pact made in childhood , in this 2002 film also starring Sandra Bullock , Ashley Judd and James Garner . Bullock plays Sidda , a successful writer and the daughter of the outrageous Vivi . Both mother and daughter are in crisis after Sidda's profile appears in Time Magazine , and the profile's author has emphasized Sidda's problems with her mother . Mother and daughter start sending hate notes , photos with their faces cut out , invitations with no address or date , etc . to one another as well as hanging up the phone upon hearing the other's voice . The other three ya-yas visit Sidda , slip her a date-rape drug and bring her to Louisiana , where they all live , so they can show her their Ya-ya secrets book and she can learn some things about her mother that she never knew . The somewhat contrived plot is saved by the wonderful acting of the entire cast . Burstyn has long been one of my favorite actresses , and she creates a powerful portrait of the alcoholic temperamental diva Vivi . She's backed up beautifully by another of my favorite actresses , Maggie Smith as well as Flanagan and Knight . Ashley Judd plays the young Vivi . She does an excellent job showing Vivi's progression from a fun-loving young woman rejected by her mother ( Cherry Jones ) but adored by her father to an unhappy , drunken and overwhelmed one with a husband she doesn't love and too many children . Bullock's angry Sidda is effective , and her scenes with Burstyn are very poignant . James Garner as Bullock's long - suffering but loving father gives a wonderful performance , showing a caring but resigned man who has somehow managed to live with this woman for years . This isn't Fried Green Tomatoes . It's a portrait of an abusive childhood , mental illness , misinformation about medications - and survival . Unfortunately some of the people reviewing this film don't have a clear understanding of mental illness and what the wrong medication can do to someone . The story is tempered with humor and vibrant characterizations and the old adage , we don't pick our parents ; if we can make our peace with their lives and with them , it makes life a little easier .
Delightful William Powell and Myrna Loy vehicle	After saving a life , William Powell becomes the victim of amnesia in " I Love You Again , " a 1940 film also starring Frank McHugh and Edmund Lowe - this having the distinction of two Philo Vances , Lowe and Powell , in the cast . Powell plays a cheapskate named Larry Wilson . While on a cruise ship , he jumps into the ocean to save " Doc " Ryan ( McHugh ) and suffers a head injury . When he wakes up , he has become his former self , a con artist named George and has no memory of the respectable , conservative , stingy life he has been living for some years . Off the ship , he discovers that his lovely wife ( Loy ) can't wait to get rid of him - or so she thinks , until she realizes that " Larry " is a changed man - for the better . Powell is out and out hilarious in this film . For such a distinguished looking man , he has provided this writer with almost as many laugh out loud moments as the Marx Brothers . One of his best scenes is when his wife refuses to dance with him , so he dances by himself . Another occurs when , as a boy scout troop leader , he is asked to continue with the deer-tracking techniques he was teaching before leaving town . Of course , he has no memory of any such thing and , as a reporter follows him , he falls into holes , crawls around the brush , and gets stuck in a couple of traps . The pairing of Powell and Loy is magical . She looks particularly beautiful in this film and her confusion regarding her changed husband and sadness over her marriage is quite touching . Highly recommended .
" Your mouth is like a gardenia , open to the sun . "	Jean Harlow is the " Bombshell " of the 1933 film also starring Franchot Tone , Frank Morgan , Lee Tracy , Pat O'Brien , Una Merkel , Isabel Jewell , Louise Beavers , Ted Healy , and C . Aubrey Smith . Harlow plays a star , Lola Burns , who has a career very similar to Jean Harlow's - in fact , she starred in " Red Dust " with Clark Gable ! She's the " It " girl where Harlow was the " If " girl . From the first time we meet Lola , it's obvious that she is overwhelmed by the pressures of her home life , which in turn puts pressure on her career duties . Her drunken father ( Morgan ) acts as her business manager but her bills aren't paid and she doesn't have any money ; she constantly has to bail her brother out of trouble ; there's a newspaper man who prints one lie after another about her ; one of the people in her household wears her clothes and steals from her ; she has three huge dogs ; her brother shows up with a tramp ; the assistant director on " Red Dust , " Jim Brogan ( Pat O'Brien ) is in love with her and goes crazy when he sees Hugo , the Marqis de Pisa de Pisa on the set ( and it's in his storyline that strong prejudice against immigrants is shown ) ; and her agent ( Lee Tracy ) is a puppeteer in a sick puppet show - Lola's life . Lola wants out . She decides that she wants to adopt a child and falls in love with a baby at an orphanage but the home visit is a total disaster . Disgusted with her life and all the leaches around her , she takes off , seeking peace and quiet . It's in peaceful surroundings that she meets the wealthy Gifford Middleton . It's love at first sight . Just when she's meeting Gifford's parents , her father and brother appear . This is a very funny comedy and also very touching , as Lola's sweet personality and desire for a stable family is evident . She swears to Gifford that she's through with show business but becomes concerned when told there hasn't been anything about her in the papers lately . She's young and has no idea what she really wants . Her agent plays off of this and uses it to his own advantage . To most people , she's a blond gravy train . All of the actors are terrific . Franchot Tone is hilarious , totally and deliberately WAY over the top saying lines such as the one in the summary box . Harlow is surrounded with the best character actors - Lee Tracy , who despite a scandal in 1934 managed to enjoy a nearly 40-year career is great as Lola's fast-talking scam artist agent ; Frank Morgan plays his usual role of a weak man , but not a bad one ; Louise Beavers brings spark to the role of a maid ; Pat O'Brien is in top form as the volatile Brogan . But it's Harlow's film , and she keeps up with the frantic pace of the film beautifully . Funny and vulnerable , she's hilarious when she pretends she's upper class , as she's often done in her films - no one has ever pulled that off quite like she has . Certainly one of the most lovable and charismatic actresses ever on screen . It's unbelievable that she didn't have a chance to live a full life . " Bombshell " is one of her best films among a lot of wonderful ones .
Clash of the Titans	Edward R . Murrow goes up against Senator Joseph McCarthy in " Good Night , and Good Luck , " a 2005 using Murrow's famous sign-off on the news program " See It Now " as its title . The stars are David Strathairn , George Clooney , Jeff Daniels , Patricia Clarkson , Ray Wise , Frank Langella , and Robert Downey , Jr . The story is set during the time of the HUAC investigations , when Murrow was one of the few newsmen willing to go up against the powerful senator who saw a Communist under every bed , Joseph McCarthy . It's an especially timely story post - as it concerns the violation of civil rights and use of fear tactics in order to exploit the insecurity rampant in the country at that time . Director / writer George Clooney couldn't have chosen a better subject . Like the film " Thirteen Days " about the Cuban missile crisis , the brilliance of the film is in its use of actual transcripts , here from " See it Now . " In the case of " Good Night , and Good Luck , " we also see real footage from the investigations and hear Joseph McCarthy himself as he goes after witnesses and Murrow . It makes for fascinating viewing . Though there were some minor errors , the attention to detail to evoke the ' 50s atmosphere is fantastic , the black and white only adding to it . The acting is superb , if you can call what David Strahairn did acting . I felt throughout the entire film that I was watching Edward R . Murrow , not someone portraying him . Strathairn is a flawless actor who becomes the character he's playing and makes every mannerism , vocal rhythm , and cigarette puff totally organic . His Murrow is tough , with internalized anger and a dry sense of humor . " I'm busy bringing down your network tonight , " he tells Paley as he refuses an invitation . Frank Langella's William Paley is marvelous , a man who tries to walk the fence but ends up falling over to one side . I probably already knew somewhere in the recesses of my mind about Don Hollenbeck , the character well portrayed by Ray Wise ; that story arc was telegraphed from the beginning . It might have been criticized for being a clich , except of course it really happened . Hollenbeck's story was perhaps not fleshed out enough . All in all , a brilliant achievement and a sad one . Without people like Murrow , journalism has changed , and not for the better ? And the world ? Though the names of the threats and their exploiters have changed , the fault , dear Brutus , still doesn't lie within our stars , but in ourselves .
You can destroy the things you love . . . and love what you destroy	Laird Cregar , who died shortly after this film's release , is Mr . Slade aka Jack the Ripper , in 1944's " The Lodger " also starring Merle Oberon , George Sanders , Sara Allgood , and Cedric Hardwicke . As 20th Century Fox often did , they remade this A film as a B film in the ' 50s as " Man in the Attic " starring Jack Palance . My recollection is that the film followed " The Lodger " frame for frame and word for word . " Man in the Attic " is very good ; however , " The Lodger " is superior . This is the oft-told story of a strange man who claims to be a pathologist taking rooms in a private home in Victorian England . The lady of the house begins to suspect he's Jack the Ripper . Her husband , although fascinated by the case , thinks she's mistaken . Also staying in the house with them is the wife's niece , Lily , a performer who has brought her dance troupe to work in London . When Scotland Yard comes a-calling to question her about a murdered woman who visited her at the theater , there is an instant attraction between her and the inspector in charge of the case . Although a tall and large-framed man , Cregar came off initially as less frightening than the austere-looking Palance , although both used very gentle voices in the role . He's fantastic as Slade , his violence hidden in a lumbering frame and a soft , slow demeanor . One wonders what would have happened to his career had he lived - it probably would have been tremendous . Unfortunately , he died at the age of 30 as a result of crash dieting . Merle Oberon is radiantly beautiful , lively , and flirtatious as Lily , and Sanders is handsome and effective in the role of the inspector , though he doesn't have much to do . Sara Allgood is excellent as the suspicious Helen , and Cedric Hardwicke appropriately gruff as her husband . The atmosphere is as thick as the fog in " The Lodger , " and the ending is remarkable with its use of unusual lighting and camera angles . This is a marvelous film , all the better for the performance of Laird Cregar , whose career and life ended much too soon .
The granddaddy of them all	The only other time I saw " 42nd Street " besides on TCM recently was at a revival cinema many years ago . The audience spent most of its time in hysterics during the most serious parts . The reason is obvious . Thanks to " Dames at Sea " and the million " chorus girl becomes a star " stories that followed this 1933 film , 42nd Street almost seems like an excellent parody of itself - deadly serious while the ripoffs were camping it up . But that's exactly why I love " 42nd Street " and why it's a great film - beneath the miles of chorus girl legs and breezy tunes , it's a Depression-era story about a director's last gasp . Warner Baxter is Julian Marsh , the browbeating director who indicates to one of his assistants that he's " ill , " the implication being he hasn't got much time left . Not hard to believe as he smokes one cigarette after another and yells so much that his blood pressure must be off the charts . Ruby Keeler is Peggy Sawyer , one of the chorus girls , and like the rest of them , she needs the job . Dick Powell is the juvenile lead , and Bebe Daniels is the star of the show , Dorothy Brock . Ginger Rogers has a nifty role as the chorus girl known as " Anytime Annie " - " the only time she said no , she didn't hear the question . " In those days , latching onto a Sugar Daddy was the big thing , and Ginger has no problem in that department . George Brent , sans mustache , is Brock's ex-partner who takes a shine to Keeler . The dandy supporting cast includes Una Merkel , Ned Sparks , and Allen Jenkins . When you watch " 42nd Street " you understand where the term " hoofing " comes from in relationship to tap dancing . Seeing ( and hearing ) the chorus rehearse , one wonders why Marsh didn't just pack it in . But of course , the opening night show is a wow , with Busby Berkeley's choreography coming to the fore in " Shuffle Off to Buffalo " and the brilliant production number " 42nd Street " - which shows the savory and unsavory sides of Times Square before Disney took it over . Berkeley's work in this film made him a superstar film choreographer , though he'd been toiling in Hollywood for a few years by then . Ruby Keeler is cute but lousy , and the idea of her saving a musical is ludicrous . Dick Powell plays the juvenile well , but of course , he went on to not only become a wonderful serious actor but a terrific producer , so this was just the tip of the iceberg for him . Daniels is great , if melodramatic by today's standards - as she limps around on her crutches , one gets a sudden vision of Carol Burnett doing that in a skit . Baxter is appropriately tough and says the most famous line , " You're going out a chorus girl , but you must come back a star . " He also gives us the downbeat scene at the end of the film that makes " 42nd Street " different from all the rest , when he sits on the fire escape in the theater alley listening to the audience as they leave the show . " 42nd Street " spawned dozens of movie musicals in the ' 30s , actually reviving the genre . None of them compare - and that includes the Broadway musical derived from the film - because none of them have the darker , grittier , Depression subtext that makes " 42nd Street " true to its name .
remarkable , strange film	I basically checked out " Gabriel Over the White House " because of Walter Huston , an actor I have always considered one of the greats . He doesn't disappoint as the President of the United States in this bizarre fantasy , produced by William Randolph Hearst and promoting his ideas of fascism . I gave this film a high mark ( 8 ) not because I loved it but because it is a fascinating film from a historical point of view . Newly-elected President Hammond ( Huston ) pays lip service to the needs of the depression-ridden people by uttering platitudes , and meanwhile , is content to do what the party tells him . Meanwhile , he brings his girlfriend on as his personal assistant . He pays no attention to the head of a group of unemployed men who plan to march on Washington , though it isn't made clear why his party isn't interested in doing anything to stop the depression . One day , while driving his car at breakneck speed ( as if all Presidents are encouraged to do this ) , he crashes and slips into a coma . When he comes to , he hears a horn playing a passage from Brahms Symphony 1 in C Minor , Opus 68 and has a change of heart . This supposedly is the angel Gabriel checking in . After that , he becomes a dictator of sorts , usurping the system of checks and balances . He forms a WPA of sorts for the unemployed , has executions of gangsters , and forms the Washington covenant to reduce arms buildup from countries around the world . Supposedly there was an assassination attempt that takes place in the film that was cut after an attempt was made on Roosevelt's life . Supposedly this film was shelved by a nervous Louis B . Mayer until after FDR was elected . It's surprising he released it at all . There is supposedly an alternate version that acknowledges the dangers of fascism . Whatever version you see , this is a film very much of its time as far as the political climate and the thinking of a powerful man like Hearst , and as such makes for remarkable viewing .
Exciting drama starring Jack Palance - and Jack Palance	Jack Palance plays look-alike brothers in " House of Numbers , " a 1957 film also starring Barbara Lang and Harold Stone . A " B " movie didn't mean a film wasn't good , and " House of Numbers " is proof of that . Palance plays a man who is desperate to get his brother out of San Quentin . He enlists the help of his sister-in-law , played by Barbara Lang . Harold Stone is on hand as a nosy prison guard . Palance is fantastic in the two roles . They're not twins , so there's a makeup change , and Palance creates two different characters . One is gentle and shy ; the other is older-looking , tough , and speaks in a somewhat hoarse voice . One is shorter than the other , too . Barbara Lang was one of the many Marilyn Monroe types who was around in the 1950s . Young , quite slender with overly blond hair that's too big for her , her speech is reminiscent of Monroe's , and facially , she looks like Natalie Wood . She went on to have an enormous career on Broadway in many musicals and did other theater as well . She doesn't have much to do in this film except heat up the male characters , which she accomplishes with little effort . " House of Numbers " will have you on the edge of your seat . Highly recommended .
heavenly dancing , heavenly music , heavenly partnership	There's something special about all of the Astaire-Rogers movies , and " Swing Time " is no exception . Directed by George Stevens , it tells the story of a dancer and a gambler - not seen as much of a catch by his future father-in-law - who , after he misses his wedding , goes to New York . He promises his fiance's father that he will return , solvent , and ask again for his daughter's hand in marriage . Once in New York , he falls for Ginger Rogers , who was never prettier than in this film . One thing leads to another , and the wind up as dance partners . Eric Blore , Helen Broderick , and Victor Moore supply able support , and the film has a beautiful Jerome Kern score : " Pick Yourself Up , " " The Way You Look Tonight , " and " A Fine Romance " being a few of the numbers . There are two knockout pieces in this film - Astaire's tribute to Bill " Bojangles " Robinson is one of the most stunning numbers Astaire ever did . He manages to wear blackface and not have it be offensive , as it's very light makeup to suggest his portrayal of Robinson . The number , with its accompanying huge dancing shadows , is magnificent . And the final number - " Never Gonna Dance " surely is one of their top dances ever , with that incredible deco set , the double curving stairways , and Ginger in that glorious dress . It's hard to sum up how their dancing lifts you up and out of whatever ails you . Definitely their smoothness , footwork , chemistry , and glamor reach out to my soul every time I see them .
Thrilling suspenser from Warner Brothers	It's wartime and Warners is short of those hot , young leading men , so they bring on one of the all-time great screen odd couples - Sydney and Peter - to work their magic . And as always , they deliver , in " The Mask of Dimitrios " starring Zachary Scott , Sydney Greenstreet , Peter Lorre , and Faye Emerson . Though never leaving the back lot of Warners , the film takes writer Cornelius Leyden ( Lorre ) through Istanbul , Athens , Sofia , Geneva , Belgrade and Paris , following the life and career of an intriguing figure - Dimitrios - whose dead body Leyden has just seen in the morgue . The more he learns about this man , the more fascinated he becomes , and he smells a great story . Dimitrios is a con man , a thief , a blackmailer , and a spy for hire , and his victims tell their stories in a series of flashbacks . One of these is a nightclub owner ( Emerson ) , who owns a nightclub in Sofia ; another is a police detective ; another a spy . Finally , Cornelius meets Mr . Peters ( Greenstreet ) who has some startling information . . . and a plan . " The Mask of Dimitrios " captures a European flavor with its international cast and creative sets , and director Jean Negulesco keeps the action moving . In the title role , Zachary Scott is appropriately both attractive and slithery as a man constantly eluding those out to get him . Lorre is just great , becoming more and more worried and confused as he is drawn deeper into Dimitrios ' adventures . Sydney Greenstreet gives a performance as big as he is as Mr . Peters - the scene where he passionately embraces French francs is one of his best ever ! The last half hour or so belong to these two screen gems , Lorre and Greenstreet , and it's very exciting . Two odd-sized , talented character men who helped keep Warner Brothers grinding out films during the war , Lorre and Greenstreet made ten films together . Unfortunately , we don't have anything like these two making movies today . Don't miss them in " The Mask of Dimitrios . "
Square cut or pear shaped , this is a diamond	Marilyn Monroe and Jane Russell team up for " Gentlemen Prefer Blondes , " also starring Charles Coburn , Elliot Reid , Tommy Noonan , and George Winslow . Marilyn and Jane are Lorelei Lee and Dorothy , two showgirls and best friends en route to Paris . The gold-digging Lorelei intends to marry her rich , nerdy , beloved beau , Gus , but his father has a detective on board hoping to get something on her . Meanwhile , an older , wealthy man ( Coburn ) takes an interest in her while she takes an interest in his wife's tiara , and Dorothy starts to fall for the detective . The result is a delightful musical comedy . Jane and Marilyn are in top form , both traffic-stopping , sexy , stunning women and wonderful performers . Russell is leggy and earthy , with a good singing voice and nice line delivery as the more grounded Dorothy . Monroe is exquisite , really shining in the number later copied by Madonna for " Material Girl , " " Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend . " All the numbers are energetic and great . This film really solidified Monroe's position at Twentieth Century Fox , and it's easy to see why . Though she wanted to do drama , for this viewer , her very careful enunciation limited her somewhat , though she is excellent in " Don't Bother to Knock " and " Niagara . " Her characterization of Lorelei is marvelous - the dumb blonde who's not so dumb . " I can be smart when it's important , " she says with a sly smile . No matter what the role , Monroe always had a sweetness about her - you could hear it in her voice and see it in her smile . It's a shame she was so insecure . During " Some Like it Hot , " Billy Wilder noticed that she kept looking at Paula Strasberg for approval after every scene , and Strasberg would give her some sort of a sign . Wilder pretended not to notice until after one take , when he turned to Strasberg and yelled , " HOW ABOUT YOU , PAULA ? WAS IT OKAY ? " Poor Marilyn . She had it all . She just didn't know it .
Fun comedy	Reese Witherspoon is " Legally Blonde " in this 2001 comedy that's a switch on the old nerd who wants to be one of the beautiful people and gets a makeover . This time , the beautiful person wants to be one of the nerds . After her boyfriend Warner ( Matthew Davis ) , who's from old money , breaks up with her and goes to Harvard , Elle decides to get into Harvard too and prove she has what it takes to be Mrs . Warner Huntington III . Along the way , she learns that the only thing that's " blonde " about her is her hair . This is a very light , fun comedy buoyed by Witherspoon's charming performance , which hits just the right note . She gives us a complete character , a person into exteriors who also has brains . She's a complete bubblebrain , all about superficiality , who finds out there are other things in the world , such as brains , integrity and depth . One of my favorite scenes is her coaching of the beauty salon employee on attracting the UPS guy - priceless . My other favorite scene is when Elle's fashion sense prevails in the courtroom - hilarious . I love the film's complete lack of vulgarity and sense of fun , as well as its excellent cast which includes Victor Garber , Holland Taylor , Selma Blair , Luke Wilson and Jennifer Coolidge . It makes its point without taking itself too seriously . Highly recommended .
Unrelenting	Well , if there was ever a movie to make you sink to your knees and thank the good Lord that you weren't in Russia during WW II , this is it . An absolutely brilliant film , unrelenting in its graphic depiction of the horrors and filth of war . Uniformly excellent acting from all of the principals and supporting cast adds to our identification with some characters and revulsion for others . This isn't my kind of movie , nor is it for the squeamish , but it's a fantastic film .
Deceptive	Truman Burbank ( Jim Carrey ) is the star of " The Truman Show " in this 1998 film directed by Peter Weir . Truman's life is a fake reality show , watched by millions of viewers , though he doesn't know that . He lives in the small seaside town of Seahaven , a peaceful place . Truman is married , has a best friend and works as an insurance agent . He has an unnatural fear of water after being in a boating accident in which his father died . One day he boards an elevator and it isn't an elevator ; he sees his dead father in town ; and a woman has a strange message for him that he doesn't understand . He tries to leave town with his wife , and it simply doesn't happen . The " reality , " if there is one , is that Truman doesn't really exist ; the town is fake , filled with actors ( one of whom , the man who played his father , comes back to make trouble ) . That person on the bicycle , the passing car , etc . , that's on a repeating loop . He has a public he has never met who follow each phase of life with interest . His producer , the man who created Truman , is a man named Christof , who took an illegitimate child and turned him into a media star . When Truman tries to get out , he realizes just how trapped he is . With today's reality shows abounding , " The Truman Show " today is even more fascinating than it was in 1998 . Here's a reality show that's not a reality - and it makes you wonder about what we're watching on reality shows today . It brings up all the metaphysical questions of who am I and who made me . The film also asks us to take a look at our attraction to the lives of celebrities , where people are merely an image , and where we separate the events of their lives from the actual human being for some good gossip ; after all , we only know the persona , not the real person , and we only know what the media reports , not the whole story . In the end we have no idea of what Britney Spears or Madonna or Brangelina are like as people , what they think , what their day to day life is like . In the movie , we know Truman's - and his whole story is false . It's said that a great comedian can do drama , and Jim Carrey is proof of this , giving a brilliant , heartfelt performance as Truman . Ed Harris is fabulous as Christoff , the puppeteer who created Truman and needs him . Such a wonderful film , it demands a second viewing .
Ustinov and Smith - like I suppose it could get any better than this !	Talk about a dream cast - just two of the most wonderful actors who ever appeared anywhere - Peter Ustinov and Maggie Smith - together - in " Hot Millions , " a funny , quirky comedy also starring Karl Malden , Robert Morley , and Bob Newhart . Ustinov is an ex-con embezzler who gets the resume of a talented computer programmer ( Morley ) and takes a position in a firm run by Malden - with the goal of embezzlement in mind . It's not smooth sailing ; he has attracted the attention of his competitor at the company , played by Newhart , and his neighbor , Maggie Smith ( who knows him at their place of residence under another name ) , becomes his secretary for a brief period . She can't keep a job and she is seen throughout the film in a variety of employment - all ending with her being fired . When Newhart makes advances to her , she invites Ustinov over to her flat for curry as a cover-up , but the two soon decide they're made for each other . Of course , she doesn't know Ustinov is a crook . This is such a good movie - you can't help but love Ustinov and Smith and be fascinated by Ustinov's machinations , his genius , and the ways he slithers out of trouble . But there's a twist ending that will show you who really has the brains . Don't miss this movie , set in ' 60s London . It's worth if it only to hear Maggie Smith whine , " I've been sacked . "
Powerful , beautifully acted film	" These Three " is an absorbing film that somehow manages to retain its integrity despite being different from the play , " The Children's Hour , " on which it is based . Having seen the later film , " The Children's Hour , " about two teachers accused of lesbianism , I wondered how the 1936 film would measure up . The answer : Brilliantly . Part of the reason for this is , as Lilliam Hellman , the playwright herself stated - the play isn't really about lesbianism , it's about a children's lie . And the vicious , destructive lie of a child is still central here , though now it concerns the supposed affair of Miriam Hopkins and Joel McCrea , who is engaged to marry Merle Oberon , Hopkins ' partner in a girls school . Another reason for the film's success is the flawless direction by William Wyler , and last but not least , a sympathetic trio . Hopkins is a standout with her strong , passionate performance . Bonita Granville , the bad seed , is such an evil , blackmailing brat , that I'm sure when 1936 audiences saw Margaret Hamilton slap her , they broke into applause . I nearly did , and I was watching it alone ! It's an unrelenting performance , though she's such a walking horror show , it's remarkable anyone believed her in her " earnest " moments , which were calculated , as only a monster's can be ! Highly recommended .
Hard to take	Robert Ryan is a victim of " The Set-Up " in this 1949 film also starring Audrey Totter , George Tobias and Percy Helton . Ryan plays Stoker Thompson , a 35-year-old prize fighter who is still trying to make it . Totter is his wife , who wants him to quit before he's crippled and / or brain-damaged . In fact , she's not even sure she can watch him fight anymore , though he begs her to come to the arena . What he doesn't know is that his handlers have accepted money for him to take a fall . They don't bother telling him because they believe he's going to lose anyway . Hollywood has long had a love affair with the fight business . It's easy to see why - it's a visual sport and one-on-one , and there's always a story to tell , either about a loser or an egomaniacal winner . " The Set-Up " is a fascinating film brilliantly directed by Robert Wise , with the boxing match done in real time . The action switches back and forth from the arena to Stoker's wife walking through the dark city trying to sort out her feelings and ultimately ripping up her ticket to the match . Meanwhile , Stoker keeps looking out the window at his apartment window - when he sees that the lights are off , he believes she's coming to the fight . The fight itself is incredibly realistic and brutal , and the focus is on what can only be described as sadists sitting around the ring yelling , truly man at his most barbaric in Wise's approach . The entire experience - the fight and the audience reactions - is very uncomfortable . The match is difficult enough to watch , but the aftermath is worse for the tension factor alone . Interestingly , Wise lets us see the violence in the ring and let's us imagine some of the violence outside of it later . For a time in his career , Robert Ryan had kind of a gentle giant thing going occasionally . A very prolific actor , he could be pathetic , as he is here , or take on a character with mental or emotional problems with ease . As his career continued , he played increasingly more angry and violent men . Toward the end of his career , however , he portrayed John the Baptist and Nolan in " The Man Without a Country . " He's terrific here as a sad , desperate man going for the glory when he's just about washed up ; he is in a business with no humanity , yet he sticks out because he is kind and reeks of goodness . Audrey Totter is very good as his wife , who loves him and wants more for him than being beaten up . Tobias and Helton give great performances as men whose souls left them a long time ago . The rest of the cast is equally good . This film makes a profound impression on the viewer , and if you're not interested in fighting , you definitely won't be after this film . If you're a fan of the sport , you'll perhaps ask yourself why . No matter what , you won't be unaffected .
excellent later period Columbo	Faye Dunaway is the guest star of this marvelous Columbo , who seems to be entering into a flirtation with a beautiful socialite . This is a little off the beaten track for our sloppy detective friend as the lady even attempts to spiff him up with a new tie . The socialite has , with a partner , murdered her gigolo lover and attempted to cover up the true time of the killing , thereby providing an alibi for herself . She's very clever . So , of course , is Columbo . The Dunaway character is depending on Columbo's attraction to her to get away scott-free . This is a clever script with a marvelous performance by Dunaway , Claudia Christian , and the man himself , Peter Falk .
Powerful film , but Ty is just in it for box office	This is a wonderful movie about the struggle of the Mormons and their final settlement in Salt Lake , Utah . The beginning and the ending are especially powerful , and the message is one we all have to be reminded of - God doesn't talk , but he communicates , if we would only listen . As I am writing this in the midst of the horrors going on in New Orleans and the surrounding area due to Katrina , I was especially moved by the Mormons having to leave everything behind and move on after Joseph Smith was assassinated . People came to this country to escape religious persecution , and yet they could not . The struggle of the Mormons to cross the country , the cost in lives , the hardship they suffered was truly awe-inspiring , demonstrating their tremendous strength . As far as the actual beliefs of Mormons , this is not heavily gone into , and polygamy is mentioned but is not a centerpiece of the film at all . The cast is top-notch , though others who have commented know more about the actual characters and can talk about how true the portrayals were . But as actors , Dean Jagger , Mary Astor , Brian Donlevy , John Carradine , Jane Darwell all do excellently with the script they were given . Though the film could have easily stood on its own ( and certainly does today ) Tyrone Power and Linda Darnell were added to the cast to get the crowds into the movie theaters to see a film about the Mormons . Power is magnificently handsome as a young Mormon , and Darnell , as Zina , is not a Mormon but stays on with the family after her father is killed . Power does not have much to do until the end of the film , when he has a big scene , and Darnell ( still a teenager at the time of the filming ) has even less , though they make a lovely couple . Their fate is left unclear regarding her conversion , and one does wonder about the polygamy in their case . You can't beat either one for eye candy , however .
Splendini , and I mean that with all due respect	Scarlett Johansson is an aspiring journalism student who steps into a magician's dematerializer and is visited by a dead reporter in " Scoop , " also starring Woody Allen , Hugh Jackman , and Ian McShane . We first meet the reporter , Joe Strombel ( McShane ) , on a boat with other dead people headed for who knows where . He is told by a dead woman that her boss poisoned her when she realized he was the infamous Tarot Card Killer now terrorizing London . Strombel gets the message to Sondra Pransky when he sends out vibes and winds up with her in the closed dematerializer box on stage before a live audience during Splendini's act . Sondra , with the help of the magician , Splendini ( Allen ) sets out to investigate the alleged killer , the handsome and charming Peter Lyman ( Jackman ) . This is whimsical Woody a la " Manhattan Murder Mystery , " and it's a highly entertaining , funny film . Considering that Allen doesn't believe in life after death , it's interesting that he has both Splendini and Sondra visited by the dead Strombel . The concept of the dead on a boat perhaps came from " Between Two Worlds " starring John Garfield - as a kid , Woody loved the old films . There is certainly an homage to " Notorious " when Splendini ( aka Sid ) and " Jade " ( Sondra's alias ) sneak into Lyman's music room at Strombel's behest to investigate . The room is right next to the wine holders . Most of the funny lines belong to Sid / Splendini , and Johansson's humor comes out of her amusing characterization , a departure from her normal sexy roles . Here she dresses simply , wears glasses ( " I don't like to touch my eyeballs " ) and yells at Sid for being uncouth in the presence of class . They make a odd pairing , but a delightful one . Allen continues to churn them out , and for those who thought he was through , it's doubtful that he will be - until he himself boards a boat heading who knows where .
Priceless	Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are a miserable married couple in " The Ref , " also starring Denis Leary , Glynis Johns , and Christine Baranski . One could not ask for a better cast , and after seeing this , I think a stage production of " Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolff " starring Spacey and Davis would be inspired . They are biting , funny , and poignant - the scene in the marriage counselor's office is hilarious . This is not your usual Christmas movie for sure . Spacey and Davis play Lloyd and Caroline , a couple basically held hostage by a thief on the lam ( Leary ) . He becomes totally sick of them but can't leave until he hears from his partner . The couple is nervous about their son , Jesse , coming home , but Jesse can take care of himself - - he was probably named for a famous outlaw . He has $11 , 000 that he earned as a blackmailer up in his room plus the missing , large community baby Jesus hidden in a drawer . Adding tension to the hostage situation is the arrival of the family for Christmas dinner , so Leary dresses up and pretends to be their marriage counselor . Glynis Johns is Lloyd's wealthy mother , who gives her daughter-in-law ( Baranski ) slipper socks for Christmas and charges Lloyd and Caroline 18 % interest on a loan . A doll . The dinner is a traditional Scandinavian holiday dinner , and everyone wears wreaths on their heads that have lit candles sticking out of them while Caroline tells the gross story of Saint Lucia , who wouldn't burn at the stake . Don't look for this one on Lifetime during the holiday season . The entire cast is fantastic , but Spacey , Davis , and Leary earn special kudos for great performances in this offbeat film , beautifully directed by Ted Demme .
why would anyone mess with Robert Ryan ?	Inferno is a small but excellent 1953 film about a beautiful woman ( Rhonda Fleming ) and her lover ( William Lundigan ) who leave the woman's husband ( Robert Ryan ) alone in the desert with a broken leg , assuming he'll croak . The story focuses on Ryan's character trying to survive in the desert and what he learns about himself . With gorgeous Rhonda Fleming in the movie , it's done in color . A chimpanzee could have played her part - there's precious little acting involved - but she certainly adds tremendous beauty to the production . She and another spectacular redhead , Arlene Dahl , both were getting larger roles in films at the time the studio system was winding down . Ten years earlier , they might have ruled the world . William Lundigan is appropriately cold-blooded as her horny lover , and Larry Keating is an appropriately concerned business associate . But this is Ryan's film , and he's top-notch . His thoughts come over as voice-over , and you're pulling for him every step of the way , despite everyone describing him as unpleasant . Excellent film , quite a surprise .
a gem	It's always great to find a " little " film on video that you never heard of and have it turn out to be worth your while . The Gift , with its rockin'-sock ' em cast and neat story is one of these . The question I have is , with all the junk the studios publicize and the garbage that sits in our theaters , why don't these films get any attention ? Pearl Harbor should boast a cast like this : Cate Blanchett , Billy Bob Thornton , Hillary Swank , Greg Kinnear , Rosemary Harris , Michael Jeter , Gary Cole and Sam Raimi directing . Give me a break . This movie is entertaining , suspenseful , warm , uplifting - and guess what , I didn't miss the special effects , bad acting or over-hype .
another winner from Joseph Mankiewicz	One of Hollywood's best directors , Joseph Mankiewicz , who gave us " All About Eve , " had a previous winner with " A Letter to Three Wives , " starring Linda Darnell , Jeanne Crain , Ann Sothern , Kirk Douglas , Paul Douglas , Jeffrey Lynn , Thelma Ritter , and Connie Gilchrist . The never-seen Addie Ross ( voice of Celeste Holm ) has run off with the husband of one of her friends - whose ? Three women look back over their marriages , each realizing she could be the one who will not come home to anyone that evening . Linda Darnell was involved with Mankiewicz during the filming of " A Letter to Three Wives " in what would be a devastating relationship for her . Her story is the most fun and interesting of the film . Lolamae works in one of Porter Hollingsway's department stores , and she manages to nab the boss by playing her cards just right . He assumes throughout their marriage that she's with him because of his money . The funniest parts of the film take place in the home Lolamae shares with her mother ( Connie Gilchrist ) and sister . They live next to the train tracks and when a train goes by , the house rattles and shakes . Each time this happens , everyone just waits patiently for the train to go by as they rattle right along with it and then takes up where they left off as if nothing happened . When Lolamae and Hollingsway announce their engagement , Gilchrist cries out , " Bingo ! " and faints ! Thelma Ritter plays Gilchrist's best friend . The two provide some of the best moments in the film - Ritter is also the maid in the home of Ann Sothern and Kirk Douglas . Lolamae and Paul are the most fully drawn couple , and the one the audience is most invested in . As with " All About Eve , " the female characters are the focal point . Sothern is married to Kirk Douglas - he's a schoolteacher and she writes for radio , so it's intellect vs . the dumbing down of America fight ; Jeanne Crain plays a woman who married upper class Jeffrey Lynn after leaving the service , and she originally feels out of her element among his tight-knit group of country club members . All of these women have to contend with the much admired ( by males ) Addie Ross , who remembers their men's birthdays , dresses beautifully , sends wonderful gifts , and has loads of class . When it was pointed out to Mankiewicz that Jeanne Crain had played a character named Deborah in two films for him , he replied , " I don't like the name Deborah , and I don't like Jeanne Crain . " Hers is the weakest storyline , but she is beautiful and gives a good performance . Lynn as her husband has very little to do . Sothern and Douglas make a spirited couple - he's at the height of his good looks , and Sothern makes the most of her witty dialogue . But in the end , the focus is on Darnell and Paul Douglas . Darnell is stunningly beautiful and , because of this , isn't often thought of as a great actress . She brings a dry humor , sexiness , and vulnerability to the role of a woman who on the surface appears clever and a little too street smart for her own good . Douglas is a wonder , a complete natural - he plays his role as if Porter could just as easily be a hardware salesman as a filthy rich department store owner . He's both endearing and sympathetic , with his dumb , lovable face and his immaculately tailored suits . While they don't look like a perfect couple , their chemistry and what's underneath their bantering dialogue makes them one . Now , which husband ran off with Addie ? See if you can figure it out during this highly entertaining and well-acted film .
excellent MGM look at Nazis in 1933 Germany	A family is divided by two sons ' belief in " the new Germany " in " The Mortal Storm , " a 1940 film set at the time that Hitler became Chancellor of Germany . Frank Morgan plays the Jewish ( though he is only referred to as non-Aryan ) Professor Roth who has a son and a daughter Freya ( Margaret Sullavan ) with his current wife , and two stepsons ( one of whom is the most baby-faced Robert Stack you could ever imagine ) . The two boys , along with Frey's boyfriend Fritz ( Robert Young ) , have embraced the " New Germany " and follow its dictates . This causes Freya to reject Fritz and turn to friend Martin Breitner ( James Stewart ) who rejects the party and has always been secretly in love with Freya . When Martin helps a teacher being pursued by the Nazis get to Austria , Martin himself becomes a man pursued . This is an excellent film , but first , a word about accents . Here we go . I have read several comments that no one attempted an accent except of course those who already had one , like Maria Ouspenskaya , and this always makes it confusing for the viewer . HOWEVER , the acting rule is this : When a play or movie is set in a country where English is not the first language , obviously , the people in that country ARE NOT SPEAKING English . In this case , they are speaking German , not English with a German ACCENT . Therefore , one does NOT use an accent . This is true for Chekhov , Ibsen , whomever . So the fact that James Stewart " didn't even attempt an accent " is because he shouldn't have had one , nor should Margaret Sullivan , Robert Young , Frank Morgan . The movie is poignant and suspenseful , with marvelous performances by this top cast , particularly from Stewart , Morgan , and Sullavan . Sullavan , a consummate stage performer until her suicide , is underrated as a film actress but always gave excellent performances . In fact , her screen test for " Rebecca " is one of the finest seen on the documentary about the search for a Mrs . DeWinter . Some interesting features - first of all , I didn't actually recognize Robert Stack ; secondly , a very young Dan Dailey has a rare dramatic turn as a Hitler youth ; thirdly , one questions escape to Austria , except that in 1933 , Austria was still available to flee to . At this time in Germany , artists like Billy Wilder were escaping to Berlin as well , and many left the country from there . The movie talks around the subject of Jews , never referring to anyone as Jewish , and it does not actually refer to the Nazi party though swastikas abound . This makes " The Mortal Storm " all the more fascinating . The best feature of the movie is that it's about a simple , happy family who live among friends in a university town in Southern Germany , and how the rise of Hitler broke that family apart and changed and ruined the lives of ordinary people . One thinks of the Franks and the families like the one characterized in " The Mortal Storm , " with hopes and dreams and ambitions . If they were among the very fortunate , those hopes , dreams and ambitions were put on hold for over a decade ; if not , they were wiped out by complete evil . Hitler hated this film . Gee , I wonder why .
hot stuff TV style , before Brosnan became a movie star	A few years after his success as Remington Steele , Pierce Brosnan made this film with Jobeth Williams and Virginia Madsen . Though highly derivative , it makes for very intriguing viewing . Williams is a psychiatrist with a few personal problems of her own . She meets Brosnan and , like any red-blooded , healthy woman , falls for him . He's a professor and author , and how every female student he has isn't running after him is unclear . Madsen plays a patient of Williams ' , and she has even more issues than Williams has . One of them concerns this man she's involved with . . . whom Williams finally realizes is Brosnan . The question is , is this young woman delusional ? Is she fabricating a relationship as Brosnan claims , or is Brosnan the liar ? Williams approaches the dilemma as a woman in love and not a psychiatrist , making her your pretty typical desperate female . One would hope a professional person would behave a bit differently , but life experience shows us this isn't necessarily the case . I found this film very entertaining with some hot , sexy love scenes , and it keeps you guessing . After you think you've figured it out , it'll have a surprise for you .
Excellent ' 50s tale of reality TV that wasn't	I was growing up during the Charles Van Doren scandal , and I remember his face on the front page of the paper and my mother crying . When I asked her what happened , she said , " He told a lie . " He told a whole bunch of them , in fact , and was part of the quiz show scandal of the ' 50s , which Quiz Show so beautifully dramatizes . Robert Redford does a fantastic job of recreating the atmosphere in perfect detail , as well as the fascinating story of the ' 50s version of reality TV , the quiz shows , going awry . Paul Scofield is absolutely mind-boggling as Van Doren Sr . , and Ralph Fiennes is wonderful , handsome , and charismatic as Charles Van Doren . The rest of the cast is marvelous - John Turturro , David Paymer , Hank Azaria , and Rob Morrow . Van Doren was a dream contestant - good-looking , educated , with a beautiful speaking voice - and captivated the country with his intelligence . Unfortunately , it wasn't reality at all , just fantasy . But , as Van Doren says while verbally sparring with his dad , " It was mine own . " It sure was , and he went into oblivion because of it .
Fabulous , sophisticated Lubitsch comedy	" Trouble in Paradise " is a wonderful , masterful comedy directed by the master , Ernst Lubitsch . It has a delightful cast , consisting of Kay Francis as her most glamorous , Herbert Marshall in a role that will seem like an aberration for him if you only know him from the 1940s , and the always excellent Miriam Hopkins . Marshall and Hopkins are Gaston and Lily , thieves , who go after a wealthy perfumer , Madame Colet ( Francis ) by working for her as secretary and maid , respectively . Lily , however , starts to believe that Gaston is falling for the mark . This pre-code comedy can only be described as delicious . The European atmosphere is marvelous , and the script is filled with sexual innuendo and wit . It's a gem of a comedy and certainly demonstrates what " the Lubitsch touch " is all about . Who knew Herbert Marshall could do comedy ? He's marvelous . Francis is the absolute height of continental sophistication . Hopkins , another one not known for comedy , is great as the jealous woman . A film that can be enjoyed again and again and , in these hard times , is the perfect escapist fare .
The power and the curse of dreams	James Cagney , Arthur Kennedy and Ann Sheridan all live in the " City for Conquest " - New York , that is - in this 1940 film directed by Anatole Litvak and also starring Frank McHugh , Donald Crisp , Anthony Quinn and - yes , Elia Kazan . Cagney and Kennedy are the Kenny Brothers , Danny and Eddie . Danny is a truck driver in love with Peg , his childhood sweetheart . He has two dreams - Peg and his brother's composing career . When he's discovered by a fight manager ( Crisp ) , Danny becomes a fighter for the money . The ambitious Peg has her eyes on fame and fortune and pairs up with a brutish but equally ambitious dancer , played with force by Anthony Quinn . Eddie , meanwhile , is discovered not for his magnificent composition " City for Conquest " but for his Broadway musical capabilities . When he realizes he's losing Peg , Danny , who is being brought up gradually into the bigger fights , demands to go for a big purse that will give him the championship - and , he thinks , Peg . Thanks to a crooked mobster , the fight nearly destroys Danny and he has to give up fighting . Down but not out , he insists that Eddie still pursue his dream of a classical career . This is a good movie that tugs at the heartstrings , very melodramatic , with excellent acting all around . Cagney is wonderful and sympathetic as a simple , loving man who takes what life gives him ; Crisp gives a fine performance as his caring fight manager . Ann Sheridan , always an earthier , tougher version of Rita Hayworth , is marvelous as a young woman who , though she loves Danny , can't fight the lure of the glamor and fame offered by her dance partnership . Kazan , in a small role as a gangster , is great , though his contributions as a director are far more valuable than what he might have given film history as an actor . The standout for me was one of the most brilliant and underrated actors of our time , Arthur Kennedy . Kennedy enjoyed a wonderful career in film and on stage in a variety of roles , but because he wasn't a true leading man and not a Warners " tough guy " like Cagney , Robinson , or Bogart who could graduate into lead roles , he toiled as a supporting actor , earning no less than 5 Oscar nominations . Here he is young and good-looking , and his performance is passionate without being maudlin . Surely there wasn't a dry eye in any movie house after the speech he gives about his brother the night his symphony ( very much modeled on " Rhapsody in Blue " ) debuts . Truly a great treasure , and he was discovered by James Cagney , who knew talent when he saw it . A heartfelt movie , and you'll need that box of tissues nearby . See it and celebrate the good old days of the rough streets of New York and movies about the common man and dreams coming true .
delightful Tracy and Hepburn vehicle	Based on the play of the same name , Desk Set , viewed today , is somewhat dated based on its use of an enormous computer that spits out data . But it's a fun dated - very ' 50s , with a great cast and wonderful performances . Katharine Hepburn plays the head librarian in the research department of a broadcasting company , and Spencer Tracy is an absent-minded professor type who brings this huge computer into the company . Hepburn , who has just seem a demonstration of what the future will hold at IBM , wonders if human beings won't become obsolete . But in a particularly wonderful scene , the two eat lunch on the roof of the building and Tracy gives her a test , which she passes with flying colors . This human being has a very unique mind . Tracy's competition is Gig Young , who is Hepburn's noncommittal , sometime beau , and the library's competition is the giant computer . Little did anyone know that because computers can do so much , the demand for information has only grown , and people haven't ( yet ) become obsolete , just busier . Technology-wise , this is a fascinating movie , entertainment wise , it's a marvelous one .
Laughter and charm galore	Lauren Bacall is a " Designing Woman " in this vibrant , sophisticated 1957 comedy directed by Vincent Minnelli and starring Gregory Peck , Delores Gray , Sam Levene , Tom Helmore , Mickey Shaughnessy , Jesse White and Chuck Connors . Suggested by costume designer Helen Rose , this story of a designer marrying a sportswriter is a loose remake of " Woman of the Year " - two people meet , fall in love , marry hastily , and then discover that they're from different worlds . And Mike Hagen ( Peck ) comes with baggage - an ex-girlfriend ( Delores Gray ) who is starring in the show Mirella ( Bacall ) is doing the costumes for , plus he has mobsters after him because of a series of stories he's writing . It's a recipe for good fun , some beautiful ' 50s fashions and most of all , excellent acting by the entire cast . Bacall and Peck work beautifully together , both displaying wonderful comic timing , the highlight being the ravioli scene . Mickey Shaughnessy is hilarious as Max , the punch-drunk fighter , and Delores Gray is sexy and sings up a storm as performer Laurie Shannon . Minnelli keeps the pace moving and gives us a good taste of putting on a Broadway show and some of the personalities involved . Someone on the board mentioned that the Peck and Bacall looked as though they were having fun . Hopefully , that's true . This was made shortly before Humphrey Bogart's death - the film was actually released about 5 months after he died - and it's a tribute to Bacall's professionalism that she was able to pull off a comedy under such circumstances . I don't think her personal life could have been much fun at all .
Superb	An Italian-American family is the subject of " House of Strangers , " a 1949 film starring Edward G . Robinson , Richard Conte , Susan Hayward , Luther Adler , Debra Paget , Hope Emerson , and Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . Being of Italian extraction myself , I actually thought this film was written by an Italian and was surprised to see it wasn't . It was dead on . Edward G . Robinson is Gino Monetti , who owns a bank in the ' 30s . He runs it like he's selling items out of his garage , with lousy bookkeeping , some people being charged interest up front on loans and some getting more money than they asked for . He has four sons , three of whom he treats like second-class citizens : Pietro is a guard at the bank by day and an amateur boxer by night , Joe is a teller , and Tony is a clerk . When Joe , who married a woman from a good Philadelphia family , asks for a raise he was promised , he gets a lecture from Gino about how the family lived in the back of a barber shop when Gino made $15 a week . When Pietro loses a boxing match , Gino takes the jacket off of his shoulders that says " Monetti Bank . " Gino runs his home with more rigidity than he does his bank : His wife doesn't say much , and he has mandatory Wednesday night spaghetti dinners during which he plays opera recordings such as " Il Barbiere di Siviglia " starring Lawrence Tibbett . Gino has a favored child , and that's Max , his lawyer son . When the Feds start investigating Gino , Max comes up with a solution . If all the brothers will take responsibility for the sloppiness at the bank , the Feds won't be able to pin anything on anybody . But the sons refuse to lift a finger to help their father , ultimately forcing him out and starting their own bank . Max goes to prison for attempting to bribe a juror , and when he gets out , he's bent on revenge against his brothers . The acting is this film is nothing short of fantastic . Robinson is perfect as the dictatorial , ruthless Gino . Conte is totally believable as the favorite son - efficient and slightly to the right of slimy . Luther Adler gives a brilliant performance as the henpecked Tony . The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent . Susan Hayward plays Max's love interest , a woman who gives as good as she gets . She looks sensational and does a terrific job in her role . Stardom is right around the corner for her , and it's no surprise . With a great pace kept by Joseph Mankiewicz , this is a film that I'm surprised we don't hear more about . It just goes to show that there were so many great films made in Hollywood in the past that even some marvelous ones are overlooked . " House of Strangers " is definitely one to see and remember .
Hilarious send-up of the Frankenstein story	Gene Wilder is the scientist Dr . Frederick Frankenstein ( pronounced Fronkenshteen ) who returns to the family castle in " Young Frankenstein , " a classic , 1974 Mel Brooks comedy that is now enjoying a reincarnation as a Broadway musical . Besides Wilder , it stars Marty Feldman , Madeline Kahn , Teri Garr , Peter Boyle and Cloris Leachman , all of whom are hilarious . Kahn is the wealthy fiance of Dr . F , who sees him off at the train station as he leaves to collect his inheritance of the Frankenstein castle and his grandfather's papers . There he meets Igor ( pronounced EYE-gor ) ( Feldman ) , who has a hump that moves from side to side - not that he admits to having one ( " what hump ? " ) , the housekeeper Frau Blucher - every time her name is mentioned , horses can be heard neighing in the distance , and a busty lab assistant named Inga ( Garr ) . As if genetically encrypted , he repeats grandpa's experiments and creates a monster ( Peter Boyle ) . What follows is a take-off on the " Frankenstein " films as the monster escapes and meets a little girl and a blind man ( the uncredited Gene Hackman in a " Bride of Frankenstein " moment ) , the scenes all the funnier if you've seen the originals . Frankenstein is recaptured , and in order to prove his genius , Dr . F introduces him to a crowd of scientists , and man and his creation perform " Puttin ' on the Ritz , " the highlight of the film . The movie is complete insanity , which is its intent , with great characterizations , funny bits and humor ranging from side-splitting to silly to sexual . The performances are fantastic : Wilder plays it straight and dramatic , making his Dr . F even funnier than if he'd camped it up ; Feldman also takes his part seriously and gives some deadpan line deliveries ; Garr sports a German accent and is very funny as Inga ; Leachman's Frau Blucher , who breaks down and admits the earlier Dr . F " vas my BOYFWEND " gives a truly classic performance in one of the best roles in the film . Peter Boyle's Frankenstein , when he finally speaks , has shades of Marlon Brando - Boyle is positively brilliant , first as a horny giant , then as a singer / dancer , and finally as a misunderstood misfit . The best performance , in my opinion , comes from Madeline Kahn as Elizabeth . It's a bravura performance with her every moment a comic gem , giving the role the magic touch that only she could . Feldman , Boyle , and Kahn are gone now , far too soon , but they all left wonderful comic legacies . Elizabeth is probably Kahn's best film performance . Who can ever hear " Ah , Sweet Mystery of Life ! " in the same way again .
Excellent film , shades of On the Waterfront	1957's Edge of the City , directed by Martin Ritt , stars John Cassavetes , Sidney Poitier , Jack Warden and Ruby Dee . It's the story of a troubled man , Axel , who has a mysterious past that gradually comes out during the film . He has a connection that gets him a job on a loading dock working for Charlie ( Jack Warden ) , a real meanie who takes kickbacks from his workers and rides them hard . Charlie has an intense dislike for a black man , T . T . ( Poitier ) who holds the same position . T . T . invites Axel to work on his team ; Axel defies Charlie and does so . Axel finds a place to live and socializes with T . T . , his his wife ( Dee ) and their son's white schoolteacher ( Kathleen McGuire ) . When tragedy strikes , none of the men on the loading dock will talk to the police , and Axel has to come to grips with his values , what he stands for , and the meaning of friendship . This is a really excellent black and white film that curiously isn't really about being black or white ! It's really about the limits one puts on oneself and knowing who you are . Charlie is a bigot and hates that a black man has a good position on the dock . T . T . teases Charlie and gives as good as he gets . There's no discussion of T . T . and Axel spending time together or of T . T . ' s son having a white teacher with whom the family also socializes . What Axel , a loner , finds difficult is accepting any friendship or confiding in anyone - these things he learns through T . T . Poitier absolutely shines in " Edge of the City " - he's warm , energetic , loving and smart , a man with a real enthusiasm for life , afraid of nothing . Cassavetes is excellent and plays a character totally opposite - hiding in the shadows , chronically depressed and always nervous . The film leaves open what happens to Axel . Whatever does , he's a different man now . Strangely underrated and unknown film , possibly in the shadow of a lot of the angry young men films that came out in that era .
early wife abuse drama	Before we heard a lot about wife beating , this excellent film depicted it from both sides and explored the issue . Sally Struthers is the abused wife , and Dennis Weaver is the confused and sometimes out of control husband . Tyne Daly is great in a supporting role as a friend of the wife . Weaver does a wonderful job in depicting the husband and making him sympathetic . It is almost painful to watch his torment . He is a man deeply troubled by what it means to be a man , having picked up some bizarre signals in his childhood . As his life's frustrations come to a boil , he takes it out on Struthers , sometimes in front of their children . As his wife eventually struggles for independence , she engenders his jealousy as well as his anger . This is an very moving and well done film for television . Highly recommended .
suspicious minds	Jean Harlow is the secretary no wife wants her husband to have in " Wife vs . Secretary " starring Clark Gable , Myrna Loy , and Harlow , with an early appearance by James Stewart . It's hard to believe , looking at this film , that Jean Harlow would be dead a year later . Less blonde than in some earlier films , and far more subdued , she plays the indispensable , smart , and efficient secretary of Clark Gable . Gable is a high-pressured businessman happily married to Myrna Loy . All is well until her mother-in-law advises her to make Gable get rid of that good-looking assistant . Slowly , Loy begins to realize that everyone in their circle is assuming an affair , which up to that point hadn't crossed her mind . It does now . Harlow is involved with James Stewart , and he doesn't want her to work after they get married . Her job , he feels , is too exciting and important and will threaten their marriage . Harlow is half in love with Gable and refuses to quit . Stewart is adorable and gives a hint of what will be truly be one of the great screen personas . The cast is splendid . Gable is his usual charming self ; Loy and Harlow are perfect casting as unique women who are complete opposites . Their final scene together consists of only a long look . It's very effective , as is the acting of both women throughout . Loy's scene with her mother-in-law is heartbreaking . This is a dated film but very satisfying . Although it's wonderful to see these stars together , it's sad to realize they're all gone now , and that young Harlow has been gone for 68 years . Quite a loss .
excellent World War II chess game on the high seas	Curt Jurgens and Robert Mitchum play commanders on opposite sides of the war in " The Enemy Below , " tautly directed by Dick Powell . Powell was multitalented - he started out as a light leading man / crooner in ' 30s musicals , turned into a hard-boiled detective type in the ' 40s , a director in the ' 50s , and the star of a hit television show in the ' 60s . On top of which , he was an excellent businessman . You don't hear much about him anymore , and it's too bad . He is responsible for one of my favorite quotes - when offered the role of Richard Diamond on TV , he said , " No . I can't hold in my stomach for 28 weeks . " Jurgens gives a remarkable performance as a German submarine commander who's sick of the war and disillusioned by it . " If we die , we die without God , " he observes . Towards the beginning of the film , he delivers a remarkable monologue . On the American side , Mitchum is the new commander of a destroyer who quickly gains the respect and confidence of his crew as he attempts to outmanuever Jurgens in a cat and mouse game . Both men quickly realize that they have a lot in common with the enemy and develop a begrudging respect for one another , even as they try to guess the next move . The action is exciting , and the film keeps up its tense atmosphere . I thought the end was very touching and a good reminder that , as Mitchum states earlier , " We're all human . "
Nice documentary on a top leading lady of the ' 30s and early ' 40s	Though Alice Faye was alive at the time this biography was produced , she did not appear on camera . Instead , she let her friends , family , and most of all , her work do the talking . The result is a pleasant and interesting story of a wonderful 20th Century Fox star . The narration tells of Faye's poor New York City background and her early success as a performer starting at the age of 14 , as she lied about her age . After spending time as a dancer , she wound up on the radio with Rudy Vallee and eventually got her chance in Hollywood . When she got to Fox Studios , the idea was to turn her into their version of Harlow , but when Zanuck came in and the studio became 20th Century Fox , her image was changed to a more natural one . She went on to become a very big star in a series of musicals , notably " In Old Chicago , " " Alexander's Ragtime Band , " " Rose of Washington Square , " " Lillian Russell , " and others between the period of 1936-1945 . Faye walked out of 20th Century Fox in 1945 , after seeing a rough cut of the Otto Preminger film " Dark Angel , " in which she costarred with Dana Andrews . After fighting for a different kind of role , i . e . , not a musical , Faye was hurt and distressed that the film had been cut to favor Linda Darnell . She left the studio forever , became a very big star on radio with her husband , Phil Harris , and didn't return to movies until 1962's State Fair . Not liking the changes in the film industry , she retired from movies for good . She had a big hit in " Good News " on the road and on Broadway , and later became a spokeswoman for Pfizer Pharmaceuticals promoting wellness for the elderly . Faye , of course , wouldn't be the last star to make a fortune for Darryl F . Zanuck and then get short shrift . Two years later , he did the same thing to Tyrone Power , allowing him to make " Nightmare Alley " and then not promoting it and yanking it from release early . It's sad that these stars kept the studio going during hard times , only to be rewarded with bad treatment later on . Faye enjoyed a wonderful career , however , and a wonderful home life , and we still have her movies to enjoy . Pretty , tough , smart , talented , generous , hard-working , and inspirational - you really can't ask for more than that .
Marvelous	Spencer Tracy is " Edison , the Man " in this 1940 film also starring Gene Lockhart , Felix Bressart , Gene Reynolds and Charles Coburn . The Clarence Brown-directed film begins with Edison as an old man looking back on his life as he's talking to kids from a school newspaper . Edison had a brilliant mind and invented many things , including conducting something like 2 , 000 experiments before he found a way to get a light bulb to work . One of his inventions was the " talking machine , " and if you go on wikipedia . com , you can actually hear Edison speaking into it . This is my favorite part of the film - I worked on a dictaphone machine back in the ' 70s that looked like a smaller version of what Edison invents in the movie . The transcriber placed a blue belt with grids in it on a roller , and , as the belt moved , you transcribed . It seems so archaic 30 years later . The film is fairly inaccurate concerning Edison's private life and other details , but hopefully , it's interesting enough that it will inspire the viewer to read all about this remarkable man , well played by Spencer Tracy . The supporting cast is also excellent . Highly entertaining and well worth seeing .
The two parts of love	" The Agony and the Ecstasy " is the story of Michaelangelo and his painting of the Sistine Chapel at the behest of Pope Julius II , a warrior and Patron of the Arts . But it's really about so much more - the connection between art and the artist , faith , will , and the quest for perfection . Most of all , it's about the complicated relationship of two determined men , Michaelangelo and Pope Julius , which is adversarial and even violent . The color and scenery in this film are truly beautiful , but I'd love to see a restored print , as I imagine the colors would even be richer . Charlton Heston is a convincing and strong Michelangelo in what may be his best performance . It's buoyed by the magnificent work of Rex Harrison as Julius II . The two spark one another , and the result is an exciting screen teaming . There is hatred , resentment , a battle of wills , love and admiration between them , the agony and ecstasy of connecting with another , as Diane Cilento says in the film . She plays a woman in love with Michaelangelo . He explains that he cannot love her because of the commitment he has made to his true love , his art . The book hints at Michaelangelo's homosexuality , and it's covered with one line . After Michaelangelo says that he cannot match her feelings , he looks at a sketch of a nude man . " And it's not that either , " he says . Many scenes stick out . The somewhat hokey one in the mountains , when Michaelangelo looks at the heavens and receives his inspiration is nevertheless a gorgeous scene ; the incredible scene when Michaelangelo discovers the Pope alone at night with a candle studying the ceiling is perhaps the best , as Michaelangelo explains his concept of God and faith . And the last scene between the two men is unforgettable . There is a documentary about Michaelangelo and his work before the movie begins . A magnificent film . Don't miss it .
Twenty years between wars in the history of a British family	The Gibbons family is " This Happy Breed , " a 1944 film starring Robert Newton , Celia Johnson , Sterling Holloway , John Mills and Kay Walsh . The story begins with the end of World War I in 1919 with the return of Frank Gibbons ( Newton ) to his family - wife Ethel ( Johnson ) , son Reg ( John Blythe ) and daughters Queenie ( Kay Walsh ) and Vi ( Eileen Erskine ) as they begin their life in a new home . The next 20 years bring weddings , births , tragedy , and death , as it does to all of us . Queenie is being courted by a sailor , Bill ( Mills ) who wants to marry her , but she wants to better her class and says she can't be happy with him ; Vi falls in love and marries , as does Reg . Frank becomes a travel agent after the war and finds that one of his service friends ( Holloway ) lives next door . They become best buddies and provide the film's humor as they attempt to drink in secret . Ethel meanwhile has to cope with two somewhat difficult characters : the hypochondriacal Aunt Sylvia ( Alison Leggatt ) and Ethel's mother ( Amy Veness ) who live with them . One thing interesting about British films that deal with the war - " In Which We Serve , " " The 49th Parallel , " and this one , for instance - one is made aware of the hardships , loss , sacrifice and sadness , while American films have a much more romantic quality to them . Though " This Happy Breed " ends just at the dawn of World War II , there is discussion of the European situation , fascism , and a general fear of another war in light of what they all went through in the last one . " This Happy Breed " is another triumph , though an unsung one , for two wonderful artists - David Lean and Noel Coward , who worked together in this film , " Blithe Spirit " and " In Which We Serve " and had so many brilliant accomplishments on their own . The Gibbons feel like a real family , with a no-nonsense , hard-working matriarch , her more relaxed , emotional husband , and three children who go their separate ways in life and meet turmoil , normalcy , or tragedy . The most touching scene in the movie for me was the talk that Frank has with Reg before his wedding . " Always put your wife first , " Frank says after he finally gets Reg to stop kidding around and listen to him . I wasn't expecting this slice of life to be a tear-jerker , but it was , due to the beautiful acting of Celia Johnson and Robert Newton especially . They are the rocks of the film , providing its center . When Queenie runs off with a married man , she is shunned and disowned by Ethel , yet one can tell just by her movements that she is as heartbroken and worried as she is angry . Frank seems to accept what she says , yet once he's alone , he breaks down and sobs . " This Happy Breed " sneaks up on you ; before you know it , you're involved with the Gibbons . They're the stuff Britain is made of , the stuff that gets the country through its darkest times . A little gem ; don't miss it . Oh , and I knew that was Laurence Olivier's voice in the beginning .
A little lost in the translation	This was recently broadcast on Turner Classic Movies under the title " Billy Wilder Speaks . " The German title actually translates into " Billy Wilder , What Have You Done ( or Made ) ? " I'm assuming 98 % of this documentary is originally in German - 98 % because Wilder sometimes mixes German and English . However , now the beginning narration is in English and there are subtitles . I don't believe it's possible to do a bad retrospective on Wilder , and certainly it's impossible to have a bad documentary when this witty , intelligent director is doing the talking . The problem with this film is that something got lost in the translation . The subtitles are slapped on and a little hard to read , and the documentary itself is hard to follow at times . For example , a film clip is shown and when the camera comes back to Wilder , he tells a story , and we're not sure who he's talking about . This happens several times throughout . Though Wilder says " he , " the subtitle should actually have the name . The director gives impressions and anecdotes about some of the actors with whom he worked : Shirley MacLaine , Gary Cooper , Jack Lemmon , Tony Curtis , Marlene Dietrich , Audrey Hepburn , William Holden , Humphrey Bogart , Gloria Swanson and Marilyn Monroe . He also talks in some depth about a few of his films , most notably " Some Like It Hot , " " Stalag 17 , " and " Double Indemnity . " Quite fascinating is the story of showing his documentary about concentration camps , " Death Mills " to Germans . Billy Wilder , 83 at the time of this documentary , was a brilliant director with a unique point of view who left us a legacy of some of the best films of all time . " Billy Wilder Speaks " makes you want more .
The imaginary world of children	Sir Laurence Olivier , Carol Lynley , Keir Dullea and Noel Coward star in " Bunny Lake is Missing , " a 1965 black and white British film directed by Otto Preminger . A young woman , Ann Lake ( Lynley ) and her brother Steven ( Dullea ) report the woman's little girl , nicknamed Bunny , missing when she can't be found at her school on her first day of class . The detective in charge , Supt . Newhouse ( Olivier ) soon finds out that Bunny's things are disappearing from the new apartment where she , her mother and uncle live , and Newhouse begins to wonder if Bunny ever existed at all . This is a dark , atmospheric film that takes the viewer into an adult world where a child's fantasy life is explored and often accepted - the cofounder of the school on its top floor listening to children's dreams on tape as she writes a book about children's fantasies ; the man who runs the doll hospital ; and Ann herself , who had an imaginary friend as a child called Bunny , named after a character in a book . Is Bunny Lake missing ? Was there ever a Bunny Lake ? Is Steven trying to cover for his sister ? " Bunny Lake is Missing " is very offbeat and will make you uneasy as you , along with Newhouse , try to figure out what's going on . The acting is very good - Olivier obviously did this role for money - there is nothing particularly interesting about it , though he does a good job . The pretty Lynley gives an ambiguous performance - she's either a grieving mother , a nut , or both , and Dullea is equally ambiguous - does he know more than he says he does ? Is he placating his sister ? Noel Coward has a showy if small role as the Lake's landlord , a rather strange bird into S & M who proudly shows one of the detectives the skull of the Marquis de Sade . Though not entirely satisfying , this is a great movie to see on a Sunday afternoon . It takes you right into the darkness of London and leaves you there as it travels through a child's strange world and comes out in illusion ? Reality ? Or madness ?
Lovely Christmas film	Though I don't like " Remember the Night " as much as " Christmas in Connecticut , " but it is a wonderfully warm Christmas film , notable for its Preston Sturgess script and the performances of the two leads , Barbara Stanwyck and Fred MacMurray . MacMurray plays a prosecutor , John Sargent , who is stuck with a shoplifting case right before Christmas . He manages to get the case delayed until the New Year , but Lee Leander ( Stanwyck ) , the shoplifter , complains that now she won't have a warm jail to spend Christmas in . He learns she's from a town that's on his way home , so he offers to drop her . That doesn't quite work out - her mother doesn't want her - so she winds up coming home to his family - his mom ( Beulah Bondi ) , his aunt ( Elizabeth Patterson ) and their handyman ( Sterling Holloway ) . It's there that she experiences a true family and real love . Before the week is over , Lee and John have fallen for one another . I always assumed , from " My Three Sons , " that Fred MacMurray was a capable actor , and kind of ordinary . Watching his various performances on TCM has changed that impression . Here he's relaxed , natural and very likable , and has his usual good chemistry with Stanwyck . She's wonderful - tough yet vulnerable . I have a feeling the ending was dictated by the Hayes Code , but this is still a good movie . Preston Sturgess didn't think so - he didn't like the cuts , so this was the last film he wrote and didn't direct .
a pure delight	Wonderful film with a fantastic performance by the super-talented Renee Zwelleger , ably supported by Colin Firth and Hugh Grant , both marvelous , as was the entire cast . Strangely , I saw this film and " Someone Like You " around the same time - the basic plots are the same , though the subplots are quite different . And , of course , both use the song " Someone Like You " at the end ! But Bridget Jones is a real film and Someone Like You a TV movie reject someone got Ashley Judd to star in . Amazing how the same basic plot can be so differently handled . There were many laugh out loud moments , to the extent that a man behind me said , " I'd like to hear the movie , " after Hugh Grant gave a line reading that rocked the audience . I had one criticism and that was that the film could have been a little shorter . Bravo , Renee and the entire cast on a great time at the movies .
Interesting film about prejudice in the north	" Lost Boundaries " is a 1949 film , based on the true story of a black family that passed for white in New Hampshire . The stars are Mel Ferrer , Beatrice Pearson , Richard Hylton , and Carleton Carpenter . Ferrer plays a black doctor , Scott Carter , who looks white . He wants to live as a black man , and his future wife ( Pearson ) who comes from a family that has always " passed " has agreed to live as a black as well . But after they marry and there's a baby on the way , and still no job , Scott decides to take a position in a white hospital . Eventually he becomes the town doctor . Before you know it , 20 years have passed , and he and his wife have never even told their children that they have black blood . This leads to complications . Released the same year as " Pinky , " " Lost Boundaries " is a very good movie about deep-seated prejudice that occurred in the north and not in its usual place , the south . Its essential problem is that it doesn't employ any black actors to play the Carters . " Pinky , " a superior film , was criticized for the same reason , except that without Jeanne Crain , " Pinky " would not have been made . " Lost Boundaries " has no stars . It is curious that the issue of " passing " seems to have piqued Hollywood's interest in the late ' 40s , and one wonders if World War II had something to do with it , with people venturing out of their neighborhoods and meeting others from different social positions and walks of life , all with the same goal of fighting the Axis . However , when Lena Horne went to entertain the troops in World War II , the black soldiers were behind the prisoners of war in the audience . You really wonder what was going through anyone's minds . Certainly not liberty and justice for all .
Fantastic adaptation of Broadway hit	John Travolta , Michelle Pfeiffer , Christopher Walken , Queen Latifah , Nikki Blonsky , Zac Efron , Brittany Snow and Amanda Bynes star in " Hairspray , " a 2007 movie musical directed by Adam Shankman . Shankman has a great understanding of what made this musical and the John Waters film great , and he brings it to the screen with a stellar cast singing and dancing their way through wonderful songs by Marc Shaiman . Newcomer Nikki Blonsky is the plus-sized , big-haired Tracy Turnblad , and she holds her own well up against her more experienced colleagues , giving a lively , full-voiced performance . John Travolta plays Tracy's mother Edna and Christopher Walken her father - now there's a power couple if there ever was one . Despite criticisms basically based on just not liking John Travolta , he really does a fantastic job . When you're watching a big male star and actually start believing you're watching a female character , that's good acting . Travolta brings a sweetness to the role and manages to dance wearing all that padding . As Tracy's dad , Christopher Walken may seem like odd casting , but he's wonderful . " Timeless to Me " is an absolute gem . The cast is uniformly excellent , with a small , funny role essayed by Allison Janney that again proves what a great character actress she is , and some high-energy vocals and dance by the multitalented Elijah Kelley . James Marsden , as Corny Collins , is very slick . Zac Efron is perfect as the adorable super-hunk Linc . As Miss Baltimore Crabs , what can be said about gorgeous Michelle Pfeiffer except that she's terrific as the mean-spirited bigot Velma von Tussle . Now that she's past 40 , roles aren't as easy to find for Pfeiffer as they once were , but with Velma , she starts a second career . Queen Latifah sings like a dream . My only problem is that I would have loved more of the songs from the show included - " Mama , I'm a Big Girl Now " being one , and the song that Linc and Tracy sing at the jail . But the spirit of the show remains - upbeat , with a driving , pulsating energy and enthusiasm . It's a film with a serious undertone of racial integration , of being different and being accepted in society , and it makes its point with warm characters , a well-paced story , and toe-tapping music . Watch " Hairspray " when you're feeling low , and you'll dance off of the couch .
Beautiful film that shows the essence of a true hero	Gary Cooper is Lou Gehrig in " The Pride of the Yankees , " a 1942 film also starring Teresa Wright , Babe Ruth , Walter Brennan and Dan Duryea . The film chronicles Gehrig's life growing up as a German-American . As a young boy , his mother wanted him to become an engineer . Instead , he becomes a world-famous ballplayer , marries , and lives a charmed life until he is struck down by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , ALS , which today is still called " Lou Gehrig's disease . " ALS leads to a progressive atrophy of the voluntary muscles until sufferers can no longer walk , speak , eat or even breathe . Its cause is as unknown today as it was in Gehrig's time . Yet in his farewell speech at Yankee Stadium , Lou Gehrig said he considered himself the luckiest man on earth . By all accounts , Lou Gehrig was a prince of a man , an honest , caring gentleman , and Gary Cooper portrays him that way . Cooper , who had a smile that could light up the world , is boyish , quiet , and shy as Gehrig , which makes what happened to him particularly devastating . That's the way it was in real life , too . Teresa Wright as Eleanor is excellent , as is Walter Brennan , Elsa Janssen and Ludwig Stossel . Janssen portrays Gehrig's mother , a tough woman who tries to steamroller over Eleanor - in real life , the two women never got along , though the film shows some sort of reconciliation . Babe Ruth as Babe Ruth is a standout , giving a very relaxed and energetic performance in his colleague's story . The film is criticized by Gehrig aficionados for taking dramatic license with the facts of Gehrig's life . Though this is hard to take if you know a subject well , it's always done in films . The main controversy is over Gehrig's famous speech , which was shortened and changed . The " luckiest " part was moved to the end of the speech , for one thing , probably to make a strong end to the film . One nice , accurate touch - the bracelet Lou gives to Eleanor is the actual bracelet that Mrs . Gehrig received from her husband , and she lent it to the film . Despite criticisms , the film gives us the essence of Lou Gehrig , in large part thanks to the script by Paul Gallico ( the Brennan character ) , the direction by Sam Wood , and the performance of Gary Cooper . Cooper was too old to play a college kid - but the essence is there . And what an incredible-looking man - I don't care what age he's playing . He was no good at playing baseball and had to be coached to get even the basics , but probably only an expert could tell that . You'll be good and choked up by the end . ALS continues to kill today and took the lives of such people as David Niven , Dennis Day , Mao Tse-Tung and others . The depiction of the onset of symptoms in " Pride of the Yankees " is accurate . For it to strike such a fine man and great athlete is heartbreaking .
Three sisters and their intertwining lives	In " Hannah and her Sisters , " Woody Allen has created a funny , poignant , and sweet film about three very different sisters . The focus is Hannah ( Mia Farrow ) , a successful actress currently married to Elliot ( Michael Caine ) and divorced from Mickey ( Woody Allen ) . She's more of a mother figure to her sisters , Holly and Lee ( Dianne Wiest and Barbara Hershey ) than their own mother ( Farrow's real-life mother , Maureen O'Sullivan ) an alcoholic performer who likes to flirt with younger men , to the fury of her husband . Hannah handles her mother , puts up with Holly constantly borrowing money and then picking fights with her in that mother / daughter fashion , but she doesn't know that her sister Lee is having an affair with Elliot . And so it goes , as Thanksgivings pass and the women attempt to straighten out their lives . This is one of Woody Allen's best films - I won't say best , because I love Match Point and Crimes and Misdemeanors more . The humorous parts of the films are provided by Wiest and Allen , and some of the lines and situations are hilarious : Holly and Mickey's disastrous date ( " I had a great time . It was just like the Nurenberg trials " ) , Mickey's contemplation of suicide , and Mickey's fear of a brain tumor . Allen is brilliant as a man who believes he's living in a godless world but wants to believe . Though Jewish , he decides to become Catholic , bringing home religious info with his mayonnaise and Wonder Bread ; when that doesn't work out , he talks to the Hari Krishna in the park . Wiest is as adorable as she is fantastic as a manic-depressive who goes from acting ( including auditioning for a musical when she can't sing ) , catering ( until her partner , played by Carrie Fisher , steals the man she thinks is her boyfriend ) , and finally writing . The rest of the cast is magnificent and tackle some of the more serious moments of the movie : Michael Caine as Hannah's husband , looking for love in all the wrong places ; Max von Sydow , Lee's tortured artist boyfriend ; and Lloyd Nolan and Maureen O'Sullivan as the sisters ' parents , in an imperfect marriage filled with love , booze , and jealousy . Hershey is lovely as a confused woman who adores her sister but looks to Caine for a way out of her relationship with a controlling boyfriend . The film , of course , is filled with New York sights and sounds , including Bobby Short ( " You don't deserve Cole Porter , " Mickey screams at Holly . " You should stick with those rock musicians who look like they murdered their parents " ) , the opera , Central Park , etc . , that give Allen's films their special atmosphere ( until " Match Point , " that is , which has a special atmosphere all its own ) . A great film with Allen asking again about the meaning of life and , again , coming up with some good answers .
engrossing fare	" Three Strangers " has long been a favorite film of mine , with its fascinating reference to the statue of the goddess Kwan Yin , who , in Chinese legend , opens her eyes and grants a wish to three strangers on the Chinese New Year . Geraldine Fitzgerald , Sydney Greenstreet , and Peter Lorre are the above-mentioned strangers , each with an agenda that can be easily pursued by money . So the wish is that their sweepstakes ticket win , and the agreement is that it then be entered into the horse race that follows . Geraldine Fitzgerald's character seems sympathetic , but she reveals herself as quite obsessive and delusional as the film progresses . Greenstreet plays a crooked solicitor , and Lorre portrays a small time criminal - he's the most sympathetic character and , to my mind , gives the most memorable performance . The film asks the question - did the meeting of the three strangers change their lives , or did events proceed as they would have ? This is an unusual , absorbing , and entertaining film . I highly recommend it .
Fun show	" House Hunters " is a great show on HGTV with a simple concept - house hunters look at three homes and choose one , discussing the pros and cons in between . Hosted by the lovely Suzanne Wong , there is something very involving about this show and some other HGTV offerings , such as Designed to Sell , Buy Me , and How Much is My House Worth . I think it's the couch potato aspect combined with fantasy that works well for this show and others on the network . We can pick our own favorite house and then say things like , " I knew they'd pick that one , " or " They're idiots " when they choose , and we can also discuss how much money we think they have while asking the age-old question , " What is the big deal with hardwood floors and granite countertops ? " ( Without them , your house may as well go into foreclosure . ) And we can listen to them carp about the color of the rooms - as if they aren't willing to paint . When the home owners are revisited in the new place later , we are able to analyze their taste . This all easily replaces looking out the window while the new neighbors are moving in . The house hunters themselves are usually delightful people with whom the audience identifies , though not only . Many of them have pets , and if they don't , they usually acquire them once they move . So one can ooh and ah over babies and puppies . HGTV is onto a good thing .
The ultimate in " Who am I ? "	Billy Crudup is a " Stage Beauty " in the 2004 film costarring Claire Danes , Rupert Everett , Tom Wilkinson , Ben Chaplin , Zoe Tapper and Richard Griffiths . Based on the writings of Samuel Pepys about a stage actor named Ned Kynaston ( Crudup ) , the plot centers around the repeal of an English law forbidding women on the stage during the time of King Charles II , 1660 . The shining star in the female roles is Ned Kynaston who essays Ophelia , Desdemona , Juliet et al . to the enthusiastic approval of audiences and in particular , an audience of one , his lover , The Duke of Buckingham ( Chaplin ) . Because he is in such great demand , Kynaston's boss Betterton ( Wilkinson ) has given him cast approval . With Kynaston's head getting too big for his wigs , he insults Sir Charles Sedley , who tries to pick him up thinking he's a woman ( but not at all put off when he learns he's a man ) , and Sedley conspires to get revenge . Then Kynaston insults Nell Gwynn ( Tapper ) , the King's mistress , by not approving of women performing on stage . Before you can say " Desdemona , " the law has been repealed . His dresser Maria ( Claire Danes ) adores and admires Ned , aspires to be an actress , and has performed Desdemona in an illegal Othello done in a tavern . Sir Charles manages to bring her to the attention of the theater while taking Kynaston out of commission by beating the pulp out of him ( with the help of two fans whom Kynaston also insulted ) . When Ned recovers enough to attempt to get his job back , he finds he's no longer in demand , his dresser is a star , his lover is getting married and , having fantasized that Ned was a woman while they made love , no longer wants him . But he has one friend left - a most unlikely supporter . This is a wonderful , richly produced film marvelously written by Jeffrey Hatcher and directed by Richard Eyre that tells of the journey each of us has to our true identity - not just who we are as people but our gender identity as well . Without female costumes , wigs , and mannerisms , Ned doesn't know who or what he is . In love with Ned and hating him at the same time , Maria doesn't know if she's a good actress or not ( she isn't ) . When she asks Mr . Pepys if she was good on opening night , he tells her the truth , " There was no comparison , " as she's the first woman to act on stage . " She did what she did first ; you did what you did last , " Betterton tells Kynaston . Working together , they find their true souls - not just in each other , but in themselves . The Bible says " male and female He created them . " Thinking about this line in the context of " Stage Beauty , " I like to think that we each possess male and female qualities . Ned searches not only for his maleness but just as importantly , how to express himself artistically as a male . Impersonating a female was to him a very high art - he feels there is no way to be creative now . He also has to learn about his sexuality - I suppose some people will feel that Ned has been " made straight . " Not at all . He has instead become a whole person , and that whole person is better able to encompass his entire sexuality . The brilliant , exciting end of the film is much like the creative process but instead of flowering as it is nurtured , it explodes in a thrilling collaboration . The performances right down the line are fantastic . Billy Crudup is not only a total Adonis but an amazing actor with a perfect British accent and handle on the dialogue to match his perfect face - he is equally convincing as the confused Ned , the mannered Desdemona and the brutal Othello . As Maria , Claire Danes is a match for him - subservient dresser , serious actress , star , friend and lover , and with a British accent that , like Crudup's , is so totally organic , one could easily believe she is British . The rest of the cast is breathtaking , making each role a gem . I can't even single any one actor out ; each not only created a wonderful character , but were not in any way slighted by the writer . Some of the dialogue in this film is as hilarious as other dialogue in it is poignant . I'd love to know where this film was during Oscar time . Apparently it did not have the huge studio behind it that " Shakespeare in Love " enjoyed , which is a pity , because it deserved to be singled out for many of the top awards - acting in every category , directing , writing , and costumes . I see it won " Overlooked Film of the Year " somewhere . This is a jewel that definitely fell out of the Oscar crown .
absolutely adored it - and Adrian worked overtime	Adrian went all out for this lavish , gorgeous production of " Marie Antoinette " starring Norma Shearer , who is never more beautiful or glamorous than in this epic biography . This Marie is quite the heroine , a woman of the people , generous to a fault , and never says , " Let them eat cake , " and would only have said it in reference to her children . History tells us that Marie's downfall was really the " Affair of the Necklace , " and she was no different from other aristocrats in being totally out of touch with what was going on with the French people . This film is jaw dropping in its splendor . Adrian's costumes are totally magnificent , as are the palace settings . Tyrone Power is drop-dead gorgeous as Marie's Swedish lover , who comes to her aid in her time of need . Power was the inspiration for Barbara Cartland to say , when asked how she could write so convincingly about sex while she was a still a virgin , " We didn't need sex . We had Tyrone Power . " The rest of the cast is fantastic , including Robert Morley , John Barrymore , Joseph Schildkraut , and Gladys George . As for Norma , she does a great job , giving a vivid , if movie star , performance in one of her last films . The last scenes are very touching and beautifully done . I had no expectations for this film and as a rule am not crazy about period pieces , but this one swept me away . It does follow history quite closely - for those who commented that the Tyrone Power character was fictional , he was not , and he did try to help her . Don't miss this one . A funny Marie Antionette anecdote : The studio wanted Shearer to use their contract star , Robert Taylor , but Shearer got a look at Power at a dinner , invited him to be part of the film , and got her way . During their first kiss , she held on so long the kiss had to be edited down . Power apparently did not return her affections . She became angry . At a photo shoot , she appeared with gigantic plumes that hid him as he posed behind her and the plumes shot up . The photographer gave Power a box to stand on . As the photographer activated the flash , Power crashed through the box and hit the floor . Though he escorted Shearer to the premier , he snuck out to see his soon to be wife , Annabella .
Great ' 40s film starring John Garfield	John Garfield is a fighter taken over " Body and Soul " in this 1947 Faustian drama about a man who becomes too heady with success and too greedy , eventually signing on with a crooked fight promoter . Garfield is supported here by Lilli Palmer , Anne Revere , Hazel Brooks , William Conrad , Canada Lee and Lloyd Gough . American filmmakers love boxing movies , and why not ? It's a one on one brutal action sport that has inherent in it good drama because of what is at stake for people who most likely came from nothing and used their fists on the street . " Body and Soul " is no different in this regard , but it's one of the best of its kind . It also boasts an unusual and exceptionally talented cast . The film is loaded with conflict for Charlie Davis ( Garfield ) - his mother ( Revere ) doesn't want him to fight ; he's in love with Peg ( Palmer ) and wants to marry her but is talked into delaying it when he signs on with a new and corrupt promoter , Roberts ( Gough ) . This will be the first of Charlie's concessions and unfortunately not the last . He fights Ben ( Lee ) , but isn't told that the man has a blood clot and he needs to coast through only a few rounds . Instead , he pulverizes Ben , causing further brain damage , and takes him on as a trainer out of guilt . Then he's seduced by a money-hungry babe named Alice ( Brooks ) . And on and on , until Roberts bets against him and orders him to take a dive in the championship fight he's been waiting for . ( With all the films done about taking dives , anyone who bets on a fight is nuts . ) Something about this movie - maybe it's the theme song , which is one of my favorites - swept me away . It's one of Garfield ' most colorful performances , and the beautiful , classy Palmer is a perfect juxtaposition not only to the streetwise Charlie but the trashy Alice . The truly transcendent role and performance is essayed by Canada Lee , a wonderful actor who died too young and had too few opportunities in film . His performance as the volatile , ill Ben was Oscar-worthy . Like Ben Carter in " Crash Dive , " the fact that Lee is black does not enter into the script at all , and he is treated as an equal . For all the rotten stereotyping done in films at that time , there were a few scripts that defied it . Lee was blackballed and died , almost literally , of a broken heart in 1952 ( the same year that John Garfield died ) , leaving a legacy of five films and some wonderful stage work , including Orson Welles ' all-black Macbeth . He was 45 . Cast members Garfield , Lee , Anne Revere , Lloyd Gough , Art Smith , Shimen Ruskin , scriptwriter Abraham Polonsky and producer Bob Roberts would all find themselves blacklisted , and director Rossen would be threatened but admit to being a Communist and name names . Magnificently photographed in black and white by James Wong Howe and with top direction by Robert Rossen , " Body and Soul " is an example of how wonderful film can be .
A wonderful holiday treat despite some political incorrectness	I have always loved " Holiday Inn , " and will say up front that my favorite dance is the one Fred Astaire does with the firecrackers ! This film will always put you in the holiday spirit with its great cast , music , and dancing . Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby make a fantastic team , with Fred playing a bit of a cad . Walter Abel is right on as the agent , Danny Reed , and blond Marjorie Reynolds ( that's Peg in " Life of Riley " for us baby boomers ) is lovely as the second woman Astaire attempts to get away from Crosby , the first being Astaire's partner , played by Virginia Dale . The sticking point in this marvelous film is " Abraham , " which bothers a lot of people , but when it's cut on AMC , nobody likes that either . It's on my video of the film , and when I mentioned it to my sister , she told me that while in England in 1978 , there was a minstrel show on television . She couldn't believe what she was looking at and stopped dead in her tracks , jaw dropped . The blackface is one thing ; the look sported by Ms . Reynolds and the verse done by Louise Beavers are quite another . I admit that I find the number offensive , but I also think it serves as a reminder of what was ( unfortunately ) acceptable back then . I love " Holiday Inn , " I love Bing's singing and Fred's dancing . This is an energetic film , very much of its time with the propagandist " Song of Freedom " and its attendant movie clips thrown in . Enjoy it for what it is , and don't ask for a modern sensibility in 1942 .
Great story + two marvelous actors + a brilliant director - = recipe for entertainment	Leonardo DiCaprio is the nemesis of an FBI agent , and vice versa , in " Catch Me If You Can , " a 2002 film starring Tom Hanks and directed by Steven Spielberg . Based on a true story , DiCaprio is the young Frank Abagnale , a great impostor who teaches school , becomes a pilot , a doctor , and a lawyer as he floats bad checks all over the country and seems to be impossible to capture . The film is beautifully paced by Spielberg and absolutely fascinating as you wait and see what Abagnale is going to do next . When his father gets in trouble with the IRS , the family lifestyle changes , and Frank has to go to a public high school . He insists on wearing his private school jacket on his first day . He promptly takes over a French class as the substitute teacher and dismisses the real one , saying there must be a mistake . When he's discovered , his parents are called in . " Frank has been teaching French for the past week , " the principal tells them . " Today he scheduled a field trip to a French bread-making factory . You see my problem . " His father ( Christopher Walken ) admires his son's chicanery but refuses to take advantage of it , even as his financial state worsens . Tom Hanks is Hanratty , the FBI agent who chases Abagnale all over the world . He is fabulous as a lonely , hard-working , insightful man who gets a call in his office from Frank every Christmas . " I know why you called me , " he says to Frank . " You don't have anyone else to call . " The two develop a strange bond . The baby-faced DiCaprio does a magnificent job as Frank . He's totally magnetic , charming , and also sad , exhibiting Frank's pain over his parents ' divorce and his father's downfall . His goal is to get " everything back again " but then it becomes a game he can't quit . As his father , Walken is excellent as a proud man faced with the loss of his property , income , and family . A well-cast , expertly directed film all the more intriguing since it's based on a true story . The opening scene is Frank Abagnale's appearance on " To Tell the Truth . " We don't get to see if he fooled the audience , but he probably did - telling the truth is something Frank , while on the run , never did particularly well .
The story of a tightly wired detective and his view of the world	Kirk Douglas is the man referred to in the title " Detective Story , " a 1951 film based on Sidney Kingsley's play . Directed by William Wyler , the movie features several actors from the Broadway production : Horace Mcmahon , Joseph Wiseman and Lee Grant , who appear with Eleanor Parker , William Bendix , Frank Faylen , George Macready , Gerald Mohr and Cathy O'Donnell . " Detective Story " covers a busy day in a New York City precinct with its traffic of shoplifters , small-time hoods , a first time embezzler , and work on old cases . Douglas plays Det . James McLeod , who is a complete hard-nose as a detective and always one punch short of a police brutality charge . He sees the world as black and white due to being raised by a crooked father and a frail , mentally disturbed mother who eventually went into a institution . When a young man , a war hero , is brought in for stealing from his boss in a desperate moment , McLeod insists on throwing the book at him , even though the boss was convinced by another detective ( William Bendix ) to drop the charges . " You can't be soft , " McLeod says . " My mother was soft , and it killed her . " He's determined , and has worked for a year , to try to put away a backstreet doctor named Schneider ( George Macready ) . Schneider's lawyer has his client photographed in the nude to show as evidence in case he's roughed up , which he knows McLeod is capable of doing . When the attorney starts dropping hints to Lt . Monaghan that McLeod may have a personal vendetta against the doctor , Monaghan starts to worry . Perhaps I'm dense but I was not clear on exactly what kind of doctor Schneider was . Whether he was performing late-term abortions ( which of course the script can't say ) or an illegal adoption ring was hard to figure out . It appears that in the play , Schneider was an abortionist but because of the code , he's running some sort of adoption ring here . What was confusing in the film was that there were references to women whose babies had died . Obviously he was pathetic at his job . The only " soft " part of McLeod's life is his happy marriage and the love that he and his wife ( Eleanor Parker ) feel for one another . But his inner rage , his rigidness , and unreasonable expectations begin to threaten that too . One of the great things about this film is that it does not seem like a filmed play - you could easily believe it was written for the screen . The performances , for the most part , are marvelous , from the fair but tough Monaghan , the light-hearted cop ( Faylen ) , the warm cop ( Bendix ) and the assorted punks and first-time offenders . Lee Remick , in her film debut , plays a shoplifter who has to wait for night court ; consequently , she's in the precinct office at all times . She's very good but like many before her and after her , the New York accent sounds phony . It's a tough one to make organic - several times she nearly succeeds but other times it's obviously put on . Eleanor Parker , as McLeod's sweet , beautiful and loving wife is excellent . She and Douglas have a powerful scene where her devotion turns to shock , then sorrow , then the realization that she doesn't know this man at all . Douglas is superb as McLeod . His character carries an underbelly of anger and viciousness which is always there , even when he is pretending to have a nice conversation with a criminal . You just wait for him to blow . His clenched jaw and tight way of speaking fit this role perfectly . When he's initially with his wife , he's loving and tender . Their love is his only solace , but he's too poisoned to see a shade of gray just once . Somehow , as mean and unbending as he is , you can't help but feel sorry for him because you can see that it's ruining him . The end of the film is very powerful . It's funny - Douglas ' own son says his father isn't considered a great actor now because of a somewhat dated approach to these strong roles that today seems too intense and done with a voice that has been imitated once too often - yet I can't remember seeing him in a film where I didn't think he was excellent . Smoothly directed by William Wyler , who keeps the action and subplots going and gets some wonderful performances and New York atmosphere , " Detective Story " is one not to miss .
vintage Columbo	When a frightened young woman comes into the police station to report a missing fiance , she runs into Columbo and he has pity on her . Thus begins " Any Old Port in a Storm , " a fantastic " Columbo " episode about a vineyard owner , his half brother , his secretary , and a big secret . Donald Pleasance is exceedingly unlikable as Adrian , who runs Carsini Wines - at a loss - and collects wine as well . Gary Conway is his playboy half-brother who's sick of seeing the family fortune dwindling away . Fearful that his wine business will be turned into a Gallo-type operation , Adrian kills his brother and leaves the body in the wine cellar before he and his secretary , beautifully portrayed by Julie Harris , attend a wine auction in New York . It's not long before Columbo becomes involved and learns his wines so that he can go toe to toe with a murderer , who is now having the screws put to him by Harris , an old maid who knows what he did and wants marriage for her silence . The whole thing culminates in an exquisite dinner for which Columbo has chosen all the wine . The masterful Larry Cohen wrote this script , and you'll find this episode and its subtleties right up there with the best of the " Columbo " series .
Brilliant black comedy with a very serious message	Charlie Chaplin is " Monsieur Verdoux " in this 1947 film based on the real-life serial killer Henri Landru . Verdoux is a bank clerk who is laid off late in life and turns to marrying and killing women for their money in order to support his invalid wife and child . Sounds brutal , and when you think about it , it really is , but Chaplin as usual manages to couch his message in comedy . While we see that he is successful in knocking off a couple of women and getting their money ( though we never actually see a murder ) , Verdoux has a couple of failures as well , and there the fun begins . One of his women , Annabella Bonheur , is played hysterically by Martha Raye as a vulgar loudmouth eternally suspicious of Verdoux , who is posing as a boat captain . He tries some different ways of killing her , but no matter what he does , nothing works . He then turns his attention to another woman he's been chasing for some time , Marie Grosnay ( Isobel Elsom ) . He's about to walk down the aisle when who does he see as a guest at the wedding - Annabelle . His attempts to get out of the house are priceless . Despite some genuinely comical scenes , the speech that Verdoux makes gives its deeper message - Verdoux was in it for the money . To him , the women were business propositions to be exploited . His point is that what he has done on a smaller scale is being done by dictators worldwide ; people are not treated as human beings but merely for economic gain , for power and for exploitation . Though Verdoux's argument doesn't absolve him of responsibility or justify his actions , the warning is a good one - people need to care more about each other and about what's going on in their world , and put their attention on really important matters like suppression of the masses . Why , he asks , are the headlines full of Verdoux and not of what is going on around the world ? ( The film's ending takes place in 1937 . ) It's interesting to consider what would have happened to this story in the hands of Orson Welles , whose idea it was originally . He wouldn't have made it a comedy . It would have been a drama or a detective story . Only Chaplin would think of making the story of a serial killer into a comedy of sorts . Certainly 1967's " No Way to Treat a Lady " takes a page or so from this script . " Monsieur Verdoux " wasn't well received by the public - at all - and by 1947 , people were questioning Chaplin's politics instead of reveling in his genius . It possibly was ahead of its time ; it certainly wasn't appreciated as it is today . The movie is not without some problems , the biggest one being , what the heck happened to Verdoux's wife and child ? It is never explained . " Wars , conflicts - it's all business . One murder makes a villain ; millions a hero . Numbers sanctify . " Charlie Chaplin as Verdoux said that 61 years ago .
Ah for the days of Merchant-Ivory	" A Room with a View " is perhaps the jewel in the Merchant-Ivory crown , done in 1985 , during their marvelous heyday . It was an era in film of lushly photographed dramas of another time and place , popular perhaps because many of us yearned for a simpler life and a return to some basic manners and standards . But these films also pointed up how much better women have it now , given the repressive ways women in earlier times were forced to live , and how often true love had to give way to convention . Beautifully orchestrated with Puccini operatic music from " Gianni Schicchi " and " La Rondine , " " A Room with a View " is a story set in Victorian times and concerns a young woman named Lucy , the petite Helena Bonham-Carter , who , while in Italy with her chaperone ( Maggie Smith ) , meets George Emerson ( Julian Sands ) . He falls madly in love with her , but unaccustomed to such boldness , she snubs him . Back home in England , she becomes betrothed to the tiresome , proper and erudite Cecil ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) . Then George appears on the scene again . The passion only evidenced in Lucy's piano playing begins to surface , and it frightens her . The story is told with both lightness and humor , and this intimate film is buoyed by wonderful acting . With her petite figure , magnificent head of hair , and a face full of expression , Bonham Carter is perfect as a confused and resentful young woman who doesn't know what's happening to her emotionally . Maggie Smith is brilliant as a troublesome chaperone who lives life by strict rules ; Judi Dench is equally good as a novelist who lives in the exact opposite way . As George , Sands is a subtle yet ardent swain , and both Denholm Elliott as George's caring father and Simon Callow as the good reverend create marvelous , full characters . The chameleon , though , is Daniel Day-Lewis as Cecil , Lucy's skinny , snobbish fianc . Each performance he gives is so drastically different from the one before - he is truly an amazing actor . The film is an allegory in its way for the passage from Victorian England to the Edwardian period , and it's clear that E . M . Forester had no use for the repressions of the day and celebrated a boldness of spirit . Both the repressed and the rebellious are perfectly represented in " A Room with a View , " a true Valentine to love .
. . . and not have charity . . .	James Mason is the " Odd Man Out " in this 1947 film directed by Carol Reed , also starring Cyril Cusack , Robert Newton , Wilford Brambell and Kathleen Ryan . Mason plays Johnny McQueen , the well-known head of the Irish Republican Army in Belfast . Though he has just escaped from prison , he plans a mill robbery to get funds for his organization and insists on going along with his colleagues . He ends up killing a man and becomes badly wounded himself . Fleeing the scene , his colleagues are unable to get him completely into the car and he falls out . What follows is a fascinating and gut-wrenching journey as Johnny , half-dead , wanders the rainy and snowy streets trying to get back to his girlfriend's ( Ryan ) place . People want McQueen for a variety of reasons - the police's are obvious ; his clergyman wants to provide comfort and help him make his peace with God ; an artist ( Robert Newton ) wants to paint him ( shades of " Road to Perdition " ) , his girlfriend wants to get him aboard a ship to escape , an old man wants the reward . . . and some people don't want any part of him and would rather he just died in the street , well away from them . As he becomes weaker , he is treated like a sack of flour . Carol Reed , as with " The Third Man " uses the filming locations to great advantage to create a gloomy atmosphere full of shadows and dark streets . One almost feels the cold and wet . This is one of James Mason's best performances - his Irish brogue is flawless and his suffering magnificent . As opposed to many in the cast , he underplays , making everyone around him seem hyper - as indeed , at the sight of him , many of the characters are . A very powerful and thought-provoking film that won't leave you with very good thoughts about humanity , if you had any .
Fascinating , surprising , insightful look at a great artist and his movies	My affection for Woody Allen has grown over the years . With " Crimes and Misdemeanors , " I thought it had peaked , and then I saw " Match Point " and became convinced that he is not only brilliant but still has plenty to say . In this interview , Woody Allen had some interesting things to relate about his films and his own ideas : He believes in luck , as the character in " Match Point " does ; he believes , as he shows in " Bullets Over Broadway , " that great artists are born and not made ; we're all out here on our own and our morality , as in " Crimes and Misdemeanors , " is dependent on what we can live with ; and he's been doing Bob Hope all these years , though by his own admission , not as well . None of this is very shocking ( except maybe the Bob Hope part , until he demonstrates it in a film clip ) , given the messages in many of his movies . The surprising thing in " Woody Allen : A Life in Film " is his very normal , non-neurotic demeanor , his view of his own films as to what is successful and what isn't , and what moved him to tell the stories he has . If you're a fan of Allen's , you won't want to miss this . No matter how he may shrug his narrow shoulders , his evolution as a filmmaker has been something to behold .
fun , poignant , with great performances	I saw this film on a plane and thoroughly enjoyed it , particularly the performance of Philip Seymour Hoffmann whom I found spectacular as a lonely , vulnerable , witty drag queen reaching out to recent stroke victim , homophobic DeNiro . The two of them were marvelous - and the end of the film had an outtake of Hoffmann and DeNiro practicing " The Name Game " that alone was worth the entire movie . There were certainly stereotypes among the minor characters but the plot was good and so was the acting . My acting teacher used to describe plays / films like " Virginia Wolff " as love stories . Using his criteria of two people coming together , sharing experiences and touching each other's hearts - Flawless certainly qualifies as an atypical love story .
Whither America	I've been waiting to see the 1947 film " The Senator Was Indiscreet " for years - ever since walking by a TV and hearing Ray Collins utter the line : " Don't you think it's time you cut out the part where you laugh at the idea of the U . S . going to war against Japan ? " I finally got a copy of the film , and I wasn't disappointed . " The Senator Was Indiscreet " concerns a senator , Melvin Ashton ( William Powell ) , who announces that he is not , not , not a candidate for President - meaning , of course , that he is . He has several speeches that he recycles , " Whither America " being one . At one point , a neon sign announces : " Tonight : Senator Melvin Ashton : Whither America . Tomorrow : Dog Show . " The film is filled with hundreds of little touches like that . Old , blustery , and a buffoon who gives four-hour speeches and proposes bills like having people write on tissue paper to lessen the weight of mailbags , the party doesn't want him . However , they can't get rid of him - he has a diary that he's kept for years . When it goes missing , all hell breaks loose . One man sits on a phone helping party members plan their escape , saying : " There is no extradition between those two countries . . . We have four people traveling to Siberia . . . " William Powell , normally elegant and smiling despite the chaos around him , gets right into it here . He is a RIOT . He looks like Colonel Sanders in his white wig and mustache . His funniest scene ( to me anyway ) is when he is locked out of his hotel and winds up in the subway while wearing his pajamas and bathrobe . He grabs a broom and quickly sweeps while walking up the stairs , then drops the broom and starts running . Peter Lind Hayes plays the publicist who got him into this high-profile mess . A very versatile and good-looking man , Hayes not only acted but worked as a composer , later pairing in performance with his wife , Mary Healy . His girlfriend is played by Ella Raines . Raines never made it to superstar status despite her striking prettiness and good performances . However , she was in some marvelous films , and this is one of them . She is terrific as an ambitious reporter who refers to Ashton as Ashcan in her writings . One of her headlines reads : " Ashton Declares Opposed to Assassination . " Hans Conreid is funny as a bitter Yugoslavian hotel worker , and Ray Collins is great as the frantic head of the party . The denouement is hilarious , with a very special cameo at the end you won't want to miss . Highly recommended for its comedy and statements about politics and politicians - most of which still apply .
Hard to take but worth it	It's difficult to grasp that Melvyn Douglas spent most of his career sailing through light , romantic roles and emerged in old age as one of the greatest actors in cinema history . Knowing the talent he possessed , how did he keep from killing the heads of the studios ? Paul Newman , Melvyn Douglas , Patricia Neal , and Brandon de Wilde star in " Hud , " an unsparing 1963 morality story about a Texas rancher , Homer Bannon , his bastard son , Hud , his housekeeper , and his grandson . The bastard , of course , is Paul Newman , who doesn't have a decent bone in his body . People on this board have said it's his greatest performance . He's given so many great ones , it's hard to say for me . An astounding actor , and he gets a run for his money from Douglas , who plays the moral center of the story . The two characters couldn't be more opposite , as one sees in their treatment of a potential run of hoof and mouth disease that could wipe out Homer's entire herd . Hud wants to ship the whole herd out and possibly infect other people's cattle - he couldn't care less . Homer won't hear of it . If you love animals , this is a difficult film to watch , but it's worth it . Melvyn Douglas is absolutely gut-wrenching as Homer , a proud man who loves the land and his cattle and who has no use for his son , who smashed his car and killed Homer's other son . de Wilde is Hud's nephew who admires him and wants to emulate him but as time goes by , realizes that Hud is made of ice . de Wilde doesn't give an emotional performance - he's almost more of an observer . It works well here amidst the very contained Douglas and the free and easy Newman . You can see he's a good kid trying to grow up and decide what kind of man to be . Patricia Neal is the housekeeper ; she and Douglas both deservingly won Oscars . Her delivery is wry and knowing ; she can't help being attracted to the virile Hud but she knows he's trouble and never gives in to her desires willingly . As much as I love Newman and think he's one of the greatest actors ever to hit the movies , for me , Douglas ' searing performance is the one that will stay with me . It's easy to see why in 1963 this was such a dramatic breakthrough for Newman , but 43 years and many roles later , we're more familiar with what he can do . We know he can play a cold bastard now . His greatest performances for me will always be those in the " The Verdict " and " The Hustler , " both of which called for many more nuances of character . Hud represents ' 60s disillusionment - which as the decade went on was only going to get worse ; this is one of the reasons it is an iconic role . For me , Newman had more surprises in store . Brilliant performances , excellent direction , stark photography , Hud is a great American film , not easily forgotten once seen .
a mad genius	You really can't miss when doing a biography of Howard Hughes , certainly one of the most brilliant , glamorous , eccentric , and fascinating men who ever lived . And for me , Leonardo DiCaprio and Scorcese don't miss . DiCaprio's portrayal of Hughes is a revelation . ( I'll digress here to say , for those who have accused him of being short , I've seen him in person - he's not short . ) He does a fantastic job as Hughes . You can almost hear his inner dialogue . As for Scorcese , the movie is truly spectacular in its breadth . I was disappointed in a couple of elements . One was , with the care Cate Blanchett gave to her portrayal of Hepburn , one would have hoped that a little attention had been paid to the casting of the other women in Hughes ' life : Faith Domergue , Ava Gardner , Jean Harlow . Of the three , I liked Kate Beckinsale's Ava the best - but for me , Ava Gardner's beauty is unparalleled . Beckinsale really didn't approach it . And Stefani was wrong , wrong , wrong . How hard can it be to find a young actress ( and Harlow was 19 , not 35 , when she appeared in Hell's Angel's ) , and slap a platinum wig and a white clinging gown on her ? Harlow's look was very distinctive , and when it's off , it's distracting . The other thing I was disappointed in - and I suppose this couldn't be helped in a way - was the telescoping of the years and some unnecessary inaccuracies . I don't pretend to be an expert on Hughes . I've seen one documentary on him which was fantastic , and now I want to read about him . But Katharine Hepburn talks about the press showing up at her brother's funeral - I don't know why that would have been , since she wasn't famous yet . I realize her family was prominent , but she made it sound as if it had to do with her fame . She also labels herself as Box Office Poison way too soon , and the movie skips the entire Philadelphia Story , including Hughes giving her the money to buy the rights . No mention of most of the controversy over " The Outlaw " which took several years to see a release . But these are minor , nitpicky points . This is a big , gorgeous film , with exciting , lush scenes and some fantastic performances .
excellent noir	Although a B movie , " The Narrow Margin " is considered one of the best of the film noir genre ever made . It's fast moving , like the train that Charles McGraw , Marie Windsor , Jacqueline White , and some thugs are taking to Los Angeles . The thugs seek to stop a mobster's widow from handing over his " pay list " and talking to the Grand Jury . The tension really never lets up in this film , as the widow is in constant danger and McGraw keeps running into the criminal element , who have already killed his partner try to bribe him for the pay list . You really experience the narrowness of the train ( especially when Paul Maxey tries to get down a corridor ) and its movement . It's absolutely wonderful . Charles McGraw looks just like a stereotypical , tough guy detective , and he had the most marvelous voice . Marie Windsor is at her best as McGraw's charge . She's cheap and uncaring with her sultry hairdo , her trampy negligee , her blaring radio , and a cigarette hanging out of her mouth . Had this not been a B film , Windsor would have gotten more mileage out of it in Hollywood . There are some great bits in this - one at the very beginning with pearls , and at the very end , using Maxey to great advantage . This film was remade , with some changes , as " Narrow Margin " with Gene Hackman and Anne Archer . Though it had some fine moments and beautiful scenery ( don't bother looking for scenery in the ' 52 version ) , this version is superior for its hard-bitten dialogue and atmosphere .
Six trainers try to qualify their horses for the Kentucky Derby	Six trainers prepare for " The First Saturday in May " in this excellent 2007 documentary currently playing limited engagements in select theaters . The good news is that the producers , the Hennegan brothers , have found a distributor , and the film is due to be released on DVD . The documentary follows the trainers of six horses who are close to qualifying for the 2005 Kentucky Derby , including trainer Matz and the horse he trains , Barbaro , whose story is well known . The trainers are all lively personalities from different parts of the country ( Arkansas , Florida , New York , Kentucky ) . We get to know these men , their histories , their children and their love of horses . The statistics were interesting - of 40 , 000 foals born every year , only 20 make it to the Derby . Of these six , not all make it . And one who did meets a cruel fate . There are laughs and tears to be had in this absorbing film . I'm not a particular fan of horse - racing - for the horses who aren't winners and put out to stud , it can be a horrible life . Racing young horses can cause harm to many an animal and has . Viewers , however , will be struck by the sheer beauty of these animals , their trainers ' stories and the drama , pathos and humor of this documentary .
Remarkable . Devastating .	This is a not to be missed story of one of the most remarkable women ever to hit films - Mary Pickford . Not only was she a brilliant actress and a beautiful woman , but an astonishing businesswoman and visionary . Pickford formed United Artists with Douglas Fairbanks ( her soon to be husband ) and Charlie Chaplin in order to fight the stranglehold Adolf Zukor had on the film industry . This was decades before actors began forming their own production companies . Pickford reached the heights of fame and became the first bona fide movie star , and , as this marvelous documentary points out , film's first has-been . As she aged and could no longer play sweet young things , and with the advent of sound and the jazz age , America's sweetheart lost her audience . They never came back . It's always amazing to watch the stories of people like Pickford , Welles , and Garbo , who enjoyed fame at a young age and then spent the next half century either retired or trying to recapture lost glory . Pickford's story is especially sad . She was innovative , vibrant , and street smart . She was part of the exciting development of the new medium of film , and gradually found there was no place for her in it . Sobering . Fascinating . See " Mary Pickford " and appreciate this icon .
Two great female performances	Vanessa Redgrave is " Mary , Queen of Scots " in this 1972 film which stars Glenda Jackson , Patrick McGoohan , Timothy Dalton , Ian Holm and Nigel Davenport . What a pity that young people today don't have a chance to see the great Jackson , who has retired , or Redgrave , who no longer plays leads in films . These two women are powerhouses playing two completely different types of women - Elizabeth ( Jackson ) is powerful , distrusting and manipulative , while vulnerable , sensitive Mary is in way over her head . The story covers the death of Mary's husband in France and her arrival in Scotland to be their Queen . The history behind this is fascinating , since Mary was something like 9 months when she was first made Queen of Scotland . One of the things that made her reign controversial was her Catholic faith ; Ireland was Protestant . Since Mary is a legitimate daughter of James V of Scotland and Elizabeth is considered by Catholics to be the illegitimate daughter of Henry VIII , as she was conceived before Henry's marriage to Anne Boleyn , her cousin Elizabeth sees her as a threat to her own crown . Mary would be next in line to ascend the throne ( also controversial due to Henry VIII's Act of Settlement , which forbade Stuarts to inherit the throne ) . Elizabeth goes to any lengths to protect her position . She sees through Mary immediately , realizing she has no political sense , and manipulates her into marrying the conniving , bisexual Lord Darnley ( Dalton ) , who later tries to secure the throne for himself . Mary gets it from all sides , including her half-brother , Jamie , a Protestant who acted as Regent in Scotland while she was in France , betrothed as she was at the age of 5 . With the birth of her son , James ( who became James I of England and James VI of Scotland ) , Mary fights as best she can so that her son will one day rule . The acting is magnificent from all of the stars ; it would be impossible to choose one as better than the other , though certainly McGoohan , as Mary's brother , and Ian Holm , as Riccio , had excellent roles that showcased their abilities . But they're all wonderful . The scenery is gorgeous . In the ' 60s and early ' 70s , these dramas about English royalty were all the rage , making for complicated , interesting stories and fascinating , real-life characters . It looks like now , they're returning again . The film world needs them , as they represent a return to three-dimensional people , compelling history and - dare I say it - good leading roles for women .
The human side of warring factions	First , on a light note , I saw " Road to Perdition " right before I saw this film , and therefore made the conclusion that Daniel Craig is in every film made . At this point , I feel like I know his face better than one of my family members . " Munich " is a powerful story done by a powerhouse group , as it is directed by Steven Spielberg from a screenplay by Tony Kushner . It's the story of a young Israeli , Avner ( Eric Bana ) , who is asked to head up a team with the mission to eliminate the men responsible for the massacre at the 1972 Munich Olympics . The situation is re-enacted but real television news clips are used throughout the beginning of the film . Though he has a wife and their first child is on the way , Avner accepts the assignment , which takes him all over the world tracking down and killing the miscreants . When his assignment comes to an end , he finds he is unable to shake his experiences . " Munich " demonstrates , in the form of Avner and his team , the disintegration of those qualities that make us human beings in the first place . These men believe in what they're doing but become disillusioned - can they all be trusted ? Whom can they trust ? What is the point of , as one of them puts it , " all this blood " when the people they kill are replaced with worse people ? In the beginning , Avner clearly has no affection for killing - he watches , horrified , as it goes on . The team is careful not to hurt civilians - for instance , they protect a little girl , the daughter of one of the Black September planners , from a bomb intended for her father . Later , Avner's orders are " just do it , " and there are bodies of innocent victims everywhere . Avner pays a man named Louis huge money for information on the whereabouts of the Black September men - and then begins to doubt him - is he in turn telling the other side his whereabouts because he has become a target ? I agree that Spielberg does not take sides in the film and shows how everyone suffers in any violent conflict , and that after a time , people hate for the sake of hating and kill for the sake of killing , often forgetting what started the whole cycle . Eric Bana gives a fantastic performance as Avner . He looks so different at the end of the film than at the beginning , as he becomes increasingly more paranoid . He is particularly frightening in the scene where he is making love to his wife and reliving what he's been through . One really feels the harrowing experiences he's had and what it has done to his spirit . A thought-provoking and sobering film .
A little boy thinks the butler did it	A little boy ( Bobby Henry ) thinks he saw a murder in " The Fallen Idol , " a 1948 film directed by Carol Reed from a Graham Greene screenplay . You really can't get much better than that . Phillipe is the son of the French ambassador to England and his good buddy in the large place where they live is the butler Baines ( Ralph Richardson ) . Baines and his shrew of a wife ( Sonia Dresdel ) run the place , and the action takes place while both the ambassador and his wife are away . Being an only child , Phillipe has a vivid imagination and is also very attached to Baines , whom he follows one day to a coffee shop . There , Baines is in deep conversation with a woman he introduces as his niece Julie ( Michelle Morgan ) . In actuality , she's his girlfriend , and she and Baines are discussing whether or not he can get a divorce from his wife . When Mrs . Baines leaves to visit her aunt , Julie comes over to the house to spend time with Baines and Phillipe . Just one small problem - Mrs . B knows something is up and is still in the house . When she winds up dead at the bottom of the stairs , Baines falls under suspicion , and Phillipe is afraid Baines killed her . This is a beautifully crafted film about the mind of a child and about secrets and lies . Baines tells Phillipe secrets and lies , Julie tells Phillipe secrets , Mrs . Baines tells Phillipe secrets , Phillipe can't keep a secret , so lies ensue . When the inspector ( Jack Hawkins ) shows up , it becomes exhausting all around . One of the biggest stars of the film is the camera , which takes us down a London street as a little boy runs in the dark and rain ; up a long staircase ; through a game of hide and seek with covered furniture ; the boy's view of the busy household ; and most especially the precious final shot . The magnificent Ralph Richardson portrays the complex Baines perfectly - unhappily married , in love with the beautiful Julie , afraid of his nasty wife , efficient at his job and fond of Phillipe , who is at this point clearly in the way . Michelle Morgan is believable as Julie , a kind young woman - these aren't two nasty , conniving people , just two people in love who don't know whether to go forward or separate . Bobby Henry is an excellent Phillipe . He's not sweet and adorable , but we don't want Mrs . Baines to be mean to him ; he blows every secret all to hell and doesn't lie very well ; he shows up at inappropriate moments ; he makes the wrong assumptions - but we feel for his terror and confusion . If he'd been cute , it would have made Baines and Julie seem more exploitive than they were . It also would have made Mrs . Baines seem even meaner - but she's mean enough . One of the best films to come out of British cinema , and more proof of the greatness of Carol Reed . A must see .
Powerful images	It's Indonesia at the time of the 1965 revolution , and a young , ambitious reporter , played by Mel Gibson , is in Jakata to cover it in " The Year of Living Dangerously , " a 1982 film that also stars Sigourney Weaver and Linda Hunt . Peter Weir does an incredible job at evoking the atmosphere of poverty , homelessness , crowds , oppression , danger , and ugly Americans in this film , and also what it feels like to be a foreigner . Guy Hamilton , the Australian reporter , is determined that this assignment will pay off for him , and it is his good luck that a tiny photographer , Billy Kwan ( Hunt ) offers to help him make connections . He likes Guy , he believes that Guy is a good man and will help to get the true story of what is happening in Indonesia out to the rest of the world . What he doesn't count on is Guy's ambition and his journalistic commitment . Neither does the woman he loves , Jill ( Weaver ) , who works for a military attach . Because of this , she makes a costly mistake . Sukarno , says Billy , is thought of as a puppetmaster ; Billy sees himself as one , but for orchestrating gentler things , like love , helping the poor , and getting out the story of Indonesia's people . In the end , Guy sees himself as a puppetmaster too , with his hands on the story of the year . But as Sukarno becomes a puppet , so does Billy , although willingly , and Guy becomes one himself , not able to do what he originally intended . Mel Gibson has become such a controversial figure today , with his The Passion of the Christ , his arrest , and his racial remarks . There was a time when he was one of the biggest stars in the world , and it's easy to see why here . Handsome , confident , and passionate , he is an effective Guy . The beautiful Sigourney Weaver , who not long before this movie had voice lessons in New York right after mine , does a wonderful job here . Of course , the role doesn't begin to tap her talent . I remember her in person as very tall , very slender , and very sweet ; her beauty and presence radiate from the screen . The star of the film is in reality Linda Hamilton , whose portrayal of Billy Kwan not only won her an Oscar , but gave her a unique place in film history . She totally inhabits Billy . An amazing character , fully fleshed out by her brilliant acting . The last scenes in this film are sobering and scary , and the audience really feels the sense of urgency and danger . Fantastic movie . Even if it were horrible , Linda Hunt's performance has to be seen .
Nice Spielberg-Hanks collaboration	Tom Hanks is Viktor Navorski , a man without a country who lives in " The Terminal , " a 2004 film directed by Steven Spielberg . While Viktor is en route to the U . S . to fulfill a wish of his late father's , there is a coup in the Eastern European country he calls home . When he lands at JFK airport , he finds he cannot enter the U . S . because his country is no longer recognized by the U . S . , and all flights home have been canceled . While waiting in this limbo , Viktor takes up residence in the Terminal , to the chagrin of one of the administrators ( Stanley Tucci ) for whom Viktor is becoming somewhat of an embarrassment . This is a delightful film , if a bit too long , about the true meaning of home , about resourcefulness , and how a dream can propel a person to keep going no matter the odds . There are some funny scenes such as one of the custodial people , Gupta , watching people slide across his wet floors , Viktor taking apart seats at Gate 67 to make a bed , walking across the terminal in his bathrobe , and gathering luggage wagons so he can turn them in for quarters ( he lost the food vouchers he was given ) . A brilliant contractor in his own country , Viktor even finds work in the terminal when his talent is recognized by the boss of one of the crews doing repairs on the building . Viktor makes many friends at the Terminal and even falls in love with a flight attendant ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) who is attached to a married man and can't seem to break it off . That and the peanut can that Viktor carries around with him make up the poignant parts of the story . The performances are wonderful . Hanks is a true Everyman as Viktor and really gives one the feel for what it's like to be alone in a strange place and not know much of the language . In one sad moment , he watches the TV monitors and cries as he realizes his country is in trouble . Viktor is a smart man as well as being a grounded and basic one . As with all his other roles , Hanks sails through the part , making it look both believable and easy . Zeta-Jones is a stunning and vivacious Amelia who sees Viktor's true worth even as she is pulled in another direction by a dead end relationship . Stanley Tucci , an airport administrator to whom Viktor has become an embarrassment , does an excellent job portraying a rules-only mindset and the disconnect between his job and the people he's supposed to serve . In one of the most powerful scenes , he refuses to let a man into the country with medicine for his dying father because the correct forms weren't filled out in the man's country of origin . All of the supporting characters who learn the meaning of true friendship from Viktor - Cruz , Gupta , et al . are fantastic . " The Terminal " is a real feel-good movie , beautifully directed and acted , touching and engrossing . Highly recommended for the smile it will leave on your face .
Funny and technically remarkable	" Zelig " is another terrific film from Woody Allen , about a chameleon who lived earlier in the century and was treated by a psychiatrist to become one , whole person . Done in documentary style all the way through and narrated by Patrick Horgan , it's difficult to tell sometimes who is real and who is acting . Leonard Zelig is a young man who , simply by standing with someone , becomes just like them - if he's with a black person , he becomes black ; if he's near a fat person , he becomes rotund and so on . He is the subject of articles as well as songs ( " Leonard the Lizard , " " ( You Have Such ) Reptile Eyes , " and " You May Be Six People , But I Love You , " to name a few ) and inspires a popular ' 20s dance , " The Chameleon . " Dick Hyman composed the songs perfectly in the style of the ' 20s , and one , in fact , is sung by the voice of Betty Boop , Helen Kane . Zelig is attacked by Labor Unions because they claim that , as a chameleon , he's holding down six jobs . The KKK doesn't know what to make of him - he can become anything they hate in seconds . While working with a dedicated psychiatrist , Eudora ( Farrow ) , Leonard's sister and boyfriend take him out of the institute and use his chameleon qualities to commercialize him and make a bundle . After a murder / suicide , Eudora gets Leonard back and continues to work with him . The best part of " Zelig , " of course , are the film clips and photos from the ' 20s and ' 30s that place Zelig and / or Eudora actually in them . The old film was apparently matched to the new by such technical things as stepping on it , putting it in a shower , and crumpling it up . The production used actual cameras and lighting from the ' 20s to give the right effect , and a technique used in a series of Time-Life specials that inserted Dick Cavett into archival footage was used - and actually was the inspiration for the film , it fascinated Allen so much . All of these photos and film clips are remarkable , but the best is the appearance of Leonard Zelig on the podium near Hitler while Hitler is giving one of his impassioned speeches . " Zelig , " though , is more than a technical wonder . It's the story of a man who has no identity of his own and , through the dedication of one doctor , develops one . It's also very funny in parts , particularly one of Leonard's sessions under hypnosis when he talks about the meaning of life . A wonderful film with jaw-dropping editing , done meticulously . Highly recommended .
biography of a Hollywood beauty	Linda Darnell was certainly one of the most beautiful women to hit Hollywood , but when she first came on the scene , she was just a girl . This Biography episode covers the actress ' tragic life , using home movies , film clips , and interviews with family , friends , and costars . Linda Darnell's story is compelling and quite sad : Chaotic home , absent father , pushy stage mother , and a Hollywood contract at 14 after a series of beauty pageants . When Zanuck found out her age , he sent her back home , only to sign her again while she was still a teen , when he realized that RKO was going to give her a contract . She was put into adult roles immediately and soon became a huge success in Stardust , The Mark of Zorro , Blood and Sand , and many others . When she married cinematographer Peverell Marley , many years her senior , Zanuck fired him and put Linda on suspension because she wasn't a sweet virgin anymore . She came back , and when she did , she was hotter than ever as a sultry beauty , and some of her best films followed : Unfaithfully Yours , Letter to Three Wives , My Darling Clementine , No Way Out , etc . But a volatile marriage , alcohol , bad investments , and a devastating affair with Joseph Mankiewicz left her bloated and broke . Bad marriages and a bad nightclub act followed . Stage work brought Linda the confidence she had lost and also reconciled her with her adopted daughter Lola , and when she made her first film in 7 years , the offers started pouring in . Unfortunately , Linda's third go in the movies was not to be . After watching Stardust at her former secretary's house in Chicago , the house caught fire , and Linda died after suffering burns on 90 % of her body . She died beautiful , excited about the future , and with the memory of the earlier teen Linda with her whole life ahead of her . This is truly a heartbreaking story , very well told , and one not to miss .
A man tries to gaslight his wife	As Suzanne once said on " Designing Women , " " you're trying to gas stove me . " The term for driving a person crazy by either gaslighting or gas stoving them comes from this magnificent 1944 film , remade from a 1940 British production - and both come from the play " Angel Street . " But it was this Oscar-winning film that made " to gaslight " popular . It stars Charles Boyer , Ingrid Bergman , Joseph Cotten and Angela Lansbury . This " Gaslight " has some differences from the British film , in that it switches the connection to the woman murdered in the house where the Antons live from the husband ( Boyer ) to the wife ( Bergman ) , and the old detective interested in Gregory is now an attractive young detective interested in Paula ( though the names are changed here too ) . It also gives us a back story as to how the couple met . For reasons of his own ( also different in both films ) the lovely Paula's new husband , Gregroy , starts slowly driving her mad , accusing her of forgetting things , losing items , and setting her up to be frightful of going out or being social , and when she does , having hysterics so everyone knows she is disturbed . He openly flirts with the trashy maid ( Lansbury ) and embarrasses his wife in front of her . He also leaves the house every night , and as she sits in her room , the gaslight dims , as if someone has turned on another light in the house . But no one has . Paula is going nuts . But a young police detective has seen Paula and has recognized her as the relative of someone very important in his life . The acting and production values in " Gaslight " are great . Bergman has never looked more beautiful than in the gorgeous Victorian costumes . She makes Paula and very vulnerable and sympathetic young woman . Pia Lindstrom states on the DVD that her mother's performance is subtle . That's one thing it wasn't , and it's her tendency to go a tad over the top is the only thing that dates " Gaslight " as produced in another time . Many of her mannerisms have been used so often over the years that they have become stereotypes . Not to say there was anything wrong with Bergman's performance ; she was a great actress with a wonderful quality . It's just that the acting style employed in this film has changed somewhat . Boyer's Gregory is suave and cruel in an off-handed way . He speaks to Paula with a gentleness that makes his venom even more sinister . Joseph Cotten brings an attractiveness and sincerity to the detective . Angela Lansbury , 17 and in her film debut , is wonderful as the tarty Nancy , with her sullen look and low-class accent . An excellent performance . The DVD set has both versions of " Gaslight " ( there was also a TV movie starring Christopher Plummer ) and watching both of them is very enjoyable . Though some people consider the British version superior , I give the slight edge to this great 1944 classic , directed with a gentle hand by George Cukor .
A Jonas meets robbers - mayhem results	Hilarious dark , British comedy about robbers who have the incredible misfortune of planning their crime in the home of Mrs . Wilberforce while posing as musicians . Thinking her a harmless little old lady , they enlist her unknowing help in the crime , not realizing she's a total Jonas . A very clever script and a top-notch cast contribute to making this an excellent film . Alec Guiness , Katie Johnson , Peter Sellars , and Herbert Lom , Cecil Parker , and Danny Green are all excellent . There are some very funny slapstick scenes , including one in which the group attempts to rescue one of Mrs . Wilberforce's parrots from the outdoors ( " Major Wilberforce went down with the ship . . . but he made sure these creatures were safe on the last boat . " ) The remake of this seems to have come and gone - I don't understand the reason for most remakes , and most especially not this one .
Wonderful film	Liam Neeson is " Under Suspicion " for murdering his wife and a client in this 1991 little known film also starring Laura San Giacomo . This is one of those films one rents and all too rarely realizes that they have found an unsung treasure . Set in England in 1959-60 , Neeson plays an police officer , Tony Aaron . While on assignment with his partner Frank guarding the home of a wealthy man who is out of town , Tony takes time out to have a dalliance with the owner's wife . In the fray that erupts when he's nearly caught by her husband , another officer is killed . Tony is pressured to resign and when he leaves , he only has one friend left - his partner Frank . Tony becomes a low-life private detective who helps clients fake adultery in order to have grounds for divorce . To do this , Tony uses his own wife , Hazel , the woman of the above dalliance , as the " other woman . " One night , he does the usual thing of entering the hotel room with a camera and surprising the client and Hazel in bed when he discovers that both have been brutally murdered . He immediately becomes a suspect , though he trails along with his ex-partner during the investigation and discovers some other suspects - not only who had a reason to knock off the artist , but who had plenty of reason to frame Tony for the crime . This is a very well produced and directed film with brilliant construction . The detail in evoking the atmosphere of the late ' 50s is wonderful , and if there were ever a film that deserved a " best costumes " nomination for an Oscar , this is it . The acting is all around very good , with a good deal of the film's budget going to Liam Neeson , who back then was a prolific actor two years from superstardom . Neeson is terrific as a loser who has made one mistake after another so that a noose around his neck seems appropriate . Yet there's something likable about him , and earnest , too , so that the audience feels that though he may not have been able to keep his pants zipped , at heart he's not a bad guy . Laura San Giacomo , who has enjoyed an okay film career but is now best known for her work in the TV series " Just Shoot Me " is very effective as the mysterious mistress whom Tony suspects may have had something to do with her boyfriend's murder . Kenneth Cranham , a very familiar face in British productions , is excellent as Tony's loyal ex-partner , who risks his own job protecting his friend . An absolutely gorgeous woman , Alphonsia Emmanuel , plays Stasio's wife and does a good job in a role that , were she not so beautiful , would probably not have been noticed . Any film that has me yelling out loud at the screen at 3 a . m . is a good movie in my book . That's the level of suspense that " Under Suspicion " has - if you have a weak heart , take medication first . It's absolutely thrilling .
a joy in every way	This was the best and brightest of the Lifetime reunions ! The ladies - and by that , I mean the real " Designing Women " - Delta Burke , Dixie Carter , and Annie Potts - looked incredible and were a riot together as themselves , just as they were playing their characters . They told some hilarious stories . The tremendous warmth that the show had shone through , particularly in the gentleness of Meshach Taylor . The introduction of an obviously frail Alice Ghostley was also very poignant . Loved the scene in the gay bar where all the patrons recite Dixie Carter's famous " flaming baton " speech , and Burke's story of meeting her husband and taking him on a back lot picnic , only to have tourists treading through at every turn . This was a no-miss !
The warts and all bio of a music great	A masterful performance by Jamie Foxx is just one of the highlights of " Ray , " a 2004 film also starring Kerry Washington , Regina King , Curtis Armstrong , Richard Schiff , Sharon Warren , Patrick Bachau , and many others , all giving excellent support to the film . The film has several main focuses : the first is Charles ' childhood - the drowning of his brother George which haunted him for years , the glaucoma that blinded him , and the strength taught him by his mother - don't bend , don't break , don't ever be a cripple . She eventually sends him to a special school where Charles ' gift of music is discovered . The next focus is Charles ' artistic evolution as a Nat King Cole-like singer , to his arrangements of gospel music , his foray into country music , and the unique sound that became Ray Charles . The third focus is Charles ' personal life - his marriage to Bea , his many affairs , his heroin addiction and eventual rehabilitation . Because Charles lived a packed 74 years , there's a lot skipped . Though Charles was orphaned while in his teens , the death of his beloved mother , his rock , isn't in the film . While he is shown on the chitlin circuit and refusing to play in segregated clubs , his near-starvation as a musician isn't covered . At one point , he found a jar of jelly and attempted to eat it , but the jar broke . He was that down and out . Bea is shown with him when the State of Georgia , which banned him , adopts " Georgia on My Mind " as their theme song in 1979 and welcomes Charles back to his native state , yet he and Bea were divorced in 1977 which isn't mentioned . She probably was there , however . Also , she wasn't his only wife - he was married once before he met her ; that marriage isn't covered . In the movie , we're told of one illegitimate child - there were 12 . It would have been impossible to get all of that and more into a film . What isn't skipped is his glorious music , which seems to go on constantly throughout the film , continually reinforcing his genius and artistry . Charles ' story is compelling and holds the audience's interest throughout . Those who scoff at it as a made-for-TV movie don't give it the credit it deserves . Taylor Hackford's direction gives " Ray " a good pace , and the movie has a lot of atmosphere and evokes the various decades beautifully . As Ray , Jamie Foxx inhabits the character and makes one forget he's a comedian playing a part . Foxx wore prosthetics , did his own piano playing , and spent a great deal of time with Charles preparing for the role . He nails him , but it's not an impersonation - he's a flesh and blood man with hallucinations of standing in water and finding his brother's body ; a man full of denial about his addiction , hating the word junkie and believing he's not hooked ; and he's in denial about his home life , thinking that his wife doesn't know about his various affairs and illegitimate children ( in the movie , child ) ; and a man taken terrible advantage of early in his career because of his blindness who refuses to be walked on later on . He demands to be paid in $1 bills so they can be counted ; when he discovers he's a gravy train for a club owner and her partner and was nearly cheated out of a record deal , he makes his own deal and leaves his job . One doesn't so much marvel at Foxx's performance as accept him as Ray from the first time he appears on camera . This is an excellent biography , which , like " Walk the Line " is punctuated with the fantastic music of the artist . Whether or not you're a Ray Charles fan , " Ray " is something to experience .
Unforgivable is Unforgettable !	Ken Burns has done an amazing documentary on the life of Jack Johnson - but even more amazing is the story he tells of the times in which Johnson lived . There is still racism in this country , for sure - one wants to believe that at least in most parts of the country , it is a little more circumspect than racism was during Johnson's life . This documentary provides a truly astounding look at this country at the beginning of the century , and a lot of it is unattractive . Johnson , called " The Ethiopian , " could not go after the heavyweight title because the white fighters swore no black man would ever have it . When he finally did get it , Jim Jefferson , the undefeated champion , who had refused to fight Johnson , was dragged out of retirement 10 years and 100 pounds later to try to reclaim the title . He failed , and commented that in his prime , he could never have beat Johnson . In his belief system , Johnson came up against a contemporary , Booker T . Washington , who believed that , rather than worry about segregation , blacks should build a power , education , and money base first . Johnson preferred to live as if segregation did not exist . He lived in white neighborhoods , moved his mother into one , flaunted his money , and consorted with white women . His quest for individualism cost him dearly . He bucked a system that simply would not stand for it . This is a fascinating piece of our history , one that should not be missed .
Still a boy at heart	" Big " is a captivating , funny , heartwarming movie starring Tom Hanks . It is well deserving of any and all accolades . A kid , Josh , makes a wish at a carnival machine to be big - and Zoltar grants it . The boy becomes a man - on the outside , anyway . When Josh's own mother doesn't know him , his best friend helps him relocate in New York City while his family thinks he's been kidnapped . He finds a job at a toy company and the big boss ( Robert Loggia ) recognizes him as an eccentric genius , continually promoting him over his competition ( John Heard ) . A young woman in the company ( Elizabeth Perkins ) falls in love with him . When he brings her to his new , gorgeous apartment , she sees his bunk bed , soda machine , and trampoline . This movie was remade as " 13 Going on 30 , " which was also a delightful movie , but not nearly as memorable as " Big . " As we watch Hanks spitting out Beluga caviar at the office party , eating his way through the buffet , and dressing in what can only be called a white Elvis tuxedo , we realize how far we all are from our child within and that sense of wonder and freedom that brings with it original thoughts and creativity . As the boy Josh starts identifying more with his external appearance and discovers sex and the pressures of work , he realizes that something is missing . Everyone in the film is excellent , including Josh's adult love interest , Elizabeth Perkins , John Heard , Robert Loggia , Mercedes Ruehl , and Jared Rushton as Billy , Josh's best friend . The end is adorable and worthy of some tears - which I shed . Highly recommended .
Haunting fantasy with a traditional post-war theme	The World War II zietgeist was an obsession with what happens after death , with angels coming to earth ( " The Bishop's Wife , " " It's A Wonderful Life , " ) with the dead appearing in someone else's body ( " Here Comes Mr . Jordan " ) and with people returning to live in another time . Thus we have the beautiful story of " Portrait of Jennie , " based on the book by Robert Nathan . Joseph Cotten plays Eben Adams , a starving New York artist who meets a young girl named Jennie . Each time he sees her , she has grown up a little more . She isn't dressed in a modern way and talks of buildings long torn down and of people dead many years . Adams becomes obsessed with her and finally does her portrait , which gives him the artistic breakthrough he sought , with the encouragement of gallery owners played by Ethel Barrymore and Cecil Kellaway . When he finally learns Jennie's complete story , he rushes to connect with her at a point in time which could change both of their destines . The photography in this film is stunning ; looking at the still moments is like looking at a painted canvas - you can see the texture on the screen . There are wonderful scenes of New York City and Central Park as well . Jennifer Jones as Jennie is perfection , utterly believable as a child , a teenager , and as a woman , and her gorgeous looks and soft voice lend just the right ethereal quality to her character . Cotten's Eben is a discouraged man whose hope grows over time , with support from friends and people interested in his art , and most of all , by his love for the mysterious Jennie . Ethel Barrymore as a no-nonsense art dealer gives one of her stalwart performances . Catch those young girls looking at the portrait at the end of the film - none other than the very young Anne Francis , Nancy Olson and Nancy Davis - later to become Mrs . Reagan . They're only recognizable if you know who they are ahead of time , so watch for them . " Portrait of Jennie " is a haunting film . You won't forget it once you've seen it .
A lot of fun and heart	" Ugly Betty " is a refreshing show from ABC that is based on a soap opera , I believe from Mexico . The place and the characters are quite similar to " The Devil Wears Prada , " except that in " Ugly Betty " her boss loves her . Like Prada , UB takes place in the offices of a fancy fashion magazine a la Vogue , in the series called Mode , and we come into the show shortly after the death of its former editor-in-chief , " Faye . " Mode's owner , Bradford Meade ( Alan Dale ) has put his son Daniel ( Eric Mabius ) in Faye's place instead of the ambitious Wilhemina ( Vanessa Williams ) so much of the plot is taken up with Wilhemina trying to discredit him with the help of her assistant , a bitchy queen named Marc ( Michael Urie ) . Wilhemina has something cooked up with a masked woman whom we are led to believe is Faye returned to life , and they are trying to link Bradford with Faye's death and thus take control of the company . Into this maelstrom comes Betty ( America Ferrera ) with her ponchos , braces , glasses and hideous clothes , saving Daniel's job week after week and bolstering his ego . The other part of the series concerns Betty's home life with her Mexican-American father ( Tony Plana ) , her street-smart sister Hilda ( Ana Ortiz ) and Hilda's fashionista son ( Mark Indelicato ) . Though the show has great warmth , it is in the family scenes where not only warmth but a sense of reality reigns . All of the roles are perfectly cast . The show has clichd characters , but they're supposed to be - it's part of the fun . Certainly Michael Urie is capable of playing a much more subtle character than the outrageous Marc , but the magazine is supposed to be an environment of total shallowness and political intrigue where Betty is the only real person . When asked why , when going to a Breast Cancer event , Wilhemina is wearing an AIDS red ribbon and not a pink one , she answers , " The AIDS one looks better with what I'm wearing . " What " Ugly Betty " has going for it is lots of heart . Betty's open , outgoing and friendly attitude breaks down barriers in the office and keeps the family grounded at home . The message is , just be who you are and be proud of it .
Excellent look at the brilliant career of Edward R . Murrow	" This Reporter " is the story of Edward R . Murrow and his career at CBS , so beautifully told in the film " Good Night , and Good Luck . " If possible , see the documentary first - you will appreciate the film even more . Murrow was a handsome man who always had a cigarette in his hand ; this documentary traces his career , which includes his remarkable commentary overseas during World War II ( during which time he had an affair with Pamela Churchill , who became Pamela Harriman ) , and covers his rocky career at CBS on what can be described as an early version of 60 Minutes that eventually finished him at that network . Once he took on Senator Joseph McCarthy and the Red Scare , Murrow became interested in other important and controversial stories , and his network protector , William Paley , became less and less supportive . During this time , Murrow started his famous " Person to Person " television show that took viewers into the homes of important people , which had never been done before . Gradually , however , he found his power at the network greatly diminished . He was too troublesome , and Paley was sick to his stomach over the constant controversy that surrounded the show . Murrow immediately saw the tremendous potential of television and was frustrated that this promise was not being tapped fully . Many of his predictions - - about the news becoming tabloid , for instance , have become true . An excellent and sobering documentary about one of the giants of journalism .
a one man band	Kevin Spacey is everything , including Bobby Darin , in " Beyond the Sea , " a biography of the young man who set himself up as the next Sinatra - and indeed , might have been - had it not been for his early death . Darin was a cocky kid with a great presence and oodles of talent . The essence of Vegas cool , his singing style was as slick as it was thrilling , and in his short career he had many hits , " Beyond the Sea " being just one . His rendition of " Mack the Knife " is classic . Spacey portrays Bobby in this exuberant film that celebrates the life of this great singer . He directed , produced , and contributed to the script as well . His motives for making this film were several-fold - he wanted people to remember Darin's music and talent , and he probably wanted to showcase his own remarkable abilities , as he does his own singing . Though the structure is a bit jarring at times , this is a wonderful movie , filled with fantastic music and musical numbers that absolutely soar . Spacey's voice is fantastic , and he copies Darin's style beautifully . The music makes " Beyond the Sea " a real feast . Darin's real-life story is also compelling . Like Sinatra , he never accepted second-best for himself and moved fast , knowing that he had been living on borrowed time since he was 15 due to a heart condition . After a family secret is revealed , he never really bounced back and died when he was 36 . Much has been written about Spacey's age and that this is a vanity production . Spacey tried to get financing for this movie for something like ten years ; after the death of his mother , it finally happened , and he believes that she helped him get the film produced . So " Beyond the Sea " meant a great deal to him , and kudos to Spacey for having a dream and not giving it up . We should applaud someone who doesn't quit instead of writing him off with , this is a vanity production . Despite his excellent performance , Spacey's age gets in the way . In my own opinion , this was completely unnecessary . I assume he allowed it to happen because he figured he was just too old and everyone was going to have to live with it . Inexcusable . This is no small budget movie , and we're talking about the Land of Illusion here . Certainly some attention to lighting , a softer lens , better makeup and some face tape could have easily removed 10 years from Spacey . Orson Welles had to live down the fact that he wasn't as handsome as he appeared in parts of " Citizen Kane " because of the flawless way he looked . The time and care taken to light and make up actresses is legendary . I can't believe , as one who has been before the cameras and in the hands of makeup and lighting people myself , that some years couldn't have been knocked off of Spacey's appearance . The rest of the performances are very good , with Greta Scacchi a standout as Sandra Dee's pushy mother . Kate Bosworth is good as Dee and , in this writer's opinion , prettier . " Beyond the Sea " is a first class production all around . As one who remembers Darin , it's heavenly - and a reminder that heaven robbed us of a significant talent way too early .
Another version of " The Front Page " starring Grant and Russell	Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell make great sparring partners in " His Girl Friday , " a remake of " The Front Page . " Grant plays the conniving newspaper publisher Walter Johnson , and Rosalind Russell is the reporter Hildy Johnson , a woman this time , and Johnson's ex-wife . She's trying to get remarried , move to Albany , and quit the newspaper business , but Walter can't bear it . He cons her into helping out with a controversial death row case and then makes sure her fiance ( Ralph Bellamy ) suffers a series of mishaps - arrest for stealing a watch , arrest for " mashing , " arrest for counterfeiting , and the theft of his wallet . This all happens while Hildy interviews Earl Williams , a man due to be hung the next day . . . and then hides him in a roll-top desk in the courthouse press room when he escapes during a psychiatric evaluation . It's madcap , all right , and there are no two better people to carry it off than Grant and Russell , who make a great team . It's a hilarious story , with the most rapid-fire , non-stop dialog ever heard anywhere , often with several conversations going on at once . It's exhausting trying to keep up with it . Strangely , without computers and cell phones , the story of journalists working on a story holds up because the emotions and activities are realistic and still go on . It's as Hildy describes - no set schedule , no normal meals , and long hours . Nothing much has changed . This is a frenetic comedy , and while the impending hanging of Earl Williams is certainly serious , this plot is more of an excuse to observe the machinations of Hildy and Walter - it's a subplot , though it drives the main story . " The Front Page " is a favorite of Hollywood's , remade many times - three versions under its original title , a TV series , two TV productions , plus the film " Switching Channels . " And of course , " His Girl Friday , " possibly the best of all of them .
Top-notch all the way	Black people " passing for white " was not a new topic for Hollywood in 1949 . It was part of the plot of " Imitation of Life " in 1934 , but in that film , an actual black actress , Fredi Washington , played the role of the young woman who " passes " in the white world . In 1949 , there were two films dealing with this issue : " Pinky " and " Lost Boundaries , " and in both cases , the black person was played by a white actor . " Pinky " stars Jeanne Crain as Pinky Johnson , a black woman who looks white , so much so that she when she studies nursing in New York , she easily enters the white world and becomes involved with a white doctor who wants to marry her . Needing time to think over her situation , she returns home , which is a shack where her grandmother ( Ethel Waters ) lives in a black section of their southern town . There she is reminded of the prejudice and cruelty she left . When her grandmother asks her to care for an elderly white woman ( Ethel Barrymore ) , hostility between patient and nurse leads to an uneasy bond . This is a brilliant film all the way , magnificently directed by Elia Kazan and produced by Darryl F . Zanuck , who loved taking on these controversial social issues . The acting is superb : Jeanne Crain gives the best performance of her career as a woman who comes to grips with her true identity . She is so dignified as she walks through the town , soft-spoken yet strong , refusing to come down to the level of those around her . Ethel Barrymore is the elderly terminally ill woman Pinky reluctantly agrees to care for , and she nearly steals the movie with a no-nonsense performance . She's a woman set in her ways and opinions , but she's fair person who can see the human soul . It's probably the best drawn character in the film . As a teen-aged fan of " Route 66 , " I can well remember the publicity around the show when Ethel Waters guest-starred . Of course white teens in the ' 60s had no idea of who she was or the circumstances of her life and career . Yet to this day I can remember her on that show . Forty years later , thankfully , I have an appreciation of her place in history and her work . Waters gives a powerful performance . Her character has accepted her lot in life but sacrifices everything so that her grandchild can have a better one . In her world , white men have the power , and you can clearly see her belief manifested in her courtroom demeanor . The casting of Jeanne Crain is a sticking point here but not really when looked at in the context of the 1940s . Even with this casting , this is a bold movie , uncompromising in its depiction of white attitudes and racial slurs . It is just a pity that at the time of the filming , Fredi Washington was 45 years old and actually no longer in films . Washington looked so white that she was told by producers that if she would agree to " pass " and play white roles , she could have a career equal to that of Norma Shearer . She refused , and in order to play black women , she had to darken her skin . Lena Horne was deemed not white-looking enough . I suggest that the same is true for the beautiful Dorothy Dandridge . There may have been black actresses who looked white enough to play this role , but would anyone have answered such a casting call ? Most importantly , " Pinky " would not have been made without Jeanne Crain , because Zanuck wanted her to do it , and it's a film that deserved making . The other sticking point in the film is Pinky's fiance , a white doctor . His easy acceptance of her as black - and the fact that she kept it from him - is a weakness in the script . This was done perhaps to highlight that he wanted to her to continue to pass for white , therefore making it clear that Pinky has to the make the decision , but the scenario does not seem believable . You can predict the ending of " Pinky , " and despite complaints that it's a typically neat Hollywood one , I found it immensely satisfying as I found the entire experience of watching this truly classic film , " Pinky . "
Jonathan Demme directs - not too shabby !	Both Steven Spielberg and Jonathan Demme cut their teeth on Columbo . This is a particularly good episode that sports not only Demme directing but an excellent script by Robert Van Scoyck , an award winning writer who wrote episodes for Columbo , Ellery Queen , Banacek , and other shows . Louis Jourdan is the murderer du jour in this one , playing a blackmailing restaurant reviewer who collects big time from some of the local establishments , owned by France Nuyen , Michael Gazzo , and others , in return for good TV reviews . Shera Danese , Falk's then new wife , plays Jourdan's associate , who's in love with him but isn't getting very far . One of the restaurant owners has had enough and threatens to expose Jourdan , so he poisons him over dinner . Columbo pegs Jourdan within minutes of getting to the scene . At this writing , the dialogue at the end of the show is on the home page for this episode , and I hope it's removed . We all know who did it , but learning how Columbo reached his conclusion is a lot of the fun . It's a strange thing about these shows . When you see them as often as I have , you realize that a lot of the shows are based on the same formula : successful man using a woman accomplice with the promise of love unlimited , and yet the shows are presented in such an interesting way that they're not tired . This is a particularly good one , and you'll love Columbo eating his way through restaurant after restaurant while questioning people , and his conversation in Italian with an employee . Basta !
The spots !	Betty Hutton is responsible for " The Miracle of Morgan's Creek , " a 1944 comedy written and directed by Preston Sturges . A very famous movie and rightly so . Hutton shares the screen with Sturges regulars Eddie Bracken , William Demarest , Brian Donlevy , as well as Diana Lynn , Akim Tamiroff and Porter Hall . Hutton plays Trudy , a small-town girl who lives with her sister ( Lynn ) and irascible father ( Demarest ) . On the night before a group of soldiers in the area ship out , a big dance is held for them , and Trudy plans on going . Her father forbids it . Instead she makes a movie date with a childhood friend who's crazy about her , Norval Jones . Poor Norval - he can't get into the service because he becomes so overwrought and terrified that they won't take him that he starts seeing - THE SPOTS - before his eyes , and he winds up with a 4-F . The minute they're out of the house , Trudy tells Norval that she wants to borrow his car and go to the dance , leaving Norval watching three features in a movie theater . Once she's there , Trudy dances with practically ever soldier there and goes out drinking and nightclubbing afterward , which she is unaccustomed to . She picks Norval up at 8 o'clock the next morning at the movie theater . Once in the house , she realizes that she got married , but she can't remember to whom except his name had a Z in it . Then she finds out she's pregnant . This is a hilarious film that many people have seen many times - there is an enormous amount of dialogue - if you took three films today and put them together , you probably wouldn't have the amount of dialogue in this film . It also moves at a lightning pace . It's so fascinating to see how this subject was handled in the ' 40s and how our mores have changed . The Trudy character could never have just gotten pregnant while unmarried and be unsure of the father's identity - or else the censors would have demanded she die at the end . The family goes to such lengths to cover up the pregnancy , even moving out of town to protect Trudy's " reputation . " And poor Norval offers to marry her as the soldier , whose name she thinks is Ignatz Ratzkywatzky so she has a marriage certificate , which Ignatz evidently took with him . Since she used a fake name , she won't be able to find it in any documents . Today a young woman getting pregnant and not knowing who the father is has become a common plot . Trudy could have just gone out and had a good time , gotten pregnant , and the father could have been a soldier or one of the guys in town . She'd have the child and remain unmarried if she so chose . A lot of people don't like Betty Hutton - I'm not sure why . She was a vivacious performer and a fantastic singer . She is wonderful as Trudy , showing a great sense of comic timing . Her energy , as usual , jumps off the screen . Eddie Bracken has the better role , and he makes the most of it . He's hilarious as the depressed Norval . Both he and Demarest have some very funny slapstick moments . Demarest comes off as a meanie , but you know deep down he cares . His repartee with Diana Lynn , who plays his other daughter , Emmy , will have you laughing . I think in the movie she said she was 14 - I thought 17 - and sure enough , the actress was 17 . Fourteen was really pushing it . " The Miracle of Morgan's Creek " is a real gem , made during World War II , a fascinating time in our history . Many women met their husbands while the men were at training camps - so did Trudy - but she never knew his name . I wonder whatever happened to Ignatz Ratzkywatzky - and if he'd try to find her if he knew the result of the honeymoon !
A singer changes a brothers ' music team and their relationship	Jeff Bridges and Beau Bridges are " The Fabulous Baker Boys " in this 1989 film also starring Michelle Pfeiffer . The Baker Boys have been playing dual pianos on the lounge circuit for years , with Frank ( Beau ) acting as the booking manager and accountant . When the bookings dry up , the brothers decide to hire a singer . She's Susie Diamond , a gorgeous blond with a sultry voice and sexy appearance that gives the Baker Boys the pizazz that they need to pick up better gigs and more of them . Of course , one can't wait for the handsome , quietly intense Jack ( Jeff ) and Susie to give into their sexual chemistry , despite Frank's warnings that Jack's hit and run technique will not work with a teammate . When Frank is called away on a family emergency , more than sex happens . Ultimately Susie's bluntness and ability to see a situation for what it is makes Jack realize he hates the act , hates the way his brother handles it , and hates himself for not pursuing work as a jazz musician . Someone wrote that the plot is thin - not really . The sibling dynamics are real , pent up , and the product of years of lip-biting , Jack becoming more and more introverted and Frank more desperate to work so he can support his family . It takes an outsider to bring tempers to a boil . The film is very well done , with great music throughout , including some very hot singing by Pfeiffer . The highlight of the movie is Pfeiffer rolling around on the piano as she sings to Jack . She's really at the height of her beauty and can compare favorably to any Hollywood goddess of the past . Her performance as a street-wise singer who's had it tough is excellent , right down to the chewing gum and the crystal jewelry . Beau Bridges is perfectly cast . He plays a working musician for whom music is a job - and yet he's proud of the act , insistent on having " Feelings " in every show they do , and likes songs like " Bali Hai . " Then we come to Jeff Bridges , certainly one of the sexiest men to ever come down the pike - tall and handsome , he is the essence of true jazz musician here - passionate on the piano , cool , loving the night life and the attendant bad habits of drinking and smoking . He's all tied up in his inability to break free of his brother , and it's expressed in every non-expression , every puff of his cigarette . He's fantastic . Another reviewer on this site stated that non-musicians probably can't understand Jack's frustration about the music . It's true , I'm a trained musician and related to his crisis immediately . But I think many people are in jobs they don't like , many people have a book they never finished because the kids came along - I think this is a very appealing story . I remember this film getting a big build-up when it was released , but many people on IMDb feel it's underrated . I didn't realize it was , but if it is , it shouldn't be . What a movie - a strange kind of a love story for sure , between a man and his music , but a love story nevertheless .
Be careful what you wish for	Three models set out to land some " rich millionaires " in " How to Marry a Millionaire , " a cinemascope extravaganza starring Lauren Bacall , Betty Grable , and Marilyn Monroe . To show off the new , wide screen system and stereo sound , there is an overture and finale which today seem unnecessary . Bacall rents the fabulous apartment of a man ( David Wayne ) who has left the country because of tax evasion , and Pola ( Monroe ) and Loco ( Grable ) move in with her . As Bacall explains it , just one of them has to land a millionaire . Meanwhile , they pool their money and sell Wayne's furniture . Bacall lands a million named Brookman ( Cameron Mitchell ) but she thinks he's a gas pump jockey and constantly rejects him , going after the older William Powell instead . Grable takes off with a wealthy married man whom she thinks is taking her to an Elks convention - well , he did say he was going to his lodge , didn't he ? Both get the measles and on her prolonged stay , she flips out for forest ranger Rory Calhoun - and who wouldn't ? Monroe meets an obvious phony with an eye patch , but while not wearing her glasses , she gets on the wrong plane to meet him and instead meets David Wayne , who has been sneaking in and out of their apartment trying to find a canceled check he gave his tax man . He talks her into putting on her glasses with the line , " I have to warn you - I already think you're quite a strudel . " The three women look incredible and are beautifully dressed throughout - Marilyn in that red gown being a particular knockout . Grable had 10 years on the other women which somehow always manages to come up - the most generous of performers , she was extremely friendly to Monroe and , in fact , to everyone . While on tour with a musical , Belle Star , the producers pulled out in Scotland , leaving the company stranded - Grable paid their salaries and got them all home . She is excellent in this film , very funny as a woman whose comprehension of what people say is on another planet , and possesses the sweet , warm quality that made her Queen of 20th Century Fox for many years . This was a new kind of film for Bacall , who up until this time had worked with her husband in some major film noir . She proves herself up to the task of both comedy and color . Monroe is hilarious as a nearly blind woman who refuses to let a man see her in glasses , and she is gorgeous throughout . William Powell , his " Thin Man " days over , is as wonderful as ever as a gentile widower . This is a very entertaining film , filled with in jokes - Grable insisting the trumpet player on the radio is Harry James , Bacall insisting to Powell that she loves older men , particularly that guy in the African Queen . The film makes its points well : that what you think you want may not be what's in your heart , that young men have years to work hard and make something of themselves , and that you can't tell a book by its gas jockey cover .
London in the ' 60s in all its glory	Julie Christie is " Darling " in this 1965 film directed by John Schlesinger , and also starring Dirk Bogarde and Laurence Harvey . Schlesinger does a beautiful job of showing us ' 60s London as it was , and yet he managed to make a film that is just as timely now . Julie Christie is model Diana Scott , a gorgeous , ambitious young woman who moves from man to man without attachment and with the intention of helping her career . She dumps her first husband and breaks up the marriage of a British journalist ( Bogarde ) and then moves on to a pleasure-seeking advertising executive ( Harvey ) , and finally , marries an Italian prince . It's one of those lives that sounds great - she has beauty , money , men , glamour , travels in the circles of the beautiful people . But she has no emotional attachments , no love , and nothing that she has feels right or is anything she wants . All the external trappings of celebrity , but it's a shell . A really terrific movie , and I have to agree with the posters whose comments I read that Julie Christie is perfection in every way . Bogarde and Harvey give her excellent support . As an aside , Christie's wardrobe is stunning . None of the characters are very likable , except perhaps Bogarde , who in spite of leaving his wife and family does truly love Diana . Despite the cold realities of Darling , we're even more obsessed with celebrity today , which makes the film even more interesting . But when you look at a photo , see someone in a magazine or on the screen , you're only dealing with a persona , not the flesh and blood individual . It's a fantasy . Darling shows the audience what's behind the fantasy - and it's not very pretty .
Warner Brothers ' courageous bio of a gifted and important scientist	" Dr . Ehrlich's Magic Bullet " is the story of the groundbreaking Nobel prize winner Paul Ehrlich , credited with many discoveries still critical in the practice of medicine today , and perhaps most importantly , for finding the cure for syphilis . This is an important film for the use of the word ' syphilis ' which was the basis of a fight between the Hays code and Warners . But Ehrlich's story deserved telling , and you couldn't do it without using the word syphilis . The beginning of the film shows Dr . Ehrlich in Germany futilely treating patients who have the disease , though nothing can really help them . It chronicles his rise up the scientific ranks through his use of staining organisms so that they could be seen under the microscope , his work in disease resistance , and finally , after long experiments with an arsenical compound - 606 , in fact - the discovery of a cure for syphilis . For me , one reason to watch bios is that I develop interest in the subjects and seek out more information ; after all , some Hollywood stories are less factual than others . Though I'm sure a lot of Ehrlich's life had to be telescoped , the film certainly hits the highlights , and portrays him as a gifted scientist and vigorous innovator obsessed with his work . Edward G . Robinson was always a good actor in the right role , but as Dr . Ehrlich , he is magnificent , totally immersing himself in the character and drawing the audience in . Stage actress Ruth Gordon , for whom movie stardom was about 28 years off , gives a lovely , understated performance as Ehrlich's wife . The rest of the cast is excellent , from Otto Kruger as a fellow scientist and friend , right down to a small role by Louis Calhern . The movie is a little too sentimental at times by today's standards , I suppose , but the only thing that really bothered me was the lack of presence of Ehrlich's daughters at the film's end . At the beginning of the movie , we see them as youngsters , and reference is made to them later as being married . Would it have killed Warners to have two female extras at the end of the film ? We would have known who they were . I don't know if Ehrlich really said that diseases of the body will not be conquered until we conquer diseases of the soul , but it's a great and true thought . He was in fact a victim of a disease of the soul : there was a street in Frankfurt named after him , but the name was changed in the ' 30s because Ehrlich was Jewish . Later , it was reinstated . This is a marvelous movie , a real must-see .
hilarious , poignant , with brilliant performances	I found myself chuckling at the beginning of this film , howling with laughter in the middle , and in tears at the end . This is a brilliant work that uses wine as a metaphor to describe its two main characters , Miles , the pinot noir , and Jack , the cabernet . Both men are pathetic , but for different reasons - Miles because he has no life and Jack because he is a total jerk . They set off on a last hurrah for Jack before his wedding - let's just say both have different plans for the week . What unfolds is a reality that everyone can relate to , making it both funny and sad . How wonderful to see the beautiful , luminous Virginia Madsen again . Like many others , I have no understanding - NONE - of how Madsen , Haden Church , the film , the screenplay blah blah blah managed to get nominated , but not the fantastic work of Paul Giamatti - can you spell rip-off ? I applaud all the film's nominations as well deserved , but hey , it's missing the most important one . P . S . LOVED the Grapes of Wrath touch in the hotel room !
suspenseful	This is another underrated film , probably due to the fact that in those days , the studios just churned them out . It's a shame that today , with fewer films being made , more can't be " churned out " like this one . A top-notch cast , including Robert Taylor , Nazimova , Conrad Veidt and Norma Shearer do justice to a very good script which at times has you on the edge of your seat . Robert Taylor plays an American who comes to Germany looking for his mother , a well-known German actress , who married an American and returns to Germany to sell her house . One can really feel his frustration as he frantically tries to find information on her whereabouts . Finally , he learns that she is in a concentration camp awaiting execution . Along the way , he has met Shearer , an American , who continued to live in Germany after she was widowed and is now seeing a German officer . The film is heavy on propaganda , as Taylor comes up against citizens afraid to talk and nasty , uncaring Nazis . Even Shearer refuses to help him initially , and an old family friend pretends not to know him . Taylor does an excellent job as both a desperate man and a loving , tender son . Without giving the story away , he has one magnificent nonverbal moment where it literally looks like the blood has drained from his face . Shearer is lovely , and Veidt is alternately charming and scary . Nazimova plays Taylor's mother in a strong performance . Though she went outside the studio to get Tyrone Power to costar with her in " Marie Antoinette " rather than use Taylor , both Shearer and Taylor were under contract to MGM and would meet again for Shearer's final film , " Her Cardboard Lover . " Some of the final scenes of " Escape " are very intense . Highly recommended .
black widower on the prowl	This is a fantastic episode from the " Thriller " series that benefits from a brilliant performance by Helen Mirren . I personally know her work from a later era , but here , she is only 29 . The story concerns a black widower , Mark , who meets , charms , and marries wealthy women , and then kills them , making it look like an accident . Now he's on the prowl again , hanging out at a health club , and there he meets Mirren , a lovely young woman with a beautiful figure . He finds himself drawn to her . However , he soon meets the irrepressible Angie , who in a way is more his type - older and rich . She's also homely and boisterous . Mark wants to have his cake and eat it , too . And that's where I'll leave this brilliant Brian Clemens story . It's a real treat . The question is , how to see it . I understand that at least some of the Thriller series is out on DVD in England . Also , I suggest looking on the Internet and checking with some Mirren collectors . It's well worth locating .
A delight !	Two teenage girls stalk a pianist in " The World of Henry Orient , " a 1964 film starring Peter Sellars , Angela Lansbury , Phyllis Thaxter , Tom Bosley , Paula Prentiss , Merrie Spaeth and Tippy Walker . Spaeth and Walker are the 14-year-old teens , and the writing for them isn't good - it's PERFECT , capturing what it's like to be that age and having your first crush . The object of their affections is vain , paranoid Henry Orient ( Peter Sellars ) a pianist who apparently specializes in somewhat ugly modern music whom the girls see kissing his married girlfriend ( Prentiss ) in the park . When they see him again , he recognizes them and becomes unnerved . Then they attend a concert - - he sees them from the stage and nearly goes into orbit . After that , the girls read all they can about him and start staking out his apartment and restaurants he frequents . The Prentiss character , Stella , lives in fear of her husband finding out about her non-affair - she refuses to go to Orient's apartment , and whenever she acquiesces , she ends up running out of the back of the restaurant while he's getting a cab . Finally Henry gets her to his place . He spots the girls outside , and Stella becomes convinced that her husband has hired two child detectives . The kids have told a storekeeper next to their stalking stoop that they're waiting for their mother , Jayne Mansfield , who has been kidnapped . It goes from there - and it's HILARIOUS . The teens are sensational , giggly , wildly imaginative and creative , swooning , and faking terminal illness and other events on the street as they race all over the gloriously photographed New York City . Val comes from a super-rich family and neglectful parents , played by the glamorous Angela Lansbury and Tom Bosley as her quiet , hard-working husband . Her story , despite all the humor , is a poignant one . Sellars is fantastic , sporting an odd accent , and using the most subtle of expressions and body language to show what he's thinking . Lansbury is terrific and looks great , Bosley is excellent , and Prentiss is a riot as a neurotic mess . But the young girls - what memories they brought back of fantasy , crushes , wild laughter , pranks , and complete devastation . Phenomenal direction by George Roy Hill , gorgeous cinematography , great music . A no-miss if you want to recapture days of record albums , sitting on your bedroom floor with your friends , scrapbooks dedicated to the love of your life , hating teachers , and complete , uninhibited , euphoric daring .
mesmerizing	Fabulous film that demands a second , third and fourth viewing because of its structure . A concept that is brilliantly executed . It manages to scare and yet have realistic , warm characters the audience identifies with and cares about .
bring a box of Kleenex	This wonderful tribute to Elvis hosted by Priscilla Presley contains home movies , interviews , clips from the ' 68 comeback special , Aloha from Hawaii , outtakes , Elvis : That's the Way it is , his films - in short , everything you could possibly want to see in an Elvis tribute . Priscilla , Lisa Marie , Priscilla's parents , Elvis ' cousin , and Jerry Schilling give the audience great insight into Elvis ' personality , Priscilla's life with him , his differences with Colonel Tom Parker , his artistic frustrations , his drug problems , and his spiritual quest . Even for die-hard Elvis fans who have seen and read everything ( if that's possible ) , there will probably be something new here . Outstanding for me were the stories of Elvis ' generosity and the continuation of his charitable interests by the family . Most touching , I think , was how much he loved his daughter , and how much , 28 years later , people who were in his life still miss him to the point of tears . The musical highlight : " If I Can Dream . " The footage of Elvis on tour shortly before he died is harrowing . I've seen it before , but it never fails to shock . People always talk about the " fat Elvis " - in truth , though Elvis was heavier in the ' 70s than he was in the ' 60s , it wasn't until the very end that he became badly bloated and obviously ill . But like the documentary , I prefer to dwell on that groundbreaking talent , fabulous songs , magical smile , and unbelievable charisma that was , and always will be , Elvis Presley .
What a spectacle !	Possibly the most sweeping epic ever to hit the screen , the 1959 " Ben-Hur " came by its 11 Oscars and 12 nominations honestly . It's truly a magnificent film , beautifully acted and directed by William Wyler . While working on the film , Wyler informed Charlton Heston that his performance wasn't good enough . When Heston asked what he could do , Wyler said , " I don't know , but you have to do better . " He did . A controversial figure in real life , Heston nonetheless handed in some excellent performances in his reel life . This is his best , and he's matched by Stephen Boyd , an Irish actor who died too young . Other actors in the film include Sam Jaffe , Jack Hawkins , Hugh Griffith , Martha Scott , and Cathy O'Donnell . I'm not going to re-tell the story , just say that the spectacle of Ben-Hur is overwhelming , particularly the chariot race and the battle at sea . I consider myself a spiritual person , so needless to say , I found the story extremely moving , particularly the last hour . Exquisitely scored by Miklos Rosza , magnificently photographed and acted , perfectly directed by Wyler , with the chariot sequences directed by Yakima Canutt , and a sweeping story , " Ben-Hur " is not to be missed , especially around Easter , when its story of forgiveness and redemption is a perfect fit for the holiday .
Memory can change . . . the heart prevails	It's hard not to fall in love with a film that begins with a voice-over saying ( paraphrasing ) : " Valentine's Day was created by card companies to make everybody feel like crap . " Right afterward , I watched Jim Carrey force himself through a half-closed train door , and I said , this is for me . Carrey , in a complete turnabout , plays Joel , a lonely man who falls in love with a lively , quirky nut named Clementine . The romance progresses , fights ensue , and one day , Joel walks into the bookstore where Clementine works , and she's making out with someone else and doesn't seem to even recognize him . Then their friends receive a note saying that Clementine has erased Joel from her memory , and they shouldn't mention him again . Joel heads to the clinic himself to find out what's going on . There he finds programmers who can draw a map of your memories about an individual on the brain and get rid of them . Joel decides to have the procedure . Part of the way through it , he tries desperately to stop it , to find some way to remember Clementine , bringing her into places and memories where she never was . The programmers ( Elijah Wood , Thomas Ryan ) don't notice anything odd about the procedure because they're busy drinking , dancing in their underwear and doing drugs with Mary ( Kirsten Dunst ) a secretary at the clinic . When they finally notice a problem , the head man ( Howard Wilkinson ) is called in . Slowly Clementine disappears from Joel's brain as he desperately tries to hold onto her . A spectacular story with a few twists along the way , and spectacular acting , particularly from Carrey , Winslet and Dunst , make this a real winner . Carrey is a sympathetic , warm character , Winslet is adorable and charming , and Dunst is a complete natural , be she stoned in her underwear , trying to talk sense under the influence , or crying . They are wonderful as is the rest of the cast . " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is about the death of memory but not of emotion and the cry of the heart that goes on - sometimes without knowing why . A beautiful , beautiful film .
compelling story of an unusual woman	I may not agree with most of Ayn Rand's philosophy , but I do consider her a great fiction writer , and I found this documentary tremendously interesting in all aspects . " The Fountainhead " is one of my favorite books of all time , as it speaks of mediocrity becoming the highest standard by which all is compared - just watch " American Idol " some time and see it in action . She was right . The book was a tremendous eye-opener for me as an artist . I didn't know much about her until I saw this ; she was a most fascinating and unusual woman . The documentary covers Rand's life and work in great detail . It includes her affair with Nathaniel Branden , which didn't seem to keep her from loving her husband - her interview after her husband's death ( I believe with Phil Donahue ) was remarkable as she speaks about her lack of belief in an afterlife . If she believed in it , she goes on to state , she would have contemplating killing herself in order to join him . I have to admit that my favorite part of the documentary was a description of the making of the film " The Fountainhead . " Rand was apparently a woman first and a philosopher second . She adored Gary Cooper from the time she first came to Hollywood and worked as an extra in silent films . Thrilled that he would be starring in " The Fountainhead , " there is a photo of her gazing lovingly up at the tall and gorgeous Cooper . I don't remember how many years it took Rand to write the hero's final speech in the book . . . but after it was filmed , Cooper admitted he really hadn't understood it . As intellectual as she was , I doubt it changed her opinion of him .
an amazing film	It's hard to express what an emotional experience seeing this movie was for me . How something done so simply can be so profound is beyond my limited abilities , but that's what " To Kill A Mockingbird " is , a simple , beautiful film with profound messages . It takes one back in time , to 1932 - and you don't for a minute doubt that you're there , in a small southern town . It shows us , through the eyes of imaginative and energetic children , what life was like . It also shows us a great man , Atticus Finch , and demonstrates through action the values with which this widower has raised his children : by the respect he shows his black housekeeper , in his taking of a controversial case involving the alleged rape of a white woman by a black man , and in the way he tells them what his father said , that it's wrong to kill a mockingbird , because they are only on earth to give joy and harm nothing and no one . The acting , of course , from top to bottom , is superb . The children - Mary Badham , Philip Alford , and John Megna , are perfect . Brock Peters gives a marvelous , sympathetic performance as the defendant . Gregory Peck delivers the performance of his lifetime in the role of anyone's lifetime . I'm glad to see that TCM has this film in its educational package for schools , because it should be seen by everyone . There are tough lessons in this world , Atticus points out . One of the toughest is one of the messages in this film , that it's not the Boo Radleys of the world we need to fear . Evil is , as Edmund Burke said , when good men do nothing . Atticus Finch wasn't one of them .
Great , just great	" Decision before Dawn , " a 1951 20th Century Fox film , is one that possibly baby-boomers will remember from its TV premiere on " Saturday Night at the Movies . " " Saturday Night at the Movies " was a Fox ' 60s television show that debuted many of the studio's films on the air . " The Desert Fox , " " Diplomatic Courier , " " There's No Business Like Show Business , " " Halls of Montezuma " and dozens of others all were shown in prime time . The show had guest hosts , but the only one I can remember at the moment is Linda Darnell . It was the kind of show that got young people like myself interested in film . Today , with dedicated channels , it's a little harder for young kids to get exposure to old movies . I'm glad I was young when I was . Oskar Werner , Richard Basehart , Gary Merrill and Hildegarde Neff star in this fact-based World War II drama about the recruitment of German POWs to gather information on the German army toward the end of the war . One such volunteer is the solemn-faced " Happy " who believes that the war needs to end and peace restored . Though he and the others are viewed as traitors who have their own agendas , Happy proves that he's not " just another kraut " - which is one of the last phrases spoken in the film . As he attempts to perform his mission , he meets different people and has some experiences that demonstrate what the war was like for the common man who experienced it on their own soil . And he demonstrates his own humanity in the process . Filmed on location in the rubble of German cities and using Germans as extras , " Decision before Dawn " is one of the most realistic , atmospheric and accurate movies about World War II , with many suspenseful scenes that will have your nails bitten down to the quick . The casting is perfection . This was Werner's star-making role ( though it didn't lead to anything in Hollywood right away ) , and he gives a very internalized , restrained performance , his solemn baby face giving very little away . The rest of the performances are excellent , with two ruggedly handsome men , Basehart and Merrill , very effective in their roles . Hans Christian Blech is a standout as another German prisoner who becomes a spy . As someone on IMDb pointed out , the anti-German sentiment was certainly still prevalent in America at the time of this film , and to show a German in a positive light , as well as what the Germans went through , was a brave decision . The fact is , Hitler didn't care a hoot about the people of Germany . He took their pots and pans , their food , and when they ran out of men , he took their 14-year-old sons . In the end , he blamed them for the war being lost . " Decision Before Dawn " is a great film that shows that not all Germans were Nazis . Some of them were just human beings .
Magnificent statement about the power of one	" All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing . " ( Edmund Burke ) The evil in 1954's " On the Waterfront " is the union bosses , brilliantly portrayed by Lee J . Cobb , Rod Steiger and their thugs . They are allowed to do business because of the fright , intimidation , and passiveness of an entire group of longshoremen , who either work or don't while the big shots take kickbacks and steal from them . Then Joey Doyle , who had agreed to testify against the union bosses , is set up by a clueless Terry Malloy ( Marlon Brando ) and thrown off of a roof . His sister Edie ( Eva Marie Saint ) is determined to find out what happened . But no one will talk . She shames Father Barry ( Karl Malden ) into taking more of an interest in what is happening on the docks , and he does . Still , no one's talking . Terry falls in love with Edie but still can't do the right thing . Another man is killed . When the killing finally affects Terry , he realizes something has to change . " On the Waterfront " is one of the most amazing films ever made , directed by the great Elia Kazan . There were three Oscar nominations ( Malden , Cobb and Steiger ) in the Best Supporting Actor category , and the film took home the top acting awards , Kazan as director , and best film , best screenplay , best editing , best cinematography , best art direction . There was a nomination for Leonard Bernstein's fantastic score , and it's difficult to understand how he could have lost the award . This is the only film for which he wrote incidental music . It is fantastic , particularly in the tender moments between Terry and Edie . " On the Waterfront " has the classic performance of Marlon Brando , a man who is loyal to his brother Charlie ( Steiger ) even though Charlie ruined Terry's fight career and now is part of the union corruption . Brando is sensational as a tortured young man ( based on whistle-blower Anthony DiVincenzo ) who knows what he should do , but the price is too high . It's his love of Edie that gives him a conscience . She's from another world and hasn't been jaded by life yet . It's impossible to believe that this role was offered to Grace Kelly , but it was . Why Kazan thought her cold beauty and finishing school accent would have fit into this scenario is beyond me . Saint is perfect - warm , strong , gentle and most importantly , comes off as the kind of girl who lives in a blue collar neighborhood . Lee J . Cobb as Johnny Friendly ( based on real-life mobster Albert Anastasia ) gives a bombastic , violent , and scary performance ; Karl Malden is letter-perfect as the priest who fights for Terry's soul ; and Steiger is excellent as Charlie , a weak man who has taken advantage of his brother to feather his own nest . Karl Malden's character of Father Barry was based on the real-life " waterfront priest , " Father John M . Corridan , who operated a Roman Catholic labor school on the west side of Manhattan . Father Corridan was interviewed by screenwriter Budd Schulberg . The saddest thing in the film is the attitude of the young boy who helps Terry take care of Joey's pigeons . He's already been inculcated with the " D & D " ( deaf and dumb ) policy of the longshoremen . The cloudy , rich atmosphere of the story is captured by the Hoboken , New Jersey locations - although this is a fictionalized version of events on the New York waterfront . The end of " Raging Bull " is a homage to " On the Waterfront . " The end of " On the Waterfront " will give you goosebumps . Evil only triumphs when good men do nothing . When those same men stand up for what they believe in , they show evil for what it really is - cheap , lousy , and dirty .
obscure but memorable	It is totally amazing , nearly 60 years later , to realize the lengths that 20th Century Fox went to in order to keep Tyrone Power a handsome leading man rather than letting him show his stuff . It's no wonder Fox came to disgrace during the Cleopatra era . Pity it didn't happen earlier so Power had more opportunities to show his acting range . Nightmare Alley was a favorite of mine from the time I was a teenager - a film Power fought to make and one that the studio never publicized and released as a B film . Spiteful bunch , considering the money he had made for them ! Power , Blondell , Gray , Helen Walker , and the marvelous Ian Keith turn in great performances in a gritty film somewhat ahead of its time for its unrelenting toughness , its hard view of alcoholism , a look inside the world of mentalists and carnival life , and its theme of the supernatural . It is reminiscent of " Ace in the Hole " and some of the later , cynical Wilder films . Power was one of those actors whose drop dead gorgeous appearance kept him from some excellent roles , thanks to his studio . He sometimes could appear rigid ( though not in this film ) but someone I knew saw him in a Broadway play and said it was like being alone in a room with him , he had such magnetism . We have so few examples of his really great work - the recording of John Brown's Body is one , this film is another - it's great that it's now out on DVD and available to the public .
" I've met some hard-boiled eggs in my time . . . but you , you're 20 minutes . "	I first saw " Ace in the Hole " as " The Big Carnival " over 20 years ago , and it had a powerful impression on me . Seeing it again , the effect it has is even more powerful especially in light of today's media frenzies over everything from Britney , Lindsay Lohan , Paris Hilton , Lady Diana's life and death - 10 years after the accident that killed her - and speculation about the paternity of one of her children - frenzy over everything , that is , except mundane things like Iraq and the oil crisis . Kirk Douglas is Chuck Tatum , an ambitious , unethical , egotistical reporter fired from many of the big papers who takes a job in Albuquerque and stumbles upon a story that he believes will regenerate his career . Learning that a man , Leo Minosa , while searching for Indian artifacts to sell in his store / restaurant is trapped in a cave , Chuck makes himself crucial to the situation , befriending the man ( Richard Benedict ) and talking to him through a hole in the cave . There , the man , Chuck's ace in the hole , is trapped and unable to move . Chuck manipulates the situation in various ways to make the story last longer - and as he does , the dead town becomes alive with tourists , and the locals start making money . Eventually the site becomes a circus - with the circus and a ferris wheel actually moving in , as well as musicians , campers , and every other thing imaginable . Chuck aligns himself with a corrupt man running for mayor , and the two plan to emerge as heroes , with Chuck going back to New York to work in the big-time again . He beds Leo's wife ( Jan Sterling ) and ignores Leo's grieving parents . Along the way , everyone has forgotten about Leo , whose situation becomes a symbol of greed , lust for power , isolation , and finally guilt . This is a magnificent Wilder script that accompanies his crisp direction . Kirk Douglas is excellent as the flamboyant reporter who fights the last shred of decency he possesses , and Jan Sterling is great as Leo's wife ( responsible for the line in the subject box - one of my favorite lines of all time ) who only cares about getting a lot of money out of the tourists through the restaurant she and Leo own and then blowing town . Surprisingly timely and unfortunately realistic , " Ace in the Hole " is a must-see for its hard look at the media - and us .
a heartbreaking and wonderful film	This is a beautifully told story . Like one of the posters stated , it seems crazy to reiterate what everyone else has said . This film appealed to me because it concerns the protests that went on in my college days . For me , it's a story about how the choices one makes can change your life , haunt you forever , and affect those you love . The best scene in the movie , as far as I'm concerned , was between Christine Lahti and Steven Hill , who plays her father . Steven Hill has always been a favorite of mine , and in this film , he is magnificent as he comes face to face with a daughter he hasn't seen in years - and to boot , the last time she saw him , she insulted him . The scene is powerful , but what happens when Lahti leaves the restaurant is unexpected and will break your heart . It's unforgettable . There aren't any easy answers in life , and this movie won't leave you with an easy feeling . But you'll be glad you saw it .
This isn't your mother's movie musical !	It's amazing , after seeing Chicago , to contemplate how the movie musical has changed over the years . Thinking back to the musicals in my own era - " West Side Story , " " My Fair Lady , " " Sound of Music , " and " Music Man , " one is struck by how entire numbers were performed straight through . Then came MTV , and that all changed . Our attention spans today will not tolerate sitting through someone singing an entire number . That being said , Chicago is an exciting movie with wonderful performances by Catherine Zeta-Jones , Renee Zwelleger , Richard Gere , John C . Reilly , and Queen Latifah . And let's not forget the dancers - they're phenomenal . I think my favorite numbers were Zeta-Jones ' " I Can't Do It Alone " ; the prison " He Had It Coming , " and that great finale . Zwelleger is a true chameleon , so tiny and very much the ' 30s blonde . I saw this movie at the Ziegfeld in New York , the perfect place to see it .
Pre-code grapefruit	James Cagney is " The Public Enemy " in this 1931 film also starring Jean Harlow , Edward Woods , Donald Cook , Joan Blondell and Beryl Mercer . The film concerns two buddies , Tom Powers ( Cagney ) and his friend Matt Doyle ( Woods ) , who start getting into trouble as kids , becoming mobsters involved in bootlegging when they reach adulthood . Tom has a " good " brother , Mike , who enlists in the service during World War I and afterward , lives with their mother ( Beryl Mercer ) . Though she constantly tries to mend the rift between the two , Mike knows the truth about his brother and where his money comes from ; he wants nothing to do with him . Tom has no conscience - he's a cold-blooded murderer as well as being abusive to women . In one scene , he slaps a woman , and in another - well , we all know what he did to her - he pushes a grapefruit in her face , one of the great all-time film images . The film is pre-code , so Tom has a live-in girlfriend ( Mae Clarke ) and gets around . What is it with these short guys ? Cagney always came off as all-male , and few actors were so obvious in the way they sized up a woman . When Tom sees Gwen ( Jean Harlow ) , look out ! The film is intended ( according to a statement at the end ) to be an indictment against mobsters , but in actuality , it glamorizes them in the way that " The Godfather " did 40 years later . Tough guy Cagney was the idol of millions of young boys . In fact , my father saw " A Midsummer Night's Dream " as a boy not due to a love of Shakespeare , but because James Cagney was in it . I had to give this movie a 10 because of its fame and the fact that it made James Cagney a star . Cagney is one of the most amazing talents to ever hit Hollywood - a consummate actor who could do drama and comedy - but who was also a song and dance man . He was a true original . Actor / director Harold Kennedy once rehearsed a scene with Cagney and said Cagney was laying down on a bed during the scene and muttering his lines in an apathetic manner during rehearsal . When filming the scene , Cagney was so dynamic and energetic , Kennedy almost couldn't say his lines . Cagney's powerful performance as Mike set the standard for actors playing gangsters in films . When he pulls out his gun to kill the piano-playing Putty Nose , he's smiling . He's all about revenge . When his boss is hit in the head by a horse , he and Matt buy the horse , only to shoot it . But though his character is evil , he loves his mother , and as he lies in a hospital bed , you can't help but feel sorry for him . An astounding portrayal . The rest of the acting varies - Joan Blondell has a supporting role as Matt's girlfriend , and she's adorable ; much is made of the grapefruit scene , though in truth , Mae Clarke , who had enjoyed some stardom beforehand , is actually uncredited as Kitty ; Donald Cook acts in a very old-fashioned , melodramatic style , though he enjoyed a long career not only on Broadway but in film . Gwen is one of Jean Harlow's early roles - it's not a particularly good role , nor is she particularly effective . Her vivacious , lovable persona hadn't been developed yet , and she doesn't have very good lines to say . But she is a presence . William Wellman keeps the pace brisk and gives the audience some indelible images , culminating in the last time we see Tom . " The Public Enemy " is a classic , starring two greats of the golden age . Anyone interested in film and one of the seminal gangster films needs to see it .
Fantastic documentary	This is a brilliantly done documentary about one of film's great enigmas , Greta Garbo . For me , watching this was very personal , as I was privileged to research the biography written by Barry Paris ( who appears in this documentary ) . There are interviews with another biographer , Karen Swenson , with Garbo's friends , Sam Green , Gore Vidal , and others , a big fan , the marvelous Charles Busch , family members , John Gilbert's daughter Leatrice Fountain , Daniel Selznick , and footage of an interview with Clarence Brown . The photographs and film clips speak for themselves , for Garbo's tremendous beauty and unique acting ability . She was a totally intuitive actress . It's a pity that , as independent as she was , that she took some bad advice , and a bigger pity that she never returned to the screen after 1941 . A 1949 screen test shows her beauty untarnished , yet the producers were unable to raise money for the film they wanted to do , which devastated her . In my own research and transcription work , I have to admit I never experienced the Garbo that her friends and family describe . The woman I got to know through transcription of taped telephone conversations and various stories about her seemed neurotic , passive-aggressive , and , frankly , kind of dull . But she was so magical on screen . This is a wonderful documentary , highly recommended .
A furtive tear	As much as I have always appreciated Woody Allen comedies , I admit to liking more the dramas where he asks the tough questions . The brilliant " Match Point , " like " Crimes and Misdemeanors " is one of those , and it's his best . Loosely based on " A Place in the Sun , " Allen's tough question is , " Would you rather be good or lucky ? " " Is there such a thing as luck ? " Many believe that people " make their own luck . " But Allen's premise is that , when it's all over , luck plays a huge part in all of our lives . He uses the analogy of a tennis ball - when you serve a ball and it lands on the net , it can topple over to the other side , and you win , or fall on the same side , and you lose . What a perfect analogy to tell the story of Chris ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) , a former professional tennis player . He becomes the tennis teacher at a British club and meets Tom Hewett , a young man from a filthy rich family . Chris is embraced by Hewett's family and begins dating Tom's sister Chloe . Then he sees Tom's fianc , Nola , played by Scarlett Johannson , and becomes obsessed with her . This is an amazing film - absolutely nothing happens for a while , and yet everything happens . The story is punctuated with old , scratchy Caruso records and operatic selections from " Macbeth , " " Otello , " and others . We watch the characters living their lives , including their work , romantic entanglements , and marital problems . We watch them evolve , grow happy or unhappy , contented or restless , all leading up to the point where something does happen . When it does , it's ferocious . The ending will knock your socks off . It goes nowhere you think it's going . The film manages to keep you constantly off-balance and misinterpreting what you think you're seeing . The last time I saw Jonathan Rhys Meyers , he was giving a marvelous portrayal of Elvis Presley , despite the fact that his height and frame are somewhat slighter than the King's . A beautiful young man , he has an interior dialogue going throughout the film . We don't hear it ; we see it on his face . Scarlet Johannson is gorgeous and sexy as Nola , a cool blond in the Lana Turner tradition who is the object of his desire . Of all the characters in the film , her character goes through the most change , and she's very effective . There are no easy answers to the questions Allen asks in " Crimes and Misdemeanors , " " Stardust Memories , " " Bullets over Broadway , " and " Match Point . " Allen leaves open what will happen emotionally as a result of the events of this film . But the verse of " Una Furtiva Lagrima , " ( A secret tear ) played several times during the film despite a bad skip in the recording means " For just one moment the beating Of her hot pulse could be felt ! With her sighing confounding Momentarily my sighs ! Oh God , I shall expire ; I can't ask for more . " Significantly , it is heard at the beginning of the film and at the end . Just remember - the record skips .
excellent made for television movie	" Second Serve " is a stunning made for TV movie done at a time when TV films seemed to have a little more thought put into them than they do now . In later years , they have descended into true crime and women in crisis , drawing largely from the headlines . This film is drawn from the headlines , too , but a different kind . It's the story of Richard Radley , who becomes Renee Richards . Back in 1986 , these stories were uncommon - there were no MSNBC documentaries on sex changes , no true stories shown on The Learning Channel . Renee Richards , of course , is a tremendously accomplished woman , an ophthalmologist and tennis pro , who gains a great deal of publicity by suing the tennis association for discrimination . I found this to be a very uplifting story of a brave person who fought for what she believed in so that she and others like her could have a better life . Vanessa Redgrave is perfect in the role - tall and big-boned , she has an androgeny that she can turn on when a role calls for it , and of course , she is a great actress . I saw her several years ago in " Long Day's Journey into Night " and was blown away , as I was when I saw her in this 19 years ago . If you get a chance to see this , it's beautifully done .
O tempora , o mores ! - so sayeth Oscar Jaffe	John Barrymore , Carole Lombard , Walter Connelly , Roscoe Karns , Charles Lane and Etienne Girardot ride the " Twentieth Century " in this outrageous 1934 comedy directed by Howard Hawks . The story was made into a successful musical in the 1970s that starred Madeline Kahn and John Cullum . Barrymore plays Oscar Jaffe , a producer who molds , discovers and renames Mildred Plotka " Lily Garland , " who becomes a huge Broadway star . The two lovers , both of volatile temperaments , at last part and Lily heads for Hollywood , where her face appears on every magazine cover . On the Twentieth Century Limited from Chicago to New York , Jaffe becomes determined to win Lily back . Talk about your wild rides - Barrymore is a total maniac in this movie , and I could have watched him forever . His Oscar Jaffe is egomaniacal and given to great , melodramatic speeches and gestures . You have to see him to believe it . When he meets actors from the Oberammagau Passion Play , he decides to produce that to woo Lily back and cast her as Mary Magdalene . His description of his lavish production is hilarious . When his assistant Oliver Webb ( Connelly ) gets a religious man , Mathew J . Clark ( Girardot ) to back the production with what turns out to be a bad check , Oscar demands a telegram be sent to John Ringling : " I'm in the market for 25 camels , several elephants , and an ibis . . . Give me the rock-bottom price . " Mathew Clark in the meantime is busy pasting stickers on all the train windows that say REPENT . Carole Lombard is an able partner for Barrymore , given to wild fits of screaming and hysteria . In the only serious moment in the film , she tells Oscar that the two of them are " lithographs " who can only emote if it's written and rehearsed - they're no longer real people . Then the moment passes . Her reaction - after listening for awhile - to Oscar's producing plans for The Passion Play is priceless ! The supporting cast is wonderful . " Twentieth Century , " however , belongs to John Barrymore , one of the greatest actors who ever lived . In her lectures to her students , Stella Adler said he was one of a rare breed who no longer exist . What a pity , and thank goodness we have him on film . A must-see !
A Lubitsch comedy masterpiece	Just the thought of Jack Benny walking onto a stage as Hamlet is enough to send anyone into spasms of laughter . That he does - and a lot more - in " To Be or Not to Be , " a 1942 film about the Lunt and Fontanne ( Benny and Carole Lombard ) of Poland , Josef and Maria Tura , as they go up against the Nazis . Circumstances make it necessary for the acting troupe to pose as Nazi guards and officers and for Maria to pretend to romance one of Hitler's main men in order to head off a Nazi spy ( Stanley Ridges ) . This film is absolutely hilarious , with several running bits , including Maria telling a young soldier ( Robert Stack ) that he can visit her dressing room when Josef starts his big speech . When Josef says , " To be or not to be , " the soldier stands up and leaves the theater , making Josef believe the man is simply walking out on his performance . This goes on throughout the film . Robert Stack is so young he's virtually unrecognizable . The supporting cast is excellent , doubling beautifully as actors - one of whom longs to play Shylock ( Felix Bressart ) but carries a sword instead and one who wants a chance to play Hitler ( Tom Dugan ) - and as Nazis . Sig Ruman plays the buffoonish Col . Ehrhardt . However funny " To Be or Not to Be " is , and it's wonderfully funny , Lubitsch manages to make his point that war is scary and tragic when the audience is shown the Warsaw stores closed and the streets nothing but rubble . There was nothing remotely amusing about the Nazi occupation of Poland , but 1942 audiences , while being reminded of this , were allowed to laugh and forget their troubles for a little while . The laughter doesn't last long , especially since Carole Lombard died in a plane crash so shortly after the film's release . That marred the legacy of " To Be or Not to Be , " but today , we should see it for the classic that it is .
The ultimate has-been in the ultimate Hollywood story	William Holden is Joe Gillis , a down and out screenwriter trying to keep his car from being repossessed in " Sunset Boulevard , " a 1950 film written and directed by Billy Wilder . The film stars Gloria Swanson , Max von Stroheim , Nancy Olson , Jack Webb , and Cecil B . Demille . Gillis hides his car in a garage , not realizing it is the home of the great silent film star , the delusional Norma Desmond ( Swanson ) , who lives in this enormous mansion , cared for by her butler ( von Stroheim ) . Finding out he is a screenwriter , Norma solicits his help in editing her script of " Salome , " her comeback film . Feeling somewhat trapped at first , Joe eventually enjoys the good life . When he slips away to be with his friends on New Year's Eve , his friend's fiance , Betty Schaefer ( Olson ) suggests a screenplay based on a story written by Joe . ( The story actually was a script by Wilder , filmed in Germany . ) He returns to the Sunset Boulevard mansion to learn that Norma , distraught over his leaving , has attempted suicide . Taking pity on her , Joe becomes her lover and moves from the garage into the big house . Meanwhile , he's falling for Betty and slipping away to work with her at night . This is perhaps the greatest Hollywood story , and yet it didn't get off to a very good start . The first scene took place in a morgue , where the dead bodies talked to one another . At the first screening , the audience laughed , which they weren't supposed to be doing . As Wilder sat on the steps outside , a woman walked out and , unaware of who he was , said , " Have you ever seen such ? x @ / / & ? " " And we had worked on it for a year , " Wilder told an interviewer . So the opening was cut . Wilder captures the ego and delusional aspects of Desmond perfectly , a woman caught in the past who has lost all sense of reality . This role provided silent film star Gloria Swanson with her great comeback . With her royal demeanor , sharp voice and gorgeous eyes , Swanson actually plays the role like a silent star , in a very overt way . The truth is , Norma never left not only her stardom , but her film roles . At the time of the filming , Swanson was 52 playing a has-been of 50 . By today's standards , it's somewhat amusing , and you'd probably add 20 years if you were doing it today . In fact , in the Broadway show , the line " There's nothing wrong with being 50 " was cut . Wilder approached Mae West , Pola Negri and Mary Pickford for Norma before Swanson . " Sunset Boulevard " may have given Swanson her comeback , but it made William Holden a superstar . After his starring role in " Golden Boy , " Holden disappeared into light films and basically went nowhere until Joe Gillis . He is remembered today as one of the great stars of the ' 50s , yet he was of the same generation as many of the stars of the ' 30s and ' 40s . He is glorious looking - you wouldn't have to be a loony tune to lock him up in your house . He plays the role with the right touch of cynicism and self-hatred . Montgomery Clift was set to play this role but dropped out . He , too , would have been excellent but probably not as hard-hitting . von Stroheim , as Norma's protector and butler Max , is perfection . In real life , he couldn't drive , so the car needed to be towed ; in the scene where he drives up to Paramount , he actually crashed through the gates . In the film , Norma , thinking that Demille wants her for a role , goes to Paramount and visits him on the set of " Samson and Delilah , " and " Sunset Boulevard " uses the real filming of that movie and its cast . As a Broadway show , " Sunset Boulevard " was opulent but much less effective . There wasn't enough music ( the second act had one new song ) but provided a tremendous showcase and two great numbers for the various women who played Norma . Stephen Sondheim had at one time entertained doing this as a musical ; in his hands , it would have captured the dark atmosphere of the film much better . Billy Wilder gives us a biting portrait of actors who live for nothing but their stardom , their hangers-on for whom they are just a meal ticket , and the sadness of being aged and forgotten in Hollywood . A great classic starring the greats , written and directed by one . It doesn't get any better than this .
The phenomenal Paul Scofield	Paul Scofield is Sir Thomas More , " A Man for All Seasons , " in a 1966 film directed by Fred Zinnemann and also starring Robert Shaw , Orson Welles , John Hurt , Leo McKern , Wendy Hiller , and Susanna York . Vanessa Redgrave , who was to play York's role , did a play instead and agreed to do the non-speaking role of Anne Boleyn , provided she not be given billing in the ads for the movie . The story concerns Henry VIII's divorce from Catherine , is brother's widow , and his desire to marry Anne Boleyn so that she can give him an heir . Great pressure is put on More , a well-respected lawyer , to support the King , but More will not . He instead chooses to be silent on the matter , even when the King pronounces himself the head of the Church of England . If More speaks out , he will be charged with treason ; by keeping silent , the King has no case against him . Nevertheless , a number of people work on More from all angles to get him to sign an oath to the King , but he will not . Finally , the King's cohorts realize that perjury is the only avenue left open to them in order to secure a charge of treason against More and have him executed . Really , there's not much to be said about this profound film about a man who , to the death , had a commitment to his beliefs and never faltered . Paul Scofield is not as famous to vast audiences as Sir Laurence Olivier , Richard Burton , Sir Anthony Hopkins , and a whole host of excellent British actors who have made contributions to film . Scofield has made 30 movies , each chosen by him carefully . If he cared about money , he could gone slumming as a few of his counterparts did ; with his magnificent voice and imposing presence , he could have done a Grey Poupon or a Polaroid commercial . But as a true artist and not an actor looking for production money , money to support a theater , or , like Burton , unable to recover from an impoverished childhood , his film work is not geared toward superstardom or prolific work . In every role he plays , from the obsessed Nazi in " The Train , " to van Doren Sr . in " Quiz Show , " he is magnificent . But Sir Thomas More is his greatest role . It was turned down by Richard Burton , who would have been excellent but perhaps given us a more showy performance . Scofield's Sir Thomas More is a man humble before God , his true leader . He believes that no man is above the law , and that no man is above God . He is an unusual person in this world - he stands up for what he believes in no matter the cost . We seem to love these characters in films and books - More , Atticus Finch , Terry Malloy , and yet in the world outside of film , there are fewer and fewer exhibitions of such character . The rest of the cast is uniformly great , including Orson Welles as Cardinal Wolsey ; Leo McKern , so beloved as Rumpole of the Bailey , is here the horrid Thomas Cromwell , who will stop at nothing to make More bend his way ; John Hurt as the slimy Richard Rich ; Wendy Hiller as More's suffering wife ; and Susannah York as his beloved daughter Margaret . It's sometimes forgotten that Henry VIII was once a young , athletic , and very attractive man - I was reminded of it just last summer when I saw an absolute hunk play the young Henry . The arrogant , flirtatious , handsome man playing Henry in " A Man for All Seasons " looked familiar , but I couldn't place him . Having only seen the Robert Shaw of " The Sting " and " Jaws , " it was hard to believe that he had ever looked or sounded the way he did in this film . He gives a marvelous , fiery performance . The cinematography and scenery in this film is stunning , and there are many outside scenes - the sunlight in Thomas More's eyes as the King comes into view , the hustle and bustle of the town , the darkness of More's cell juxtaposed with the bright outdoors - all important parts of the story . The last half hour is hard to take for the viewer , but it is some of the most beautiful work ever in film . More's final moments are magnificent and to be treasured . A must-see for the story of a great man , and for one of the top performances of all time .
Iconic film , iconic stars	Frank Capra's 1934 film " It Happened One Night " paved the way for many copycats ; even the soap opera " General Hospital " had a story arc that involved a runaway - bridegroom this time - and those famous Walls of Jericho . Not only that , but it changed the undershirt industry and inspired a famous bunny pose . The story takes place during the Depression , when hitchhiking was common . It concerns an heiress , Ellie ( Claudette Colbert ) who runs away from her father to join her sort-of husband in New York . On the bus , she meets a reporter named Peter ( Clark Gable ) who is down on his luck . The strike a bargain : Peter can have an exclusive on Ellie's story if he'll help her get to New York . Though many actors turned down the lead roles , the combination of Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert is perfect . Gable is appropriately a gruff know-it-all with oodles of sex appeal ; Colbert is beautiful , spoiled and uppity . My favorite moment is when she coolly informs the bus driver that she's leaving so hold the bus for her . Any even peripheral fan of the film has heard that when Gable undressed and was wearing no undershirt , sales of undershirts plummeted . Perhaps a little less well known is that Gable's standing by a fence talking with a carrot in his mouth is allegedly the inspiration for Bugs Bunny . The most famous scene , of course , is Gable demonstrating how to hitch a ride and failing and Colbert lifting her skirt to get one immediately . Frank Capra is known for his feel good , idealistic films , but there was much more to this director than that , as " It Happened One Night " demonstrates . He gives the film a wonderful pace and gets marvelous performers out of his cast , which includes Walter Connolly as Ellie's father , Roscoe Karns , Alan Hale and Ward Bond . It's a comedy , but Capra shades it with earmarks of the Depression . A slice of life in the 1930s , a wonderful comedy - well , in the end , it's a feel good film after all .
absolutely fabulous in every way	Another knockout performance by Helen Mirren as a down and out ' 60s folk singer who , in order to help the family that took her in , goes undercover as an art dealer . Mirren , of course , does the transition from drugged-out hippie throwback to a glamorous woman of the world perfectly in this intriguing and very exciting story . Iain Glen as Sebastian is charismatic and wonderful , as is the entire cast . Probably the best part of this mini-series is Mirren , as Maggie , interacting with her sister and brother-in-law . The family dynamics hit a perfect note . This is a must-see on all levels - acting , drama and suspense with warmth and humor thrown in . Mirren is not only a great actress but one with impeccable taste when it comes to many of the scripts that have been produced and shown in the U . S . on public television . Bravo !
Rock the Casbah	A gang of thieves hide out above Algiers in the Arab section of the city , the Casbah , in " Pepe le Moko , " a 1937 film - an homage to the U . S . gangster movie - that is often credited as the inspiration for the film noir craze that swept U . S . cinema . In order to draw attention to the American version , " Algiers , " producer Walter Wanger tried to destroy all copies , subsequently buying the rights to keep it off the screen . But you can't keep a good movie down . Pepe le Moko ( Jean Gabin ) is wanted by the police , so if he leaves the crowded and maze-like Casbah to go into town , they will nail him . There is an inspector who keeps an eye on Pepe , Inspector Slimane . Pepe and the inspector have become friends , but Pepe knows Slimane is just waiting for him to make his move . When Pepe meets the exotic and bejeweled Gaby , a situation presents itself where he might risk his freedom . Pepe is the great French actor Jean Gabin , a marvelous-looking , rugged actor with tremendous magnetism . It's no wonder Marlene Dietrich chased him all over the world . Gabin's Pepe is the forerunner of the Bogart persona - he's a confident , handsome man , dismissive of women and has the ability to be both funny and cruel . He lives with his devoted girlfriend , Ines , and is surrounded by his motley mob who are familiar with the seedier side of life . There are some brilliant moments and great performances in this film , which is rich in atmosphere and interesting faces . The French star Mireille Balin , whose real-life story is more bizarre than any fiction , is Gaby , a kept woman who enchants le Moko as they talk about their great love for Paris , most especially , Place Blanche . Line Noro is Ines , doomed to love and lose Pepe , and Frehel is Tania , a friend . In one of the best scenes in the film , Tania reminisces about her youth and sings along with her own recording . A wonderful artist . The entire cast is marvelous . The director , Julien Duvivier , orchestrates the proceedings with tremendous style and tension , capturing the heat , the light and the sounds of the Casbah . Often imitated - by " The Third Man , " " Odd Man Out , " " Casablanca , " " The Time Of Your Life , " " To Have And Have Not , " " The Wages of Fear , " - - and let's not forget Pepe le Pew - " Pepe le Moko " and Jean Gabin's Pepe stand on their own as hallmarks in film history .
One of the best ever	Based on the wonderful play by Agatha Christie , the film version of Witness for the Prosecution is a magnificent film , one of the best ever . It was given the all star treatment - directed by Billy Wilder , starring Tyrone Power , Marlene Dietrich , Charles Laughton , and Elsa Lanchester . Right there is all you need to know . This is one of Charles Laughton's greatest performances . He's absolutely superb as the ailing man who risks his health to defend Leonard Vole ( Power ) on a murder charge , over the strenuous objections of his nurse , Lanchester , who is hilarious . Dietrich is great as Leonard Vole's seemingly uncaring wife , Christine , in the most difficult role in the movie . As Leonard Vole , Tyrone Power is a little more problematic as he is somewhat miscast . One of the most beautiful-looking men who ever lived , he's a tad old for the role , not quite jaunty enough when he needs to be , and very un-British . For an international star to have put on a British accent after 22 years in films would have been both distracting and ridiculous . However , no one could do charming like Power , in real life and in reel life . In that sense , he's perfect . As far as comments that he was " hammy " in the role - he wasn't the ham - Leonard Vole was the ham ! It was a role within a role . Power hands in an excellent performance , his last , and he's especially enjoyable in his flashback scene with Dietrich ( who during the filming kept bringing him gifts while Charles Laughton leered at him - I'd say he still had it big time ) . If you haven't read the play or story , you won't guess the ending of Wilder's masterful film . Oh , and look for a young Ruta Lee in the courtroom .
Violent , disturbing and stunning	A enforcer for a gangster in the liquor business finds the tables turned on him and goes on the run with his son in " Road to Perdition , " a 2002 film directed by Sam Mendes . Tom Hanks plays Michael Sullivan , a quiet , remote father of two who works for a crooked liquor dealer , John Rooney ( Paul Newman ) who took him in and treats him as his son . His two boys aren't clear about what he does , and one night , when he goes out on a job , his older son , Michael Jr . ( Tyler Hoechlin ) hides in the car and follows his dad and Connor Rooney ( Daniel Craig ) as they go to " talk " to someone . As the young boy watches , Connor loses his temper and starts shooting up the place , and Michael joins in . Connor sees Michael Jr . when he exits . Michael Sr . of course promises that his boy won't say anything . On his next job , Connor gives him a note fir the man Michael is to see , who is in heavy debt to John Rooney . Michael is forced to kill the man when he sees that the man is about to kill him . On looking at the note Connor asked him to deliver , it says , " Kill Sullivan and all debts are paid . " Several hours later , Michael's life is devastated , and he and his older son are on the run , Michael determined to destroy Connor . I saw this film without being aware of anyone liking or disliking it or of it being overlooked by the Oscars - I only had heard of it and actually rented it because I am a huge fan of Paul Newman's . Let me say that I was astounded by the brilliance of this film in every aspect . It possibly captured the time period of the early ' 30s better than any film I've ever seen , right down to the Doeskin tissues I used to see piled up in my grandparents ' basement . The cinematography is staggering . The gangster story in " Road to Perdition " actually wraps around a more important one , that of the bonding of father and son , which is beautifully told . Hanks is magnificent as a closed off man who gets to know his boy during their life on the run , and vice versa . " He dotes on you , " a woman on a farm tells Michael . The two Michaels are alike , but Senior never wants Junior to follow in his footsteps . Paul Newman is , as usual , terrific as John Rooney , a tough gangster who goes to Communion but knows " none of us will ever see heaven . " He was around 77 at the time of the filming and as handsome and dynamic as ever . Daniel Craig does a phenomenal job as the vicious Connor . Amid so many brilliant performances , Jude Law plays one of the most disturbing , frightening characters in film history , Harlen Maguire , a hit man who makes money not only by killing , but by photographing the dead victims and selling the photos , which adorn his wall . He's absolutely nauseating , and Law doesn't miss a beat . The always wonderful Stanley Tucci is Frank Nitti , and Jennifer Jason Leigh has a small role as Michael's wife . As Michael Jr . , Tyler Hoechlin perfectly embodies all the emotions necessary for the role : the fear , anger , love , and loyalty . He and Hanks have the film's biggest roles , and they carry it , making it look easy . This is a suspenseful , poignant , sad and violent masterpiece . One of the comments warns against comparing it to The Godfather - I hope nobody did this . It stands on its own , and one has nothing to do with the other . A great artistic achievement by Sam Mendes who worked with a beautifully realized script and top cast . Now that I've seen it , I can't believe it was so overlooked at the Oscars , but when I think of all the Oscars Newman has been cheated out of , I guess I'm not only surprised , but I've about had it with the Oscars . I almost gave " Road to Perdition " a 9 instead of a 10 only because I'm not big on lots of blood . If you are , too , I suggest you watch it anyway . You won't be sorry . A powerful experience .
One of the great political films of all time	An ill President wants his nominee for Secretary of State confirmed in " Advise and Consent , " a 1962 film based on the Pulitzer Prize winning novel by Alan Drury and directed by Otto Preminger . It was the first film in seven years for Gene Tierney and the last for Charles Laughton . Tierney couldn't have chosen a better comeback and Laughton a more fitting farewell . It's up to the majority leader , Bob Munson ( Walter Pidgeon ) to get the President's ( Franchot Tone ) nominee for Secretary of State ( Henry Fonda ) confirmed , but it's not going to be easy . Senator Cooley from South Carolina ( Laughton ) believes that Robert Leffingwell once had Communist ties and doesn't want him confirmed , even if it means digging up marginal people ( Burgess Meredith ) who claim to have known Comrade Leffingwell . An ambitious , aggressive young senator ( George Grizzard ) loudly wants Leffingwell approved , and he will do anything to make it happen - even if it means blackmailing the chairman of the hearing , Brig Anderson ( Don Murray ) . There is pressure on the President to withdraw Leffingwell , and he refuses ; the President puts pressure on Anderson to get him confirmed , and , sticking to his own principles , Brig , despite a tremendous threat to his home and political position , refuses to reconvene the hearing . Meanwhile , if Leffingwell stays in and there's a tie , it will be up to the Vice President ( Lew Ayres ) as the President of the Senate , to break it . This is a brilliantly done film that has you glued from the first moment to the last . It not only gives a vivid portrait of politics and how the Senate works but keeps the viewer in suspense for the entire movie . The acting is magnificent . Franchot Tone gives a sturdy performance as a President running out of time ; Lew Ayres underplays and makes sympathetic the role of the compromise Vice President ; Walter Pidgeon is elegant and authoritative as the majority leader ; Henry Fonda gives a straightforward , honest portrayal of a man who wants to serve his country but has to go against some of his own beliefs in order to do it . There isn't a wrong note throughout , even down to a very young and pretty Betty White who has a tiny role as a Senator and Peter Lawford as a Jack Kennedy type . Inga Swenson is the insecure Mrs . Anderson and gives a heartbreaking performance as a loving wife who feels she has failed her husband in some fundamental way . Laughton is great , but he is given some very florid dialogue , and he rises to the occasion by hamming it up . It was an appropriate choice given the script . Gene Tierney , as a wealthy widow / hostess who sees Pidgeon on the side , looks beautiful and gives a charming performance . The end of this movie is incredibly powerful , and the scene with the President , Vice President and Senate Majority leader Munson is one of my favorites for a special reason . In the book , the Vice President , who is terribly worried about the President's health , has an encounter with the President and then goes back to his office and expresses some emotion about the meeting . Though the scene isn't in the film , Lew Ayres obviously read the book and has the same emotional reaction , but unspoken , on the Destroyer . Unless you've read the book , you won't pick it up , but it's an even greater scene if you have . IMDb members have posted that nothing has changed today . In politics , I'm sure that is true . In films , unfortunately , things have changed . A character-driven film rich in dialogue like " Advise and Consent " is hard to come by . See it and revel in the film-making past and shake your head at the timeliness of the story .
Beautiful , touching , and funny film	Barbra Streisand directed , produced , co-wrote and starred in " Yentl , " the story of a young woman who wants to study the Talmud but can't because she's a woman living in middle Europe in 1908 . However , she is secretly taught by her father who encourages and appreciates her intelligence at a time when all a woman was supposed to do was wait on her husband hand and foot . When he dies , she takes off , disguised as a boy , so that she can study . Along the way , she meets an engaged couple , played by Mandy Patinkin ( Avigdor ) and Amy Irving ( Hadass ) . She falls in love with Avigdor . WhenHadass ' family finds out that Patinkin's brother committed suicide , they call off the wedding , as he is now considered to be from a bad family . To help him out , Yentl , still disguised as a man , agrees to marry Hadass . Under Jewish law , because two men are like or are brothers , if one dies , the other has an obligation to marry the widow . The plan is that at some point , Anshel ( Yentl's boy name ) will disappear . This is a sumptuous production - absolutely beautiful . The studio wanted Streisand to sing , but she didn't see this film as a musical . Instead , the music is performed as a series of inner monologues , and it's very effective . Some of the scenes are very funny - when " Anshel " has to sleep in the same bed as the Patinkin character ; when he wants Anshel to go swimming in the nude - and of course , the wedding night ! Barbara Streisand makes an adorable , albeit small young man , and gives a touching performance . Also , her comic timing is excellent . Fantastic performances are turned in by Mandy Patinkin , the beautiful and delicate Amy Irving , and Steven Hill . The very gifted Barbra Streisand is often the subject of backlash , as many powerful women often are , but the fact that some people don't like her ( and I wouldn't describe myself as a rabid fan ) doesn't change what a staggering achievement this is for a first-time director . When Orson Welles did this , he was revered . It took Streisand15 years to get this made , but she finally did , and it is an excellent film , a wonderful tribute to fathers and an inspiration to young women . We live at a time and in a country where there are so many possibilities . Streisand should not be criticized for taking advantage of them .
An all-star cast en route to Germany as Hitler takes power	" Ship of Fools " it may be , but it is also a Ship of Stars : Oskar Werner , Vivien Leigh , Lee Marvin , Simone Signoret , Jose Ferrer , Elizabeth Ashley , George Segal , and Michael Dunn . Directed by Stanley Kramer , this 1965 film deals with a German ship heading to its port in Bremerhaven in 1933 and the lives of some of its passengers . Dunn speaks to the audience at the beginning and end of the film , telling us at first that it is a ship of fools and that we may find ourselves in some of the characters . This is one of the best all-star casts ever assembled , right up there with " All About Eve " and " The Long , Hot Summer . " The performances are as magnificent as the film is relentlessly depressing , with a Jewish man put at a table with a dwarf , while at the captain's table , another man preaches about the new Germany and extermination of Jews , the elderly , and those who are not fit . The optimistic Jew thinks Germany owes the Jews a great deal and vice versa , and with 1 million Jews there , certainly no one is going to kill all of them . A drug-addicted woman is being deported to an island , and the very ill ship's doctor falls in love with her and is tempted to give up his miserable life to care for her . A couple with a passionate sex life finds they are poles apart in every other way . A bitter , middle-aged woman comes to grips with her loneliness and tries to drink it away . And on and on , on the ship of fools . By the end of the film , looking at the Jew's beautiful family on the dock , the viewer is ready to reach for a razor blade . Oskar Werner ( Tyrone Power's son-in-law ) gives a magnificent performance as a man discouraged about his life full of obligations , exhausted from ill health , and reaching out for one last chance at happiness . Simone Signoret , who falls for the doctor , is a warm and sympathetic countess , nervous about her future , her past dried up . Lee Marvin , as a southern drunk who wants to get laid , is perfection - Vivien Leigh herself was impressed with him . " What's this about the Jews ? " he asks her . " I never saw a Jew until I was 15 . " " Perhaps you were too busy lynching Negroes to care about the Jews , " she replies . For Vivien Leigh , Scarlett is far behind her - 26 years behind her , in fact , with almost no vestige of her left due to Leigh's battles with manic-depression and the dissolution of her marriage to Laurence Olivier . As Scarlett herself would have said , " That girl doesn't exist anymore . " Her character is the Blanche Dubois who didn't go to the asylum and some years later takes a cruise . Even the last gown she wears , as she dances the Charleston , is reminiscent of Blanche . It's a great performance as a beautiful woman who has seen better days and is disillusioned and bitter about men , love , and romance . Her big scenes at the end of the film - in the hallway and with Marvin - are fantastic . I have to believe , though " Ship of Fools " is downbeat , that it leaves us with some hope . Dunn , as the dwarf philosopher , is too smart to stick around Germany once things heat up ; perhaps his Jewish friend will see the light before it's too late . The Countess is a survivor ; no reason she shouldn't survive the island . But for all of them , a certain way of life has ended , and there won't be going back . One of the great films of the ' 60s .
Impressive Capra	Ronald Colman finds " Lost Horizon , " the 1937 film beautifully and masterfully directed by Frank Capra and also starring Jane Wyman , John Howard , Edward Everett Horton , Thomas Mitchell , Margo , H . B . Warner , Isabell Jewell , and Sam Jaffe . Growing up I have two vivid memories - one is the horrific musical version of this film ( remember " The World is a Circle " ? ) - which I saw in a theater , God help me . The other is a takeoff of the original film on the Danny Kaye Show where Kaye , as Colman , kept saying in an arch British voice : " But I must get back to civilization . " Based on James Hilton's famous novel , Ronald Colman plays Robert Conway , most probably modeled on D . H . Lawrence . Conway is a diplomat who has just helped people escape via plane from a violent situation in China . The group includes a consumptive woman ( Jewell ) , Conway and his brother ( Howard ) , a mysterious man ( Mitchell ) and a teacher ( Horton ) . While traveling , they realize the plane has been hijacked . It finally crash lands in the treacherous , snowy mountains , and the party is picked up and brought to Shangri-la , a magnificent paradise bordered by mountains , somewhere around Tibet , where the air is perfect , the people live by a rule of kindness , age very slowly , and want for nothing . It's kind of like communism but without the oppression and with heavy emphasis on metaphysics . The travelers are met and hosted by Chang ( H . B . Warner ) , and Conway gets an opportunity to meet the founder of Shangri-la some 200 + years ago , the High Lama ( Sam Jaffe ) . He knows by then that it was no mistake that he was brought to Shangri-la , but he wonders why . Knowing that the world is growing more insane by the minute , the High Lama wishes to have all the great knowledge and beauty protected in his paradise and wants Conway to be his successor . Conway later learns that a lovely resident of Shangri-la ( Wyman ) had read his books and requested that he be brought there . His brother George is anxious to leave and falls in love with a young woman , Maria , ( Margo ) who is equally desperate to get out . She makes Conway doubt what the High Lama and Chang have told him , so Conway agrees to accompany George and Maria and forsake Shangri-la . This is a fascinating film , absolutely enormous in scope , that has been restored to 132 minutes with some difficulty . Seven more minutes of the soundtrack remain than there is of film , so occasionally one is treated to a frozen screen or stills . There are many thrilling scenes : the opening of the movie , the refueling scene , the walk to Shangri-la , and the trek away from Shangri-la just to mention a few - as well as scenes of great beauty and poignancy , particularly the scene when a heartbroken Conway leaves the paradise on an evening when the citizens , carrying candles , have a procession ( this might be part of the High Lama's funeral , which was cut from the film ) . The music crescendos , and outside the branches that signify the entrance to Shangri-la , the wind whips the snow into a frenzy . Conway turns and takes in the beauty one last time . A gorgeous moment . Ronald Colman is wonderful as Conway , a man who finds the peace and love in Shangri-la that he has searched for his entire life . Sam Jaffe , though the producer insisted he be replaced , is very good as the fragile High Lama , and H . B . Warner brings suitable gentleness to Chan . Isabel Jewell's major moments are in the airplane at the beginning of the film , and by today's standards , she's a bit over the top . Horton and Mitchell provide their usual solid and sometimes amusing support . Jane Wyman , who died only recently at 96 , is lovely as Sondra . Howard , best remembered as Katharine Hepburn's fiance George in " The Philadelphia Story " is appropriately bombastic ; and Margo , who would marry Eddie Albert and have a daughter named daughter Maria , is effective in her role as an unhappy citizen . The question remains - why was she so anxious to leave Shangri-la ? And what was with George anyway , that unlike the others , he could not embrace the peace and happiness of the place ? We are never told . Perhaps in Capra's original , long disastrous version , we get more of an idea . 70 years later , " Lost Horizon " is a sad reminder that a ) they don't make movies like this anymore ; b ) the world hasn't changed much and is still in the sorry state it was in 1937 ; and c ) there isn't any lost horizon - because we never found one .
The ultimate noir	" Double Indemnity " is a 1944 film directed by Billy Wilder , and it's a classic . The plot has been around forever - a beautiful woman seduces a man because she wants him to help kill her husband . What Wilder does with it demonstrates his mastery . Wilder's genius starts with the casting of Fred MacMurray , Everyman if there ever was one , as Walter , an insurance man . A boring profession and what appears to be an ordinary , albeit attractive man who is also a good salesman . Barbara Stanwyck is Phyllis , the femme fatale . Blonde with a beautiful figure , an icy , challenging manner , and a seductive voice . Edward G . Robinson is Keyes , the insurance investigator and good friend of Walter's . Dogged yet warm as he follows clues to what he believes is a murder and not an accident . There's nothing tender about the MacMurray-Stanwyck love affair , and Stanwyck delivers her lines in a cold , calculating way - the same way she does the love scenes . Walter comes off as fresh at first - what salesman would flirt with a married woman as obviously as he does - but he probably realizes when Phyllis appears wrapped in a towel that she probably wants him to . There's nothing spontaneous about Phyllis asking about life insurance for her husband ; it's been on her mind since Walter showed up to renew the car insurance . The minute she says she doesn't want her husband to know about it , Walter knows what she's up to . Though their plan is brilliant , Keyes is smarter than they realize . I love the way it's introduced into the plot that Phyllis was the first Mrs . Diedrickson's nurse and that Lola , Phyllis ' stepdaughter , suspects Phyllis hurried her mother's death along . I also love Walter's cold feet as he becomes interested in Lola - but it's too late . " Double Indemnity " can only be described as compelling - it's not action-packed but there isn't a wasted or slow second . Stanwyck , who could be a very likable actress , plays a real conniver , and she does so brilliantly . MacMurray gives a relaxed performance - he's actually perfect casting , as one can see how easily he gets sucked into Phyllis ' plan . Edward G . Robinson is the film's anchor as Keyes , who is like a father to Walter but also a man who takes his job very seriously . He's determined to get to the truth of the case , and every word he says is like chalk on a blackboard to the guilty Walter . Wilder's brilliant direction and pacing shows in every frame , and the surprise ending is the icing on the cake . A great noir , a dream cast , a great director , Hollywood at its very best .
One of the great comedy classics	Brilliantly brought from screen to stage , " Arsenic and Old Lace " is as funny today as it was 60 years ago . Newlywed Mortimer Brewster receives the worst of all wedding gifts - he finds out everyone in his family is completely nuts . He knew about his murdering brother Jonathan , who disappeared , and his uncle who thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt . But it's not until he finds a body in his aunts ' window seat that he learns that his elderly aunts have been poisoning old men and burying them in the cellar . Josephine Hull and Jean Adair , who performed the aunts on Broadway , are perfection . Cary Grant's Mortimeris a masterpiece . His reactions to his situation are astonishing . For me it is one of his great performances . Raymond Massey as the returning Jonathan , who now looks like Boris Karloff since his plastic surgery , is hilariously menacing , and Peter Lorre , as the surgeon Dr . Einstein , is a perfect foil for him . He does a lot with his gestures - he's a riot . The cast is rounded out by Priscilla Lane , James Gleason , Edward Everett Horton , and Jack Carson , all of whom are marvelous in their roles . Capra brings it all together in a fast-moving film where there is always something going on . This is a hilarious movie . During the introduction on TCM , Peter Bogdanovich mentioned that Boris Karloff could not play the role of Jonathan , which he did on Broadway , because he was actually performing on Broadway at the time . I thought I had read elsewhere that he was actually very upset that he wasn't cast in the role of a man who looks like Boris Karloff . It would have been great to see him . Nevertheless , this film is a true treasure .
Beautiful adaptation of Terrence Rattigan's play	David Niven , Deborah Kerr , Burt Lancaster , Rita Hayworth , Wendy Hiller , Rod Taylor and Gladys Cooper sit literally or figuratively at " Separate Tables " in this 1958 film also starring Cathleen Nesbitt and Felix Aylmer and directed by Delbert Mann . The story concerns characters at a British seaside resort : Major Pollock ( Niven ) , a phony with a secret ; an overbearing mother and her shy , fearful daughter ( Cooper and Kerr ) , a man ( Lancaster ) involved with the woman who runs the hotel ( Hiller ) , his ex-wife ( Hayworth ) and a med student and his girlfriend ( Rod Taylor and Audrey Dalton ) , and a few assorted other characters . Lancaster plays John Malcolm , who is engaged to Hiller's character Cooper . When his ex-wife shows up unexpectedly , he needs to deal with the intense feelings he still has for her . Cooper has to face it as well . Major Pollock has become friendly with the almost childlike Sibyl ( Kerr ) who is terrified of life ; when his secret is revealed by Sibyl's mother , the effect on Sibyl is traumatic . These are all top-notch actors playing rich characters , but in the end , the most poignant performances belong to Niven and Kerr . Niven finally gets a chance in this film to prove his greatness as an actor , and his change from blustering braggart to timid man is awesome . His scene with Kerr as he attempts to explain himself is gut-wrenching . Kerr's Sibyl , who sees her one chance at happiness and independence from her mother fading away , gives a devastating performance . Those roles are flashier than the others ; Wendy Hiller's strong and honest portrayal may not be as showy , but it is just as good . Lancaster , who coproduced , does a great job as the tormented Malcolm , who , despite their rotten marriage , can't help loving Ann ( Hayworth ) , an aging beauty facing loneliness . Some characters in " Separate Tables " are resigned to their lives and have come to accept and enjoy the quiet solitude of the hotel ; one couple , Charles and Jean ( Taylor and Dalton ) are in a transition , and this will take them out of the hotel and into a new life ; Pat Cooper and Sibyl's mother , two very different women , face very different losses ; and John , Ann , Major Pollock and Sibyl attempt to reach across their separate tables , take a risk and make a connection . And the assorted residents of the hotel , Lady Matheson ( Nesbitt ) , Mr . Fowler ( Aylmer ) and Miss Meacham ( May Hallatt ) take a risk by being nonjudgmental and making a connection as well . A beautiful film that left this viewer reaching for the Kleenex . " Separate Tables " is about loneliness , reality vs . fantasy , hope and redemption . Don't miss it .
Love is in the air	Before " Dancing with the Stars , " there was " Strictly Ballroom , " a 1992 Australian film written and directed by Baz Luhrmann and starring Paul Mercurio , Tara Morice , Bill Hunter and the late Pat Thomson , who died before the film was released . There's not much of a story - it's about an innovative dancer , Scott Hastings ( Mercurio ) whose parents ( Thomson and Barry Otto ) run a dance studio . The beginning is done in documentary style as his mother , Janet Leigh on crack , relates , her voice trembling with emotion , that it's Scott's year to win the Pan Pacific Grand Prix dance competition . Unfortunately , during the regionals , he broke out and did non-sanctioned steps , and his partner deserted him . This is all treated with the seriousness of a brain operation , which makes the film even more hilarious . A nerdy girl named Fran approaches Scott in the studio and asks to partner with him . He gives her a chance , and then needs to make a decision - win the Pan Pacific or do his own thing on the dance floor . On the way to the competition , some family secrets are revealed , and he and Fran fall in love . Told with hilarity , poignancy , and beautiful dancing , this is one of the all-time great dance films with Mercurio's electrifying moves , hot body , and good looks raising it to a very high level . Luhrmann's fast-paced and creative direction makes the film fly by . Some of the photography is spectacular : dancing in front of the neon Coca-Cola sign , Scott learning the paso doble from Fran's relatives as a train passes by , a kiss at twilight , and the color-mad , cartoon-like flashback scene near the end of the film . The dance sequences themselves are fabulous , with the outrageous costumes , wild hair and beautiful steps . All of the performances are good , but my favorite by far is Thomson as a former ballroom star who puts on her " happy face " though her heart is breaking , i . e . , Scott doesn't have a partner , Scott won't dance the correct steps - her constant near hysterics and overly dramatic concern are fantastic . The undertone of the film concerns the slimy , toupeed head of the regulatory committee Barry Fife ( Hunter ) who wants ballroom dance to remain conservative and by the book . Given the interior battles in the ice dancing arena , it wouldn't surprise me if such a thing exists in ballroom as well . No selfish , crowd-pleasing steps ! Just make it - strictly ballroom . If you've never seen this gem , go out and get it .
Fabulous	Not much else to say after my one-line summary about this wild ride brought to us by the man who , in 1991 at least , promised to be the next Orson Welles . And don't tell me he wasn't doing more than a touch of Olivier in _ Rebecca ( 1940 ) _ qv in his black and white scenes - Branagh's sense of humor is just one of the joys of this totally surprising , enthralling , suspenseful and fun film . I have read some of the other comments and it's a shame that so many have lost their taste for good old-fashioned entertainment , which this surely is . Not only is the cast top-notch and the acting great , but the film combines mystery , karma and film noir which , Hitchcock fan that I am , kept me GLUED to the set . _ Dead Again ( 1991 ) _ qv is one of the few films that I own and could watch over and over . To all the nay-sayers of this film , Sixth Sense , Usual Suspects , etc . etc . , I say - let me see you do it better . Go right ahead .
The love of money is the root of all evil	So how many actors can hold the viewer while he acts - alone - on screen ? I don't know how many can , I only know that Humphrey Bogart can and did in " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre , " a 1948 film directed by John Huston and also starring Walter Huston and Tim Holt . Bogart is just one of the treasures you'll see in this magnificent film about the power that gold can have over men . There's no sense in repeating the story - three men go into the hills to pan for gold . Howard ( Huston ) an old timer who has been there , done that , warns the other two , Fred C . Dobbs and Bob Curtin ( Bogart and Holt ) that if they find gold , it has the potential to ruin both of them . While Howard is easygoing and philosophical , and Bob manages to remain loyal and honest , Fred C . Dobbs begins to show signs that he's one sandwich short of a picnic early on . He becomes suspicious and paranoid as their bounty grows larger . Bogart's last scenes are monumental - he gives a soliloquy - and he deserved the Oscar for this . Walter Huston is fantastic as an old man who doesn't want for much and takes life as it comes . Handsome Tim Holt gives a wonderful performance as an inherently gentle , generous and sympathetic person . His reading of the letter from a dead man's wife is quite poignant . The end of this film is satisfying , honest and funny , giving us an important moral : " Gold is good in its place ; but living , brave , patriotic men , are better than gold . "
Ah , yes , I remember it well	I saw this show when it first aired 36 years ago and never forgot it . I just watched it again ; this TCM presentation was different in that it shows what went on when they were just setting up . I had the good fortune to transcribe some interviews with Hepburn over the years . Consequently , none of what went on in the set-up was very surprising . What is so striking about the interview is Hepburn's sharp memory and still enormous energy - at the time of the interview , she was 66 years old . She is very funny , capable of self-deprecating humor as well as great insight . I especially appreciated the idea of " listening , " which she didn't feel the youth of 1973 did very well . Wonder what she thought when the new century hit , if she thinks people were distracted in 1973 . It really doesn't matter what anyone says about her image being phony , etc . You can't fake intelligence , dignity , humor , and talent . Hepburn possessed all of these in spades , and her Cavett interviews are fantastic and not to be missed .
often imitated - never equaled	I saw " The Sting " tonight for the first time in many years - I saw it several times in the theater when it opened in 1973 . Great cast , perfect direction , fantastic script , excellent period setting , brilliant soundtrack - it's hard to ask for more . Seeing it again brought back so many memories , especially seeing young Robert Redford , who was THE matine idol back then , and the Scott Joplin pieces could be heard everywhere you went . The plot is full of twists and turns - it has humor , sadness , and depth - something you don't run across as much nowadays . For those seeing it the first time , the surprises are many . Redford carries the film , as his is the bigger and more developed role . It's a relaxed performance with a lot of heart . Newman's role is smaller - his scenes with Robert Shaw during the card game are priceless , from his drunk act , mispronouncing Lonnegan's name , laughing and rubbing his hands when he wins , and blowing his nose on his tie - he's just great . Shaw is frightening as Lonnegan with his quiet , barely controlled anger dying to erupt and the determined look on his face . Newman and Redford are one of the great screen teams - it's a pity they didn't do more together , but they gave us two classics . It'll have to be good enough - just like the sting to take down Doyle Lonnegan in one of the great American films .
Machts gut , Papa	An American woman , her European husband and children return to her mother's home in " Watch on the Rhine , " a 1943 film based on the play by Lillian Hellman , and starring Paul Lukas ( whom I believe is repeating his stage role here ) , Bette Davis , Lucile Watson , George Coulouris , Geraldine Fitzgerald , and Donald Woods . An anti-Fascist , a worker in the underground movement , many times injured , and wanted by the Nazis , Kurt Muller ( Lukas ) is in need of a long vacation on the estate of his wealthy mother-in-law . But he finds out that there is truly no escape as one of the houseguests ( Coulouris ) is suspicious as to his true identity and more than willing to sell him out . Great performances abound in this film , written very much to put forth Lillian Hellman's liberal point of view . It was certainly a powerful propaganda vehicle at the time it was released , as the evils of war and what was happening to people in other countries reach into safe American homes . The movie's big controversy today is that Paul Lukas won an Oscar over Humphrey Bogart in " Casablanca . " Humphrey Bogart was a wonderful screen presence and a fabulous Rick , but Lukas is transcendent as Kurt . The monologue he has about the need to kill is gut-wrenching , just to mention one scene . Though this isn't what one thinks of as a Bette Davis movie , she gives a masterful performance here as Kurt's loyal and loving wife , Sara . Her acting tugs at the heart , and the love scenes between Kurt and Sara are beautiful and tender . The last half hour of the film had me in tears with the honesty of the emotions . Lillian Hellman is not everyone's cup of tea , but unlike " The Little Foxes , " she has written some truly sympathetic , wonderful characters and a fine story given A casting and production values by Warner Brothers . Highly recommended .
What I did for love	" The Red Shoes " is a magnificent film , the jewel in the crown of Powell and Pressburger . I have to believe that since the film was first released , thousands of young women have wanted to become ballet dancers . This vibrantly-colored movie concerns a gifted ballerina ( the impossibly beautiful Moira Shearer ) whom two men want to possess - the head of the ballet company , Lermentov , brilliantly portrayed by Anton Walbrook ( perhaps one of the great castings of a role of all time ) - and a composer , Julian ( Marius Goring , whom I've never liked in the part ) . She gives up her career to be with Julian , which as far as I'm concerned , was a big mistake . Lermentov believes you can't have it all ; you have to marry your career . The centerpiece of the film is the exciting , elaborate " Red Shoes " ballet , which is an allegory for Victoria's own life . Shearer is wonderful in the role , though she has always said she wished she danced better . As a bit of trivia , she was part of the Sadler's Wells Ballet when it came to the U . S . after the film was released . The prima ballerina was Margot Fonteyn . Guess who got all the attention ? You can see Victoria in her gowns a million times and always have a sharp intake of breath . You can watch the ballet a million times and never cease to be thrilled by it . You can watch the ending a million times and always be touched by it . So it is with this beautiful film , which played in London for four years .
I cried and cried , and then I cried some more	What a gorgeous film this is , and how it tugs at the heartstrings . Though quite different in tone from the Frederic March film of the same name , Death Takes a Holiday still tells the same story . Death takes human form and comes to earth to find out , as he puts it , " why people claim so tenaciously to life . " Like the angel in " The Bishop's Wife , " he falls for a mortal , played by Yvette Mimieux . Of course , while Death is on vacation , so to speak , nobody dies . And that has repercussions for Mimieux's family . The cast is absolutely superlative - Melvyn Douglas , Yvette Mimieux , Monte Markham , Myrna Loy , and Bert Convy . If you have a chance to see this film , don't miss it . I remember it so vividly . Make sure you have a box of tissues next to you .
Transcendental performance by Greta Garbo	Greta Garbo is " Camille , " in the 1936 MGM film directed by George Cukor and also starring Robert Taylor , Henry Daniell , Lionel Barrymore , Laura Hope Crews , Jessie Ralph , and Rex O'Malley . Based on the Alexandre Dumas fils novel / play LA DAME AUX CAMELIAS , it is the often told story of the tubercular Marguerite Gautier , a courtesan , and the young man , Armand Duval , with whom she falls in love , only to have to give him up so he can fulfill his promise and take a respectable place in society . Verdi based his very famous and constantly done opera , " La Traviata , " on the Dumas material . During the film , themes from the opera can be heard throughout . Though the libretto of the opera sticks closely to the words spoken by Marguerite and Armand , the opera's story is slightly different . One difference is that Armand ( Alfredo in the opera ) learns from his father the reason that Marguerite ( Violetta in the opera ) gave him up , where in this version , he doesn't seem to know about it ; the other is that in the opera , Duval Sr . asks Violetta to sacrifice her life with Armand for the sake of Armand's sister , who is about to be married . MGM pulled out all the stops for this film ; the production values are glorious . Adrian's costumes are absolutely magnificent , and Garbo is a vision in them . This is Garbo's greatest performance . Though a neurotic , shy , and not a terribly exciting woman in real life ( for the book " Garbo " by Barry Paris , I transcribed something like 100 hours of phone conversations she had with art gallery owner Sam Green ) she had an amazing , vivid imagination and could transport herself in performance to create effective characters that are larger than life . Added to that ability is her unique beauty , her slim figure , and her beautiful speaking voice . She is a perfect Marguerite - vulnerable , passionate , full of humor , generous , joyous and melancholy . Marguerite's death scene is classic . Her face is never more beautiful or serene as in those last scenes , and even after repeated viewings , it tugs at the heart . Garbo is surrounded by an excellent cast , including Henry Daniell as the Baron , her cruel lover / financial resource ; Laura Hope Crews as a loud , silly old courtesan ; Jessie Ralph as Nanine , Marguerite's loving caretaker ; and Rex O'Malley , who does a beautiful job as Gaston , a gentle and kind friend to both Marguerite and Armand . This role is very small in the opera . It's a much better part here , and O'Malley makes a great impression . Lionel Barrymore's performance as Duval Sr . has been criticized as being melodramatic , and it's true that he does refer to Marguerite as " Margaret , " but in my opinion , he comes off well and restrained in a role that , unlike Gaston , is actually smaller in the film than it is in the opera . Robert Taylor was 24 or 25 when he played Armand . Like most of the absurdly handsome men in films , he was dismissed by critics as a pretty boy who had no acting ability . It isn't true . He handles some sappy lines very well because he says them sincerely , and he portrays an innocent and romantic quality in the face of Marguerite's worldly ways . Two things trip him up , neither of which is his fault - he's about two or three years away from true handsomeness , which would have made him a little less callow in appearance ; secondly , the makeup man really slipped with the pancake , the powder , and the eyebrow pencil . He's wearing entirely too much makeup , which is a distraction and - I mean , this is Robert Taylor we're talking about - totally unnecessary . The makeup should have been directed toward making him slightly less beautiful and more handsome . A bigger problem than both of those is that when he's in a scene with Garbo , there is very little chemistry between them . As a performer , Garbo often stood alone and wasn't what one would call an ensemble player , and she rather overpowers him . A gorgeous movie , one of the most romantic films of all time starring an enigmatic woman who was a goddess among the Hollywood goddesses . Once World War II hit , the types of roles she excelled at would no longer be popular , and she would find herself retired at the age of 36 to walk and wander the world , no longer in films , but never forgotten .
Whatever you write about me , don't make it sad	Though the above summary comment was a request that Rita made of the press , the life of one of the world's most charismatic and glorious looking stars comes off as being just that - sad . For all the joy she gave the world and continues to give it , there should have been a lot more personal joy in the story of Rita Hayworth . This is a wonderful documentary because it incorporates the memories of Rita's family as well as friends and coworkers . She was obviously a warm and loving person but probably someone who would have been content as a wife and mother . Certainly her children brought her great happiness . The biographical film emphasizes her attraction to manipulative , controlling men , attributing this to her being her father's dance partner and his dance student from a young age . Though not mentioned , it has been brought up elsewhere that Rita and her father often registered as husband and wife when they toured as dancers and shared a bed . If this is so , the root of her problems can be traced to this abusive relationship . Rita , however , remained a devoted daughter to both of her parents as well as a loving sister to her two brothers . She was unable to have a happy marriage , though she certainly fell in love with both Orson Welles and Prince Aly Kahn before moving on to loser Dick Haymes , who almost cost her her children , and James Hill , who , like Haymes , was apparently abusive . Her first husband , Edward Judson , viewed her as an investment only , and according to publicist Henry Rogers , was furious when she had an affair with Anthony Quinn during the filming of " Blood and Sand " - not because she was having an affair , but because she was having an affair with someone who wasn't in a position to do anything for her career . The first signs of Alzheimer's began to show in the early ' 60s , and when she died in 1987 , she was bedridden and knew no one . So this is a great documentary if only to show that great beauty and talent do not confer a great life , and that what you see on the screen very often is real , honest-to-goodness acting . Because no doubt about it , through life's unhappiness , Rita Hayworth was a true goddess . With that face , voice , body , smile , hair , her magnificent and vivacious dancing , her charm , the sexiness she exuded as well as the vulnerability , she was a true angel who walked among us . She left the world greater for not only her screen presence , but for bringing to the fore a horrific disease . Quite a legacy . Quite a lady .
A great , inspirational film	Gregory Peck plays Father Francis Chisholm , who has been given " The Keys to the Kingdom " in this sweeping 1944 film based on the famous novel by A . J . Cronin . Also starring are Thomas Mitchell , Edmund Gwenn , Sir Cedric Hardwicke , Vincent Price , Rosa Stradner and Roddy McDowell . The story is told in flashback as a monsignor ( Hardwicke ) reads Chisholm's journal of his 40 years as a missionary in China . Like most men who made films for 20th Century Fox that span a long period of time , Peck's character as a young man is played by Roddy McDowell . The journal tells of his parents ' death and the love he has for the girl he grew up with , Nora , which keeps him from the vocation his aunt wants for him . Francis does , however , embrace the priesthood and is sent to China to start a mission . His live and let live philosophy is at odds with what the Church hierarchy wants - he doesn't rub elbows with the wealthy Chinese , whose conversion would bring in the peasants and whose generosity would help build his mission . He knows their conversions would be in name only ; and he wants nothing to do with " rice Christians " who become Christians for food . Instead , he sets out to do God's work and blessings flow to him , and a wonderful mission , church and school are built . When a difficult nun ( Stradner ) arrives , Francis treats her with dignity and patience and eventually wins her loyalty and friendship . When revolution threatens the mission , Father Chisholm participates in bringing down the enemy . In short , he does what he knows to be true to himself , to his belief in God , and in the interests of his people . This is a truly magnificent film . As it went on , I asked myself , with varying things going on in the story but not a lot of big action scenes , what keeps the audience interested in such a movie . Characterizations . Real people . Relationships . Honesty regarding the human experience . You can find these elements in many films today , but don't look for those films to be released by the monolith studios , one of which released " The Keys to the Kingdom . " Those films have 15-second scenes , huge special effects and characters scripted in shorthand . It takes a film like this to truly make one appreciate what Hollywood has lost . See this and then watch " Poseidon . " It will have you running to TCM and Fox Movie Channel faster than anything else . Gregory Peck can best be described by the book " Growing up Catholic , " in which there's a chapter called " Father What-a-Waste " where the authors lament the good-looking parish priest . Tall and handsome , Peck is totally believable as a good , gentle and determined man who follows Christ . There's a difference between playing a role and being the role - Peck IS Father Chisholm . Vincent Price is good as Francis ' arrogant friend Angus , and Thomas Mitchell is terrific as an atheist doctor who is nevertheless Francis ' best friend . Hardwicke brings great dignity to his role , and his voice as narrator is wonderful ; and Edmund Gwenn , as Francis ' mentor , is perfectly cast . Rosa Stradler plays the difficult nun , Maria-Veronique , an upper class woman who looks with disdain not only on Father Chisholm but the Chinese . The interesting thing about her performance is that at the end , as she plays the aging nun , she takes on the mannerisms and voice of an older woman . She's marvelous . This would be my only criticism of Peck - while his character looks old , Peck still speaks and moves as a younger man . One of the best films to ever come out of Hollywood . Not sappy , not sentimental , just very powerful in its demonstration of what true goodness can achieve .
Kind of a Medieval " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf "	Peter O'Toole is Henry II , a true " Lion in Winter " in this 1968 film version of the play by James Goldman and also starring Katharine Hepburn , Anthony Hopkins , Timothy Dalton , Nigel Terry , Jane Merrow and John Castle . On Broadway , the roles of Henry and Eleanor were played by Robert Preston and Rosemary Harris . The casting director for the Broadway production commented that the original auditions , before Preston and Harris injected the spice and humor into the dialogue , were heavy going , the delivery of the actors very , very serious . Imagine this movie with no spark , no sarcasm , no wry humor injected into the lines , and you've got yourself a real nightmare . Fortunately , it's not the case . Though the story takes dramatic license with the truth - for instance , there was no Christmas gathering of the actual family in 1183 , but there was in 1182 - the depiction of the family's infighting , considering how everything turned out , is probably quite correct . King Henry II wants to name his successor and brings his family together . This includes his imprisoned wife , Eleanor of Quitaine ( Hepburn ) , his mistress , Princess Alais ( Merrow ) , and his three sons - Richard ( Hopkins ) , Geoffrey ( Castle ) and John ( Terry ) , and Alais ' brother , King Philip of France ( Dalton ) . Everybody makes deals they don't intend to make good , promises they don't plan to keep , and alliances they don't want in order to secure the throne either , in the sons ' cases , for themselves , or in Eleanor and Henry's cases , for someone else . To say that Henry and Eleanor have a volatile relationship is a tremendous understatement , and the dialogue is an incredible roller-coaster ride that's never boring . One wonders if an audience would sit through such a film today . If not , it's a pity , because it's so brilliant . Watching O'Toole and Hepburn sparring - sometimes so cruelly and bitterly that it's devastating - is addictive . You can't turn away from it . Hepburn shows us immediately by subtle actions - a quick expression that's just as quickly covered up , a slight hesitation in movement or speech - that no matter what her words say , she worships Henry still . For Henry , she is the most challenging and exciting woman he has ever known - and because of the volatility of their relationship , they can't survive together . Talk about being able to push each other's buttons - with Henry , it's whether or not Eleanor slept with his father ; with Eleanor , it's his desire to marry Alais and divorce her . O'Toole takes the title of the film literally , and he indeed roars like an old lion . A powerful and overt actor , Henry II , which he played twice , is one of his greatest roles and this performance perhaps his best . Handsome , sexy , angry and wild , he holds the screen magnificently . For me this is Hepburn's best role . Her Eleanor is beautiful , dignified , sensitive and determined , easily wounded by Henry , though she tries not to show it . Henry II lived another 6 years , during which time Eleanor remained imprisoned by him , although she enjoyed more freedom and actually occasionally traveled with Henry . Henry was succeeded by Richard and then , because Richard had no heirs , by John . Eleanor spent her last years as a nun and , no surprise , outlived all of her children except for King John and Queen Leonora . Both Henry and Eleanor will live forever in " The Lion in Winter . " Imagine a movie with such superstars that Anthony Hopkins has a supporting role - thus was the case in 1968 when the young Hopkins played Richard , a closet homosexual who has had an affair with Philip of France . ( " Oh , Richard , " Eleanor says as she sends him to make a deal with Philip , " promise him ANYTHING . " ) History is quite divided over whether or not Richard was actually gay , but some writings definitely indicate that he was . Hopkins is brilliant as a tough and even cruel man who has a very sensitive side that can be gotten to by his mother . The rest of the acting is uniformly excellent . One of the greatest scripts with one of the greatest casts of all time
Dancing Queen	Toni Collette wants to have " Muriel's Wedding " in this 1994 Australian film , directed and written by P . J . Hogan . Muriel is a social outcast living with her dysfunctional family and fantasizing about a better life for herself , as exemplified in Abba music . She wants the excitement the music has , the fun , the prettiness , the glamor . Most of all , she wants a fabulous wedding . Her dreadful father ( Bill Hunter ) constantly puts her down and constantly elevates himself . He's a councilman . He asks a friend , Deirdre , who has a cosmetics company like Mary Kay , to give Muriel work . He gives Muriel a blank check so she can buy what she needs and start selling . Muriel takes the blank check to the bank , cleans out her father's bank account and heads for a resort where four girls from the " in crowd " - who don't want Muriel around - have gone . There she meets Rhonda ( Rachel Griffiths ) and starts to have some of the fun she's dreamed about . From there , she moves to Sydney and takes a job in a video store , rooming with Rhonda . All of Muriel's dreams eventually come true , but she loses what makes her special and what she has always devalued - herself . This is such a splendid film , made all the more magnificent by the performance of one of the truly great actresses of this century , Toni Collette . Collette belongs right up there with Streep , Helen Mirren and Cate Blanchette . She's not there because she's a character actress who disappears into her roles so that she's unrecognizable from film to film . Here she embodies Muriel - overweight , badly dressed , with low self-esteem who , in the process of finding out who she is , emerges as an attractive person who knows what's important and what it is she really wants . " Muriel's Wedding " is not a raucous comedy . It has many layers - ridiculous characters , such as her supposed vain friends , and then it turns around and gives you a complicated character like Rhonda , who loves life and lives it with complete abandon until tragedy strikes . Griffiths gives a beautiful performance . Hunter , the man we loved to hate in " Strictly Ballroom , " is even more hateful here , but in the end , seems to have learned his lessons too . Muriel learns what we all learn - life isn't what goes on on the outside , it's what happens inside . What's valuable isn't the wedding dress and all the pomp , but the souls and love involved and the real meaning of marriage . Then you're a Dancing Queen and you can really feel joy . Such a great film , made possible by Collette and Hogan's excellent script and direction . Don't miss it .
prime film noir with " fabulous aspects "	Like many other people , " Laura " is one of my favorite films . Otto Preminger directed a dream cast - Gene Tierney , Dana Andrews , Clifton Webb , Vincent Price , and Judith Anderson in the classic story of a detective and a portrait he can't forget . And who could - it's Gene Tierney in the portrait in the role for which she is best remembered . Tierney is Laura , a beautiful and desirable career gal found dead , shot in the face beyond recognition when she opened her apartment door to admit - whom ? That's why Dana Andrews is there , and he keeps returning to gaze at the portrait . There are a few suspects - her mentor , Waldo Lydecker ( Webb ) who wants her for himself ( even though he seems quite obviously gay , he doesn't want to share her ) ; Shelby Carpenter , Laura's beau , who wants to marry Laura but might be losing her ; and Ann , an older woman in love with Shelby . For those who have never seen " Laura , " it's full of surprises . Unfortunately , it's a famous story by now so one of the surprises is ruined . Even so , the end is tremendously exciting . I remember seeing " Laura " desecrated in the ' 70s ( I think ) when Lee Radziwill played Laura in a TV version - horrific . But nothing can ever dim the movie in the mind of anyone's who's seen it . Wonderful performances , great atmosphere , snappy dialogue : A haunting film , one of the best of the 1940s and one of the great examples of film noir . As Clifton Webb says in the film , " This is assuming fabulous aspects . " So does " Laura . "
insightful , moving documentary	I really loved this documentary on Elia Kazan , put together in 1995 by Richard Shickel . Instead of the usual interviews with people talking about the subject , Kazan and his films speak for him . We gain tremendous insight into the way he worked , what attracted him to the film topics he tackled and the actors he directed . He speaks frankly about all of them , and surprisingly doesn't take credit for some remarkable performances or even his own screenplays . Of playwright William Inge , he says , " I wrote the screenplay from a novel he wrote . Then he worked on it and made it better . " There are also some wonderful photos and clips from Kazan's early work as an actor . The shadow over his life , of course , is his testimony to the committee that wanted to unearth communists in the ' 50s , and this is brought up in Eli Wallach's narration . What he did was wrong , but he didn't testify so he could keep working ( although Jules Dassin , one of the Red Hunt's victims , disagrees . ) He did it , apparently , because he hated Communism . He had been a member of the Communist party and quit . A lifelong liberal , he probably made his own situation even worse by passionately defending what he'd done and also , by telling his friends the night before he testified that he wouldn't " roll over " on any of them , and then doing so . For those of us who grew up during the " red scare , " there was a belief in the country that communism was the embodiment of evil . Kazan seemed to believe it as well . When discussing " A Face in the Crowd , " Kazan speaks of the power of the media and that a person can be sold by their charm and easy smile . " Listen , " he cautions the viewer . " Listen to what the person is really saying . Think . " I think his work in " On the Waterfront , " " Wild River , " " East of Eden , " " America America , " " A Streetcar Named Desire , " etc . , all speak volumes for Elia Kazan .
Beautifully realized film directed by Vincente Minnelli	Judy Garland , Mary Astor , Lucille Bremer , Leon Ames , Harry Davenport , Margaret O'Brien , Henry Daniels , and Joan Carroll are the Smiths of St . Louis in " Meet Me In St . Louis , " a musical lavishly produced by MGM and lovingly handled by Vincente Minnelli , who would eventually marry its star , Judy Garland and beget Liza with a Z . The story is simple enough , that of a fairly well to do family in St . Louis right before the opening of the World's Fair in 1904 . The two older girls , Rose and Esther , are plotting how to get their men - for Esther , it's the boy next door , John Truett ( Tom Drake ) and for Rose , it's Warren ( Robert Sully ) ; their brother Lon prepares to take off for college . Meanwhile , the two younger girls , Tootie and Agnes , live highly imaginative lives - particularly Tootie ( O'Brien ) who has both terminally ill and dead dolls and revels , screaming all the way , in the Halloween tradition of throwing flour in someone's face . Tootie grew up to become the author of the novel , Sally Benson , but seeing this , one might think she grew up to be either an actress or institutionalized or both . When their attorney father announces that he is taking a lucrative job in New York and the family is going to move , the ground falls out from under all of them . The musical chores fall mostly to Garland , and who better ? The songs are perfectly integrated into the story , not stopping it at all , as she sings " The Boy Next Door , " " Over the Bannister , " " The Trolley Song " and " Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas . " At a party , she and O'Brien do a wonderful rendition of " Under the Bamboo Tree , " Everyone has a turn at " Meet Me in St . Louis " as they climb the stairs , etc . , and the nicest thing about that is Grandpa screwing up the words just as someone would . All the performances are excellent . O'Brien is a little scene stealer . Garland looks lovely and is warm , vulnerable , and funny . " You don't want to lose your bloom , " Rose advises Esther when she says she'll let John Truett kiss her . " Frankly , I think I've got a little too much bloom , " Esther decides , looking in the mirror . Her try at romance with Truett when she asks his help turning out the lights in the house is adorable . Lucille Bremer , as Rose , the sister who's not getting any younger and needs to nab Warren Sheffield , gives a very good and funny performance , and she and Garland make great sisters . When they pledge to " destroy " Warren's date to a dance , they decide how many men each of them will have to attract that evening - and of course , neither one of them has any doubt that she can do it . " I should have been born with raven hair , " Rose declares . " Nothing would have stopped us , " Garland agrees . " You with your black hair and me with my auburn . " Marjorie Main as the maid is a hoot . Mary Astor plays it straight , making her lines even better . " Now , be sure you only throw a little flour in people's faces , " she advises her younger daughters . Leon Ames is a wonderful harried father . " My daughter is practically on her honeymoon and I've never even met this man , " he complains . Minnelli's direction is fabulous as he shows us the life of the Smiths , freezing the house in sepia tones before bringing it to life each time . He perfectly captures the atmosphere of young love , St . Louis heat , Halloween , dances , and family life . The author of the book , Sally Benson , was consulted as to every detail of her home , and the costumers were taken from a Sears / Roebuck catalog of the era . A beautiful film for the whole family and one to definitely enjoy over the Christmas holidays . You'll shed a few tears - it's that perfect mix of humor , holiday melancholy , and sentiment .
Thrilling movie and one of Power's best	Director Rouben Mamoulian keeps the pace and excitement going in the wonderful 1940 " The Mark of Zorro " starring Tyrone Power , Basil Rathbone , Linda Darnell , Gale Sondergaard , Eugene Palette , and J . Edward Bromberg . All are excellent . This is one of Power's best performances in one of his best films . He is hilarious in the role of the exhausted , foppish , bored Don Diego , who is always whining , brushing nonexistent dirt from his clothing and fanning himself with his handkerchief . That is , when he isn't sniffing it and remembering the smell of " . . . Ah ! Musk ! " The way he drags himself around , performing stupid magic tricks , getting the shakes when he hears about Zorro , which disgusts his father and his betrothed ( young , beautiful Linda Darnell ) is a riot ! When he becomes Zorro , racing through the woods on his horse as his cape fans out in the wind and whipping that sword around to make the sign of a Z ( yes , I'm a baby boomer and I remember the song ) - he's commanding , dashing , and frightening . This is a bravura performance . There are so many great action scenes in the film - the alcalde's men chasing Zorro , the jail break , and the greatest of all , for which the film is remembered - the sword fight between Power and Rathbone . I first saw this film as a child , and I never forgot that bit with the candle ! Inspired ! A brilliant and classic scene . Power was the 5th highest box office draw in 1940 , and The Mark of Zorro set him up for lots more swashbuckling . When you see Zorro , you can understand why .
Great ensemble cast makes this one POP	Like a lot of other people , " The Philadelphia Story " is one of my favorite films . It possessed one of the strongest ensemble casts ever assembled : Katharine Hepburn , Cary Grant , James Stewart , Ruth Hussey , Virginia Wiedler , Mary Nash , Roland Young , and Henry Daniell . The film is based on the hit Broadway play , starring Hepburn . One of the many things that distinguishes Hepburn from other major actresses is that she was never an insecure woman about her talent . She surrounded herself with the best people available without fear of being overshadowed . As a result , " The Philadelphia Story " is brilliant . It's an insane , zany story full of blackmail , mistaken identity , changing bridegrooms , and class separation that belongs right where it is , in 1940 . Seen today as a play , it doesn't come off , partly because the acting isn't as adroit and charming as seen here , but also because of societal changes . These are old money idle rich , not new money or celebrities who are fodder for the tabloids and clash with the working class . Tracy's anger at her philandering father is interpreted in the film as coming from a cold , unforgiving daughter rather than someone who's justifiably upset that her mother is going to be hurt again . The comedy is wonderful , handled by masters , with perhaps the most out of the box performance being given by Jimmy Stewart . Gangly , boyish , and funny , he's also quite sexy as he romances Tracy , and his scenes with Grant are priceless . Everyone in " The Philadelphia Story " has a fixed opinion about who they are and who everybody else is , and everyone's values are shaken up as the story unfolds . The film bears repeated watchings and will keep you laughing and on your toes at every viewing . With the rich and mighty - always a little patience .
I absolutely love it from beginning to end	This is a favorite film , starring Cary Grant and Irene Dunne at their absolute goofy best as a divorced couple who can't admit they still love one another . The comedy is flawless , the dialogue witty , the chemistry great between the two stars . Cary Grant is handsome , sophisticated , but not above the occasional pratfall . And Dunne is fantastic as his wife . Her ultimate comedy scene comes in the home of Grant's high-class fiance . Dunne enters , pretending to be his sister . She's total trash . She performs " Gone With the Wind " a tawdry nightclub act shown earlier in the film , where the gimmick is that the " wind " blows up the woman's dress Then she screams , " DON'T ANYBODY LEAVE THE ROOM . I CAN'T FIND MY PURSE . " She's hilarious . One of the top films of the ' 30s . I think it's a riot .
great episode featuring a repeat offender	This is one of the first and best Columbos , starring Robert Culp and Ray Milland . Robert Culp appeared on another Columbo , as did several other villains , including Patrick McGoohan , William Shatner , and Jack Cassidy . Ray Milland also made a later appearance . In this one , Ray Milland is convinced his beautiful wife , played by Patricia Crowley , is having an affair , so he hires Culp to investigate . Culp has a blackmailing business on the side , so he gives Milland a fake report and threatens Crowley with the real one if she doesn't pay up . They get into a huge fight in Culp's home , and she winds up murdered . Enter Columbo . Culp does everything he can to get Columbo off the case , including offering him a job , but Columbo is on to him from the beginning . Excellent episode .
fantastic	This documentary was sock-o ! I love " The Third Man , " and the insight given by this documentary was tremendous . Not only was the narration great , but the scenes of post-war Vienna were staggering . ( In Vienna today , one can actually take a " Third Man " tour . ) The background of the Selznick-Korda conflict , the description of how the zither music was decided upon , the tour of the tunnels , how the silhouettes were created , the cat at Harry's shoes - - all wonderful information . Being a huge Orson Welles fan , I loved the stories about Welles . But my favorite story was the one about how the name Paul Horbiger opened the doors of Vienna to the producers , where the names Orson Welles , Alida Valli , and David Selznick did nothing ! This is a must see .
overwhelming	This knockout of a movie is the best of the Stephen King " morality " films such as the wonderful " Shawshank Redemption " and the TV versions of " The Stand " and " Storm of the Century " . " Green Mile " manages to inspire and devastate at the same time . The casting is interesting , utilizing such actors as Bonnie Hunt and Dabbs Greer brilliantly and everyone performs with warmth and deep feeling . Hanks , of course , is the glue . Michael Clarke Duncan is powerful in his simplicity . This is a film that will never leave me .
You have no call to get snippy with me .	I just love McDormand's face when she says that line - she takes a beat , her facial expression doesn't change , and then it comes out of her mouth like she's ordering a hamburger . Brilliant . This is one of my all time favorite movies . I saw it the first day it opened in New York City , and I loved it . I've seen it again since . What strikes me during repeated viewings is the spareness of it . Fargo moves very quickly and there isn't anything peripheral in it , no fillers . It's just a great movie and a great story with great characterizations . Wow , when I put it that way , it sounds like anyone could do it . Would that were true . There's no point in going through the story . I'll just write that Frances McDormand is sensational , as is everyone in the film - she and William H . Macy are standouts . You can really feel his desperation . There are so many great scenes - when Marge thinks she's going to barf , the scene with Macy referenced above , her little lecture to the criminals , the stamp discussion . And who can forget her old friend from high school ? That scene is priceless ! I also love the endless expanse of snow when the search for the money begins . This film was a real high point for me . It is a true masterpiece done by two of our most imaginative filmmakers and starring one of our finest actresses . What can I say , except I'm heading out to the wood chipper .
one of the greats	Rebecca is one film I could watch over and over . It is definitely one of Hitchcock's masterpieces . I recently saw the DVD version for the first time , which had the screen tests and some of Selznick's memos . My favorite was the memo that said , " Please don't say anything to Larry and Vivien " referring to the fact that Vivien Leigh wanted the Fontaine role so that she could be with Olivier . Though her second screen test was better than her first , in my mind , I've always pictured Leigh as the actual Rebecca , were she ever shown . The casting is perfect , with Joan Fontaine as the insecure Mrs . de Winter , coldly manipulated and laughed at by Mrs . Danvers , as expertly portrayed by Judith Anderson . Jack Favell is Rebecca's sly cousin , beautifully played by George Sanders . Olivier is gorgeous as Max , mysterious and distant . He utters two of the all-time most devastating lines heard in a relationship : " Happiness is something I know very little about . If you say we're happy , let's leave it at that . " I have one quibble with " Rebecca , " which is very minor . There were just a few too many shots of Rebecca's initials . But I loved seeing that R in the last shot .
Madness	Alec Guiness and his men are ordered to build " The Bridge on the River Kwai " in this magnificent 1957 film starring Alec Guinness , William Holden , Sessue Hayakawa , and Jack Hawkins , and directed by David Lean . Lean manages to give us an epic that manages to focus on fascinating and multilayered characters . The story is based on a book about a real-life incident ; however , in order to make the points made in the film , the story has many fictional elements , including the depiction of Colonel Saito ( Hayakawa ) , who was actually a very humane Japanese officer , and he and the real-life Colonel Nicholson ( Guinness ) , actually named Toosey shared a great respect . In the movie , Saito demands that the British officers in a prisoner of war camp participate in the building a bridge across the river Kwai in Burma during World War II . Colonel Nicholson refuses , and despite harsh imprisonment , will not give in . When his demands are met , he becomes determined to show the superiority of the British army and engineering in the building of the bridge . The bridge becomes an end in itself , although it will actually help the Japanese . William Holden plays an escaped prisoner who is asked to return to the Burmese jungle to help destroy the bridge and the train that is supposed to go over it . Alec Guinness gives his greatest performance as Nicholson - and that's saying something , since he did so many great ones . He has the stoicism , the determination , and the pride necessary for the role , contrasted with the frailty of his imprisonment . One really believes he has endured harsh imprisonment , given the way he looks , talks , and walks . Holden is fabulous as the soldier who , once he gets away , just wants to go home and is forced to go back to the jungle . In one scene , he yells at Major Warden ( Jack Hawkins ) : " You and Colonel Nicholson , you're two of a kind , crazy with courage . For what ? How to die like a gentleman . . . how to die by the rules - when the only important thing is how to live like a human being . " Sessue Hayakawa does a brilliant job as a man as determined as Nicholson and furious that he cannot bend him to his will . The end of the film is extremely suspenseful and builds tension throughout . This is a great film , and an antiwar one - Colonel Nicholson tells Saito that as he ages , he thinks about what his life has meant . Sometimes our goals become confused , and one forgets the real focus . The final line , uttered by Lt . Joyce ( Geoffrey Horne ) says it all .
Stupendous	Jennifer Jones is " Madame Bovary " in this 1949 adaptation of Flaubert's novel , directed by Vincente Minnelli and also starring Van Heflin , James Mason , Louis Jourdan , Gene Lockhart , Alf Kjellin and Ellen Corby . The film starts with Flaubert , on trial for indecency . As he defends the book , he tells the story of Emma Bovary , a delusional young woman living on a farm who , from romantic novels , has unrealistic ideas about love and happiness . She nabs a simple country doctor ( Van Heflin ) and proceeds to buy herself an incredible wardrobe and live as a rich woman , even though she and her husband are not wealthy . She has a little girl whom she ignores , leaving her to the nurse ( Corby ) . Emma soon becomes bored and attempts to seduce a young man ( Kjellin ) , but his mother ( Gladys Cooper ) catches on and sends him to Paris . Then she meets Boulanger ( Jourdan ) at a party , becomes his lover and plans to run away with him to Italy - but he sees what high maintenance she is and takes off without her . In an attempt to make her husband more prominent , she attempts to talk him into performing a new surgery , but he refuses ( in the book , however , he's ambitious as well and does the surgery , which is a failure ) . Meanwhile , unbeknownst to her husband , she owes a fortune , and if she doesn't find a way out , the family is due to lose their home and furnishings . " Madame Bovary " is one of the most stunning films ever made , with a captivating performance by Jones who makes Emma pathetic , desperate , frantic and sympathetic . As one of the comments on the board pointed out , it's easy to make Emma unlikable . With Jones ' natural charm making her likable and somewhat sweet , we can see ourselves in Emma . She has great backup from Heflin as her cowed husband . Jourdan is handsome and arrogant - he sees his future with Emma , and he doesn't like it . Minnelli handles every detail beautifully in this film . Not enough can be said about the waltz at the party , its dizzying effects making it one of the most thrilling scenes on film . When Emma later puts on the same gown and looks in the mirror and remembers that night , we know for her it was the ultimate dream evening , when she become one with the heroines of the novels she read . The gowns - well , there have been beautiful gowns in films - the 1938 Marie Antoinette comes to mind - and , as in that film , these gowns are works of art , particularly the white ball gown . When Boulanger returns from Italy , and Emma goes to see him , she actually looks different - tired and older - the subtlety of the makeup is spectacular . Though set in France in the mid-1800s , Madame Bovary is a classic because it deals with an ordinary person so dazzled by illusion that she cannot accept anything about her life as it exists . How apropos for today , when the media bludgeons us with multimillion dollar homes , heiresses who go to parties every night , size zero , red carpet premieres - it's hard to be happy when you're a housewife in sweats paying $4 a gallon for gas . Even before films , television , the tabloids and the Internet , people weren't satisfied with their lives because they were told to compare their inside with someone else's outside and found themselves not measuring up . " Madame Bovary " isn't an immorality tale , it's a morality tale and , of course , Flaubert was acquitted . It's considered one of the two greatest novels ever written , along with Anna Karenina , and it's perfectly adapted for film in the 1949 version - the story of a woman who thinks that shopping on credit till she drops is the way to real happiness . Like many in the 20th and 21st centuries have found , she was wrong .
