everything about me . . . . is real	the gang are all back this time in moscow in part seven in one of the least successful franchises of all time . the plot ( ha ! ) involves a video game and a Russian crimelord who wants to use the game as a key to do all diabolical things . . . . so the Russian police invite police academy to help them catch their man ( have they never seen the previous six movies ? ) all involved look ashamed to be involved in this film , and apart from captain harris , the characters have all lost their traits that made them so likable in the first place . the story is a farce and the jokes are as stale as month old bread . Christopher lee should know better and Clare Forlani should wipe this off her CVabysmal in every sebse of the world . i will never get that eighty minutes of my life back . don't let it happen to you .
put some hummus on it . . .	OK then , Julia Jones is a fat girl who just cannot find her true love . she works in her fathers diner and her life is going nowhere . one day she meets Grant and instantly becomes smitten . finding help with ' hitch ' ( ho ho ) she becomes more attractive after being pimped . so she ends up with Grant and they plan their wedding . but as always there is always a spanner in the works ( other than the script ! ) and that is in the form of Grants ex , who wants him back . will Julia get the wedding of her dreams ? will Grant go back with his ex ? does anyone really like this movie ? i for one did not . Hannigan looks very embarrassed to be in this movie and should fire her agent , right now ! ! . it is not even funny in the slightest . we have been spoon fed as an audience , fart gags , boob gags , bodily fluid gags , stupid unfunny movie references , Micheal Jackson sight gags , animals using toilets gags and celebrity look a like gags for far too long , and i for one are really sick of these films now . please stop this torture now . there are not enough years in peoples lives to have time wasted on drivel like this , the eighty minutes felt like i was watching the lord of the rings trilogy and i knew this was going to be bad the minute ' hitch ' was spoofed . almost every recent successful film made is referenced in this , and some of the spoofs are as pointless as a broken pencil ( see the dodgeball spoof or the kill bill spoof ) . please if you do get to rent this film , be careful and do not tell anyone , you will be mocked . i feel totally disgusted that a film like this ever crossed my eyes and ears . shockingly bad .
i'm the J-Man . . . .	Tim and Nick are best friends , neighbours and co-workers , whose equal footing is suddenly tripped up when one of Nick's harebrained get-rich-quick schemes actually succeeds : Vapoorizer , a spray that literally makes dog poop , or any other kind for that matter , evaporate into thin air - - to where exactly is anyone's guess . Tim , who had scoffed at Nick's idea and passed on an opportunity to get in on the deal , can only watch as Nick's fortune - - and Tim's own envy - - grow to equally outrageous proportions . When the flames of jealousy are fanned by an oddball drifter ( Walken ) who imposes himself into the situation , Tim's life careers wildly out of control . . . taking Nick's with it . you would think a movie starring Stiller and Black would be a ball , sadly , this is one turd of a movie . Stiller hardly shows any Envy in the whole film , and we know he can do jealousy / anger as seen by Mr . Furious in ' Mystery men ' . but for once Jack Blackis quite amiable in this as he is so restraint and not stupidly over the top as he usually is . but hats off to Levinson who has made a comedy with no laughs , not one funny line and nothing new to offer . this should have gone straight to DVD , but no , due to the school of rock , this was released to the public . ironic how a film that revolves around vanishing doggy doo turns out to be a complete dogs dinner .
murderers don't go home	in this sequel to the 1997 film , we are plunged straight into the action when a small group of the federation are being over run by bugs . when they find an abandoned watch tower , they decide to take a stand and fight the bugs . when the bugs have given up for a while , the crew discover Dax , who is locked up in a furnace , accused of murder . when the bugs attack again , they have no choice but to let Dax out and assist them with the fight and to help get the electric work and to keep the perimeter against them and the bugs . but when the perimeter starts to work , a general and three other troops join the group . bu tsomething is not right as there are two psychics in the group , and sense something very bad about the new guests . . . . well this is a really poor excuse for a sequel to the original . in the original Verhoeven was very topical . anti-political , and basically ripped to bits the American teen generation who were used to the Beverly Hills lifestyle . in this sequel we have a rip off of the original , but also Zulu and ' The Thing ' . but this is a debacle compared to Verhorvans original . the production value is awful and it looks like the studio go the use of just one floor of a studio for the day . the cast are poor and there are not really many bugs in the film , and when they are , they are really poor cgi based things . i have seen some poor things in my life ( stop or my mom will shoot , Oscar ) but this really is one of the worst things i have ever seen . on the trivia for this film it says that it cost less than five percent of the original at $6 million , this could have gone on something a lot more worth while than this drivel . a complete waste of time .
do you want lunch ? ?	In the year 3000 , man is no match for the Psychlo's , a greedy , manipulative race of aliens on a quest for ultimate profit . Led by the seductive and powerful Terl , the Psychlo's are stripping Earth clean of its natural resources , using the broken remnants of humanity as slaves . What is left of the human race has descended into a near primitive state , believing the invaders to be demons and technology to be evil . After humanity has all but given up any hope of freeing themselves from alien oppression , a young man named Tyler decides to leave his desolate home high in the Rocky Mountains to discover the truth , whereupon he is captured and enslaved . It is then that he decides to fight back , leading his fellow man in one final struggle for freedom . . . . it's true , this movie is bad , so bad that one has to own this film just to mock every now and again when things are not going your way . a vanity project of the highest order for Travolta , this has the worst script and narrative that i have ever had the misfortune to witness it's pure car crash cinema , you know it's bad to look at , but you cannot keep your eyes of the screen . it's Amazing that Travoltas career just about survived after this debacle , he is a cross between Dr . Evil and the most stupid Klingon ever to grace Star Trek . it's laugh out loud funny for all the wrong reasons , the perfect mystery science theater 3000 fodder , bad all the way . i wonder if Tom Cruise likes it ? ?
do you have to lay like that ?	based on Ben Eltons own experiences and book , Sam and Lucy are a couple who seem to have it all . The only thing they lack is the one thing they want most - a baby . They try everything in their efforts to reproduce , but all this hectic schedule achieves is improvement in their cardiovascular systems . Ovulation charts soon replace spontaneity , when the couple reluctantly deliver themselves into the hands of medical professionals . At the same time , as Sam comes to find his job increasingly unfulfilled , he sets his sights on writing a screenplay , but writer's block strikes . Encouraged to ' look within ' by his hippie friend Druscilla , Sam is inspired : he will write a comedy about a couple trying for a baby , But Lucy is horrified at the idea , and forbids him to tell their story . Sam and Lucy's love for each other , the most important thing they both have , will now truly be put to the test , a she goes against her wish and the script goes into production . a movie about a man writing a story about his wife unable to have children and sharing her pain , and releasing it as a movie is hardly funny , romantic , and never entertaining . . . . and look what Elton has gone and done . this has to be one of the worst British comedies this decade . the script is poor , Elton is an awful director not being able to get the cast to deliver one single line , and it appears more of as love in for Elton , as he gets some of his old ' chums ' to make cameos . but what really annoys me , is why does Elton have to depict the the lead couple as the rich middle class everyman that appear in every British film of 2000 ? Laurie is not very good in his role ans Richardson is truly terrible , not convincing at all in her role . with the amount of talent involved in the film , one would expect something a little special , but as the character Ewan proclaimer would state ' this is escapist English crap'avoid
i was sick with bulimia	well . . this film concerns a guy who likes another girl and when he actually declares his love for the girl , he gets bit by a zombie . OK . this film is too much dependent on the far superior ' Shaun of the dead ' . it is very , very bad . it is so bad that i had to turn the movie off after i had seen on whole hour of this drivel . the acting is abysmal , the story is nowhere and the plot , well it leaves a lot to be desired . i cannot even be bothered to continue . avoid at all costs .
i got a really bad feeling in the pit of my stomach . .	Jesse and Chester , two bumbling stoners , wake up one morning from a night of partying and cannot remember where they parked their car which prompts them on a journey to find it and along the way , they encounter a variety of people who include their angry girlfriends Wilma and Wanda whose house they trashed , an angry street gang , a transsexual stripper hounding them for a suitcase full of stolen money , a cult of alien seeking fanatics , and a group of aliens in human form looking for a mystical device that could save or destroy the world . hats off to the director and the two stars for making a comedy that doesn't even raise a smile during the whole ninety minute , this was probably only made due to the success of the first American pie movie and the fact that Scott was quite the trademark ' stoner ' dude in Hollywood . Bill and Ted did this thing much better over ten years earlier than this and did it with a lot more panache . i gave the movie a chance and watched it all the way through , and i am not exaggerating when i say that this has to be one of the worst movies ever made , and i have seen some drivel in my movie watching life . and what makes it worse is the fact that this film was moderately successful and that some people actually enjoy this movie . it has a silly story , annoying stereotypical characters and is very sexist to say the least . don't get me wrong , i do enjoy movies such as road trip , American pie , and even Freddy got fingered , but they at least had a little bit of charm and even humour to them . this is plain wrong and worthless , please avoid , or more like this will be made . scarily bad
abysmal . . .	In the end of the 70's , the dysfunctional Kenneth Bianchi lives with his mother and is obsessed to join the police force . When his application is refused , his mother sends him to Los Angeles to live with his sadistic cousin Angelo Buono . Kenneth unsuccessfully tries to join LAPD , and Angelo convinces him to start a prostitution business with him . They force two girls from Tucson to work for them , but their competitors destroy their business and steals their money . The frustrated Kenneth and Angelo decide to revenge against a prostitute , and Kenneth strangles her , feeling a great pleasure with her death . The two cousins become addicted in death , initially killing prostitutes and then attacking single women , dumping their bodies on the hill . . . . in the same vein as the Bundy movie a few years prior to this , comes another virtually unwatchable movie , starring an actor who should know better . i don't know whether it's the directors and writers intention to make a dirty feeling exploitation film , but you do feel disgusting after watching this . the script is poor the camera-work and editing dodgy , and the performances way over the top . again maybe intended by the filmmakers , the main protagonists are only violent toward women and appeared afraid of men , which makes you Even more angry whilst watching the movie . another bad film about a subject that should have been left well alone . for a better film about a serial killer see ' summer of Sam '
thats not my ring tone . . .	very intrigued about the premise of this film and i wanted to see it for several reason , Sossamans first major role in a long time , to see if Burns had got over a sound of thunder , and whether Hollywood could make another decent re-make of a Japanese horror involving phones . well the film is absolutely devoid of any chill or thrills whatsoever , and when the film makers wanted you to jump , i found myself laughing , especially at the cat grab scene . the plot is missing a decent narrative and while sossaman and Burns both deliver half decent performances , they could do this sort of stuff in their sleep . it borrows heavily from final destination and the twist at the end comes from a set piece used in the sixth sense . it's been done a thousand times before , a lot lot better , but it's just really unwatchable in places . a really bad film .
get ready to rumble . .	aaaaahhhhh , the golden era of British comedy . guest house paradiso , the boys in blue , on the buses , carry on columbus , sex lives of the potato men . . . and now this . ant and dec are perfectly cast as two very unlikable people who make ( not ) a lot of money by conning millions of people . sort of life imitating art watching this . what were the writers thinking casting ant @ dec as the main characters . reeves and mortimer would have been much better as they have panache . has anyone seen their alien autopsy skit ten years ago with charles bronson sitting in the corner drinking a pint of beer ? that is ten times funnier than this ! they would have made the film more surreal and enjoyable . bill pullman just looks bemused and embarrassed . please stick to t . v lads you are good on that . the big screen deserves better , a lot better
s ss ssorry . . . .	Karen Mcann is organising her daughters birthday party . living a normal life with her husband and two children , she enjoys a simple and happy life . tragedy strikes when Jack Bauer sexually assaults and murders her eldest daughter Julie . unable to cope with the tragedy , Karen attends a self help group and tries to come to terms with the unruly justice that was served when the killer was set free after the farce of a trial . within the group , their are vigilantes who help the grieving parents . Karen seeks their help and decides to take justice into her own hands . the calibre of the cast is amazing . Mantegna , Harris , Baker-Hall , David and Sutherland . and with a director such as John Schlesinger , this should have been a drama of high quality and tension . but what we have here is a farcical film , which makes the subject very laughable and sometimes very offensive . the script is awful and the actors involved seem to have no motivation at all . Sally Field is the worse offender of all . plying a parent who has lost her daughter to this terrible crime , she never ever shows the emotion that on would expect . mainly through the film , she is all smiles and sparkly eyes , and this takes the films story right out of the back door and dumps it in the waste . Harris looks very bored in his role and is given very little to do , and wastes his time in this drivel . some of the worst parts of this movie are : when the aunt slips on the toy truck and has Karen in fits of laughter in the toilet . when Karen attacks a man in the car park for no reason . the script . it stinks pure and simple . the only redeeming thing about this is Kiefer Sutherland . hardly in the film , he plays a very convincing villain and makes the movie . . . . just . the ending is very predictable , and once Mantegna gives away a critical law lesson to Field , you just know what is going to happen . obviously inspired by the much superior ' death wish ' this is a film that should be seen , but only to see just how bad prolific actors can be . this would have been a one for me , but Sutherland gives it an extra point . really bad and offensive . and unintentionally funny in parts .
you can't lie to a liar . .	another straight to DVD release for Snipes , which shows once again that he either needs the money very , very badly , or that he should take a contract out on his agent . a by the numbers thriller , Snipes is the titular character who expels a terrorist and then is framed for the murder of special guest star Charles Dance . this especially irks Lena Heady , as it just happens to be her father , and there will be no more banter between the two . so for the majority of the film , Snipes spends his time in a dirty flat in Elephant & Castle , laying injured on a sofa and being annoyed by the next door neighbour , who just happens to know everything that is going on in the news and keeps Snipes informed of the impending narration . this is a new low for Snipes , who spends the majority of the film looking and sounding doped up , with no real chemistry from anyone involved . and the film does seem to go on forever , with the very dodgy action and editing . but what makes the film even more embarrassing is the relationship between Snipes and the girl Emily , which seems very out of place in a movie like this . Snipes stays third in the direct to DVD championship at the moment , way behind Seagal and Van Damme , and that is saying something . for die hard Snipes fans only . . . . or sadists
kiss my ass harry potter . . . . .	the movie form of status epilepticus . what started out to look like a fun hybrid between the lost boys and the potter franchise , turns out to be another film that shows of the use of slo-mo spcial effects , and the male torso . there is no story to speak of whatsoever , apart from the prologue at the beginning , some kid dying , and one of ' the covenant ' starts to chuck his toys out of his pram when things go wrong . oh , and there is the token blonde in peril , always one isn't there ? Harlin use to be such an above average movie maker with films such as ' cliffhanger ' , ' die hard 2 ' , the long kiss goodnight ' and even ' deep blue sea ' but now he just seems uninterested about the movie making process and things such as narration , story , and set pieces . the ' stars ' are awful , without an acting bone between them and seem more interested in each other . a real wasted film , looked fun , but that was just ' hocus pocus '
bottom . . . . . . . . . the movie	this was a pointless exercise in what can only be described as a bloated over stretched episode of the funny ( if your 14 and under ! ) bottom . i have seen some bad movies in my time but i have never seen anything so offensive and shambolic at the cinema . Mayall and Edmonson should hang their heads in shame for this embarrassing debacle . The plot ? . . well two " men " run a hotel near some sewage works ( ha ha ) , and all of a sudden a famous french actress stays at the hotel . the two men have an unfunny fight , catch some fish , fight some more , poison the guests , fight some more , send up raiders of the lost ark and fight a little bit more . . . . . unfunnily . when will film makers understand that no matter how much you cover it up , TV programmes that are turned into movies rarely work . PLEASE NO MORE ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
any last words ? shut the fuk up ! ! !	At the end of the Ice Age , The Machine came from the outer space with the purpose to change men into mutants . However , a hero defeated the device and a great seal was laid over The Machine . In 2707 , the depleted world is ruled by four Corporations : Mishima , Bauhaus , Capitol and Imperial that are in constant war . During a battle between Capitol and Bauhaus , the great seal is broken and The Machine works again transforming soldiers and civilians in hordes of mutants . A small part of the population escapes to Mars , leaving millions of people behind . The man of faith and leader of an ancient brotherhood Brother Samuel is a believer of God and the Chronicles , a bible about the mutants . With the city under siege of the mutants , he visits the Corporations ' leader Constantine asking for an aircraft and twenty men for a suicide mission to destroy The Machine , planting a bomb and a detonator following the knowledge of the Chronicles . He recruits the tough Major ' Mitch ' Hunter ; the Bauhaus Lieutenant Maximillian von Steiner ; the keeper of the Chronicles Severian that is under a vow of silence ; the gorgeous and lethal Corporal Valerie Duval ; Corporal Juba Kim Wu ; Captain John McGuire ; and Corporal Jesus ' El Jesus ' de Barrera . Together they become the last hope of Earth against the evil mutants . . . a movie that is a hybrid of Saving Private Ryan , Doom , Pitch Black , All Quiet On The Western Front , Starship Troopers and The Descent , is an abysmal attempt to make an action sci-fi hybrid that will quench the thirst of video game fans . it fails on all accounts . everybody involved just looks lost in the proceedings and the effects have that Sky Captain feel to it . it's gory and there are a lot of set pieces , but none of them actually get the adrenaline rushing . Perlmans Oirish accent is a debacle and it plods along with a really silly narrative . it's as if the makers of the film wanted the audiences to be happy with the body count . avoid at all costs
there's something in the fog . . . .	Exactly one hundred years ago , off the rocky shore of an isolated Northern California town , a ship of lepers seeking refuge was betrayed by the town's founding fathers and burned , dooming everyone aboard . Now , tonight , the ghosts of the long-dead mariners have returned from their watery graves to exact revenge . Shrouded within a supernatural fog , the ghosts trap the residents of the remote community , intent on seeking out the descendants of those who founded the town . . . and killing anyone who stands in their murderous path . . . . . well , well , another year , another pointless remake . and this even had Carpenter producing the project . if this was in the right hands ( and it was , with Carpenter ) it could have been an adequate horror film . but instead we get another family friendly horror with minimal gore and silly shock scenes with the screechy soundtrack . its all been done before , much better and really is a pointless 90 minutes of your life wasted . i found myself actually pressing my search button on the DVD remote at times because it was becoming boring . cgi again ruins a film and makes it less thrillinmg . if you want to see a good film , then see the original . it is more claustrophobic , chilling and with a much clearer narrative . avoid .
it gives you foresight . . .	Having been promised the ' trip ' of a lifetime by their Irish friend and mushroom expert Jake , a group of American teenagers arrives in Ireland , keen for adventure . Despite Jake's warnings about the ' shrooms they shouldn't eat , things start to go horribly wrong and the teenagers suffer horrific visions . The panicked friends are attacked by ghostly creatures , never sure whether they are experiencing gruesome reality or startling hallucinations . As the group is bloodily whittled down to one , it is soon clear that , whether or not these apparitions are real , the carnage they leave behind certainly is . . . so another horror film gets made with no media coverage , no ads on the television , just random posters on the sides of buses . this never forbodes well for a movie . and here is no exception . the ' fun ' really starts after one of the gang tells a story about a catholic house where the residents were abused horribly and blah blah blah . one of the girls takes a forbidden mushroom that enables her foresight , and obviously she starts to see her friends get killed one by one . none of the characters are particularly likable and this has been compared to the Blair Witch project on acid , please don't believe this hype , this is a very mundane horror with absolutely no scares whatsoever , and boring story . imagine deliverance and southern comfort without the entertainment factor and then add a little bit of the st . francesville experiment , and your almost there . the ending is a joke and ruined what was already a bad film . but at least it's got a talking cow in it .
the last time i saw cold he was in a chopper . . .	Jonathan cold returns in the sequel to the foreigner . this time cold is working for some people who are so so secret , that Jonathan does not know what rank he is . some bad people want to make a nuclear weapon and to blow the hell out of the USA . the reasons why are undisclosed and they want to die as martyrs . only cold can save the day . well it's one of the most pointless sequels since basic instinct and the first film was bad enough , Seagal outdoes himself in this movie as he is really really bad and this could go down in history as the worst Seagal film ever . but i am a big fan of his and i have seen a film that was made after this and was better , so i will let him off for this . it's just that the man looks like he cannot be bothered to entertain his fans . he doesn't even perform his own fight scenes and it is blatantly obvious this is apparent . for the star to be producer too , you would expect him to make an effort . the story is OK but poorly executed and everybody involved just looks plain bored . narrative is sluggish and editing is cheaply done . if you are a fan of seagal , no matter what bad films he makes , like me , you will always see them . but be warned , this is very very bad indeed .
shoot us both . . . .	in some sort of way , i was looking forward to this , but only for the 3D aspect of the film . i knew the film and the script and acting probably wouldn't be up to much , but come on , the 3D would be cool , wouldn't it ? how wrong i was . the film is a debacle in every sense . it tries to utilise the 3D , but it's hopeless , it doesn't work ( apart from the torches shining in your face ) and the acting and story is some of the worse i have ever seen . it's never exciting , never has any build up or any plot development , it's as if the director is saying to the cast and crew ' look , we all know that this is trash , but point your gun / pick-axe at the camera for longer than you should , and it will thrill the audience ' . it is that bad . and i was raving about this to my friends for a long time , how stupid do i feel now ? i even apologised to my date for seeing such a piece of trash . naked women running around and then using a bed frame for protection ? 3d midgets ? no burns after being blown away ? please , some of us have brain cells , and know now that 3D cannot polish a turd . a shambles from beginning to end . if you have to see it , see it in 3D , the 1st 5 or so minutes are a little impressive , but then it slides down amazingly quick into bad movie territory .
silly tale about jealousy .	Jack & Jennifer take a private cruise with friends , such as Captain Richards and his wife Maggie . Manuel is a staff member who catches Jen's eye . Thanks to chain of events sparked off between a dispute concerning Jack and Manuel , a fire breaks out and the ship blows up and sinks . Jen and Mannuel seem to be the only survivors to wash up on an island . . . but before long Jack shows lying in a rock pool . . . and here's where the tale turns nasty . . . . . lets face it , the only reason why most people ( in the UK anyway ) are going to see this is for Kelly Brook . the film has no other redeeming factors about it . the story is silly , basically about a jealous man who cannot stand to see that someone is more successful than him so throws a tantrum and accidentally sets fire to the boat . he then finds the mans wife and is smitten with her and when the husband is found safely , they start arguing and eventually the jealous man sleeps / rapes the wife and the jealousy tables are turned . as for Brooks ' character she goes off with the original jealous bloke and so the husband goes mad ala dead calm , with a voodoo twist . the locations are beautiful though and are made good use of , but unless you are an avid fan of Brook , stay well clear . as bad as everyone has said it is .
i brought cake . . . .	Tim Allen stars in another dog of a movie . this time , he plays a reformed superhero who is lured back out of retirement by Chevy Chase and a promise of 500 , 000 dollars . he has to train the quartet of troubled teens , one who is super-strong , one who is fat and can get fatter , one who can turn invisible , and one who can move things using the mind . and Courtney Cox , who literally blows in this movie . so the movie is about finding ones self and realising that although that you are different , you are a special individual . didn't Christine Aguillera sing about this already . a very unfunny movie which relies heavily on other movies such as the incredibles and the previous years sky high . Tim Allen appears to e on auto pilot for the majority of the film and has something cocky to say to every syllable that is uttered to him , ehich is really painful considering the script is so bad . Chase looks embarrassed to be involved in the movie and looks like he is just thinking about what he could spend his paycheck on ( probably looking for a new agent ) . but the worse to come out of this is Cox , who is just plain awful , and may find it difficult to continue to be the second most successful one from friends ( scream was a hit , but that was ten years ago ) and plays the Julianne Moore card ala ' Evolution by falling over every other minute for laughs . it doesn't work . all in all a plain , boring movie , which doesn't help by an unfunny script and uninvolved characters .
the Yak just Yakked ! !	Doomed by a double-crossing sorceress to spend eternity in suspended animation , China's ruthless Dragon Emperor and his 10 , 000 warriors have lain forgotten for eons , entombed in clay as a vast , silent terra cotta army . But when dashing adventurer Alex O'Connell is tricked into awakening the ruler from eternal slumber , the reckless young archaeologist must seek the help of the only people who know more than he does about taking down the undead : his parents . As the monarch roars back to life , our heroes find his quest for world domination has only intensified over the millennia . Striding the Far East with unimaginable supernatural powers , the Emperor Mummy will rouse his legion as an unstoppable , otherworldly force . . . unless the O'Connells can stop him first . . . Frasers Foray back into a-list stardom continues here , and then crashes and burns in a spectacular way . Okay the first two films in the franchise were not classics , but at the time , the film and the effects were kind of groundbreaking and the films had charm by the bucketload . this time Rick ' ricochet , ahas been pushed back in favour of his son , who unfortunately is devoid of any charm or acting skills . instead he opts for doing his best Fraser impersonation and it grates , from the very second he appears on screen . the film borrows heavily from a franchise featuring a one Dr . Jones , but really there isn't one exciting scene in the whole movie . Li is wasted in a thankless role , and heaven knows why he chose to fight fairly in the climax , when in the opening prologue he was a bit of a rogue ( maybr it was to do with the lack of facial hair . all in all the script is poor , and one feels that this film was horribly rushed for a summer release . and don't even get me started on ' thespian ' john hannah . i'll take circus over this anyday . poor .
chicks love the car . . . . . .	The Dark Knight of Gotham City confronts a dastardly duo : Two-Face and the Riddler . Formerly District Attorney Harvey Dent , Two-Face incorrectly believes Batman caused the courtroom accident which left him disfigured on one side ; he has unleashed a reign of terror on the good people of Gotham . Edward Nygma , computer-genius and former employee of millionaire Bruce Wayne , is out to get the philanthropist ; as The Riddler he perfects a device for draining information from all the brains in Gotham , including Bruce Wayne's knowledge of his other identity . Batman / Wayne is / are the love focus of Dr . Chase Meridan . Former circus acrobat Dick Grayson , his family killed by Two-Face , becomes Wayne's ward and Batman's new partner Robin the Boy Wonder . . . . holy bad film batman ! ! ! after the first two wonderful movies , Schumacher ruins the franchise with one full swoop . topic of the day , day-glo . from the 30's inspired sets of the first two , this goes for campness all the way . i can see where Schumacher is coming from , he is referencing the sixties show rather than the comic book . bad mistake . KIlmer is a bad choice for the dark knight as he just looks bored throughout and Lee-Jones and Carrey just over-act in their respective rolescostume design adds insult to the injury and again the only thing this has in common with the other two is the fact that there is no story . Kidman looks out of place in this film and has no chemistry whatsoever with KIlmer . unfairly a smash when released in 1995 , this is one of the worst comic book movies ever to grace the big screen . not caring about the fans , more of the marketing , Schumacher disgraced the franchise . avoid .
horrible . . . in an awful way	like the Texas chainsaw massacre , this is supposedly based on a true story about a group of people who kidnapped vagrants and make them work for nothing . the film has no flowing narrative , characters come and go for no apparent reason which means that the viewer is left confused . if you have seen movies such as ' people under the stairs ' and ' the Texas chainsaw massacre ' you will be familiar with the group of people who perform the deeds . they the typecast ' redneck ' all slack jawed with rotting teeth and incestuous tendencies . also what put me off this film was the unnecessary violence , which is obviously pivotal to the film , but is just thrown in at strange points . if you have , like me seen a lot films , you will recognise most of the cast . c . Thomas Howell ( who looks very , very old ) ' chubby ' from teen wolf the bloke who is shot by Vinnie Jones in sword fish . the landlady from kingpin and Michelle pffeifers sister ( she was the one who was working behind the burger stand in falling down ) . and Sean Connery's sonthere are really no redeeming factors about this movie , it is amateurish at best and the acting is woeful and to round it all off two pointless cameos from hopper and madsen . avoid .
i'm going hunting . . .	it was an interesting premise . Seagal versus zombie vampire things . but then after reading the reviews and the fact that the star is hardly in the film , the reviews justify the film . they are all trapped in a hospital , whilst Johnny Cage and the bloke from pitch black argue for nonsensical reasons outside . but of course there's a never ending supply of bad guys , who pop up every now and again to give Seagal and his bunch of hunters a reason to stop walking in slow motion and wave a sword in front of the camera . Seagal just mopes about in his long coat from his box office hit days helping people and killing the infected . it's gory o be fair , but it's just not a Seagal filmthe acting is dire and the editing is very poor too ( not as bad as Kill switch , but not far off ) . it's probably his worst film since attack force , and thats saying something . just erase this from your memory and pray he makes something average again .
i've just witnessed the apocalypse . . . . . . .	in 1998 , bruce willis made a video game called ' apocalypse ' . this is the movie version . willis reprises his role from the amiable comedy ' the whole nine yards ' as ' the tulip ' a retired hit-man , now in this sequel , he is in hiding with a blonde mullet and his wife jill , who is also a hit'woman ' who cannot ' hit ' . this is the cartoon version of power rangers . one dimensional characters , a very unfunny script , poor acting ( willis takes the razzie for his role ) , and way too much colour and bad continuity . perry just does his slapstick routine he did badly over and over in friends , henstridge is wasted ( yes , wasted ) . and it just turns out to be one shambolic mess . this falls into the category of ' ok , the first one was a sleeper , lets make a sequel to make more money . the stupid unknowing public , a la sister act 2 , waynes world 2 , and cheaper by the dozen 2 . the first one wasn't one to shout home about , but it had it's moments . this does not . i would usually give a dreadful film like this a one , but i gave this a 3 purely because they got the original cast back together . please do not waste 95 minutes of your life on this . unless your favourite film is ' the whole nine yards . i am still a big fan of willis , but this is his worst film ever . , , , , yes worse than the color of night .
any sign of mother ? . . . . .	maybe i'm missing the whole point of this movie . . . . maybe my dad should have taken me to see this in all it's 3-D magical glory . . . . . or maybe i should stop wasting my time with movies that have such low ratings ( but i am a bad movie connoisseur ) . Mike Brody is working foe Louis Gossett Jr . in the biggest sea-life centre in the world in 3-D and there are glorious mammals and fishes to behold , in 3-D . then one night , an impossibly muscled man , with an even more impossible moustache gets killed by a great white , in 3-D . to add to the layered story , Mikes brother Sean comes to stay and gets it on with Lea Thompson . also , the bloke from Holby City and Harry the Hatchet from Lock Stock turn up as a posh Brit and a cockney Brit respectively , and have a history with sharks . . . all in glorious 3 - D . but alas , i saw the the 2-D version in DVD and i expect this is where i went wrong . obviously the film was just made for the whole 3-D spectacle , so things such as plot and characters come secondary to this spectacle . the effects are laughable to be kin , but again maybe in the 3-D world , they would have been of ' star wars ' standard . for those of you who got to see the 3-D version , i am very envious of you . a really bad film to sit through , you can really tell where the 3-D bits were , and it really grates after a while . shame .
if you build it , nerds will come . . . . .	Whilst Gus is working his usual job , he sees three ' nerds ' being bullied . to make a stand , he gets two friends to play baseball against them and wins . when one of the nerds ' fathers invites them to for , a team to stand up for nerds against bullying , they for , a really bad team , where only Gus is the good player . but the prize is a new stadium to be dedicated to nerds . but Gus holds a dark secret , as he used to be a bully himself . . . . . . . now this is really scraping the barrel from Sandlers production company . usually we all know what to expect . Prattfalls , farting , old men saying random funny things , Jon Lovitz and Rob schneider . these ingredients usually work really well with audiences , but not critics , but this time i am on the critics side . this has to be one of the most lamest comedies i have seen in a long time . the three leads have no chemistry whatsoever and the worst of a very bad bunch is Jon Heder , who is proving that Napolean Dinamite could have very well been a one hit wonder . Schneider does his best with bad material , but what Dugans fatal mistake is making Schneider the straight man to Spade and Heder . we feel no pity for the nerds , hence there is no point to the story . predictable jokes , stupid characters and a below par second half , makes this one of the most disappointing films i have seen in recent memory . but at least the old man was funny .
scream if you wanna die faster . . . .	a sequel to a film that was a sequel to a totally different movie , here in the UK this called Halloween camp 2 , and my god what an awful movie this is ! ! . it's your basic slasher film from the eighties , a load of college kids go camping for the weekend with interest to drink lots of beer and have lots of sex . they first stop off at a rundown bar to use their facilities , and are told that some murders were carried out there and maybe they should turn away and go home . do they ? of course not , the film would be over , they go to camp . start getting murdered one by one in ' inventive ' ways before realising that there may be a twist somewhere along the camp path . the film involves a sub-plot involving some randy Sherriffs wife and they all think that the murderer is the Sheriff , but could it also be the bloke who looks like Cletus the slack jawed yokel , who just happened to be dumped by one of the girls on the trip . or even maybe it has something to do with something that happened a long time ago involving a fire work . whatever , the film fails on several levels , the writing is poor as is the acting and most of all the film is boring . avoid .
sex is the sewer drain of a healthy body . . . .	In Welville , at Battle Creek , eccentric rich Dr . John Harvey Kellogg runs a stylish health farm for the wealthy , an idea ahead of his time , based on extreme vegetarianism , neither sex , masturbation or even sensual stimulation , but laughing therapy and purging the ' polluted ' body , mainly by exercises , often in open air , vicious diet , his invention corn flakes , laxatives , anal yogurt cure , enemas and brutal mechanical cleansing . Eleanor Lightbody drags her sickly , incredulous husband Will along to the therapy ; the couple is almost immediately separated and getting horny for more available members of the opposite sex . Kelloggs stubbornly wilful adopted son ( among over 30 kids ) George is a filthy embarrassment , paid off just to stay away . Charles Ossining panics when arriving in Battle Creek he finds his aunt's fortune made him partner in the empty shell - health food company Per-fo , not the planned corn-flakes factory ; however with a former Welville-employee and George's name they hope to get rich from their own cornflakes brand . When an electric therapy goes fatally wrong and several other patients die , Will's incredulous reluctance turns to panic . . . this film tries hard to be a comedy , but ends up a smutty mess in the vain of the carry on films ( and not the good ones either ) . almost everyone is totally mis-cast , and Hopkins plays the second most hammiest doctor of his career . the film reminded me of other ' sex farces ' such as exit to eden , in the sense that that movie didn't raise a smile either . the main cast look thoroughly embarrassed to be part of the film , and the narrative just doesn't make sense , it's more of an excuse to see people fart and to see fat people run around naked . a really bad film in all senses , Mr . Parker , what were you thinking ? ?
fire in the hole . . . .	Bob Munro is stressed , feeling threatened of losing his job and his lifestyle , since his abusive boss has just hired Stanford geek Laird to work in their soda's company . Bob has promised his wife , his teenage daughter and his young son to spend vacation in Hawaii , but Todd demands him to prepare a presentation and attend a business meeting with the owners of a family company in a merging operation scheduled in the same period . Bob hides the truth to his family , rents a recreational vehicle and tries to convince his dysfunctional family that a road trip to the Colorado Rocky Mountains would be good to bring old values back to their family . After many incidents and while in the trailers parking area , Bob is helped by the bizarre but friendly Gornicke family . They escape from the Gornickes and initiate a journey of difficulties and leaning , retrieving their forgotten family bonds . . . . . after being so impressive in movies such as Insomnia and One Hour Photo , Williams is back in this formula rubbish by once good director Sonnenfeld . barely raising a smile throughout the whole movie , Williams looks embarrassed to be in this movie and he has good reason to be . the film is filled with predictable fart jokes , the disgruntled family plot which is always the same with these kind of comedies and of course , the sub-plot involving Jeff Daniels and his family . on a positive side , the scenery is beautiful , but it's just so lazily made and looks like the director and the star just cannot be bothered to deliver the goods any more . things get even worse when the token speech at the end kicks in and all turns out good for the family . this would have gotten a one if it wasn't for Williams ' portrayal of a ' Gangsta ' halfway through the movie . for me RV stalled right at the beginning .
there's no need to freak out . . . . .	no the film is not about the city , it's the name of Jessica Biels character , in this supposed ' drugs are bad ' morale movie . Chris Evans meets Jason Statham and his hair on the way to try and win his girlfriend back . after doing a lines of angel dust , Statham , his hair and Evans go to her leaving party so Evans can try and win her back . but he spends the majority of the movie in a bathroom with Statham and his hair , cocaine and a hell of a lot of paranoia . . . . . firstly , it's hard to feel sympathy for someone who almost snorts three grams of coke during the second act of the film , secondly , if you were London , would you even consider taking back Evans ' character if he's whacked up on goofballs ( fair enough , during the flashback scenes Alba does take drugs a little , but in the present she looks like she has cleaned up her act ) . and thirdly , why has Jason Statham got hair ? is this because he wants to be taken seriously ? it's hard to show empathy for such a brat like Evans , actually all the characters are very unlikeable and the film trys to be a cross between the boost and the rules of attraction ( some on else who reviewed this film compared this to the rules of attraction , don't be fooled ) . all in all the acting may be good for the actors involved , but the whole film turns out to be a very pretentious mess , with it's stupid editing , controversial language and silly message . ' drugs make you paranoid ' . yes and films like this make you depressed .
the selfish gene . . .	A series of deaths have started occurring in New York ; Some are being found mutilated while others have an equation wÎ " z = Cov ( w , z ) = Ã ? wzVz carved onto their skin . As police investigate they discover each victim was forced to choose between sacrificing their own life or a loved ones ' life . Before long it becomes clear that this perpetrator has suffered just such a similar fate . . . so now is coping by seeking a way of solving this philosophical enigma , can Captain Maclean and his officers such as Eddie Argo and his new partner Helen Westcott stop this suspect , because he / she won't not until he / she gets to the end of this equation . . . waz , or how rotten lighting can make a film look , has to be one of the most painful viewing experiences i have ever endured . the cast are given hardly anything to do , apart from look moody and act like they don't give a care in the world , and i don't know if was just me , but the simple plot was spiralled way out of control , and turned into a mish mash of plot holes and red herrings . Skarsgard sounds like he is doing his best Batman impersonation and George just hangs around the film looking grumpy . the only person in my opinion to come out of this with any dignity is Ashley waters , because he actually looks like hes making an effort . a ' waz'te of time . but that's my opinion . . .
the art of what ? . . .	When Agent Neil Shaw comes out of hiding to vindicate his former mentor's murder , he winds up on the trail of betrayal and lethal corruption . Under the charge of his friend and a senatorial candidate , his mission is to set things straight . But when more people turn up dead , Shaw realises that he's been set up as bait . . . another dud from snipes , this time hoping to attract more of a crowd by making a sequel to a film that wasn't really good or that successful in the first place . the acting is dull , as are the action sequences , and the whole thing seems a little too much soap opera for me . there's little else to say about it , but i am a fan of Snipes and i have been duped by his film before and no doubt will be again . whats next Wesley , passenger 58 ? Murder at 1601 ? come on mate you can do better than this .
SPARTANS ! ! ! ! ! my beard is the hairiest of all . . . . . . . . . .	When the ambitious King Xerxes of Persia invades Greece with his huge army to extend his vast slave empire , the brave Ling Leonidas brings his personal body guard army composed of three hundred warriors to defend the passage of Thermopylae , the only way by land to reach Greece . Using courage and the great battle skill of his men , he defends Thermopylae until a treacherous Greek citizen tells King Xerxes a secret goat passage leading to the back of Leonidas's army . Meanwhile , his wife Queen Gorgo of Sparta tries to convince the council to send the Spartan army to fight against the Persians . . . . this is the first real disappoint meant of the year . with the excellence of Miller ( sin city ) and Snyder ( dawn of the dead 2004 ) , this should have been an entertaining sword and sandals epic that could have turned that sub-genre on it's head for being different to all the other movies like this released this decade . what we get is a very camp , village people alike dreary movie , that is just a little less entertaining than Troy . but it's not to say that the visuals are not there . they are impressive and add a little dimension to the film . it's just that the film doesn't have the atmosphere or heart of the graphic novel , and after a while even the battles start to annoy the viewer . the acting is abysmal , we are in the ' shout very loud ' territory . and with Gerard Butler looking more like Geoff Capes with a tan , rather than a King of Kings , he cannot be taken seriously , thus the whole intention of the film cannot be taken seriously . a real disappointment .
love will get you killed . . . .	another rapper , another vanity project . this time it's 50 cent ( or 28 pence if you're English ) who decides the world should see his rise from rags to riches . OK , his mom was a drug dealer who was killed and he decided to carry on the family tradition . this film is one cliché after another . ripping off ( better ) film s such as new jack city , boyz n the hood and straight out of Brooklyn , 28 pence finds solace in prison , where he meets Terence Howard ( the only reason why this film didn't get one star ) and decides to be a rapper . no one wants to know so he goes back to a life of crime and does not forget to use a lot of profane language . he then gets shot several times , recovers and all his dreams come true . the end . the moral of this story is , if you want to make a movie of your life , make sure your life is a lot more interesting and not yawn some . i found your film offensive to my eyes and ears ( the narration was cringe worthy at best ) . and bill duke , does the worst Marlon Brando impression as don corleone since Marlon Brando did it again in the freshman . please avoid .
Wahlberg does 2-dimensional , one dimensionally . . . . . .	There is on line in the movie ' everyone is gonna get a medal for this ' , just after one of the movies more satisfying set pieces . Oh sweet irony . based on the very popular game of the same name , this features Marky Mark , playing uber - moody , very badly . he's a man on a mission , that old niggling mission where he's after the killer of his wife , and guess what ? it all leads to a higher establishment that Payne had no idea were involved . it starts off promising . The visuals and the mood of the film fit the game's mood perfectly , but then the script kicks in and it becomes mundane , plodding along like a really old dog . featuring some where are they now ? actors , such as Chris O'Donnell and Beau Bridges , it never gets going , it never shows any flair , even though Moore supposedly listened to the fans of the game and tried to homage it as much as possible . another thing is that ' Bullet Time ' is nine years old now , and it doesn't impress as much as it used too , and the flying ' angels ' reminded me more of the demons in ' Ghost ' than something induced by drugs . at the 70 minute mark , it was really difficult not to get up and walk out , but i thought to myself , maybe , this will improve in the final third . how wrong was I . with all it's Sin-City lite backdrops and moody as hell , the performances , story and script let the whole thing down . but also , for a PG-13 movie , it really does push it almost too far , as it's definitely not for youngsters . but still Thats Fox trying to get as much Box-Office before word gets round that this movie stinks . the next line is predictable , but overall more Max Pain than Max Payne . for hardcore video game-turned into movies aficionados .
i had a squirrel named numb nuts . . . . .	Ben Archer is not happy . His mother , Sandy , has just met a man , and it looks like things are pretty serious . Driven by a fear of abandonment , Ben tries anything and everything to ruin the " love bubble " which surrounds his mom . However , after Ben and Jack's experiences in the Indian Guides , the two become much closer . . Chevy Chase takes a Disney comedy under his usually funny wing , with very un-funny results . a predictable , shallow comedy about putting family first , with a little sub-plot involving the Mafia trying to kill Chase . the inevitable happens , at first Ben hates Jack , and trys to do everything to get him out of his moms life , but once he learns that Jacks ' life is in danger , he decides to help him . plus at the sugary sweet ending , Ben does us all a favour and gives a re-cap of whats ' happening with all the characters lives . outrageously politically correct , the film makes Chase look embarrassed and un funny . a really bad comedy .
if i turn , shoot me . . . . . hey , shoot me anyway ! ! !	Two packs of werewolves , divided by principles are signalled by the moon of the coming of an ancient prophecy . A small boy named Timothy approaches his 13th birthday , unaware this marks the time of his transformation . Timothy has been raised by his mother Rachel , his grandmother , his Uncle Jonas , his cousin Katherine and her boyfriend , Adam . Rachel and her son Timothy have been unaware that the rest of the family are good werewolves that have guarded Timothy since birth . They know that Timothy is a half blood , and will control the destiny of the family . But they also know that Timothy's power will put him in danger , for there are other werewolves that revel and embrace their blood-lust that are prepared to kill to preserve their way of life . These werewolves , led by Varek , Zo and Sonya , are hell bent on finding Timothy . . . their kin . . . families at war are so mean , aren't they ? when they are mot hellbent on shooting their Grandmothers , they are having Mexican standoffs left , right an centre . Like films before , Blod and chocolate and the Underworld movies , the Lycanthrope movie is still not a very good genre to have . even ' Cursed was dire . the make up effects are not very impressive , even though Stan Winston has Been involved , i was left thinking of teen wolf come the final third . the plot is pointless , and the soundtrack is dire , but why so many plot holes and why cut off from potential gore one minute , yet see a man stick a knife in his eye the nest ? this is why the film is so frustrating . Rhona Mitra just skulks about during the entire movie and the rest of the cast look like they have rode in from the set of ' Wild Hogs ' . if you like your movies pointless and predictable , then this is for you , if you are expecting an improvement on the werewolf pic ' look else where .
let off some steam why don't you ! ! !	A man in a suit at a Manhattan firm leaves work on Friday ; he looks unhappy . He stops at a fortune teller's for a Tarot reading : " You are not where you belong , " she tells him . That evening he quits his marriage and walks the streets of New York , passing from a classy bar to a gentleman's club , then to a high-class bordello , a mugging , a pawnshop , and a diner where someone does listen . He shares his insights with her and later with others . Violence , disappointment , and musings entwine as Edmond loses his moorings while believing he's found them . Where does he belong ? so from one random tarot card reading , a supposedly normal man decides to change hi life in an instant ? i don't buy that , that's why i didn't really enjoy this film . i usually love Mamet , but the dialogue here is very sluggish , even though Macy puts in a goo performance . once he meets fat Tony from the Simpsons , he decides that he wants fulfilment from prostitutes , the only thing is , he doesn't agree with the prices and gets nothing . so he decides to go all D-Fens and start to believe that the whole world does not understand him . and this is where the film starts to falter , Edmond becomes more and more unbelievable as the film goes on , and the whole thing starts to go a little Twin Peaks . by the end of the film , i was past caring about Edmond , as he was an unlikeable person from the start . a strange film , just very boring .
i saw a trucker , half a trucker ! ! ! !	reeker is another in a long line of movies , featuring a group of college kids against a mysterious being / monster / murderer . although i am a huge fan of this genre , and have been since the advent of Halloween , i feel that this film tries to be too clever for it's own good . after stealing a number of ecstasy tablets , Trip decides to take a ride with four other people . after something mysterious happens , they venture to a desolate motel , where they encounter several strange going ons , a horrible smell and of course , Micheal ironside in search of his missing wife . soon after , they are being killed one by one by a presence among them , but who is doing it , and why do they smell ? ? if you have seen the great dead end , you will feel cheated after seeing this , because the film runs along the same lines as this . the ending to the movie is great , and after seeing the flashbacks of the previous events , it makes you smile at how smart the film was . it's just a shame that it was such an ordeal to get there . a truly dreadful screeching soundtrack that would make the makers of ' scream ' cringe , poor make up effects , and no real genuine chills . but kudos to the makers for keeping the creature covered up until near the end . ironically , the end credits blast people who would use the word ' reeks ' in their reviews . how pre-emptive . reeks ? this stinks . if the rest of the film was as good as the ending , it would have been a cult classic , instead , we get a second rate horror , which will be forgotten very soon .
i'd be sleeping with one eye open . . .	bride wars is a disaster . not a disaster in epic or date movie aspects , but i was expecting so much more from the two leads , who can really put in a good performance when they want to . the premise sounds enjoyable enough . best friends since childhood , the two characters fall out when they cannot have their dream wedding date , so they plot against each other to get the date they want with ' hilarious ' consequences . it's been done before , much better than this , and the out come is as predictable as the gags . blue hair , blood orange skin , and a dance off are among the ' fiendish ' tricks that they play on one another . it's that simple , it should have been so simple to execute , it should have been a bright and breezy fun date movie , but it's not . it's filled with pretentious characters , most of whom are one dimensional and could have been plucked from any recent ' rom-com ' . Hudson and Hathaway should erase this from their C . V's , especially Hudson , who is in danger of becoming a victim of her own role choices . by reading this , your probably wondering , why not one star ? simply because , Hathaway is a good dancer , end of . see this , and then find another date , because this has the potential from putting you off getting married for life .
Comissioner Gordon , will you do an Exorcism ?	Casey Beldon is plagued by merciless dreams , visions of strange looking dogs , and an evil child with bright blue eyes . After being hit with a mirror by her neighbour's son , Casey's eyes begin to change colour and she learns she had a twin brother who died in the womb . Casey begins to suspect that the spirit haunting her is the soul of her dead twin , being possessed by a dybbuk , wanting to be born so it can transfer to the world of the living . Casey meets a woman named Sofi , who is revealed to be her grandmother . Sofi explains that she had a twin brother who was killed in Nazi experiments in Auschwitz when they were both just children . The boy was brought back to life by a dybbuk who intended to use his body as a portal into the world of the living . Sofi killed her twin to stop the dybbuk , and now it haunts her family for revenge . Sofi refers Casey to Rabbi Sendak , who can perform a Jewish exorcism to remove the dybbuk . The exorcism is performed , but things go awry as the dybbuk tries to stop Rabbi Sendak from completing the ritual . . . first off , it's a great idea , a girl being haunted by her unborn brother who can miraculously appear as a seven year old , as and when . it's a good premise , with a half decent cast , and some pretty nifty ' jump ' scares , but then you start to realise how much they have stole from the exorcist , and even 1998's ' fallen ' . the main points of these two movies being ' celebrated / ripped off ' are the old guy who decides to chase Sofi whilst doing the crab , and secondly , the aspect of the demon going from body to body is straight from fallen . Oldman just looks like he is waiting for his paycheck , but still exceeds any body else who appears in this movie . the scares become tired , and the ending just leaves it open for a straight to DVD sequel . another horror film aimed at the pg-13 audience , just to earn that little bit extra cash . unborn ? , more stillborn . . .
disappointing . .	In a dangerous neighbourhood in New York City , Kat and her brutal smalltime criminal boyfriend Big Al sell pistols and revolvers on the streets and deal stolen goods . Kat is addicted in having sex with Al and dreams on moving to the beach and start a new life . When the jealous and abusive Al beats her , the social assistant Liz , Kat's bisexual friend Vic and her acquaintance Reilly that has a crush on her advise Kat to leave Al . However , Al threatens to destroy her face if she dares to leave him . The smart Kat uses her power of beautiful and sexy woman to manipulate her friends and get rid of Al . fair enough Jovovich delivers one of her best performances in this movie , but it's been done several times before and better . who ever thought of casting Macfayden as Big Al must have had a senior moment , because all i could keep thinking about was his weedy characters from the Saw movies and Equilibrium . breaking the fourth wall is a nice touch , but only when the character has something interesting to say , which in this case , they do not . heavily influenced by Oldmans Nil by mouth , and other films with a rashomon style narrative , the film fails because of it's typecast characters and predictable storytelling . a real waste of a good premise
can i see your teeth . . . .	Rayne is the half-human half-vampire Dhampir and the lead attraction in a carnival's freak-show in Romania . When she escapes , she meets a fortuneteller that tells that her mother was raped by the king of the vampires Kagan and she decides to destroy her father . In her journey for revenge , she meets Vladimir and Sebastian , the leaders of the fortress of vampire hunters Brimstone , and she joins their society . She seeks for powerful talismans to defeat Kagan , while the skilled warriors Vladimir and Sebastian train her to face the forces of Kagan and her human side falls in love with Sebastian . . Another Uwe Boll that is absolute trash with terrible dialogue and terrible acting , but one cannot help but watch the damn thing . Loken was more emotional in terminator 3 than she is in this and Madsen tries hard , but his hair distracts the audience . as for the rest of the cast , Kingsley has gone beyond cheese and ham factor to play probably his worst role to date , and as for Meatloaf , well he's camper than a row of tents in this . But the special guest star Billy Zane is absolutely having a ball in his cameo , knowing what a piece of rubbish he's in . it's very bloody and gory too , in particular one scene , and there is a silly sex scene that makes showgirls look convincing . but it's fun to watch , if you like being a sadist .
this case is closed	When the coach of the France soccer team is killed by a poisoned dart in the stadium in the end of a game , and his expensive and huge ring with the diamond Pink Panther disappears , the ambitious Chief Insp . Dreyfus assigns the worst police inspector Jacques Clouseau to the case . His intention is to give a diversion to the press , while he uses his best men to chase the killer and thief . He assigns Gendarme Gilbert Ponton to work with Closeau and inform each step of the investigation . When Clouseau is nominated with honour to the highest prize in France , Dreyfus decides to humiliate Clouseau and take him out of the case . However Clouseau has already solved the mystery . . . . . if you have seen the original pink panther series , with that genius that is Peter Sellers , you will realise that in this Martin is no Genius . there was a glimmer of hope at the credits sequence because it showed us that the screenplay had some assistance from Martin , so i thought that this might have a bit of the humour from the 1999 classic ' Bowfinger ' . how wrong was i . the plot is silly , the laughs are childish , and Martin has the worst French accent ever committed to celluloid . the rest of the cast including Kline and Reno , look very embarrassed to be part of the film . a real let down , i did think that this could raise a few laughs , because of Martin but no , it really is as bad as everybody says .
you have a chance to die for freedom ! !	fielding Marshall is a consumer products tester who is fed up with his mundane life . he has only spent three days in college and his parents are pressurising him to become a surgeon . he meets Nancy who is an activist of sorts and immediately falls in love with her . they see each other for a while , thanks to Fielding's blatant lies to impress Nancy . they break up and fielding decides to move to South America to ' help ' with the revolution . what he finds out is that he will not be allowed to go back home until the revolution has been won and a new president is in command . fielding ends up as the new president and heads back to the states to try and get some funds for his ailing country . woody Allen is a genius . the man can make some hysterical points and views about life and a lot of them can hit home to some people . this film is no different . Allen does again have some great lines , but after a while they ' grate ' . the film is very un P . C and it finds it's targets with religion the government and pointless movements that guerrillas have made in the past . there are also some digs at Vietnam too . but the film tends to go off on a tangent and sometimes relies too heavily on sight gags that are not funny at all . i have also read that a lot of the movie was improvisation , and on hindsight , it shows . this has to be by far the worse woody Allen film i have seen ( in my opinion ) and the story can sometimes become very confusing . if you are a fan of Allen , this will be deemed as a disappointment , and for people who are new to Allen , you will wonder what all the fuss is about him and stay away from his classics such as Manhatten , Hannah and her sisters and most recently Match Point .
hmmmmmmmm	now i knew when i bought ( yes , bought ) this movie that it was going to be bad . not this bad though , maybe Hudson hawk bad , but no where near this bad . i cannot begin to believe that this was once a contender for a summer blockbuster , this has a straight to DVD quality about it from the very upstart . what is it with peter hyams and bad cgi ? the relic and end of days were bad enough , but this ? the scene when they first encounter the dinosaur reminded me of the Disney ads they use to show in the early nineties . . . but with less plot . you cannot blame the actors though . how were they supposed to know that money was to run out before the end of production ? burns and Mcormack do the best with what can only be described as a very poor script . in the hands of somebody like cronengberg or Emmerich , this could have been pleasant . but this is unfortunately on e bad car crash of a movie . i urge everyone to see this and have a national sound of thunder ridicule day . how about October 25th ? around midday everybody go to a store buy this movie and just smash the hell out of it ! ! maybe it will change our future ! ! maybe a tree will grow in an obscure place ! ! maybe reptiles will merge with apes and become hostile toward humans ! ! and just maybe we will find a very camp Ben Kingsley drowned in a puddle of his own bad acting . . . . with copies of species scattered around him ! this will be a cult movie in years to come , and will be appreciated by some Bradbury loving freaks who will claim this movie to be some kind of bible about our potential future . which just disturbs me .
emotion is irrelevant . . . .	An American village is visited by some unknown life form which leaves the women of the village pregnant . Nine months later , the babies are born , and they all look normal ( apart from Jerry Springer wigs and an anaemic look about them ) , but it doesn't take the " parents " long to realise that the kids are not human or humane . . . . . with a film with credentials as good as these . . starring Superman , Luke Skywalker , Crocodile Dundees wife , Fat Actress playing a scientist and , a comedy paranoid drunk janitor . this should have been a real funny film to watch ( knowing how bad it was , i thought it would be good for comedic value ) , but it has to be THE worst John Carpenter film ever made ( the director even makes a cameo appearance in the first act . the big problem with this film is the children . they are the most annoying thing ever committed to screen , and rather than have them hide out at a barn and bow to their every command , you just cannot help but want to slap them . so the film never really becomes thrilling or scary enough to be entertaining ( the old screech and you will jump noise , is used here several times ) , and in the end it feels just a like a made for TV movie . the script is poor , plot holes are gaping and the special effects are not very special . the cast are not bad in their roles , they just look bored and with the ' where did my career go wrong ' expression throughout . a really boring ( if short ) experience .
wait in the car . . .	Wilford Butler returns home on Christmas Eve and his house had been turned into a mental institution for the criminally insane . But the day of his return , he is set on fire and dies . The towns people believe his death was an accident , and the institution-house is later closed down . Wilford leaves the house to his grandson Jeffrey . A few years later , Jeffrey finally decides to sell this grandfather's house , but the towns people including the Mayor have mixed feelings on keeping people away from the house , especially when a serial killer escapes from another institution and finds refuge there . The killer makes frightening phone calls and kills anyone coming near the house . But what does the killer have in common with what happened to Wilford Butler years before ? . . . probably made on the whim of the success of ' black Christmas ' , this essentially has all the ingredients of that movie , killer in the house making menacing phone calls , but without any of the charm wit and most importantly in horror suspense . there isn't really anything good to say about this movie , but maybe thats because the DVD i rented had a bad picture and bad sound , but that didn't stop me from following the story . it tries to be clever by having a narrative and a back story , but these to are ill fitting in this movie and do not make the film any better . it really is painful to sit through and you find yourself waiting for the end to arrive , but it happens about an hour too late . try to avoid this movie , it has no reedeming factors or entertainment value .
very unbritish ' comedy '	from the point of this film , Winston Churchill was an American GI who saved england from Hitler overtaking it , and while all this was happening , fell in love with queen Elizabeth and had a child together . well there isn't much to say about the story of this film as it makes no sense whatsoever . are we supposed to find this kind of story funny ? i am not a patriot at all and i like satire , but the way the film is executed , the funny bone seems to be missing . slater is fine in his role and does really well . it's just that such a talented group of British comedians and thespians signed on to do something so mundane . and the casting of neve Campbell as Elizabeth has to be the worst ever casting i have ever seen . maybe knightley or winslet were busy . narrative is sluggish and the dialogue is more suited to people who think that when the British use profanity , it is hilarious . on it's initial test screening , the film was blasted for being unfunny , so they re-cut it . i would have hated to see the first version . one to avoid , unfortunately .
we skip Christmas !	the Kranks are a family whose daughter leaves for the peace core , so with no daughter , they decide not to celebrate Christmas , in fact to skip it and not even send greeting cards and to go on a cruise . this irks the neighbourhood who try their utmost to get them into the festivities . hilarity does not ensue . . . . . with a great premise and some very good actors , this film falls flat on it's face . Curtis and Allen look completely bored in their roles and put no effort into making the comedy work . so the film is relying on slapstick to gain laughs . but even this isn't funny , and the whole film wreaks of the predictable . but even for a Christmas film this sends out the wrong message . one of the worst Christmas films ever to be made , and it had so much promise . jingle all the way is a classic compared to this drivel .
a below par effort from Cannon and Bronson . . .	Wifes and children of the Mormon Orville Beecham become victims of a massacre in his own house . The police believes the crime had a religious motive . Orville doesn't give any comment on the case , is taken into protective custody . Journalist Smith persuades him to help him in the investigation , and finds out about economic motives for the murder . most people know that when a cannon film was released in the eighties , and especially starring Dudikoff , Norris , or Bronson , you were going to be treated to some b-movie hokum , that was at least going to be fun . but this isn't . and has to be the worst of the Bronson Cannon collaborations that i have seen . Bronson just phones in his part , wearing the best wardrobe he can find from British home stores and looks as bored as the viewer . the story is not appealing and just doesn't sit right with this kind of film , and really with films like this , you should be able to sit back and laugh at the hokum , but the only thing i found funny was the end , where Bronson trips up the bloke running away from him ( we used to do that at school ) and the blood free suicide . for Bronson completists only , but be prepared to be disappointed .
an insult to the book	i had read the reviews , saw the backlash at Cannes and was even disappointed a little by the trailer . i still gave it a go , boy is this the most disappointing movie so far this year . the editing is hideous and so is the cinematography . in some scenes the film looks unbelievably cheap , such as the scene where langdon and neuveu are in the park . the set from hell ! ! Ron Howard makes the the film look like a rush job and has made the ultimate mistake when making a thriller , not making it thrilling . the scenes with langdon and neuveu are supposed to be the pivotal moments in the film , but they were just overlong and boring . this was by no means tatous fault . she is very good as neuveu and has charisma . the main problem is hanks , who is woefully miscast in this film , and to watch it , he probably knows it . when the ' amazing ' Revelations come to pass , hanks looks like he couldn't care less . plus there is zero chemistry between the two leads . but this may be due to akiva goldsmans screenplayHoward also misses out huge chunks from the book , which make the movie virtually unwatchable for veterans of the novel . if you have read the novel , you will know what i am on about . when i read the book i thought that Howard would have no problems turning this into a movie and not change the book OR miss out plot . also , some of the dialogue is woeful and laugh out loud . for example when the two leads are being chased by a bad guy , hanks brings out the funniest line in a movie ever whilst keeping a straight face " we gotta find a library fast ! ! " there are some plus points , very few , but some . Paul bettany is amazing as silas and really captures the true character of the book . he is an evil carnation , yet working for the good . he is a pawn in a huge game of chess . he does deserve recognition for this role and Howard does use him to good use . Ian mckellen is also quite good but did not add the gravitas to the film that i was expecting such a worthy actor to do . but again he does have some funny ( intentional ) lines . jean reno is underused , but after a while , you notice he is just reprising his role from 1998's Godzilla . i am sorry to say that this was a waste of time from the very start . and as i have said in some of the forums , this will be one of the biggest films of the year , if not in the top two . it saddens me now to think that this will become a reality . but i won't tell people to not see this . i will ask you to see this and just see what a mess Hollywood can make of some thing so simple .
average . . .	When bad boy John inherits an isolated house in an island , he invites his brother and student of veterinary Matt and his girlfriend Nikki together with their friends Sara and Noah to fly with him in his hydroplane and spend a couple of days having good time in the place . Later Sara is attacked by a dog and they recall that in the other side of the island there was a facility for training dogs that had been shutdown to avoid a rabies outbreak . While walking through the woods , they find a man called Luke , who sailed with his girlfriend Jenny to the island , covered of blood and Luke is killed by a pack of hounds . The group runs to the house and the animals put the place under siege , and they try to find a means of escape . When the survivors reach the compound , they disclose that the dogs have been genetically redesigned to become a breed of killers . . . a mix of assault on precinct thirteen and obviously cujo , the breed is neither exciting or thrilling , rather a 90 minute film about reminding you of when you where chased by that dog when you where a teenager . regardless of whether Cravens name is on the credits , the film hasn't really got anything going for it , apart from the paint by numbers frights and typical teenagers , if you guess who is going to get killed at the beginning , then you are probably right , as this is how predictable the film is . not scary , thrilling or even unintentionally funny . it's what you could class as ' wuff '
rectal bleeding . . . . .	the boys are back again in this sequel which is four years after the first instalment . the first was hilarious , really bought the crowd together in the theatre and was a movie event . this movie isn't , it feels like it's just an excuse for Knoxville to get some credibility after the dukes of hazzard . the same mangled faces are all here and they do appear to be having a riot whilst making this , but at sometimes , i feel they were really thinking more about their wallets rather than the audience . the pranks are more dangerous and more grosser , but this doesn't mean funnier , their are a few laugh out loud moments , but not to justify a ninety minute feature . jackass has had it's day , and this clearly shows it's been fully milked ( just like the horse )
how long have you been seventeen ? . . . .	Isabella Swan moves to gloomy Forks to live with her father . As she starts her junior year in high school she becomes fascinated by Edward Cullen who holds a dark secret which is only known by his family . Edward falls in love with Bella as well but knows the further they progress in their relationship the more he is putting Bella and those close to her at risk . Edward warns Bella that she should leave him but she refuses to listen and to understand why he is saying this . Bella learns his secret . He is a vampire , however she is not afraid of his blood-thirsty needs and the fact he could kill her at any moment . Bella is afraid of losing him , the love of her life . The thrill begins when a new vampire finds it a challenge to hunt Bella down for her irresistible blood . The game is on and James will not stop until she is killed . after the amazing box office weekend this film had , i had to see it , to see what all the fuss was about . i was sorely disappointed with every aspect of the film , apart from the performance of Bella , the really only saving grace of this film , her performance alone saves this dire film from utter forgetfulness . it seemed to me as a cross between the lost boys and the covenant , and it even though the latter film was awful , it had it's cheesy but enjoyable moments . this just plods along with people looking glum , and then jumping around a forest showing off , before looking glum again . the Vampires wear far too much make up and look so camp , it's hard to take this film seriously . maybe it's because i have not read the source material , or maybe it's because it's had so much publicity . regardless , it's a boring movie .
who am i trying to impress , senator ? ? ?	Braddock , a man who was a POW in Vietnam , who just recently came back , is asked by an American delegation to go to Vietnam to see if there are any POW's there . When he arrives the General in charge makes some disparaging remarks to Braddock and they accuse him of crimes against them . Braddock later goes to the General and demands to know where the POW's are and after telling Braddock he tries to kill him but Braddock kills him . Later he is asked to leave , he then goes to Thailand to see a friend and to try and get those men out . But he is being pursued by a man who tortured him when he was a prisoner . . . . i have seen a lot of chuck Norris movies , and unfortunately , this is the most boring and stupidest one i have ever seen . Chuck still has his facial motivation down to a tee ( one facial pose , throughout ) , but Norris fans will be sorely disappointed with the lack of action going on . yes , at the beginning we can relate to Braddock , because all he does is sit there with his denim shirt un-buttoned , drinking beer and watching TV . but when an episode of ' spiderman and his amazing friends ' causes him to have a flashback , he does what any bearded drunk would do and stands up for his country . there really is not much left to say , but Norris does jump out of the water and shoot some villains who are laughing , thinking he is dead . bad movie .
give me the chalk . .	Anton continues to fight the forces of Darkness while simultaneously attempting to find and save his son from the clutches of those same forces . But when Dark Others start mysteriously being killed , and Anton is framed for their murders , he must put that goal on hold and try to escape the Day Watch that is looking for his blood . the beginning part of this supposed trilogy was an innovative very well thought out ahead of its time one off movie . so was the matrix . the sequel is turgid below par , and uninvolved with some pretty spectacular set pieces , but is very overlong and can become scenes of people talking a load of rubbish . just like the matrix reloaded . i was really looking forward to this movie having really enjoyed nightwatch , but there were too many characters and too much going on for be to become involved with any of them . but as the first one , the special effects are very good and highly original , a lot to give when the film surrounds a piece of chalk . .
something is out there waiting . . . .	hooray , another month another marvel adaptation . having never really come across man-thing before , i didn't know what to expect . i've seen a couple of other Leonard films ( lawnmower man and Virtuosity ) and quite liked them , and i thought the trailer rocked , so why not give it a go ? . . how wrong was i . first off the film is basically a rip off of Predator , but with an environmental message . some bad people are doing even worse things in a Swamp , and murder some man who becomes part of the swamp and plans revenge on all who stand in his way , and he has a sidekick in the woods , who happens to be from Rome and who is bald blah blah blah blah . . . never before i have i wanted to turn a comic book adaptation off so much in my life , and believe me , i sat through Salingers captain America . there is really no story to talk of , sub-plots spring up from the middle of nowhere and it becomes more and more of an ordeal the longer you sit through . and the revelation of the man thing at the end is really trhe straw that breaks the camels back . it doesn't do anything really apart from stand there and rip off the Predator , and pump toxic waste through people . oooooooooooo ! ! ! ! ! ! sorry , this film is a waste of time and should have been left alone . avoid .
whats your social security number ?	Aubrey Fleming is a regular high school student with friends and family . One night , she unexpectedly disappears . Two weeks later she is found unconscious in the middle of the woods . When spoken to , her loved ones realise she has forgotten her identity and the personality living in her body is Dakota Moss , a character that Aubrey created in one of her stories for an English assignment . Dakota denies ever being Aubrey knowing that they look identical . Now , Dakota must try to unravel the mystery of how her and Aubrey co-exist and find out who abducted Aubrey that night . Lohan tries her best in a serious role , but ends up starring in one of them movies that went straight to video in the nineties and would rent it out if nothing else was available . the plot and narration is silly to say the least and there are some wholly unconvincing performances from those concerned . and the fact that there is a little gore-nography thrown in for good measure just adds insult to the movie . worth watching if you like Lohan ( but who does now ) but a wasted effort from the once promising star ,
deception are poisonous , like margarine . . .	Tripp is a thirty-five years old bachelor man that still lives with his parents , Al and Sue . Al and Sue hire the manipulative interventionist Paula to play Tripp's girlfriend and seduce him , convincing Tripp to move out of their home . Paula and Tripp fall for each other , but Tripp's best friends Ace and Demo accidentally find the truth about Paula and Demo discloses to Tripp , spoiling the plan and their relationship . When Tripp and Paula miss each other , their friends plot a scheme trying to arrange an encounter to fix the situation . . . when a hit TV show gets cancelled or finishes , it is the law that the star of the show will get a movie released within two years . Parker decides to star in this risible comedy , with the usually reliable McConaughy , and what we get is a patchy unfunny mess , that seems at least ten years out of date . the story outline is good enough , it's just that these sort of movies were ten a penny in the early nineties , and were executed a lot better , and starred a better array of stars . the ' funny ' scenes involve Tripp getting bitten by a banquet of animals , a naked old man , and attempting to resuscitate a bird . there is no chemistry between the leads , the narration is poor , and predictably , you can see the ending coming a mile off . do yourself a favour , rent sleepless in Seattle instead . poor
we're being kept here to die . . . .	While on vacation in a resort in Mexico , Americans Jeff , his girlfriend Amy , her best friend Stacy and her boyfriend Eric befriend German Mathias in the swimming pool . Mathias invites the group to visit the ruins of a Mayan temple with his Greek friend Dimitri in an archaeological field where his brother Henrich and his girlfriend are camped eighteen kilometres far from the resort . They hire an old taxi and when they reach the spot , they are surrounded by Mayan villagers armed of revolver , rifle and bow-and-arrow that kill Dimitri and do not allow the group to leave the place . They climb a construction covered of creepers with red flowers , and remain under siege of the locals . When they hear a cell phone in the bottom of a well , Mathias decides to seek the apparatus using a rope that breaks and he has a serious accident breaking his back . Amy and Stacy go to the bottom of the mine to rescue Mathias and they find many corpses covered by the climbing plants ; further , they realise that they had been lured by the plants that are vibrating with the sound of a cell phone . When they are attacked by the carnivorous creeping plants , they understand the reaction of the Mayan villagers . . another forgettable horror movie , which tries to gain credibility by stating it's based on a novel . while watching this , i was constantly reminded of the previous years ' turistas ' , and any other holiday orientated horror movie . the cinematography is beautiful though , but that hardly makes up for the two dimensional charachterts , poor effects , and some treacherous lighting . even from the trailer , this didn't look very good , and the whole thing is very much worse .
loses steam after the first act . .	During Christmas break , a young woman catches a ride home from a stranger she meets through a college ride board . Racing to beat a severe winter storm , the two young travellers take a shortcut down a remote country road , only to find themselves forced into a snow bank by a mysterious vehicle that engages them in a dangerous game of chicken . Over the long night that ensues , an intense relationship develops between the pair as they must brave the elements and confront the road's sinister legacy . . . borrowing heavily from the much more satisfying ' Dead end ' , wind chill starts of really well , a hitcher like movie where we don't know why the ' Guy ' is willing to help the ' Girl ' so much . well it just turns out that he has got a little school boy crush , that becomes worryingly stalkish as the drive home continues . the film stalls after they leave the gas station , and its a case of the old ' this long quiet road is a short cut ' and of course , the car crashes after having a run in with some unknown entity . the film has been done and recycled before , with much better results , but it's no fault of the cast , the two leads are great in their respective roles , it's just that the back story has no depth to it , and really happens toward the end . spooky looking people come and go and in the end it all becomes rather lethargic . wind chill left me feeling rather ' cold '
you don't fake DNA . . .	In the US-government's special ops , Scott is a shooter , not a planner , doing the job without regard to quaint or obsolete convention . When a Harvard undergrad goes missing ( the daughter of a US leader ) , it's Scott who applies the pressure , first to her boyfriend , then to a madam whose cat-house is the initial stop en route to a white slavery auction in Dubai . The abductors may not know the girl's identity , but once they figure it out , she's doomed . Deadly double crosses force Scott to become a planner . Through it all , earnest TV newscasters read the drivel they're handed . . . now , i knew from the start that this was Mamet , and i was looking forward to a detailed story , great script and tense situations throughout . i wasn't expecting a Bruckhiemer or Tony Scott type action movie . but what i got was a poorly acted , boring , uninvolved movie , that didn't really keep the audience involved and was just came across as a waste of time . Kilmer blurts his lines out with no level of realism and is ably supported by wooden actors . even H . Macy was below par and didn't really do anything until the last third , apart from look toward the camera now and again to let the audience know he was in it . the message the film carries is delivered poorly , and Mamet , could do a better job of writing and directing in his sleep . a poor show all around .
cut the chicken into quarters . . . . . .	The space race has been dominated for decades by two rival superpowers , but just when they thought they were alone , a new force has arrived . Britain has developed an amazing space exploration buggy that might solve the planets energy problems . But will Britain's greatest achievement become one conman's finest hour ? Will Spencer and his right hand man / master of disguise will re-unite alongside Will's niece Fiona head of marketing at the British Space Centre , and Travis , Tom's accident-prone son , in a series of comical misadventures spanning across the United Kingdom and beyond ! our unlikely heroes will create a plan the likes of which the world has never before seen , to steal what every government wants . And the only person that stands in their way is Scotland Yard's worst detective . Together they will use the UK's highly developed space technology to outsmart the world's most powerful ambassadors , and ultimately help put the ' Great ' back into Great Britain . . . . . . twenty years ago , this would have been casting heaven . Rimmer from Red Dwarf , Waterman from Minder and the good looking on from Spandau Ballet all starring in a good old English romp about space . what memorable British comedies spring to mind from the eighties ? clockwise ? the boys in blue ? wilt ? the only comedy / drama that is remembered really from the eighties is Buster , and that was hardly laugh out loud . spring forward twenty years and with the advent of such comedy as spaced , Shaun of the Dead , hot fuzz and the office , this feels somewhat redundant . it features a lot of has beens ( sorry ) and they are all overacting their socks off . the only actor to come out of it with any credibility is Kemp , who like every other role he plays , acts like Reggie Kray ( but more posher ) . but to be fair , one of the only reasons i wanted to see this movie , is because some of it was filmed in my home town of Leicester ( it wasn't even released theatrically here ! ! ) , and nothing more . it's not very funny , despite the sound concept and Waterman and Barrie look plain embarrassed . if you like decent British comedy like the above mentioned , steer clear . if you laugh out loud at my family , or enjoyed ' sex lives of the potato men ' , then enjoy . there is one funny reference though to the Sweeny , that made me grin though . .
this film cannot decide what genre it is . . . . .	Jason Biggs stars as a soldier who has been mistakingly been shipped to Greenland where people think he is someone else , and the camp is lead by an out and out wacko , played by Jeremy Northam . but is the film supposed to be a witty parody , a thriller , or a drama . the film goes from funny in one instance , into seriousness the nest and loses all sense of the plot in between . it's not that the cast are bad , they are all convincing in their respective roles , and the inclusion of Micheal Ironside as the titular character just adds to the confusion . the fact that the DVD cover advertises this as an intelligent comedy is misleading , as the film is neither intelligent , nor funny . it teeters on the kookiness of Wes Anderson , but is nowhere near as funny or as intelligent as even one of his movies trailers . i felt just like the characters in the movie , lost , with nowhere to go . maybe i am missing the point of the film , maybe it is supposed to be a satirical stab at the military ala ' catch 22 or M . A . S . H , but the overall effect is disappointing . not recommended .
toilets are funny . . . . .	Down these mean streets a man must come . A hero born , murdered , and born again . When a Rookie cop named Denny Colt returns from the beyond as The Spirit , a hero whose mission is to fight against the bad forces from the shadows of Central City . The Octopus kills anyone unfortunate enough to see his face who has other plans . He's going to wipe out the entire city . The Spirit tracks this cold hearted killer from the city's rundown warehouses , to the damp catacombs , to the windswept waterfront all the while facing a bevy of beautiful women who either want to seduce , love or kill the masked crusader . . . . imagine if Sin City had an ugly younger brother who was brought up in the attic and let out just once and escaped . Imagine thinking to yourself while watching this ' i'm not impressed by this visual style anymore , because it was done so well three years prior . Imagine yourself repeating the name Dick Tracey while watching a film , your getting close to the viewing experience of what is ' The Spirit'it's a bad movie , with many quirky , kooky elements , that just do not work . it cannot decide whether it's a comedy , an action movie , or something Miller wanted to be remembered by . well the latter is true . it's just such a corny viewing experience , that it really does need to be seen to be believed . the acting is atrocious , and given the stellar cast , thats really saying something . Jackson has never been worse in a movie , he goes into overdrive in what is becoming his trademark wild eyed role , which has been with him since 1994 . the set pieces are boring and characters come and go without any explanation or any back-story . if the makers had the balls to make this darker , more violent and aimed more at the adult market , this could have been something . instead we get possibly one of the most nauseating viewing experiences i've ever had the displeasure to view . some people will love this film , because it's just too random for it's own good , the head on the foot scene , Jackson as a Nazi , Paz Vega in it for about 3 minutes , randomness everywhere . and Johannsen has to be seen to be believed . after watching this , i felt like i'd had a little too much of another spirit . . . Jack Daniels . you really have to see this to know how much someone with such a prolific career ( Miller ) can make such a huge mis-step with this . it has cult written all over it .
it's not the ride , it's the rider . . . . .	Sean Boswell , who has always been an outsider , A loner at school , his only connection to the indifferent world around him is through illegal street racing - - which has made him particularly unpopular with the local authorities . To avoid jail time , Sean is sent out of the country to live with his Farther in the military , in a cramped apartment in a low-rent section of Tokyo . In the land that gave birth to the majority of modified racers on the road , the simple street race has been replaced by the ultimate pedal-to-the-metal , gravity-defying automotive challenge . . . drift racing , a deadly combination of brutal speed on heart stopping courses of hairpin turns and switchbacks . For his first unsuccessful foray in drift racing , Shean unknowingly takes on D . K . , the " Drift King , " with ties to the Yakuza , the Japanese crime machine . The only way he can pay off the debt of his loss is to venture into the deadly realm of the Tokyo underworld , where the stakes are life and death . . . . the third entry into the series , is a marked improvement on the dismal second movie , but it still is highly un-original and full if clichés you would expect from this type of move . the lead character is a fish out of water , who gets sent to live with his dad , because at the beginning he is basically called scum by the police and wouldn't be able to afford bail . soon after arriving in Tokyo , he makes friends with the only other American person in the movie , and soon he has got himself into even more trouble and begins to race to payback a debt . with subplots involving the yakuza and their girlfriends , it is predictable stuff , all made for the adolescent boy racers . the races and stunts with cars are very impressive , but stunts do not make a good movie , thats story and plot , which this film has neither of . still , at least Vin Diesel makes a cameo at the end .
i cloned everybody . . . . . .	The year is 2415 . 400 years after a virus wiped out half of the world's population , the people that survived the virus now live in Bragna , a fortified city that is surrounded by a wall isolating the people from the virus infested rest of the world . Living in Bragna City , Aeon Flux , is a mysterious female assassin who works for a underground group of rebels led by Handler . Aeon's latest assignment is to assassinate Trevor Goodchild , a member of the council that controls Bragna City . When Aeon's younger sister Una is killed by government agents , Aeon disobeys orders and decides to protect Trevor , and suspects Trevor's brother Oren and the council members are plotting against Trevor . And when Handler learns Aeon failed the mission , Handler orders Aeon to be eliminated , and Aeon must risk everything as she not only protects Trevor , but also uncovers secrets and answers about her mysterious past and the government and all life in Bragna City itself . . . another promising movie that is all style over substance . yes it looks great and there are some good action sequences , but where is the story , what happened to the script , and do we really need a film with Postlethwaite dressed in a condom . the film loses itself somewhere in the middle of the special effects , and even though Theron looks amazing , her acting skills are not . everybody looks thoroughly bored during the movie , and no doubt you will be too by the end of the whole fiasco .
i'll get inside your face . . . .	this film had a lot going for it . Will Ferrall and Jon heder in a film about male figure skaters . what could go wrong ? this could have been this years Dodgeball , but it ends up as a movie that you should dodge . the leads play skaters who have been disqualified from singles skating , and meet up three years later and reluctantly team up to contend in the doubles tournament . after many innuendo jokes and homophobic connotations , the pair patch up their differences and decide to make a go of it . in my opinion Ferrall hasn't appeared in a decent comedy since Anchorman , as this film is almost as bad as night at the roxbury , this could have been so funny , but the execution and the comic timing just isn't there , maybe if it were Stiller and Wilson as the leads , it could have been something special , but Heder isn't really funny and Ferrall tries his best improvisation , but fails miserably to the lack of imagination of the story . the problem is that both Ferrall and Heder raised the bar with comedy and quirkiness with Anchorman and Napolean Dynamite respectively and have failed to make an impression on comedy since . Ferrall was great in stranger than fiction , but that wasn't all out ' frat pack ' comedy as this is intended . but the cgi is good and there are one or two funny lines , but it just isn't stupid enough like Anchorman or dodgeball , as the characters in those movies , were beyond quirky , as the characters here are just making fun of competitive sports-people . and we see that everyday . a real let-down
she tried to sit on my lap , whilst i was standing up . . . .	Philip Marlowe is asked by the elderly ( and near death ) General Sternwood to investigate an attempt at blackmail on one of his daughters . He soon finds that the attempt is half hearted at best and seems to be more connected with the disappearance of the other daughter's husband , Rusty Regan . Rusty's wife , seems unconcerned with his disappearance , further complicating the mystery . Only General Sternwood seems concerned as mobsters and hired killers continue to appear in the path of the investigation . . . the film stays mostly true to Chandlers book , although the action is switched to good old Blighty rather than the States . in 1978 , this must have been a dream project for Winner , having an all star cast agreeing to star in such a grand project . the outcome though is less than grand . Winner should stick with directing vigilante movies , starring in insurance ads and wooing younger women , as his direction here is very poor , and doesn't do the story justice . the cast are fine , apart from Candy Clark , who should stay off the E numbers from now . some scenes though are sensational . the Mitchum and Stewart scenes are to die for and as always , oliver Reed is simply divine . but the film is boring , ludicrous and bloated , a lot like the director .
my face is in the butter . . . .	Hugh Grant stars as a washed up eighties star ala Andrew Ridgley from Wham , who gets a chance to write a song for the biggest name in pop at the moment . the problem is , he hasn't written a song for over ten years and isn't really polished up for writing a song . thank heavens that Drew Barrymore is watering his plants and she is fantastic with words . with just 36 hours to finish the song , will they manage to finish the song , fall in love , fall out over something petty , and then fall in love again right at the end of the movie ? what do you think . . . . . grant must be able to do these roles in his sleep now that he rolls one out every year . this had great potential and a fantastic story , with a chance to revive the eighties a little , but after the hilarious ( and admittedly good ) video , the film goes down hill very rapidly . these films come around so often that you know what the outcome is , and usually it's fun getting there . but when the leads have zero chemistry between them and the lead is looking bored throughout the film , then you really tend not to Care about the film . the characters are paper thin , the usually stunning Barrymore is looking very dodgy , and the editing is some of the worst in recent memory but if you like predictable comedies with a very silly script and cringe-worthy jokes , his is for you . if you are looking for the next Notting Hill or Two Weeks Notice , it's not here .
don't move , or i will shoot you and the temptations . . . .	in Hollywood , the rule of thumb is that if a high profile movie does well , then a sequel should be made , and if you are going to make a sequel , it should be better than the first because everybody likes trilogies don't they ? well in the case of the Rush hour franchise , the first one did very wheel , but the second installment was off the stratosphere , so this third , lame movie was inevitable . the only thing that amazes me in this film , is tucker , a man who has only made three films in the last nine years ( any guesses ? ) but has made more money than most hard working actors in Hollywood today . this time the action is set in Paris , which Ratner keeps reminding us of because in every shot there is either the Eiffel tower or some other French monument . the story is piffle , about some shaven haired women with the names of triads tattooed on the back of her head , which some guy wants for some reason . the first movie was vibrant and quite fresh , and it was a breath of fresh air in the buddy cop genre flick after the final Lethal weapon movie . but with this , the jokes are flat and borderline racist , Chan looks fed up and doesn't really use his physical talents to their extreme , ans Tucker , well he isn't as annoying as he was in the fifth element , but for the majority of the film , he just gets the ladies swooning and spouts out a few unfunny jokes . but it does what It says on the tin , their are some fun moments to be had if you like this sort of film , but it feels too rushed and like a wasted effort on everybody's part . disappointing
there goes that duck again . . . .	in the ever successful franchise , the Zucker brothers decide to parody / spoof films such as . the grudge saw saw II brokeback mountain war of the worlds million dollar baby the amityville horror the village , and various other older films . again Anna Farris is the heroine and Craig bierko plays tom cruises character from war of the worlds . what we get is just over eighty minutes of fart gags , old people being punched in the face and other very unpolitically correct humour . there are some very good cameos from various b-list actors including Pullman , Sheen and Madsen . the problem is that the film just isn't funny and the spoofs are so predictable , you can guess which part of war of the worlds be spoofed next . a tired franchise , which really expired during the middle of the first movie .
it's just a muzzle flare . . . . .	In a town ravaged by war , a mysterious businessman hires an ex-marine to assemble a crack team of ex-soldiers to protect him on a dangerous journey into no-man's land . To this gang of hardened warriors , battle-worn veterans and borderline criminals killing is just a job - and one they enjoy . Their mission - to scope out an old military bunker . It should be easy - 48 hours at the most . Lots of cash for little risk . Or so he says . . . Once at the outpost , the men make a horrific discovery that turns their mission on its head - the scene of a bloody and gruesome series of experiments , carried out during World War Two . Amid the carnage , they find something even more disturbing - a survivor . As war rages above ground , and a mysterious enemy emerges from the darkness below , the ex-marine and his men find themselves trapped in a claustrophobic and terrifying scenario . Their mission is no longer one of safe-guarding - it's one of survival . Together they must discover what it is killing them off , one by one . what a waste of time this movie was . shot in just 5 weeks , it really shows it on the screen , as there is absolutely no atmosphere throughout , and the characters are so aggressive and unsympathetic , you couldn't care less what happens to them come the end . it blatantly rips off films such as deathwatch , the bunker , and even in some cases , the keep . the final third throws in all the gore and bullets flying through the undead , but we've seen films like this a dozen times before , and they become more mundane each time one gets made . not as good as some people are making out to be . but no doubt this will become of cult status . . .
how much for my other kid ? ?	A missile disappears in Iran , but the CIA has other problems : the heir to an Emirate gives an oil contract to China , cutting out a US company that promptly fires its immigrant workers and merges with a small firm that has landed a Kazakhstani oil contract . The Department of Justice suspects bribery , and the oil company's law firm finds a scapegoat . The CIA also needs one when its plot to kill the Emir-apparent fails . Agent Bob Barnes , the fall guy , sorts out the double cross . An American economist parlays the death of his son into a contract to advise the sheik the CIA wants dead . trying to be controversial and layered ala ' Traffic does not always make a great movie . it's a very difficult film to watch , and if you are not deep , deep into politics , the film will not benefit you . fair enough , all the characters in the film are some kind of enemy , but i don't need to spend two hours watching film makers sticking propaganda and bureaucracy down my throat . Damon though is Oscar worthy in his role and is the best thing in this film . all of the rest of the cast look bemused , apart from Clooney , who is trying to do every kind of role in Hollywood just lately , and while i do really like him in all his other work , here he spends most of the movie looking like he's having a guilty crap . but some will find this movie to be invigorating and revelatory , but as i said before , i see enough of this in the news and media , that i could do without two hours of preaching . a real disappointment
shes THE D . E . B . ! ! !	Recruited by the U . S . government for their unique ability to lie , cheat and fight , Amy , Max , Janet and Dominique join an underground academy of secret agents known only as D . E . B . S . Now the girls must combine their skills for their most important mission - to capture vexing vixen Lucy Diamond , the deadliest criminal the world has ever known . When D . E . B . S . star player , Amy , falls for Lucy , chaos erupts and the D . E . B . S . loyalty is put to the test . trying to be a feminist action / spy movie with a lesbian twist , this film fails on all accounts . the opening credits are a joy to watch , and i was expecting some kind of Charlie's angels / James bond kind of take . but the movie runs out of steam about nine minutes in . the thing that irked me the most was the characters , the only one who seemed human at all was Lucy Diamond , and Jordana Brewster gave one of her best performances in this film . the two most important things to remember when making a pro-feminist film is . . try not to make the majority of male characters appear to be stupid , or jocks . a feminist would not dress the main characters in the skimpiest of outfits . there are some subtle jokes about coming out of the closet and innuendo , but it soon tires you . great soundtrack though . i know this film has a cult following and is watched by people who think ' girl power ' is the greatest force on earth , but please read between the lines , it's not that feminist , it's showing how weak people can become when they are falling in love and what they are risking to lose to be with someone thy want to be . so all in all , just another slushy romance film , covered with below par action .
Eve . . . we broke up . .	Kim and her boyfriend Matt have just broken up , but they travel together to a cottage nearby a lake to spend the weekend with their friends Eve , Dash and his wife Amber and Baker and his new girlfriend Lily . The atmosphere becomes heavy with the situation between Kim and Matt , and one of them suggests them to play " Dead Mary " . Matt , Eve and Dash summon the evil witch repeating her name three times in front of a mirror with a candle . Along the night , Matt hears weird noises , is killed and returns to life , while part of the group is possessed by the fiend . Without knowing who is possessed , the rest of the group fights to survive . . . imagine a hybrid of the evil dead , candyman , cabin fever , and the thing , starring some good looking people who like beer and always spend a weekend away in a cabin , you end up with this trashy , barely enjoyable movie . the set up is good , and the story has potential , but it has so many similarities with the above mentioned movies , that it's hard to find something original within it . it's not scary , it's highly un-original , and the characters are so unlikeable , you really don't care what happens to them , and in what order . still the last 10 seconds of the movie really do up the stars , what a killer line .
everybody should be home for Christmas . . .	The movie tells the story about Billy , a young boy who was abused by his mother as a child . While his mother was cheating on Billy's father , she eventually killed his father and kept Billy in the attic - for good , while she was with her lover and starting a " new " family . As Billy's mother fell pregnant with a daughter and treated her with love , which Billy had never experienced with his mother , Billy came out of the attic after years and brutally murdered his mother and her lover . Cut to present day , a group of eight sorority sisters now live in Billy's childhood home , and soon find themselves being harassed by threatening and intimidating mystery phone-calls during Christmas Break . And as one of the girls goes missing , the girls begin being murdered one by one by no other than Billy himself . . . . a very awkward movie to watch , this remake of the average 1974 horror deosn't know how to play for scares . it fails miserably on delivering full horror , as sometimes its so tongue in cheek , it borderlines on the absurd . yes there is plenty of gore for the blood hungry out there , but it's nothing we haven't seen before . the characters are not really nice people , so when they begin to get ' sleighed ' you couldn't really care less who lives and who dies . it amazes me how such pap can be shown at a cinema , when solid thrillers such as ' Wilderness ' go straight to DVD unnoticed . if you do decide to watch this , watch it with a huge pinch of salt and something seasonal to wash the aftertaste down with after . ho ho no . . .
dad , did i die ? . . .	Paul and Jessie Duncan are you r average middle class family . they have a son Adam who is very happy with his life and is celebrating his birthday . the next day whilst buying a pair of sneakers , Adam is killed when he is hit by a car and of course the Duncans are devastated . Whilst sorting the funeral arrangements they are confronted by Robert De Niro , who has found the secret of perfecting cloning four years after ' the sixth day ' . At first , they are disgusted with the idea , but after Robert De Niro buys them lunch , they agree and Adam ( see what they did there ? ) is reborn . 8 years later , life seems to be going well for the Duncans , they have a new life , a new house , and live near Robert De Niro . but after his eighth birthday party , Adam starts to have night terrors and they become worse and worse as the film drags on . is there a terrible side to the cloning that the Duncans do not realise ? Robert De Niro knows the answer . after the terrible reviews of this film , i decided to give it a chance , due t it's stellar cast . De Niro always appeals to me and Kinnear and Stamos have their charm too . but with such a potentially good story , comes Hamm-fisted directing , poor editing , baffling narrative and a cop out of an ending . watching the film is somewhat of an ordeal , and i found myself in places thinking to myself ' oh , he's having another dream again , i bet he walks somewhere desolate and Greg Kinnear will look concerned ' . the cast have no chemistry between them and spend the time talking really loud to each other and coming up with silly ideas whilst , working , driving , or jogging . by no means as bad as the reviews state , but it is still bad and for a ' horror ' not in the least bit scary . watch and feel depressed about the potential this film had .
are those sad tissues , or happy tissues ? . . .	the film is one of the new ' gross out comedies , that doesn't really want to be gross out , as it hasn't got many gross out bits in it , but it's trying to be a little like porky's and animal house , but is more like American pie for adults , with a bit more maturity in it ' movies that has been released in the last couple of years . the basic premise is that a slob get's ditched by his really hot famous girlfriend and she's seeing a really annoying famous celebrity now . he cannot take it so he goes to Hawaii to forget about it and guess what ? they are there , and he has to put up with all their antics in his face . but it's all okay , because he meets a few zany people along the way and meets a hot girl , who finds him attractive . . . with hilarious results . this is really scraping the comedy barrel , after the success of knocked up and the 40 year old virgin and superbad , i was really looking forward to this , because the writers had the potential to be really evil on people who had just been dumped by their loved one . what they have squandered in a really good potential , is make the protagonist so unsympathetic and so , so pathetic , that you do not really care for him , to the extent that you actually think the guy deserves it . i didn't laugh once through the film , the jokes are re-hashes of better ones from even better movies , and none of the carachters are really worth bothering about . if you want to watch a film about a slob who spends the majority of a film getting drunk and feeling sorry for himself , then this is for you . if you want to laugh , see another Apatow comedy .
which one of you women is my date tonight ? . . .	Donnas senior prom is supposed to be the best night of her life , one of magic , beauty , and love . Surrounded by her best friends , she should be safe from the horrors of her past . But when the night turns from magic to murder there is only one man who could be responsible , the man she thought was gone forever . Now , Donna and her friends must find a way to escape the sadistic rampage of an obsessed killer , and survive their Prom Night . . another in a long line of not very scary , not very necessary remakes of not very prolific horror movies , but aimed at teens to bump up that box office . it's pure drivel from the offset , as we see our ridiculously vein heroes , travel to the prom , arrive on a red carpet ? and then get killed in stupid , very unimaginative ways . the script is dire , and the whole sorry affair is about as thrilling as the thought of going to this prom . this is one of those movies where you wish , just for once that the bad guy could get what he wants and get away scott free . and what the hell has happened to Linden ' Johnny cage ' Ashby ? ?
you enjoy being in control . like me . . .	Catherine Tramell is back again in the thick of it but this time she brings a muddled plot with her . After driving her car at a speed of 110 mph whilst getting it on with football star Kevin Franks , Trammel manages to crash her car into the ( maybe ) Thames , without anyone seeing her or hearing the incident . after Franks dies in the accident , she is prime suspect in his death , as he was overdosed on a drug and ' wasn't breathing when the car hit the water ' . Tramell is psycho-analysed by Dr . Glass who believes that she suffers from the common disease known as ' risk addiction ' , which basically means that she spends her time talking very slowly and seductive , and includes at least one sexual innuendo in every sentence . obviously Glass becomes obsessed with her , and buys her books and fantasises about her when he is having sex . but then people close to him start to die in suspicious circumstances and he becomes a suspect as well as Tramell . will Glass be able to prove that Tramell is the killer ? or is it the alleged detective Washburn who is the crooked one ? or is Tramell really innocent and is Glass really the killer ? or is this just an excuse to cash in on a successful film made over twelve years ago ? Stone has aged well but the story hasn't . i do not know what Caton-Jones was thinking when he started to make this , but his is just a rehash of the original , but switched to a knew locale . the problem is the story . it is just too clever for it's own good and become muddled in its own ego . if it was kept simple like it's predecessor , then it might have been more of a guilty pleasure , but it becomes tiresome very quickly . everyone does fine in their acting roles with the exception of Stone , who like Hopkins in ' Hannibal ' , has made the role that she is best known for a caricature of the original , and it seems very camp too . when ever she makes a statement about something she sounds like she belongs in carry on movie . and the sequel borrows heavily from the original . eg . characters from the original ( Nick Curran , Johnny Boz ) are mentioned and characters from the original are contacted along the way . even set pieces are reused in this . but it isn't as bad as the critics made it out to be . London is used to good effect and there are some hilarious references to the Phallus . also the ending is quite downbeat and depressing , which makes a change . but it is still horrific compared to the original , and will be up there with the turkeys of the year .
you're mine now . . .	A model is drugged , kidnapped and subject to harrowing torture in a cell of horrors in this spine chilling horror thriller . Jennifer is young , beautiful and famous . Everybody knows her name and her popularity brings her everything she wants in life , but one mans jealousy lures Jennifer to a dimension in torture when she finds herself drugged , captured and held in an underground maze of terror . Taken against her will and subject to psychological punishment , Jennifer soon questions her sanity as her watchful tormentor pits her in numerous twisted traps . After struggling to keep her mind , she meets with Gary , another prisoner in the sick games and together they try their wits to escape from the cells and defeat the madman behind the sick games . . . . if you are familiar with the T . V show 24 , then this film will come as no surprise to you . while watching this , you know it should really be called Kim Bauer : the movie , as Cuthbert just reprises her role from the show , just that this time , shes a little bit more famous , and Jack isn't there to help her . I was expecting something a little bit more special considering this was by Joffe ' , but it just milks the gore-nography cash cow , a little bit of ' saw ' mixed with a margin of ' hostel ' . the only saving grace about this film is Pruitt Taylor Vince , who now must be coming a little irked being typecast as the villain whose not quite , since well , fear back in 1990 . apart from a genius bit of marketing , the film has nothing really new to offer , and Cuthbert doesn't really prove her worth . really straight to DVD quality movie stuff here .
very poor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in the words of vic reeves	the cover of the DVD said ' in the same vain as bad taste and shaun of the dead ' . i love both these movies so i thought what the hell i'll pay fifteen pounds for this . . . . . . . . . . . what a mistake for starters it makes no sense whatsoever , on the making of the director said it took him two and a half years to make the film from script to screen . . . and sometimes he was working eighteen hours a day . he could have came up with a better story and a lot more humor about it . a film this gory needs to be funny or it would just miss the whole point . . . . oh sorry it did . the worse part of this film is the ( anti ) hero who goes by the name of marion , an obvious nod to john wayne who is a cross between mad max , neo and maximus . but ends up looking like a fat val kilmer with a missing tooth . none of the characters are likable , so therefore you do not care who lives or dies , which kind of takes the edge of a horror film . if you like this sort of film , by all means see it , there are one or two stand out moments . but the moral of the story is when you have a low budget , try not to spend the majority of it on dodgy cgi and ott gore .
what is my weakness ?	In the 50's , in Louisiana , the smart populist , manipulative and wolf hick Willie Stark is elected governor with the support of the lower social classes . He joins a team composed of his bodyguard and friend Sugar Boy ; the journalist from an aristocratic family Jack Burden ; lobbyist Tiny Duffy ; and his mistress Sadie Burke , to face the opposition of the upper classes . When the influent Judge Irwin supports a group of politicians in their request of impeachment , Stark assigns Jack to find some dirtiness along the life of Irwin , leading to a tragedy in the end . . . All the king's men AKA the most blatant attempt to convince the academy that we have the best motion picture in a long time , starts badly , goes downhill in the second act , and the less said about the end , the better . now , a lot of people will disagree with me before seeing the film , as i was a bit confused by the media backlash at the time of release . i mean , a film with such a stellar cast , based on such fantastic source material , with a lot of pre-Oscar buzz , couldn't be all that bad , could it ? then the delays came and the box office was paltry , and it's easy to see why . it's badly acted , especially by Penn , who is very OTT and surprisingly unconvincing as Stark , and it appears that the rest of the cast have been asked to stand back and let Penn take centre stage . but the camera work is very good , and makes this debacle look a little stylish .
the ending is up to you . . . .	saw this just out of curiosity , and i must say , i wasn't that overwhelmed by the whole movie . the special effects are okay , but it's the whole story and narrative that lacks any sort of imagination or originality . part ' the 13th warrior ' , part ' pathfinder ' , part ' beowulf ' , and part ' aliens v predator ' ( to an extent ) , it really goes nowhere very quickly . this maybe due to the fact that Caviezal is as wooden as the Shields he balances on during the game they play , or maybe it's because the film has an overall sense of deja vu to it . if the idea of vikings meeting people from outer space joining together to fight a glowing monster is your bag , then this may please . but it just didn't do anything for me , it just seemed that all the set pieces appeared to be borrowed from other movies . even the ghost and the darkness was ripped off .
bite my nuts and call me Skippy	Matt stifler is the brother of Steve stifler , the main protagonist of the original trilogy . he is up to his brothers old tricks , and trying to carry the flame that his brother had when he was at school . but his pranks have backfired on him this time having ruined a band recital he is ordered to go to band camp , the geekiest place to go , or he will be expelled from high school . dismayed by this order he reluctantly agrees , but has a plan up his sleeve . the direct to DVD sequel . what a great idea . make sequels that nobody wants to see ever . now this is a little different . the obvious reason this is direct to DVD is that none of the main cast have returned . true , we have Jim's dad and the sherminator , but they were hardly in depth characters from the trilogy . they were just caricatures of people who we mock . and they return to do the same here . Hilgenbrick does a good job as stifler , but sometimes you feel that he is trying too hard to be Sean William Scott . the film has it's fair share of Gross out gags but none of them have any originality to them and therefore they are unfunny . all in all you could find worse things to do with 90 minutes and this is watchable , it's just a shame that the last ten minutes turn into the stupid feel good comedies we expect from Hollywood . Stifler wouldn't be happy .
stab-wounds , snowed in and psychos wasn't on my syllabus . .	Tim plans to spend his 21st birthday at his Scottish estate with eight of his closest friends . Amongst the excitement of rediscovering old friendships , no one minds that a snowstorm has cut them off from the rest of the outside world . Everything is set for the perfect weekend , until one of the guests stumbles across an old history of the house with the power to unleash the horrors of Scotland's past . The book tells of Murray , the old Scot patriot , who has had his eyes torn out and his house taken away during the English invasion . Intent on exacting bloody revenge on the reunited English friends Murray possesses the body of a guest and turns him into a murderer . . . from the cover of this DVD you would expect the film to feature Hilton prominently . but seeing as she is the first one to buy it , it must have been a marketing ploy to get the teenage lads excited about this slasher . no originality has been put into the story , all of the cast are very annoying , so you do tend to lose sympathy for them quite rapidly after the opening credits . the first act is boring enough , with the very cheesy script and pomposity of the characters ( all upper class young adults , guffawing and drinking whiskey ) , and then the legend of the house is revealed in the second act . the main problem with the second act is that someone has turned the lights off and not bothered to tell the cameraman as for about a good twenty minutes , you have no idea what on earth is going on . a real disappointment , given that the story is quite good and had potential , but the execution is mundane and other things ( such as the soundtrack ) are dire , makes you dislike this movie from the upstart .
desertion is not an option . . . . .	in this remake of Enemy of the State , and a celebration of the average Bruckheimer movie , Eagle eye tells the tale of Jerry shaw , an average guy who has just found out that his twin brother has passed away ( see also , Maximum risk , Bad company ) . when he comes back from the the funeral , he finds that he has had a major cash boost in his account ( see also , wanted ) and also has had a lot of incriminating stuff sent to his house . Jerry gets a phone call from an anonymous woman guiding and advising him where to go ( see also , The Matrix ) , and he finds himself caught up in a conspiracy to kill the president ( see also , any major conspiracy theory movies ) , with Major CGI , Billy Bob Thornton , and the thing from fantastic four . sounds quite a good film doesn't it ? never has a trailer for a film been so misleading . the trailer made this film look like an adrenaline fuelled , slick action movie that should clean up at the box office . instead we get a tepid rehash of numerous action , sci-fi , suspense movies , that is totally devoid of thrills originality , and any charm from the cast . the first twenty minutes were so promising though , keeping you on the edge of your seat , but as soon as the first escape is shown ( the one thats in the trailer ) it slowly goes downhill . it's as if Caruso has gone through the action-thriller with a sci-fi twist handbook , and ticked every box . you can see things coming from a mile off , and the tasks that the two have to go through and the decisions that they make are just so predictable it borders on boredom . there are one or two sequences that do impress , but they are so familiar that it's hard not to remember a scene that reminds you of another movie . for instance : the first car chase reminds one of ' Wanted ' the car chase in the underpass with the plane ' Live Free or Die Hard ' the whole synopsis ' Enemy of the State ' even the one sheet looks like the DVD cover of ' Enemy of the State'if you have not seen any of the films mentioned above , then this could be a probable excellent movie , but it falls flat on it's face . and the biggest shame ? it's going to do well at the Box Office . big brother is watching . . . . something else
there's always a dame . . . . .	Dan Dark is hospitalised with crippling psoriasis , and starts to believe that the world that he has invented in his novel ' the singing detective ' is alive and present in his world . suffering from acute psychosis , Dan starts to believe that his estranged wife is plotting against him . medical staff at the hospital become increasingly concerned for his mental health , so they enlist Dr . Gibbons on his case to try and help him . . rarely do mini series translate well to the big screen . at least for a mini series you have the chance to spread your story over a certain amount of time , so that there is enough room for narrative to become understandable . these are the main problems of this 109 minute film . the narrative and story are very sluggish and the film does miss important parts of the series that would have made the film easier to understand , but without these the movie becomes very confusing and this is its downfall . the cast are fine and Downey Jr and Wright Penn really shine through an eclectic cast . there is also a very oddball cameo from Mel Gibson which makes him almost unrecognisable . with several references to child mental abuse and pulp novels of the forties , there is a lot to be said in this movie . a lot is , but none of the really important stuff . at the ending i was still baffled by the movie but was treated to Downey Jr's singing . stick to Potters mini series .
there's water everywhere ! she can't be here !	in 2002 , Hideo Nakata made an excellent psychological horror to rival one of his first films ' ringu ' . his movie had emotion depth , believable characters and the most important thing in this genre , shocking surreal images . fast forward to 2005 and we have the bloated remake . even if i had not seen the original , i would still be sorely disappointed with this as it had so much connection to the ring . which is unfair in my views , as this film had a downhill struggle from the start and should not have had the connection in the first place . Jennifer Connelly plays a newly separated woman who moves into a new apartment with her daughter . after a few nights , the daughter has found an imaginary friend who she speaks to in a very erratic manner . all the while there is a ' menacing ' way patch on the ceiling which keeps getting bigger and bigger , and is maybe the key to the answer of a horrible tragedy which happened before Connelly moved in . on paper , the movie does sound goods , but unfortunately it's the execution of the film that lets the film down . suspense is obsolete , cinematography dull and the narrative can be sometimes plain baffling . like the davinci code , the makers of this film were probably hoping the viewers had seen the original source material and appreciate it . in return they have made a film that would embarrass Nakata . the main characters look like they have set their motivation to ' boredom and tiredness ' and this does rub off on the viewer . stick to the original , switch the lights off , and hide behind the pillow
you'll always be fat to me .	the film starts in 1995 , and Chris Brander is about to graduate from high school . He is in love with his best friend Jamie , but she insists that the friendship is totally platonic . at the graduation party , Chris tries to declare his undying love to Jamie , but his yearbook gets mixed up with one of the high school jocks and every one at the party finds out about his undying love for Jamie . Embarrassed at this and Jamies ' response to the yearbook , Chris leaves in a hurry . 10 years later and now Chris is a shadow of his former self , and successfully working in the music industry . he is asked by singer Samantha James to go to Paris with him and he reluctantly agrees . A microwave accident on the plane means they have to make an emergency landing back at his home town . now he has three days to kill and meet up with his old friends and see the love of his life Jamie again after ten years . if you are overweight then avoid this film like the plague . basically it's saying at the beginning that if you are fat , or are not Hollywood beautiful , then you will have no luck in finding your ideal partner as you are bad . in the next instant the films moral changes to , no matter how you look , it's whats inside that counts . this movie contradicts itself on so many levels and is so clichéd too . it contradicts itself by saying ' it's what's inside that count's ' . now if in this film that were true , then Chris would have got with Jamie at the beginning of he film . this film is saying ' yes you were nice ten years ago , but you were fat . now go to the gym and come back with a tan and pearly white teeth and you will get the girl ' . like i said very offencive stuff . the cliché's are so monumentally in your face that it is almost embarrassing . Chris goes into a bar and what do you know ? all his friends are there , including the high school jock who is now fat , bald and asking for money . Jamie is working behind the bar and when she sees Chris , for the first time in ten years , instead of hugging him like best friends would , she hides . other cliché's are . . . . . . . 1 . they get on well at the beginning , but fall out 2 . another man comes into the scene , but is more charming 3 . the said guy says something offencive and is ridiculed by Jamie . so far , so by the numbers . and if it could not get more sickly sweet , it's set at Christmas , the most wonderful time at the year ! ! i would give this film a lower score if it wasn't for the two leads . Ryan Reynolds has proved himself to be a great successor to Chevy Chase and is funny . the chemistry between him and his brother is actually quite amusing and Reynolds works well with all the cast . But he should start to choose his roles carefully , as he won't get away with making films like this forever . Amy Smart is good in her role , but like Reynolds , is not given enough to do , with the weak story and script . a wasted opportunity to make a proper romantic comedy . next time try doing it without the slapstick and ' grossout ' humour .
i've brought my own favourite candle . . .	Nick Larson and his best friends Trevor Eastman and Amanda are celebrating the twentieth - fourth anniversary of his girlfriend Julie Miller in a beautiful lake on a Sunday morning . Nick is expecting to be promoted in the company where he works , and Julie is planning to move to his place instead of going to New York for her Master degree . However , Nick is called by his colleague Dave Bristol , who is disputing the promotion with Nick , for a meeting with a client . While in the road , Nick has an accident and Julie and his friends die . One year later , Nick finds that he can travel in time and tries to fix the past , with tragic consequences for the future . . . rather a remake than a sequel to the films predecessor , there is nothing wrong with the films story , it's more of a case while you are watching it of ' what's the point ? ' the tension is gone , and the film becomes more and more predictable as it progresses , the better he becomes the more pain he causes the ones he loves , very much like the first movie . a pointless film , not unwatchable , but pointless nevertheless
braaaaiiiinsssss . . . . . . .	like a side-quel to ' night of the living dead ' , this movie claims to hold the real truth about the making of Romeros classic . basically the story is that two men accidentally open a cannister that lets out a toxic gas that causes acid rain , that cause the dead to return to life and shout brrrraaaains a lot during the film . but unlike night of the living dead , ' kill the brain and kill the ghoul ' doesn't apply here , as it appears that nothing can kill them . so basically the film is a cross between the above mentioned film and assault on precinct 13 . it's supposed to be funny , but sadly it isn't . but at least it's entertaining enough for one viewing , and there are some good effects , it's just the actings poor and for a zombie film there is not a lot of brain eating . though the story is very good and highly original , it's just done poorly and the outcome becomes rather boring before the end .
help ! we're being attacked by ' wolverines ' . . . . .	It is the mid-1980s . From out of the sky , Soviet & Cuban troops begin landing on the football field of a Colorado high school . In seconds , the paratroops have attacked the school & sent a group of teenagers fleeing into the mountains . Armed only with hunting rifles , pistols & bows and arrows , the teens struggles to survive the bitter winter & Soviet KGB patrols hunting for them . Eventually trouble arises when they kill a group of Soviet soldiers on patrol in the highlands . Soon , they will wage their own guerrilla warfare against the invading Soviet troops . . . any film that stars Sheen and Swayze as brothers fighting against the Russians in world war 3 should be a fun thrilling action movie , but instead , we get a mundane action movies , that isn't stupid in the commando way , it's stupid on the verge of boring . it's totally unbelievable , where do the guys get unlimited supplies of ammunition from , and where do they get their clothes from , and lets not mention the way they stay clean shaven throughout the movie . the film is very patriotic and it does raise a few smiles when you realise that the gang learn how to fire rocket launchers with ease , and the soundtrack ( not dissimilar to air force one ) whenever they ' rise ' against the Russians . powers Boothe shows up for a while , rolls of some monologues , and then gets fed up and dies . this isn't in the same league as other eighties movies that are still remembered fondly of today , it's just a very average movie .
they followed me here . . . . .	Set just after the first film and between two countries . Karen's sister , Audrey , been affected by the supernatural curse , and trying to find the origin of it in order to find a way to free herself . But what has this quest got to do with the families who are living in Chicago , a photojournalist from Hong Kong , and the three schoolgirls from Tokyo's International High School ? . . those of you expecting a great story and a very eerie setting just like the first movie , will be very very disappointed . the problem is that the film has a very difficult story to follow , and it probably would help to watch a second time , as the first time viewed , you will realise just toward the end , at how confusing the makers have made this film for the audience . until the end , you do not know that the narration in the different countries are not at the time , and ruin the flow of the story . this really irritates you at the end of the movie , because you were hoping for some sort of revelation with the part set in the USA . instead , at the end of the movie you are saying under your breath ' oh , so the part set in Japan was set before the part in the USA , oh . . . ' , and then you realise just how clever the film could have been if the director hadn't tried to be clever , or make a different back story for the curse , and just go for plain old terror that made the originals so good and entertaining . but the cast do well with the material given and there are some eerie moments , but the film just goes for the jumpy moments with the same old screechy soundtrack out of every other horror film released since the ring in 2002 . it's a shame really because this had so much potential and such a following , that they had to make such a mess . OK for a few scares , but ruins the franchise .
get your hands off my boy ! ! ! . . .	The Tall Man is back and once again haunting the thoughts of the now-adult Mike and his friend , ex-Ice Cream vendor Reggie . The two continue their hunt for the mysterious figure and in his path of destruction encounter a variety of dangerous situations , friends and enemies . They also must contend with the resurrected dead plus a growing number of the infamous and deadly silver spheres which aid the Tall Man as he sets his sights on indoctrinating Mike and finishing the fight begun so many years ago . . . . another sequel , another waste of time in story and script , plus noe reggie is a now genius with comedy , is he telling gags in part IV ? anyway the original mike from the first one is back , probably after Le Gros declined due to his ' success ' in point break and gun crazy . there is some fun to be had in the second sequel . the hillbillies for example who get killed by the young boy at the beginning ala rated R home alone , are fun and add a not needed at all zombie edge to the movie . Scrimm is looking old now and not menacing at all . but then do you need story , bizarre visuals that made the first one a success , and shocks when your movie officially has the best human vs . zombie martial arts / nunchuka fight ever committed to celluloid ? didn't think so . nothing on the original , but there are still some good moments .
you're locked in here with me . . . .	" Watchmen " is set in an alternate 1985 America in which costumed superheroes are part of the fabric of everyday society , and the " Doomsday Clock " - which charts the USA's tension with the Soviet Union - is permanently set at five minutes to midnight . When one of his former colleagues is murdered , the washed up but no less determined masked vigilante Rorschach sets out to uncover a plot to kill and discredit all past and present superheroes . As he reconnects with his former crime-fighting legion - a ragtag group of retired superheroes , only one of whom has true powers - Rorschach glimpses a wide-ranging and disturbing conspiracy with links to their shared past and catastrophic consequences for the future . . . when i first saw the teaser for this epic movie , i rushed out and got the graphic novel and was blown away with what Alan Moore had unleashed on the world . it's an uncompromising vision of an alternate eighties , a dystopia , and a warning that life is too serious and people need to calm down a little . 2009 , 10th march , rushed out to see the movie and was blown away with how it has been made into a bloated , often very boring piece of cinema , which isn't a patch on the Source material . the first twenty minutes are really good , with the Comedian meeting his demise , set it up for a film-noir that could have easily been the movie of the year . it isn't , it depends too much on the back story of the watchmen ( they could have trimmed it down a little , given they left the whole squid issue out ) and the action sequences became a little too familiar ( the prison breakout scene reminded me of the floor fight in oldboy , but with less panache ) . saying that though , it stays very faithful to the GN visually and for effort there . the cast are really good and their performances really hark back to the GN , but when the viewer is clock watching at just over the 90 minute mark , the film is in trouble . Jackie Earl Haley is easily the best thing in the film , a sadistic Tommy DeVito type hero who will stop at nothing to find the truth , and the film has a little eighties retro feeling to it . there's just something not right with the whole film , it's trying too hard to be a cult movie , and it falls flat on it's face for it . there are some great scenes in the film , but they don't do enough for me when you have such a lengthy running time . no doubt when this is released on blu-ray , i will investigate it again , just for curiosity value , but don't expect something that will stand the test of time , and enough of the blue phallus please , there was no need . go order a four legged chicken instead . i loved the GN , this was just average , and i was really reluctant to say that .
Disclosure vs . basic instinct . . .	Halle Berry ' stars ' in this thriller about a woman who leaves a job that would have bought somebody quite important down , and then goes off in a huff and decides to investigate somebody else who is important . but this other somebody has been sleeping with a friend of hers , who may or may not know a big secret about cat-woman . the only snag this has , is that the important person only turns out to be Bruce Willis and her friend later turns up dead in water . Giovanni Ribisi is some where her in the concoction , which involves cyber-chat , obsessions and of course our old friends red herrings , double crosses and the surprise twist . the film isn't very good and was done to death in the early nineties , obviously without the computers but with the added star power of Sharon Stone ( think basic instinct and sliver ) . Berry is not very good in her role and spends most of the movie trying not to be seduced by Willis and not getting caught in sticky situations . Ribisi plays her sidekick who has a little obsession about Berry in his spare time-sub-plot , but the film is given Wattge down to Willis . he is good in his role , playing the quiet moody type , and i feel that without him , this would have gone straight to DVD . the ending is quite surprisingly rubbish , and really makes no sense whatsoever , but thats Hollywood for you . watch if you enjoyed those partly erotic thrillers of the early nineties with Stone / Moore / Fonda .
an eye for an eye . . . .	a middle-class woman and a security man who after ravaging in an explosive night of passion head off to a posh party in the highlands , however on the way they encounter a connection of violent gun holders who beat him and horrifically gang-rape her . After surviving this terrifying encounter , the traumatised couple decide to take revenge on the mob . After coming to terms with what happened , the couple manage to get hold of a rifle , and as the sun goes down a truly harrowing blood bath unfolds as the revenge stricken pair unleash their deadly revenge . . . after a promising start , the film goes downhill very quickly and becomes almost over the the top , thanks to some decidedly bad miscasting from Dyer and Anderson . the film is supposed to depict how this couple are supposed to come to terms with a trauma , but it does become so ludicrous that you find yourself wanting to laugh at their ( especially Dyers ) plight . his impotence is the single most unnecessary thing about the film and he does become Andersons lap dog as the film goes on . most of the characters are unlikeable and the silly ' twist ' during the final act just makes the film more absurd . . to be fair though , at just over 75 minutes long , it is just about watching , but don't expect something very good , just an average film .
summon your eagle powers . . . . .	Nacho is a young man who was raised in a monastery in Mexico and now works there as the cook . Fueled by his passion for wrestling , he dons a mask and cape and picks up a partner to compete in a local Lucha Libre tournament to try for the $200 prize so he can buy better food for the kids and achieve respect . When a new nun , Sister Encarnacion , arrives at the monastery , he tries to win her adoration as well while attempting to prove that being a Luchador isn't a sin and win the grand prize at a battle royal tournament so he can buy a bus for the kids . . . with Jack Balck and the director of Napoleon Dynamite , you'd think you'd be sitting on a winner . unfortunately because expectations were so high for this movie , it leaves you feeling rather redundant after watching it . Black is at his most restraint in his role as Nacho , as he was quite annoying in School of Rock , but really puts in a good performance as the titular character and even has some tenacious D style random singing toward the end ( you'd almost expect Kyle Glass to walk in playing guitar ) . the support though is weak and with most comedies , the funniest scenes are shown in the trailer or rely on fat people or pratfalls , which in this day and age doesn't constitute an good comedy , just 90 minutes of forgettable trash .
life has to be a little nuts sometimes . . . .	Sarah Huttington , recently engaged , goes home to Pasadena with fiancé Jeff for a family wedding . She hears a rumour that " The Graduate " ( book and movie ) are based on her family . Did her grandmother and her mom have flings with the same man just before her parents married ? Is she a strange man's child ; does this explain why she doesn't fit in ? Was her mother happy ? Is she too facing a loveless marriage ? Where can she seek answers : her mother's dead , her father's a pleasant naïf . Ask her salty grandma ? Better to ask the man in the triangle , the real Benjamin Braddock . With Jeff's blessing , Sarah heads for San Francisco , looking for the key to her past and to her future . . . . . a really interesting premise is here , and in the hands of Reiner , this would have been great seventeen years ago . but it isn't it's 2007 and Reiner hasn't made a decent film since ' a few good men ' in my opinion and Aniston is back to playing Rachel again on the big screen . but that doesn't mean all is bad . the supporting cast is fantastic especially Ruffalo as the fiancée ' and Maclaine as thew venomous grandmother . but the star of the film is Costner , who puts in a truly likable performance as Beau and uses his talent to sweep the movie from under Aniston . it's just that there are too many flaws in the production . there are many goofs that blatantly stand out at you ( the titanic reference is painful to watch ) and it's sad while watching this , that Reiner has made some timeless greats in the past . but camera-work is good , and if you are in the mood for an old fashioned romantic comedy or are a massive fan of the graduate , then you should see this . but it is marked down for such a waste of a great premise . .
i'm just here for the birds . . . .	James Bond is assigned to a rendezvous with a North Korean army officer , Colonel Moon , in his investigation of a North Korean terrorist , Zhao , but the mission is betrayed and despite a spectacular escape attempt , Bond is captured and subjected to vicious North Korean torture , before being released in an exchange of prisoners . MI6 work him back to health but James is relieved of all duties because he is blamed for leaking information leading to several agents ' deaths while in custody . Determined to clear his name and avenge himself on Zhao , James escapes and extracts information from a known Chinese intelligence officer on Zhao , leading to Cuba and a meeting with a mysterious diver known only as Jinx , and eventually to a meeting with mysterious British billionaire Gustav Graves , who has perfected a space borne mirror designed to beam solar light and heat anywhere in the world for peaceful purposes . But James uncovers mysterious genetic conversion equipment and also finds the solar mirror is in reality a laser cannon that can destroy almost anything in its path on Earth . James now must rescue Jinx ( who is conducting her own , identical , investigation of Graves ) and learn the truth about Graves ' laser cannon , leading to a violent showdown as the weapon is fired onto Earth and begins slicing open a gigantic line of destruction . please , electric shock suit ? dream machines ? invisible cars ? Bond having an orgasm ? this has to be one of the worst , overblown bond movies ever made , Brosnan appears to be making no effort at all ( apart from the opening pre credit sequence ) , because he knew , along with the rest of the cast that this would make big money , purely because it's like an anniversary edition of the series , and nothing else . i mean Madonnas in it , and she makes Grace Jones look like Kate Winslet . the story is immature and uninvolved , so the best reason to watch this , is to spot the references to every other bond film made . if you look close enough , you will find one for every Bond movie , which makes the movie a little easier to watch . what a waste for Brosnan , who was becoming quite the iconic bond , with a bit of Connery , Dalton , and Moore mixed up . there are a few good bits , but they are few and far between .
i take sugar in my tea . . . .	While recovering from a car crash and a coma , weird artist Ben is informed that his wife Elisa died in the accident . He tries to rebuild his life working with an old friend in the restoration of a building , changing his address with his ant farm and having sessions with his former psychologist . Meanwhile , the police are investigating the murder of model Lauren Parris , who worked with his wife . His gorgeous neighbour and super of the building , Charlotte , feels attracted for him , but the deranged Ben starts seeing his dead wife and is investigated by Detective Constable Jackson as a suspect of murdering Lauren Parris . . . . if you have the time or the patience to watch this movie more than once , you may get the jist of what is happening during the third act . not really enjoying the movie the first time , didn't give me the patience . it's quite a hard film to follow , and tries too hard to be clever . Evans cemented his reputation as a good film maker with ' My Little Eye ' which was a very taut and exciting spin on the Big Brother phenomenon . here , he sort of riffs on Argento movies of the seventies , and really makes a mess , despite a good performance from Firth and Suvari . the characters are uninteresting and not really likable , and it doesn't really leave you in suspense at any given time , so it just trudges with subliminal imagery and hallucinations for the second act . very disappointing stuff .
Cuba does Bauer . . . . poorly	would jack Bauer let the president get shot at the beginning of a season of 24 ? no so he would kick Cuba's butt for this heinous crime against humanity . this is below par stuff and unfortunately , what i have expected as the norm from Cuba . he plays a secret service agent who is torturing himself for letting the president get assassinated . he spends the nights getting drunk and watching the tapes of the presidents death . he tortures himself more by getting undressed and falling asleep on his boat . . . . while drunk . while all this is happening a hot young reporter uncovers what could be a conspiracy , thanks to a tramp called shaky , so far so predictable . and on the subject of predictable there are so many cliché's that make you cringe such as1 the drunk cliché . if anybody in any film can drink a bottle of spirits , no problem . whereas us in the real world would probably need our stomachs pumping and i . v vitamins . 2 when Cuba's boat blows up and the two are in the water surrounded by bad guys , what happens ? a scuba pack drops next to them , thus saving the day once again ! ! 3 after Cuba has been shot in the hand , he has to take his shirt off to get stitches and the guy doing this has to wear protective goggles and mask . . . . . . please ! ! 4 Burt Reynolds face and hair . a cliché ' in it's own right5 the nagging reporter . by the end you want her dead . 6 Cuba running after the van after the guy has been knocked over . see Mel Gibson in lethal weapon . never tires and never gets out of breath . plus if you had just knocked somebody over , and are shady , you wouldn't stop at a red light ! ! with so many other cliché's in the film i actually lost track of the story . didn't matter though . this is the type of film you could watch the first fifteen minutes of , go out shopping and get back in time for the final fifteen minutes and not have missed anything . the final Revelation is as hilarious as the da vinci code and totally out of place in a film like this . if you are clever , you will be able to spot the twist a mile off ( think paintings ) . all in all a bad attempt to turn 24 into a feature length thing . don't mess with jack .
grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes . . . .	Pulled away from his vacation , Ethan Hunt is given his latest assignment , where Ethan is assigned to recruit Nyah Nordoff-Hall , a beautiful thief and require her skills . After recruiting Nyah , Ethan's boss , Mission Commander Swanbeck gives Ethan the assignment . Renegade IMF agent Sean Ambrose , has killed a old friend of Ethan's , Russian scientist Dr . Nekhorvich , and has stolen " Chimera " a engineered virus and " Bellerophon " the cure , Dr . Nekhorvich was carrying it to Atlanta , whilst accompanied by Sean who was disguised as Ethan . Ethan learns Nyah was Sean's former lover and has been really recruited to help Ethan track down Sean . After tracking down Sean , Ethan , Nyah , old friend and fellow IMF agent , computer expert Luthor Stickell and Australian helicopter pilot Billy Biard arrive in Sydney , Australia . Where Ethan's mission is to destroy the " Chimera " virus and recover the " Bellerophon " cure and stop Sean and a group of international terrorists from unleashing the " Chimera " virus and infecting the whole world and save Nyah who has been infected and find the cure , before she dies of a terrible death . . mission impossible part two , or John Woo's i sold my sold my soul to cruise / Wagner and gave Tom one of his biggest hits . what a shambles this movie is . barely a plot , barely a good script , but the film does fall into the McDonalds category , good to look at , but when you get the finished product , you are like , whats wrong with this picture ? ? this is the sort of film you could watch the first 15 minutes of , go for a drink or meal for 90 minutes and then come back and see a fantastic final act . the whole sorry second half is to make Tom and Austrailia look good , with a little bit of Dougray Scott , Thandie Newton and Hopkins thrown in for credibility . the inclusion of Rhames is pointless and only goes to serve the fact that the audience preferred him over Cruise in the first instalment . Woo has seriously let himself down this time . it's as if Paramount have said to him ' look John , you are directing the new MI movie , but Tom has all the say , just put your Rainbows , Doves and slow motion , and let the audience spend ! ! ' plus all through the film , Cruise looks like he's in a shampoo commercial . . . . . why ? because he's worth it . a shambles
my martinis ' still dry . . . .	Using an astounding array of weapons , Agent 007 has singlehandedly wiped out an army of Her Majesty's enemies . But when a lovely captive slips a knife into 007's ribs , the super spy's boss decides it's time his top agent sharpen his lethal edge . So James Bond is off to a health spa . However his " vacation " is cut short by Largo , a power - mad mastermind set on carrying out his plan for worldwide nuclear blackmail . On Largo's side , the murderous femme fatale Fatima Blush and vile SPECTRE chief Blofeld . But Bond does have an ally though , Largo's girlfriend , the willowy Domino , who falls for Bond . . . . the notoriety is far superior than the film its self . after over ten years , Connery returns as bond , but with a few limitations . obviously this isn't an official bond movie so lines such as ' shaken not stirred ' and ' Bond , James Bond ' are not used fully in a sentence . a remake of ' Thunderball ' , this has all the elements os a bond movie , girls , gadgets , locations , just none of the execution . Connery is looking more like Bob Monkhouse than a suave secret agent and who has ever seen 007 in a pair of dungarees ? there is still a lot of fun to be had and the script is full of innuendo that makes you titter every now and again . the set piece with the bike is fun , as is Bonds fight with Pat Roach , but the funniest thing in this movie is the video game showdown between Largo and Bond which puts the playstation 3 to shame . obviously when playing a video game for money , you do need to have shock treatment don't you ? the soundtrack is very bad though . sounding one minute like it's coming from a porn movie , steadily going into a gameshow theme . editing in some places is atrocious , and can make the film a little sluggish . if you are a die hard Bond fan , then this needs to be in your collection , if not see it for Connerys ' pay in . average .
one part brave , three parts fool . . . .	The Kingdom of Alagaesia is ruled by the evil King Galbatorix , a former dragon rider that betrayed his mates and his people in his quest for power . When the orphan farm boy Eragon finds a blue stone sent by Princess Arya , he sooner realises that it is a dragon egg . When the dragon Saphira is born , Eragon meets his mentor Brom , and becomes the dragon rider foreseen in an ancient prophecy that would set his people free from the tyrant Galbatorix . Eragon meets the rebels Varden and together they fight against the evil sorcerer Durza and the army of Galbatorix in a journey for freedom . . . since the release of the lord of the rings trilogy around Christmas time , it now seems tradition to release a fantasy film every Christmas time , hoping it will cash in on the rings fortune . well if this is what we are in for every Christmas , bah ! humbug . in favour of story and a decent narrative , the film focuses more on the splendid scenery ( always from a ariel point of view , with people on horseback ) and special effects , which at times are very good , and at times very poor . the stellar cast should know better , especially Malkovich , whose mercifully short role , just involves him moping around a room , threatening Robert Carlyle . Carlyle hams it up as the wizard , who has a penchant to kill ' orc ' like creatures with his grubby fingernails and snarl a lot . the obligatory role from Jeremy Irons comes as no surprise , as he's always in fantasy films just of late ( whatecer happened there ) and he plays the wise mentor to Eragon ( who is sometimes called Aragon in scenes , i swear it . even though the film is just over 90 minutes long , it out stays it's welcome and the final battle at the end , although impressive , is too little , too late . disappointing .
whats this , enter the ninja ? . . . . . .	this installment of the ever increasing series , sees another Stifler getting into a spot of bother . this time his name is Eric and he is a virgin , his girlfriend doesn't want to give it up , and it's getting desperate for him . he is going away for the weekend to the naked mile , where he will see his cousin ( another stifler ) , midgets with attitude , booze , and of course girls , naked girls . on top of all this , his girlfriend has given him a guilt free weekend pass to do whatever he wants . . . well , it's a lot better than the last installment , but comparing it to the other three movies , it's still pretty lame . what we get here is a hybrid , of bachelor party , porky's , and the ski school series , which while these movies where funny in the eighties , just don't seem as good when you're not a teenager experiencing , what they are experiencing on screen . but the story is good , the cast are great , and of course there are girls galore . if you are a fan of the series and like predictable comedy , with a really pathetic sloppy ending , then this is for you . if you don't , get it out anyway , and see how much a movie company can milk a franchise for all it's worth and tarnish the name of a respectable original comedy . American pie meets meatballs . . . . . . not a tasty combination . still there are a few laughs to be had in the last fifteen , but only a few .
glum with dick and jane	i have always liked jim carrey . from his goofiness in ace ventura and the mask , to his more serious side in the truman show and man in the moon , he is a man of talent . it does not show in this film . carrey plays dick , a guy who has just become vice president with globodyne , a company that just a few days later becomes bankrupt . the same day carrey loses his job , his wife quits hers and decides to get a pool installed . ironic eh ? dick finds it increasingly difficult to find work due to not being able to swallow his pride and get a lesser paid job . so they do what any normal person would do , resort to crime . the film is just so outdated and is a remake of the unfunny movie of the same name made in the seventies . the set pieces are unfunny and i'm sure the film makers know this because this was touted as a big summer release at one time . it's not carreys fault , like me , myself , and irene , he just doesn't have the material that suits his type of comedy . and to add insult to injury the final joke will probably not be got by anyone outside of north America . mediocre at best .
i am Hope Cassidy . . . . .	is what we hear throughout the entire movie by the titular line sayer . if this is supposed to be some homage to Spartacus they picked the wrong movie . a late sequel to the Sandra bullock movie made way back in 1995 , this film also shows what could happen if somebody got hold of your identity through the exciting sounding and brand new technology known as the internet . thats all the sarcasm i could manage for this film , basically the heroine , re-counts the story in flashback , although the narrative begins when she is apprehended and questioned . it's all fill in the blank stuff , and because of where the narrative starts , all rather pointless . the acting is fine and the locations beautiful , it's just that it is all just a little dated for me , which is a shame . there is no real excitement to the movie , because you know what the out come will be , and at the beginning of the final act , we all get treated to your token thriller twist . in a film where the heroine spends most of the movie saying her name and kicking bad guys in the nuts , 86 minutes just seems a little too long for this sort of material . poor
my name isn't pretty pretty , it's Barbarella .	Barbarella is an earthling who is sent on a mission by the president of earth to fine Duran Duran and recover a weapon he has invented . on her way to finding him she meets a different array of people and cultures and learns about sexual awakening and also teaches sexual awakening . in the 1960's this must have been such a psychedelic experience to watch , as i believe that the type of people who would have watched this were bohemian types who were under the influence of certain substances , so they would have understood it better than me . apart from the very bad plot and narrative , this is soft-core porn hiding in a very camp science fiction movie . basically the film sets up for different sequences of Barbarellas sexual awakening . and Fonda is very beautiful and at times the film is highly erotically charged . but that's as far as my compliments go . Fonda is wasted in her role and she is good but only because she is attractive . Hemmings is wasted in his small role and the only saving grace is Law as Pygor . still if you haven't seen the film it is worth watching for obvious reasons and you will be confused . maybe next time i will try certain substances , maybe i will understand it then ! !
i am the train . . . .	Vivian is a young teenage werewolf who must choose between the love for a young artist and loyalty to her werewolf lineage . others may have secrets , but none so more extraordinary as hers , as he is one of the last of her kind . she comes from a line of shape shifters , those who are able to change from human form to lycanthrope at will . when her affections for a visiting artist threaten to reveal her family's secret society , she must decide whether to follow her heart or betray the secret vows of her family . . there is a line in the film that goes something like ' i don't go to the meetings to kill , i like to run ' . well this sets the tone up for some very bad free running scenes , as we see the teenage hounds of love randomly kicking themselves off walls as and when they feel like it . set in Roumania , the film goes a totally different path to the novel ( that was set in the states , bu maybe this is the only way they could have got Martinez ? ) and doesn't really have a Strong enough story or cast to keep your attention span satisfied . the cast are amiable ( cheesy ) enough to make this just watchable , but the whole thing looks rushed and dated compared to other movies out like this at the moment . but the music is good , if somewhat out of place , and there are some hilarious set pieces , with some unintentional laugh out loud moments ( see free running , or the ' i am the train ' line ) . it all ends with a whimper rather than a growl , and is instantly forgettablewhen your movie is advertised as ' from the producers of Underworld and the Covenant ' you know what to expect .
i am the drone . . . .	Having escaped her abusive ex-husband Goss , recently released from state prison , Agnes , a lonely waitress with a tragic past moves into a sleazy , run-down motel her lesbian co-worker R . C introduces her to Gulf War veteran Peter , a peculiar , paranoiac drifter and they begin a tentative romance . However , things don't always seem as they appear and Agnes is about to experience a claustrophobic nightmare reality as the bugs begin to arrive . . . the films premise is very different , and for those who do not know the story or what the movie has in store , it goes from a very slow burning drama , to a twin peaks style nightmare that somehow just doesn't work . the film doesn'r really know if it is an anti-war movie or an anti-drug movie , but in someways they both fit the bill . the film does have some very nasty moments including the teeth pulling scene , but both of the leads are ridiculously over the top , you find yourself laughing , rather than being shocked . and considering that this movie is directed by the man who gave us the exorcist ( referenced in this film ) and the french connection , which i know are both well over thirty years old , i was expecting something a little bit more special . Jade was even better than this . instantly forgettable .
i'm an alcoholic , not a Barbie doll . . .	a simple light comedy , that probably only got the green light because Billy Bob Thorntons name was mentioned in passing . the premise is simple , a purl who was scarred by the titular character has become a successful novelist , thanks to his dealings with Mr . Woodcock . when he is invited back to his home town to receive an award , he is horrified to learn that his mother is now dating his former nemesis . now he will stop at nothing to split the two apart . and thats the story , done a thousand times before , done funnier and more original than this , but it is sometimes quite good due to the dead pan delivery of Thornton and the reasonable straight performance by Scott . Sarandon does the best thing she can do by stepping on the sideline and let the two leads battle it out , but all in all it's highly unoriginal but is worth ninety minutes of your life . if you like predictable comedies with a bit of slapstick , you could do a lot worse than this .
you three piece uncle sam mother . . .	When her son disappears and is believed to be dead , a single mother blames an African - American man from the projects for the kidnapping , creating a racial controversy . An African-American detective and a white missing child researcher team up to investigate the case , which they discover may be more complicated than they expected . . . . though the film is slickly made and has fantastic production values , the last fifteen minutes of the film absolutely ruins it's intention . most people know it's not about a missing child , it's about the racial tension caused because it appears to the community that a whits woman is getting priority over there community life . Jackson as usual is very good as Lorenzo but even he struggles with the material . but what also ruins the film is the usually fantastic Moore . here she is totally miscast as the mother and really overacts in her scenes , which makes it hard for the viewer to feel sympathy / empathy toward her . if the film had been made ten years earlier and had a better script then this could had been something , but with silly sub-plots and having a writer who does not seem to know how to end a film , this is a real waste .
i'll tell you where i'm going , i'm going crazy ! ! . . . .	After the confrontation with Chris , Jason presumed dead , is taken to the Wessex County Morgue . There he escapes killing an attendant and a nurse , making his way back to Crystal Lake Camp . Six teenagers rent a cabin next to the Jarvis ' in Crystal Lake . Soon Jason finds his way to eliminate all who trespasses his way , but not for long . There are two survivors left , a girl and her little brother , Tommy Jarvis . The final battle will define their destiny , be prepared for the Final Chapter . . . it's surprising that this supposedly ' final chapter ' , hardly sees Jason in it at all . it's the same old story on Camp Crystal lake , gang of kids go there for a good ol ' time , and their fun is rudely interrupted by the man in the mask . the film isn't trying too hard to be anything but what it is , a stalk and slash movie , but if this was going to be the final chapter , they could have done something a little more special with the ending just to close up the series . thank goodness that the makers of the film knew that they had a cash cow on their hands , because this would have been a terrible end to what is now one of the best loved horror franchises out there . i'm not saying that the other sequels are gold dust , but even part 3 is a little better than this . the performances are good , and Tom Savini does a good job with the make up , but it's all just a little disappointing come the end .
i need proof of life	John Seeger is a sort of mercenary who is forced into a job following the kidnapping of his recently deceased friends family . he is instructed to follow orders , else the family will be murdered . Seeger does not like theses kind of orders . . . Seagal is back again , in his probable sixth film of the year . and unfortunately , his films do not seem to be getting a lot better . but again they are better than some of his recent direct to DVD movies such as submerged and out of reach . this time Seagal does do most of his own fighting and there is hardly any dubbing to the main star , but the fighting is very poor and slow and Seagal is as wooden as ever . but as a fan of Seagal , you don't watch his films for his quality acting . you are hoping that he can hark back to his heyday of hard to kill or even out for justice , but with his ever expanding waistline , you know in your heart of hearts , it just won't happen . the story is sluggish , characters are wasted and not given any real development and the narrative is baffling . but extra marks to the lighting crew for covering Seagals chin up so well . i would say do not see this , but as a fellow Seagal fan i would ignore this advice and see it anyway . lets hope his next film is a little better .
am i Lionel Richie ? . . .	Cedric the ' Entertainer ' plays Jake , a seemingly regular guy who has no idea who he is after being hit over the head by mysterious assailants when he finds himself entangled in a government conspiracy , Jake and his pursuers become convinced that he is an undercover agent . another disaster for the most ironically named person in Hollywood , this movie is one clichéd messy scene after another , totally un-pc in some scenes , and features lots of silly scenes that you can see coming a mile off . the writing is at best average , and most of the jokes fall flat , but it's mercifully short , and it's quite amusing in places . twenty years ago , Eddie Murphy would have made it , and it would have been a damn sight better , but it's not 1988 , and it's not coming to America . at least Lucy Liu escapes with some dignity . not a total abomination , just dull .
it's like killing a unicorn . . . .	Lazy court-process clerk and stoner Dale Denton has only one reason to visit his equally lazy dealer Saul Silver : to purchase weed , specifically , a rare new strain called Pineapple Express . But when Dale becomes the only witness to a murder by a crooked cop and the city's most dangerous drug lord , he panics and dumps his roach of Pineapple Express at the scene . Dale now has another reason to visit Saul : to find out if the weed is so rare that it can be traced back to him - - and it is . As Dale and Saul run for their lives , they quickly discover that they're not suffering from weed-fuelled paranoia : incredibly , the bad guys really are hot on their trail and trying to figure out the fastest way to kill them both . . . . . Seth Rogen was great in Knocked Up and Superbad , but compared to those two movies , this is fairly mundane . James Franco is amazing as Sol , and shows that he has potential to be a star in comedy . it really harks back to the likes of midnight run , and fast times at ridgemont high , but the stoner jokes do come fast , but are never that funny . the story has been duplicated endlessly , and having the weed connection is a good idea , but it doesn't pay off in the end . there are some kooky characters who raise a few laughs , but it seems to go on forever and it feels rather bloated toward the end .
you kill fruit . . . . .	Santa's got problems : it's a few days before Christmas and production lags , Mrs . Claus is about to give birth and wants family time , and Jack Frost is on probation under Santa's supervision . Santa tries to support his wife by bringing her parents to the North Pole ( to preserve the secret of Santa , they must think it's Canada ) . Santa also brings his ex , her husband , and their daughter Lucy . Inside the toy factory , Jack makes mischief and hatches a plan to become Santa . With Santa juggling that many snow globes , something is bound to go wrong . But if things get too difficult , Santa can always exercise his option to invoke the Escape Clause . Will he ? from the upstart , you can really tell that the franchise is rapidly running out of steam , with the addition of Short , i thought this would be something a little different , but instead we get the Mr . Freeze of the franchise . with embarrassing one liners and hamming it up like bacon in a butchers , Short must have been strapped for cash . Allen as always is his laid back self and plays Santa well , and somewhere in the movie there is a message about not forgetting the true meaning of Christmas , but it all goes too sickly sweet toward the end . but it's for the kids , and no doubt if i was still seven , i would have lapped it up and got even more excited about the holiday .
a side of Jason fingers . . . .	Jason Voorhees , the living , breathing essence of evil , is back for one fierce , final fling . Tracked down and blown to bits by a special FBI task force , everyone now assumes that he's finally dead . But everyone assumes wrong . Jason has been reborn with the bone-chilling ability to assume the identity of anyone he touches . The terrifying truth is he could be anywhere . Or anybody . In this shocking , blood-soaked finale to Jason's carnage-ridden of terror , the horrible secret of his unstoppable killing instinct is finally revealed . . . . . if you can get your head round the fact that Jason can morph and put his heart into any living person , then this is just your below average slasher flick . they have really downgraded since Manhatten and the budget really shows . it looks really cheap throughout and the acting is mediocre at best . there are some inventive killings and nods to the evil dead and of course Freddy , but this cannot excuse what this film is , a tired old dog that needs to be put down . a real shame .
hows your white man ?	In the close quarters and brutal fighting of the World War II Pacific Theater , the U . S . Intelligence services desperately seek a fool-proof encryption code , immune to the code breakers of the Japanese . The answer is soon discovered in the ancient language of the Navajo . Enlisted into the Marine Corps are several " Windtalkers " who are deployed to front-line areas in the Pacific , to use their language as an impossible-to-crack secret code . A drawback , however , is that the U . S . military soon puts forth a directive that the Windtalkers must never be captured alive by the enemy , so additional Marines are assigned to make certain that this directive is carried out to the letter . . . A good premise and a good book , is given the Hollywood polish via the gift of John Woo and Nicolas cage in full serious mode . it's not a very good combination , i'm sad to say . Released in a time when we had four years worth of serious war movies , thanks to Saving Private Ryan , it lacks character development , storytelling and a good source of narrative . just as we begin to learn a little about some of the characters , Woo decides to go for stereotyping and unleashing the power of slow motion and pyrotechnics . we have the racist soldier , who is saved by a Navajo . we have the soldier who is always going on about his wife , obviously he gets blown up . Cage tries to ignore Beach , and just ' protect the code ' , they end up good friends . a couple of good set pieces cannot cover the fact that this is trying to hard to be like a real war masterpiece , the score doesn't go with the film , and it's at least twenty minutes too long . having not seen the directors cut , i cannot compare , but it's supposed to be a lot better , but can i justify the fact that i need to sit through bloated character development and predictable characters ? i usually love the work of Cage and Woo and Face / Off is a fantastic movie . this is more like Face / It . . . . mediocre film making . .
you cursed yourself John Bell . . . . . . .	an unknown mother finds a file stating that ' something terrible ' happened a long time ago . basically what happened is that a girl called Betsy Bell was subject to numerous attacks by a spirit , sometimes entering her body , sometimes causing her physical abuse , always causing her mental abuse . the same thing happened to her father John Bell , while less abusive , subject to the same mental and physical torture , that eventually led to his death . at first the family believe that Betsy is having nightmares and all her screaming is because she is a big pansy , but when the family turn black & white via the gift os special effects and editing , they begin to realise that something sinister is happening . is it a curse put on to them by a nasty witch ? well whatever it is , they try to get help at first from a drunken vicar , but once his bible gets thrown across the room and torn apart , they just decide to sit there and do nothing . it's a good job then that the ' evil spirit ' is nothing more than Betsys ' innocence wreaking vengeance on John for being a dirty old man . that is the twist , a spirit that can spot a sexual abuser from a mile off . based on true events ( allegedly ) an American haunting starts off quite promising , with all the flashy jump cuts and screeching sounds . but then it's back into familiar scar territory , with an artistic slant . but after a while , the editing starts to induce headaches , and whoever decided to have the spirits POV in black & white , deserves not to work in film anymore . it truly destroys whatever credit this film has . Sutherland is fine in his role , but by the end , he is reduced to coughing and shouting ' why , GOD WHY ! ! ! ! ' Spacek is wasted in her role as the mother , and does nothing more than stand outside her daughters room trying to get in . this is supposed to be based on one of the most famous ghost stories in American history , it's such a wasted opportunity . disappointing , given the source and the cast .
they are the system . . .	in another re-make of an old Japenese horror film , this is again aimed purely at the teens and has all the good stuff included on the unrated DVD ( to make more money of course ! ) . the premise is almost the same as the Ring . people are logging on to computers and getting messages asking if they want to meet a ghost . what follows are excerpts of people taking their own lives , and soon , the people who have seen the message , start to see strange apparitions and eventually lose the will to live ( much like most of the audience ! ) and die in different ways , hanging , jumping off buildings and even turning into ash . the setting is moody , and the soundtrack is the same as every other horror made in the last five years , slowly building the orchestra up while the person on screen is looking around a corner expecting a fright and . . . you know the rest . the cast are amiable enough and do the best with the script given , and the effects are creepy enough for a horror film but it's just a case of seen it all before , therefore wasted effort .
eye cannot see the point . . .	Sydney , a young , blind violinist is given the chance to see for the first time since childhood through a miraculous corneal transplant . As Sydney adjusts to a dizzying new world of colours and shapes , she is haunted by frightening visions of death itself capturing the doomed and dragging them away from the world of the living . Terrorized and on the brink of insanity , Sydney must discover whose eyes she has inherited , and what secret visions they have held . . . another remake of a successful J-horror , sees us dive into the mundane once more . but this film did have potential , what with Paula Wagner producing , and rising star Alba in the lead , the film doesn't really live up to it's expectations . watered down for the PG-13 friendly audience , the tension and scares of the original are blitzed away into silly jump scares and ' tense ' incidental music . the ending of the film kind of reminds me of the mothman prophecies , and though Alba does put in a decent performance , the rest of the cast appear in auto pilot . if you found the recent ' one missed call ' and ' pulse ' nerve wracking then this is definitely for you . if not , stick to the original . eye did
can't see the woods for the trees .	In 1965 , after provoking a fire in a forest , the rebel teenager Heather Fasulo is sent to the boarding school Falburn Academy in the middle of the woods by her estranged mother Alice Fasulo and her neglected father Joe Fasulo . The dean Ms . Traverse accepts Heather in spite of the bad financial condition of her father . The displaced Heather becomes close friend of he weird Marcy Turner , while they are maltreated by the abusive mate Samantha Wise . During the nights , Heather has nightmares and listens to voices from the woods , and along the days she believes that the school is a coven of witches . When some students , including Marcy , simply vanish , Heather believes she will be the next one . . . . . part suspiria , part the craft and part the evil dead , the woods is nothing short of average , disguising itself as a Gothic horror . it's not the casts fault though as they are all really excellent . it's just the screenplay is below average and relies heavily on the power of Clarkson and Campbell . the films threatens us with becoming exciting on a few occasions , but it just becomes muddled and ends up more of a fizzle than a bang . with a few plot holes to make the flow of narration stop , the woods is just another horror / thriller that will be forgotten about quickly .
there's a storm coming . . . .	In the near future , Toorop is a mercenary who takes the job of escorting a woman named Aurora from Central Asia to New York . While he thinks this is just an ordinary mission , he gradually finds out that his guest is carrying twins that have the potential to become the next Messiahs - and everybody wants to get their hands on them . . Babylon A . D , or how 20th Century Fox stole my movie , hacked to bits , and released it to cater for the stupid young demographic who will only watch it for the explosions and effects . this movie is average thanks to the movie studio , otherwise , it's pure fromage of the highest order . Both Diesel and Yeoh have amazingly funny moments of self realisation , when spurting out the ridiculous script and ruining around trying to make this look as serious as Children of men . the rest of the cast are really overacting too . Depardiu looks absolutely ridiculous as the crime lord , who looks more like something out of the hitch hikers guide to the galaxy rather than an intimidating force . Rampling is beyond over acting in her scenes and is really difficult to digest , and Lambert Wilson is just re-hashing his Matrix role , and explains the plot of the film to Diesel . it's visually stunning , with some decent effects and great cinematography , it's just a shame that the studio decided to mess around with the film , because it could have been something . instead it's just another forgettable film from the cannon of Diesel , who once showed so much promise as becoming the next ' action star '
i want everything i've ever seen in the movies !	what's the best way for a producer to make more money ? to make a Broadway flop ! that's what ! Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom come up with the perfect plan , to make a Broadway production of ' springtime for Hitler ' , the most crass offensive , UN P . C musical in the history of movies . they accumulate the money by conning old women and seducing them for cheques . but lo and behold the musical was a success and they land themselves in big trouble . well , having just sat through this i have a feeling that this was a little ironic . was the filmmaker trying to make the film a little like ' springtime for Hitler ' ? . Matthew Broderick and Nathan Lane are fine in their roles , but the transition from screen to stage back to screen is complicated and messy as the sentence itself . Will Ferral is plain embarrassing in his role as the scriptwriter and should start to choose his roles carefully . having not seen the original or the west end version i really have nothing to back up my opinion . but at the end of the day , it is my opinion . not a bad film , the production value is very good and so is the choreography , but the film failed to inspire me . not bad just , bland .
mike , meet alchemy . . . .	Mike , following his release from a psychiatric hospital , teams up with old pal Reggie to hunt down the Tall Man , who is at it again . A mysterious , beautiful girl has also become part of Mike's dreams , and they must find her before the Tall Man does . They reach an Oregon cemetery that has had all the bodies dug up and removed . Realizing this is the work of the Tall Man , they venture inside armed heavily . But the Tall Man still has his deadly flying spheres - and a couple of cronies who will stop at nothing to keep their evil plans a secret . . . . in this sequel to the original classic , director Coscarelli has gone all evil dead and all out action , which kind of ruins the whole proceedings . gone are the bizarre images , the nightmarish scenes and set pieces , in we get more laughs , more gore and more spheres . the on saving grace is that the film does carry on from the original and there is a little catch up for those who cannot remember the original . but the sets are not as prominent and Gothic and the effects rely more on splatter than stunning . there is still a little fun to be had though with the spheres different utilities and inventive deaths , but it feels like the makers were just cashing in on a great movie to stand proud with the other gore-fests released in the late eighties . disappointing .
suffers from the uninvolved second act syndrome . . .	from all the media coverage this movie received in the UK , this was expected to be a sleeper hit . what starts great and ends even better , suffers from one of the most pointless , thumb twiddling second acts i have ever seen . basically the story is that some ' unknown people ' ( cannot say terrorists ) have let off some dirty bombs across several parts of LA . so a sort off martial law comes into effect , where if you get out of your car , the police will manically shoot you , with constant info coming in from radio , the safest thing to do is to seal up your doors etc , and wait for it to pass over . the trouble is , Brads wife have only got herself a job ( unlike Brad ) , and he is unable to get in contact with her . so reluctantly he seals his home with some random bloke . then his wife returns home , Brad cannot let her in as she could be infected with deadly toxins . . . then the film goes amazingly downhill from there , for the next 30 or so minutes , we are treated to the two arguing from in between the seal , him stating he will never leave her , and then Lexi phoning her relatives saying to talk about some other random stuff . this becomes tedious after ten minutes , so the makers decide to up the tension by putting random police searches now and again , so Lexi has to hide behind a bin . this is the problem that the makers have with this film . the beginning is so nail biting and tense , that they really had to come up with a genius second act to keep it going , which obviously they didn't . but , they do redeem themselves a little with a fantastic ending , but it's a case of too little , too late . so really if you watch the first 28 minutes and then go and do some cleaning , and make sure your back for the last 10 minutes , you will have on of the most taut thrillers ever made . but then it wouldn't make sense . disappointing
can't you see the sin ? . . . . . .	never trying to be anything else than your average b-movie horror , see no evil succeeds on many levels , and fails on many too . the story is complete b-movie garbage , your average tale of religion being used as an excuse to commit extreme violence , and obviously a back story about a boy who was abused by his mother . the set designs are wonderful to look at and are very well imagined , but the sets alone do not make a good film . the script is very poor and gives no sort of history to anybody apart from Jacob Goodnight . the lighting is also very poor in some places and it is clear that the makers of the film were thinking of Wes Cravens ' ' People Under the Stairs ' when filming this . but the kills are every gory and in some places are imaginative and the presence of Kane as the killer is a genius move by the makers as he is very intimidating with his handsomely ugly looks . even though the slim running time goes in the films favour , it fails due to the performances of the other actors involved . to be fair on them , the material they are given isn't of high standards , and the characters they are playing are not likable enough to care for . if you like straight to video horrors circa early nineties with no story and plenty of gore , then this will be right up your street . otherwise , this is forgettable stuff .
lift going down . . . .	Claudia is a young woman in a hurry to return to the hospital bedside of her dying grandmother . Tommy is a young punk on his way to elope with his girlfriend Francesca and rescue her from the physical abuse by her drunken father . Karl is a husband and father with guilty secrets that must be erased from his apartment before his daughter gets there . All three , in other words , have an urgent need to be somewhere else . But all three are trapped in an elevator one holiday weekend in a deserted building . . . this is such a great premise for a movie , being locked in a cooped up area unknowingly with a psychotic killer , never knowing when he will strike , but down to bad screen writing and poor acting , and even worse cgi , it never gets above average . the guy who plays Karl is the worst of the lot , i just cannot get past the fact that he looks a lot like Ed Norton circa fight club , and does not convince in his part . Tamblyn is good in her role as is the other guy , and there respective stories are quite good and do have a sense of urgency to them , but never really elaborate , which is a shame . and the cgi tries too hard to be like panic room , but just looks so out of place in this film that it irks the viewer rather than impresses . i'll take the stairs next time . . . .
would you like a smint ?	Three college students take a detour from their partying , enticed by a beautiful European woman who promises seclusion , safety and maybe even romance . What they get is a living hell where they are sold to the highest bidder who's fondest wish is to kill them slowly . Hostel : Part II also follows two American men who , on the flip side of the coin , are willing to pay to join an exclusive club where a life will end at their hands . . . any way they like . Roth returns with another dose of Gore-nography , and this time , he has reduced the dosage . the cleverest thing this movie has to offer is that it's shown from the perspective of the bidders , and how the selling of the tourists work . for fans of the original , Paxton returns in a brief , but pointless cameo , and to make things a little more ' disturbing ' , the three victims this time are all female . but this is just Hostel ' redux ' and with just over halfway through the decade , the sub genre of Gore-nography is beginning to dwindle . we have already endured three saw movies , ' cabin fever ' and the first ' hostel ' , now they are beginning to lose their freshness and shock factor . sure , the gruesome killings are still there , but you are expecting something pretty gruesome , so the shock has gone . but there are clever references to the slasher films of the seventies and Roth knows how to do dark , and even sends himself up making a guest appearance as a severed head . still , the film has a clever ending , with a nasty sting in it's tale . but Hostel part III would be a bad idea .
my best friends call me cash . . .	Comedy about the prospective Washington State Governor Al Donnelly whose only stumbling block on the road to power is his embarrassing younger brother Mike . To keep him out of mischief , Al forces one of his aides , Steve Dodds to keep an eye on him during the election . However , this is easier said than done . . . it was inevitable that the two leads would star in another film after the moderate success of ' Tommy Boy ' , and while this film does have some funny smile raising moments , why do the two leads seem wholly uninterested and bored throughout the whole film . Farley and Spade put in two of the most absent minded performances i have ever seen in a movie , and thanks to the supporting cast , it becomes more watchable . . . . justif the two put more of an effort into the film instead of thinking it would make money because of them two being there , and pratfalling with bats and car hoods . but it's still watchable enough for when the weather is bad , and you want something on in the background , where you don't have to follow a plot or care about what happens to anyone . mildly diverting , at best
death is different now . .	coming from ' Ghosthouse ' pictures , i was expecting something a little bit more interesting , and at least a bit exciting . the cast do nothing wrong with the script , it's just a poorly written movie , a sort of hybrid of ' Blade ' and ' Point blank ' . Liu spends the lengthy duration of the film in a serious bad mood , and Chiklis is on autopilot throughout . narrative is a little turgid , showing Lius descent into a vampire ( though never mentioned in the film ) in mini flashbacks throughout the movie , which slows the already snail like pace down a little further . it's not a bad film , it's just about 25 minutes too long , and could have done with some better editing , and a less stereotypical villain . poor effort from ' ghosthouse pictures '
it's Spanish for death , if you don't speak Mexican . . .	the film starts with a young man sitting on a wall recounting events of what happened the night before . Set on an island off the coast , a rave party attracts a diverse group of college coeds and a Coast Guard officer . Soon , they discover that their X-laced escapades are to be interrupted by zombies and monsters that attack them on the ground , from the air , and in the sea , ruled by an evil entity in the House of the Dead . . . bad acting , bad make up , awful soundtrack , dodgy editing , poor script , and some really bad narration , this should be one of the worst films in history . but it has a little charm to it . Boll could be one of the biggest geniuses that film could ever have created . does he know that he is making these really bad movies ? i really do think so , and i think he is just seeing how far he can push the movie system before they realise that he is taking the Micheal . his biggest inspiration must be Ed Wood , as there is a lot of influence to him in this movie ( the dodgy sets , bad dialogue , bad editing ) . the main cast just stand around looking for the next zombie to shoot and that basically sums the whole film up . the males get drunk and the women get naked . it's a blokes film alright . as i have stated before , there are some really funny parts to this film . especially . . . random inserts of shots from the video game . . about 50 minutes into the film , there is a very long shoot out , with matrix inspired sfx , dodgy techno music and plenty of gore , but it isn't very exciting . . Clint Howard , tongue firmly in cheek ? or method actor ? nowhere near as bad as what people say , quite entertaining , but very bad , this has to be seen to be believed . give it a go .
throwaway stuff , but has it's moments . . .	Dodge Connolly , a charming , brash football hero , is determined to guide his team from bar brawls to packed stadiums . But after the players lose their sponsor and the entire league faces certain collapse , Dodge convinces a college football star to join his ragtag ranks . The captain hopes his latest move will help the struggling sport finally capture the country's attention . Welcome to the team Carter Rutherford , America's favourite son . A golden-boy war hero who single-handedly forced multiple German soldiers to surrender in WWI , Carter has dashing good looks and unparallelled speed on the field . This new champ is almost too good to be true , and Lexie Littleton aims to prove that's the case . A cub journalist playing in the big leagues , Lexie is a spitfire newswoman who suspects there are holes in Carter's war story . But while she digs , the two teammates start to become serious off-field rivals for her fickle affections . As the new game of pro-football becomes less like the freewheeling sport he knew and loved , Dodge must both fight to keep his guys together and to get the girl of his dreams . Finding that love and football have a surprisingly similar play-book , however , he has one manoeuvre he will save just for the fourth quarter . . . although this film does have quite a few funny scenes and the two stars have the chemistry to make the film hold together , the whole thing is mediocre at best . it just seems that Clooney has been watching too many Cary Grant ' screwball ' comedies and is trying to mimic him throughout the movie . the main problem is that the film is overlong and some of the writing , while at times can be quite clever and endearing , drags and becomes dull and morbid . the sub-plot involving Carter is quite fun , but as before , it stretches too long for a film that would have been better suited to 90 minutes rather than nearly 2 hours . probably i should read up more on 1925 American football history then i would probably appreciate it more , but to me the film is clichéd and ultimately predictable .
i wanna buzz your butt . . . . .	Romance and Cigarettes is a down-and-dirty musical love story set in the world of the working class . Nick is an ironworker who builds and repairs bridges . He's married to Kitty , a dressmaker , a strong and gentle woman with whom he has three daughters . He is carrying on a torrid affair with a redheaded woman named Tula . Nick is basically a good , hardworking man driven forward by will and blinded by his urges . Like Oedipus at Colonus , he is sent into exile and searches to find his way back through the damage he has done . Romance and Cigarettes explores the cost and value of a relationship through life and death . When the characters can no longer express themselves with language , they break into song . what starts off as a novel way of telling a story , soon loses it's touch and makes the film become an ordeal of sorts . it's not that Tuturro is unable to tell a story , the story is very well written , it's just the execution of the whole thing is a little too ' quirky ' for my liking . but there is some fun to be had with the movie , the cast are great and all put in tremendous performances ( especially Winslet , this has to be her most sultry role yet ) , and one cannot help but smile when Walken comes on to the screen , but that's not enough to stop the film from failing . too many depictions and references to Christ and too many sub-plots come and go without being resolved . if you like musical , then sure go for it . if you don't like the idea of actors miming song to express their feelings , avoid .
E = MC hammered . . .	another comedy from the same people that bought you the fun enough club dread and souper troopers . this one is like an alcoholics fight club . every year the time as oktoberfest , there is a drinking competition known as beerfest , where teams from all around the world , compete to win a coveted prize ( alcoholic liver disease ! ) . when two brothers from the USA with German roots find out about this through the death of there grandfather , and get ridiculed by the German team they decide to get a team and train for a year in order to win the prize , the respect and their grandfathers nobility from the Germans . . . from the upstart , with a name like ' beerfest ' you are not going to expect the godfather . what you would expect is a film about people getting drunk , making idiots of themselves and having a ball , the first two happens all the way through the movie , it's the fact that it nearly takes eighty minutes until the real fun starts tat is the main problem . the story is good , the plot is great and the characters are well spanned out , it's just the execution of the film is so lame . yes their is fun to be had , but it just happens so rarely . i just hope they were drunk whilst making this so at least they had fun . a wasted film .
you never know when big momma might show up again . . . .	Martin Lawrence returns as FBI agent Malcolm Turner , a master of disguise who again goes deep undercover as the sassy septuagenarian " Big Momma . " The FBI has learnt that a computer software developer named Tom Fuller has created a computer virus that allows access to classified US government files , Fuller is planning to sell the virus to terrorist organisations all over the world . Upon hearing this , the FBI's best lead is Fuller's wife . So Malcolm goes undercover again as Big Momma in order to pose as Mrs . Fuller's nanny . . . . . . after a string of flops , it was inevitable that Lawrence would go back to his most successful role , that didn't have him sharing the screen with Will Smith . but the film isn't as bad as what it was made to be when first released , yes the film is lame , and carries a lot of the same jokes as the first movie ( fat jokes , female situations , it just has that kookiness to it to make the movie . . . tolerable . the plot is silly and the narrative poor , and anyone who would think that Big Momma was a real lady would need psychiatric help , but then this is Hollywood and anything can happen . apart from a second sequel to this . .
fancy a game of scrabble ? . . .	i would not have been surprised if this movie had been directed by Michael Winner himself , this is drivel from beginning to end , the performances are poor and the editing is some of the worse that i have ever seen , the one shot sequence showing various important characters is the laziest piece of editing that i have ever seen . so why such a high score ? Frankly because the film is hilarious . it throws logic straight out of the window , and seeing such a screen great like John Hurt utter lines such as ' phone the police . . . the numbers 999 ' is such a joy to watch . the red herrings , that are so blatant that if some one was holding a sign saying ' the bleeding obvious ' wouldn't appear out of context in this film . Elijah Wood drinking a pint and trying to convince as a romeo is such fun to laugh at , the pointless cameo by Alex Cox , ballbag n ' all , it's car crash cinema at it's best . i still cannot decide if this is a comedy , because nothing makes sense throughout the film and i was astounded by just how much i enjoyed such a piece of trash . watch it , laugh and then be disgusted with yourself . .
Evan help us . . .	Newly elected to Washington D . C . as a congressman , Evan has left Buffalo , New York in pursuit of a greater calling . But that calling isn't serving in the illustrious ranks of America's politics , but being summoned by the Almighty himself , who has handed Evan the task of building a new ark , much as Noah did before . With time passing by and his family belittled by Evan's newfound realisation , Evan will have to do the work that God has given him in what promises to be an unusual adventure for a man who just wanted to serve his country , might actually be serving humanity . the main problem with this film is the good part is like waiting for the flood to come . Carrell seems very restraint in his role , and looks like he hasn't been given free rein to flow as previously seen in films such as Anchorman and The 40 year old virgin . in the original , Evan was considered as the villain of the picture , so turning the most hated character in the original to the hero of the new movie is a very silly , but unique idea . the film is aimed solely at the kids , but a lot of the jokes will go way over their head ( the 40 year old virgin Mary ? Evans wife is called Joan ( of ark ) , but the main spectacle is saved for the imminent flood , where probably most of the budget has been spent . but by then it's a case of too little too late . an average bland comedy , with a sickly sweet message at the end .
good chemistry between the two leads , nothing else . . . .	A master thief recruits a notorious thief to help him steal two famous Faberge eggs from an impenetrable vault in an effort to pull off one final job and repay his debt to the Russian mob . . . it starts of just like any other thriller , we get a bit of black and white footage , and something happens , or does it ? it's an unoriginal heist thriller , with a little bit of Oceans 11 thrown in , and a bit of entrapment , sneakers and other better heist movies going . and the only thing this movie has going for it is Freeman and Banderas . they are really quite good together , and the scenes they share are undeniably the best things about the film , because their banter helps you forget about the plot , or lack of . it's flashily edited to distract , but it all becomes rather stodgy toward the end , when the ' revalations ' are revealed . it's not a bad film , just unmemorable and a bit silly .
he did deserve to die . . . . .	King David is back in town , and he is speaking his memoirs through a Dictaphone during his drive back . he goes to his old haunt and phones his nemesis moon , to declare that he has the money he owes him . blue sends mike and blue to collect his dues , but mike has a little grudge against king David , but the viewer has no incination to why this is so . whilst waiting for the debt collectors , King David announces that ' all drinks are on the house ' and meets Paul , a man who wants to write the ultimate story . once Mike and Blue arrive , an argument starts and King David is mortally wounded . he leaves everything to Paul , who drove him to hospital . what Paul discovers is King Davids memoirs and finds his ultimate story through King Pauls despicable deeds . but thats not all that Paul has to worry about . and when Moon finds out that Mike has killed King David , he sets his dogs on him . . . . after the opening twenty minutes , the narrative changes from the focus of king David to Paul who is living King Davids life through the medium of the cassette tape . now it is hard to show empathy toward King David . a man who gets women hooked on heroin and kills the mother of his child . we are supposed to find his journey somewhat eye opening , but all along , the man was a very nasty piece of work . this is where the film fails . how can the main character of a movie be liked , when he hasn't got a sensitive side in his body ? . there where a few times when i thought he would redeem himself , but Dickinson treats these set pieces really slap dash , that by the end of the said scenario ( or the film for that matter ) you do not really care who lives or who dies . DMX is as wooden as a forest , but serves justice to his character . Arquette looks like he's just waiting for ' scream 4 ' to come along and plays the ' dewey ' role nicely . all other characters are pure filler and stereotyped , but the on standout is Micheal Ealy as Mike , who really stands out in this film and with whom much of the story is based around . not the best film out there , and with a very nasty central character , which leaves very little empathy for the rest of the characters . just about worth the one watch .
they're just sheep . . .	While in Wales visiting her husband James , Adele tries to fix her relationship with her teenager daughter Sara . They see a weird memorial without the plate and with the name " Annwyn " marked , and local Dafydd explains that this would be the place where people go after dying in accordance with the Welsh mythology . Later , Sarah vanishes on the beach and the daughter of local fanatic shepherd , Ebrill , who died fifty years ago , appears in her place . Adele researches ways of trying to find how to rescue her daughter from Annway . . . when a psychological thriller , predominantly involves sheep , which isn't intentionally funny or tongue in cheek , it doesn't bode very well . this film is very clumsily made and has very weak narration , but suffers from ' too many twists ' syndrome toward the end . people pop up and doe , little girls give messages of may save her daughter , and Sean Bean just spends most of the film shouting and trying to stop Bello from assaulting the girl . oh yes , and some sheep commit suicide . it's not a scary film , and won't win any prizes for originality , and the shocking ' twist ' at the end , is very predictable . just a very mundane movie , with not many redeeming features .
you've got your whole life ahead of you . .	twenty-two year old Clay Beresford is a genius of finance secretly in love of his mother's secretary Sam Lockwood . Clay has a complex , expecting recognition from his mother Lilith Beresford that he is as capable as his father was , and he needs heart transplantation . When Clay finds a donor compatible with his rare blood , he requests his friend Dr . Jack Harper operate him under the protest of his mother that wants the famous Dr . Jonathan Neyer responsible for the procedure . On the eve of his heart surgery , Clay marries Sam and during the surgery , he experiences an " anesthetic awareness " that leaves his conscious but paralysed . Clay witnesses the dialogues in the room and discovers dark secrets about his surgery . as stupid as movies can get , this has to be one of the most silliest films i've seen in a long time . not because of the premise , it's pretty sound , it's the factual errors and the silly mistakes that occur during the operation . i'm from a medical background , so to the untrained eye , it wouldn't mean a thing , but to me , it bugged me big time . as i said before , the story is good , but the script is below par , and Christensen delivers a below par performance . i was cringing at his ' thought acting'when he was awake . Alba i usually endure , but she cannot play a character like this . Howard was brilliant as usual . it's a shame because this really had potential to be a nail biting thriller , but they threw it down the pan .
you had me at vermin filled . . . . . .	When Fiona's father and King of Far Far Away passes away , the clumsy Shrek becomes the immediate successor of the throne . However , Shrek decides to find the legitimate heir Artie in a distant kingdom with his friends Donkey and Puss in Boots to be able return to his beloved house in the swamp with the pregnant Fiona . Meanwhile , the envious and ambitious Prince Charming joins the villains of the fairy tales plotting a coup d'état to become the new king . . . a film that rates itself in its title , this has to be one of the laziest sequels to any animated ( or any other in fact ) movie ever . the excellent computer graphics are still there and at times are still stunning , but when you think about it , has anything changed in far far away land since 2001 ? the story is boring and there is no real humour for adults or children alike , which for a supposed family film is a big mistake . with the two best characters put in the background ( puss in boots and donkey ) the fun has but completely disappeared , even the sight jokes are unfunny and pointless . but with it's huge box office , people are still interested in the Shrek franchise . lets hope that the fourth movie does something magical and redeems its self . not Shrek the third , more like Shrek the turd . . .
next time i'll knock your damned head off ! !	Joe Kidd is a former bounty hunter and all-around tough-guy in the American Southwest . When a band of Mexicans find their U . S . land claims denied and all relevant records destroyed in a courthouse fire , they turn to force of arms . Louis Chama is their charismatic leader , spouting revolutionary rhetoric and demanding land reform . A wealthy landowner with interests in the disputed area , Frank Harlan , decides to settle things his own way . He hires a band of killers and wants Joe Kidd to help them track Chama . Initially , Kidd wants to avoid any involvement , until Chama makes the mistake of stealing Kidd's horses and terrorising his friends . when you look back at Eastwoods western catalogue , this compared to all the others is the weakest he has made . he looks extremely bored throughout , though one could argue that this is just him and the coolness of the character . there a few good set pieces , but this sort of film has been made many times over , and plus it doesn't help that Schafrins score reminds me of ' enter the dragon ' every time i hear it on the screen . if you are an Eastwood fan like me , you'll think the rookie is a masterpiece compared to this . very disappointing .
i will punch you in the shirt . . .	Mike Myers latest comedy is getting universally panned , and with the story and some bad editing clearly showing that the film has been cut , it's understandable . it suffers from the same fate as Goldmember did , Myers is clearly having too much fun making the film , putting in jokes that he finds funny and that will make him laugh , to really care about what the audience will think . this could be due to arrogance , thinking that his other franchises brought in the cash , so adding a few penis , fart , and sight gags , would earn the film cash . or maybe it's because he thinks that there is a little immature person in all of us that will think some of the jokes would stick , a few do , Ben Kingsley does raise a smile or too , and some of it is so bizarre , you cannot help but laugh at the silliness of it all . it starts off well , the first ten or so minutes are quite enjoyable , but then it soon turns in to the Mike Myers laugh in show . the musical interludes do not work in this movie , Alba and Timberlake prove that they are just pretty faces , and for some reason , the whole film feels like a poor mans dodgeball . still the Cameos are funny , the Waynes world reference is quite clever , and the bar fight is diverting . so it's not as bad as what the critics say , but compared to his other movies , it's a travesty . probably it's the wake up call that Myers needs , not everyone has the same sense of humour as you , remember this every time you see this movie in the bargain bin if your local media store , right next to the cat in the hat . . .
brothers are talking about you . . .	This epic depiction of thirty years of Chicano gang life in Los Angeles focuses on a teen named Santana who , with his friends Mundo and the Caucasian-but-acting-Hispanic J . D . , form their own gang and are soon arrested for a break-in . Santana gets into trouble again and goes straight from reform school to prison , spending eighteen year there , and becoming leader of a powerful gang , both inside and outside the prison , while there . When he is finally released , he tries to make sense of the violence in his life , in a world much changed from when last he was in it . . . another real life apparently true story based on someone or others life , but it does seem like a vanity project for James Olmos . but thats not saying that it is a bad film . it is very strong in the first act when it all happens behind bars , you cannot take your eyes off the screen . the problem is with this film is that it loses its way during the second act , and tries to get all ' Goodfellas ' on the audience , but just adding a few more ' Ese ' s ? ' into the script . three of the main problems i found with this film were . 1 ) the over use of the word ' Ese''2 ) wondering what what the film would have been like with Al Pacino in the lead3 ) laughing every time the narration set in , because it sounded like fat tony from the Simpson's . . but its not a bad drama , just Olmos loses the plot a little toward the end .
offers nothing new . . . .	despite a cracking performance from Walters and some good use of locations , life and lyrics is highly unoriginal and features the same old clichés and stereotypes seen in dozens of films in this genre . basically the story is about a aspiring DJ working in a record shop wanting a little bit more from life . as usual he's got a friend who has issues with his personal life and causes trouble . there is a girl involved and the bad guys in this all wear black and threaten people with guns and owe money to even badder people . all the boxes are ticked in this movie , threats , friends falling out with each other and then being mates again , the main character being able to live in a flat ( a very nice one ) in Brixton and have very expensive music equipment , despite only working in a record shop , him falling for a girl who is out of his league , and ultimately a predictable film with a predictable ending . but it's not difficult to watch due to some good performances , it's just that whilst watching it you can guess what will happen in the next scene , and it makes the viewing experience a little bit worthless . if this film is your thing , there is stuff to be enjoyed , but overall it fails to deliver due to its unoriginality .
we're in the middle of a war . . . . . .	Set in the early 21st century on Earth , Charles Weyland , an industrialist billionaire , leads an archaeological expedition in Antartica . Using thermal imaging satellites , Weyland believes to have discovered the ruins of an ancient pyramid temple that predates the Egyptian and Aztec pyramids buried under the ice . Once inside , the team finds the remains of humans with holes in the rib cage and the remains of facehuggers , meaning that the possibility of the temple being uninhabited is very unlikely . To make matters worse , a group of Predators are coming to the temple to perform a coming - of-age ritual that involves fighting to the death with the aliens . Soon , it becomes clear that only one species is getting out alive . . . . . . both franchises were good up until the last two alien sequels . then the teaser came out , amazing , then the trailer was released . . . it was OK . then the film was finally released . . lets say that it was not a good idea . as a fan of both franchises , i didn't care that Anderson was at the helm . i needed to see this . the problem is , it just doesn't deliver the goods . there are never enough battles between the two titular characters to get the adrenalin pumping , and there are no characters to really care about , where in the original movies you had Ripley and Dutch , proper heroes with real goals . the special effects are admittedly amazing in some parts , but effects do not make a story . the story is very simple and easy to follow , but it lacks tension , emotion and thrills . something you would expect from a film with this title . it is worth watching if you are a big fan of the franchises , but you will emerge from the film feeling a little cheated . this film could have been an amazing feat if it had a good story and some decent dialogue , but sometimes the film forgets itself , because it is trying to reference the others in the process . a major disappointment .
woah , you should let me go . . . .	Johnny Mnemonic is back after a 13 year hiatus , with this remake of a classic 50's staple sci - fi film . Johnny spends his time walking round looking moody and rather old and weathered , whilst a concerned and sometimes perplexed Jennifer Connelly , follows him around with her politically correct son , trying to bargain with him not to destroy the earth with his mate Gort . the premise is simple , to put it in Laymans terms , Johnny has been watching earth for a while destroying itself , and us silly old humans are to blame . he gets fed up , comes down to earth and simply states ' you know what , your taking ages doing this , so i'm gonna do it , via the power of my metallic insects ! ! ' thats the story , thats the film , with a little bit of independence day type special effects at the end , which everyone has seen in the trailer anyway . no is no excuse for this , this is poor movie making , the performances are dire , surprisingly not from Reeves , as he can do one dimensional in his sleep , so this is probably his best role to date ( not that i don't like Reeves , but his acting abilities are somewhat limited ) . the lack of tension makes the film less exciting and the ending just seems a little to quick and tidied over for me . it's not as bad as i was expecting , it's just a very dull and sometimes boring film , which has so much potential , but in the end will just end up on a lot of peoples worst films of the year list .
i ' axed ' you a question . . . . . .	Infamous vigilante , anti-hero Frank Castle is six years into his vengeance driven zeal as the Punisher when he brutally assaults a " beat the rap " party for notorious mob boss Gaitano Cesare . During the course of the massacre , he hideously disfigures overeager gangster Billy Russoti and murders a mafia lackey who turns out to be an undercover FBI agent . Agent Paul Budiansky , the ex-partner of the undercover Fed , joins the NYPD's " Punisher Task Force " to help bring Castle to justice , once and for all . A facially mutilated Russoti recovers from his run-in with the Punisher with revenge on his mind and recruits a massive army of psychotic killers , gang-bangers , and mobsters under his new alias " Jigsaw . " Distraught that he has now become the very evil he swore to battle , Castle is content to hang up his guns and quit the justice business for good . However , plans quickly change once he learns that Jigsaw has kidnapped the surviving wife and child of the dead federal agent . Forced back into the war , the Punisher now has to face off against Jigsaw's formidable army in order to save the lives of an innocent family his actions put on firing line . . . . after reading the reviews of this on this site , i was looking forward to a hark back to the eighties , a good old fashioned action movie which would be exciting and stupid . well it was stupid , but never exciting , Stevenson had to be one of the worse choices to play the titular character , he has absolutely nothing about him and wastes the character . another thing that bugged me was how much the transformation of Jigsaw reminded me of Nicholsons transformation into the Joker from Burtons Batman . West was good as Jigsaw , didn't overact too much and bought a bit of fun to the role . all in all , this is the disappointment i was expecting when i heard Jane was not going to be in this sequel .
' did you ever consider anger management ? '	here we go again . Seagal plays a getaway driver who does not getaway . and the guys he was driving for , think he has stolen their money . whilst in prison , Seagal meets a stereotypical ' gangsta ' Ice Cool , who will break him out of prison for a small fee . as usual , their are a few plot twists , explosions ans lots of stunt doubles kicking a whole lot of butt . reading the reviews of this and the poor quality of his last efforts , i rushed out and bought this one , just like i do whenever Seagal releases a new movie . i was pleasantly surprised with this one , as it wasn't too long and had quite a little charm to it . sue , Seagal still plays a cross between Lurch , John Wayne and in this film Barry White , but his voice double hardly has anything to do , and apart from the beginning fight , Seagal does almost all of his own fighting ( and their is plenty of it ) . as for the support , ' treach ' is awful and the rest of the cast ( apart from Mancuso ) are terrible and all typecast ( the camp bond villain , racial stereotypes , and henchmen ) . their are also a few really bad errors in this . obviously everyone knows that the first car chase has been taken from another movie ( it's so eighties ) . after Seagal has shot the man in the car and Treach blows it up , it suddenly turns to night for no obvious reason . when Seagal is fighting the guy with the knife in the factory , after he has thrown him out of the window , the henchman's sleeves go missing for no reason what so ever . and sometimes the editing is really bad . but for Seagal it is a return to form of sorts , and will satisfy fans who have not been impressed with his recent efforts . roll on his next movie .
as you wish . . .	In the beginning of the times , God created life into universe : light gave birth to angels , earth to men and fire to djin , creatures condemned to dwell in the void between the worlds . One who wakes a djin shall be given three wishes . Upon granting the third , an unholy legion of djins are freed through a doorway between the worlds upon the Earth . In 1127 A . D . , in Persia , a sorcerer lures and traps a powerful Djinn in the stone of secret fire . In the present days , a drunken crane operator drops the valuable statue of Ahura Mazda over the assistant of Raymond Beaumont on the harbour , and one worker finds the huge and priceless opal red stone where Djin is seized . Alexandra Amberson , who works in an auction house , receives the stone for evaluation and accidentally awakes Djin . The evil creature is released later , charges the stone with people souls and feeds with their fears , while chasing Alexandra to force to make three wishes and unleash the demoniac fiends upon Earth . it's horror film for horror fans made by people who know horror ( just see the cast ) , but they haven't made the best movie in the world . the story and the plot are paper thin , and one cannot help but think that the makers of the film were hoping that they would have another iconic horror legend in the vain of Jason or Freddy . it's not by any means the casts fault , Divoff is great as the titular character , and one cannot help but think why he he is reduced to cameos these days , he's the poor man's ray Liotta . it's gory enough and inventive enough to be watchable , but this is really a one trick pony , but the twist about ironic wishes is good .
look at me , i'm burning . . . .	Rose takes her daughter to silent hill , hoping to cure her of her sleep walking ailment . after a car crash , Roses ' daughter goes missing and Rose begins to start a desperate search to get her back . She ventures into a fog of smouldering ash , and pushed into the centre of a twisted reality that the townsfolk have been led to believe for the past thirty years , due to a terrible secret . chased by grotesque creatures , Rose begins to uncover the truth about Silent Hill and the connections it has with her daughter . . . having never played the original video game , i did not know what to expect , but at times i can imagine that director Gans has took clues and probably screen shots from the actual game on to the screen . at times you feel like you are watching someone play a video game , and at times you do become as frustrated as Sean Beans character . all the cast are fine especially Mitchell who makes this film her own , and will go on to be a great actress . it's just a shame that story and plot were placed secondary to visuals , which frankly are amazing . the titular town is very atmospheric and claustrophobic , but the creatures that lurk in Silent hill , make no sense at all . how did they get there and why are they there ? i'm sure at some point the movie explains this , but at ninety minutes into this , i had had enough of the plot and was just appreciating the visuals . another movie version of a video-game that just didn't hit the mark , and it showed so much promise . still , Sean Bean ; s coat was nice though .
i have to drop some timber . . . .	Shelley Darlingson was raised in an orphanage , finally happy when she blossoms into a fox and moves into the Playboy Mansion . Unfortunately , she's summarily expelled on her 27th birthday ( she's now too old ) . In desperation she takes a job as house mother for a sorority of misfits losing their house for lack of members . They have but a few months to find 30 pledges , or a sorority of mean girls will take over their place . Shelley figures that girls will pledge a house that boys find interesting , so she sets out to make the Zetas alluring , not act too smart , and host great parties . Can she succeed , and what about her own makeover ? Sabotage is everywhere , plus it's hard to be one's self . . . another easy movie to watch from Happy Madison productions , which gets an extra boost from its star faris . another fish out of water comedy which has become well known with the producers , The House Bunny isn't likely to offend anyone , and doesn't really rely on cheap gags ( think farts ) to get the crowd in . it's bright and breezy enough to raise a few smiles during its running time and the ZAZ girls are likable and quirky enough to make you root for their victory . Faris steals the show though and once again proves that she is likable and talented enough to carry a movie on her own . this won't make any dent on the comedy genre as it offers nothing really new , but to brighten up a dreary day , you could do a lot worse . very easy on the eye .
pop goes the weasel . . .	the shady surf city of Luna Bay , California , vampires quickly dispatch anyone who cross their path . Into this dark world arrive Chris Emerson and his younger sister , Nicole . Having just lost their parents in a car accident , the siblings move in with their eccentric Aunt Jillian and become new prey for the locals way of life . When Nicole unwittingly falls for a local vampire , Chris must locate and destroy the gangs lifeline before his sisters transformation is complete ; to do this Chris finds himself relying on the expertise of none other than Edgar Frog . . . this was never going to be a patch on the original movie , which had charm , laughs and one hell of a cult following . this could be deemed as a redux of the first film , but there is a lot of fun to be had throughout , spotting subtle references of the eighties and from the the first movie , although some of it does contradict the first film . story wise , it's as if the writers have taken the first films story and gave it a millenial edge , with a little point break thrown for good measure . the majority of the cast are good , given that the script is weak in certain places . it's a shame though that the main vampire , Shane isn't as mysterious or laconic as David was in the first film , but one cannot help when watching this film , referring to the other one . it starts off slow and gains momentum toward the end , and Feldman is a joy to watch whenever he is on screen , never taking his role or lines seriously and looking like he's having a lot of fun whilst making it . so it's not the tragedy i was expecting , but this should have been made a long time ago .
memories are like moonbeams	Kevin Spacey directs and stars in the life story of one Bobby Darin , a singer in the rat pack vein and a part time film star , with an ego the size of the moon . the story shows a younger version of Bobby , Showing his older self how to tell his life story . . . . this should have been a stage production , with all it's big production and great choreography . this is Spacey's baby though , he steals the limelight from all and sundry , and from the look of it , he is clearly enjoying himself portraying Bobby Darin . but the cast that has been put in this film is phenomenal with Bob Hoskins , Brenda Blethyn and John Goodman putting in all great performances . but it's Kate Bosworth who really Shines as Sandra , Bobbys ' long suffering ( aren't they all ? ) wife . at the end of the movie , you don't really learn much about Darin or his life , you do learn about his illness though . a good film , but it could have been a lot better . if you like Darin or Spacey see it .
i'll show you collateral damage ! ! !	Gordy Brewer's family were killed in an explosion . The man responsible is a Colombian known as The Wolf . When the government feels that they have more important things to be concerned about than Brewer , Brewer decides to take things into his own hands . He goes to Colombia to try and find The Wolf but discovers that it's not going to be that easy . And when a woman and her child get in his way he has to decide just how much like the Wolf he is willing to be . . . after the tragedy . this movie had a lot against it . Arnie is back in a revenge role , but where the audience where expecting something like Commando , we get something in the region of lukewarm heat . there are some silly things going on in this film . the one thing that stands out most , is that Arnie can go undercover wearing nothing but a Panama hat ! ! ! the saving grace of this movie is Cliff Curtis , who is wonderful as ' El Lobo ' . we all know that Arnie was trying to calm down after ' Eraser ' but true fans know , that if he kept his one-liners and added a little bit of Commando in the closing third , then this would have been an amazing spectacle . instead it's just an average movie . which for Arnie , is plain wrong . .
what we need is more light . . . .	French mobster , Phillip Douvier has got a problem - hardly none of the other crime families give his family any respect . To try and fix this problem , he gives orders to murder Chief Inspector Clouseau . Thanks due to a mix-up an escaping criminal dies in Clouseau's car , and it crashes and explodes . Chief Inspector Dreyfus is delighted , but Clouseau , wondering who's out to kill him gets the help of his oriental servant Cato and Douvier's secretary and ex-lover Simone Legree to help solve the mystery . . . the last in the series that actually starred Sellers ( without using stock footage ) , this feels more like a series of sketches mixed in with a simple plot , rather than the fourth film in a successful series . for starters there is the little problem with Dreyfus , he was vapourised in the last instalment , so what the hell is he doing here ? ? not to worry though , he is hardly in it , and doesn't concern the plot greatly . but what this film does do is provide laughs , and they are big immature laughs to be had from this movie . all the slapstick with the cars driving into ladders , Sellers and Kwouks chemistry when it comes to fighting and pratfalls . this is all done with expertise and makes the film what it is , throwaway forgettable fun , not to be taken seriously at all . you could argue that the film is very un-pc in its portrayal of the eastern culture , but this is just trivial , as the viewer will be too bust having a good time to notice .
i hate manure . . .	The movie continues where the last one with Marty stuck in 1955 . But Doc Brown sent him a letter from 1855 through Western Union , that told him that after the Delorean was struck by lightning he was sent to 1855 and was unable to repair it , but has managed to bury it somewhere , where Marty can get to it in 1955 and hopefully the younger version of himself can repair it so he can drive it back to 1985 and then destroy it . But after finding it , Marty discovers that shortly after sending the letter Doc would be shot by an outlaw , Mad Dog Tannen . Marty then goes back to 1885 to save him and meets his ancestors . After finding the Doc , they were about to leave when Marty told the Doc that upon arriving the Delorean's gas tank was punctured , so they don't have any gasoline to run the car , which means they have to find some way to get the car to 88 mph . They decide to try pushing it with a locomotive . . . . the final film in the trilogy leaves the legacy with a whimper rather than a bang . it is not possible to understand this film ( or enjoy it ) without watching the other two ( duh ! ) . the main problem is that after the tremendous part 2 with its glorious story line and impression of the future , this had a lot to live up to , and unfortunately , it fails in doing this . all the cast are here and are fine especially Wilson as ' mad dog ' Tannen , and Steenburgen is great as Clayton , but by this time the franchise was getting tired and using the same in jokes and references to the first movie as part two did , so it's just a case of money for old rope . to get maximum enjoyment from this movie , you really do have to sit and watch all three in one sitting , but i would not advise that as it could prove bad for your street cred ! ! not a bad film by any means , but compared to the other two regarding story structure and narrative , this is disappointing
we're all trapped here . . . . .	Jack Ferriman recruits a team to investigate a mysterious vessel he has spotted floating adrift off the coast of Alaska in a remote region of the Bering Sea , they discover the remains of the fabled Antonia Graza , thought lost at sea for more than 40 years . It's a hell of a find , and the salvage rights alone could be worth a fortune . And by the law of the sea , any vessel discovered on international waters can be claimed by whomever is fortunate enough to find her and skilled enough to haul her back to port . But once on board the eerie , cavernous ship , the crew of the Arctic Warrior discovers that the decaying vessel is anything but deserted . It's home to something more deadly and horrific than anything they've encountered in all their years at sea . . . another totally scare free , but amiable horror from Zemeckis and Silver , but they have done something very special for the opening sequence , this alone deserves to be seen . but when a film has such a great opening , it has to keep up with the flow , and this doesn't unfortunately . for such a ' childish ' film , it manages to get quite a good clichéd group of characters together , but as always , you can pretty much guess who is going to die , and who will survive . the ship itself isn't particularly anything great , and i was expecting something a little more lavish ala ' house on the haunted hill , but it has it's fair share of dark corridors . but what the makers of the film should have elaborated on more , was the back-story , that we see in flashback toward the end , as this looks like it could have been a great stand alone movie , but instead it goes for the sailors in peril method . not a bad film by no means , but nothing special .
great film , in the last fifteen minutes ! !	there are two versions of this film , nothing significant just the sound effects and a few more head butts in the final fight . van damme plays Kurt Sloane , who has just seen his brother Eric crippled by the dastardly ' tiger ' tong Po . Kurt did warn him though , so its his own fault . anyway , as any good brother would van damme wants revenge and seeks advice from kindly Xian who trains him in muay thai by making him kick a tree , get chased by his dog kiki , almost drown and do the splits . there are some great scenes in this film , especially where Xian gets Kurt drunk and dance and fight . pure genius . then there is the finale , if you enjoy martial arts then this will get your adrenaline surging . van damme gets his ass kicked for the majority of the fight but as soon as he tells mylle ' don't worry ' he is back to his formidable best . maybe the dog chasing had something to do with it .
better to die like a tiger , than live like a pussy . . .	Down-and-out former professional Ping-Pong phenomena Randy Daytona is sucked into this maelstrom when FBI Agent Rodriguez recruits him for a secret mission . Randy is determined to bounce back and recapture his former glory , and to smoke out his father's killer - one of the FBI's Most Wanted , arch-fiend Feng . But , after two decades out of the game , Randy can't turn his life around and avenge his father's murder without a team of his own . He calls upon the spiritual guidance of blind Ping-Pong sage and restaurateur Wong , and the training expertise of Master Wong's wildly sexy niece Maggie , both of whom also have a dark history with Feng . All roads lead to Feng's mysterious jungle compound and the most unique Ping-Pong tournaments ever staged . There , Randy faces such formidable players as his long-ago Olympics opponent , the still-vicious Karl Wolfschtagg . Can Randy keep his eye on the ball ? imagine a cross between enter the dragon and dodgeball , and you've landed in the land of balls of fury . but the film never ever reaches the heights of the former movies . yes the the film has kooky characters , but Daytona is not a very interesting character , and thats where the main fault lies , the character has been done to death in funnier , more successful movies . but the saving grace in this movie is Walken , who is simply hilarious as Feng , with all his vocal talents used to his ability , he is one of the funniest villains seen on screen in a long time . it's such a shame he shows up too late to make the film more enjoyable .
you come from a long line of first born . . . . .	atheistic Katherine Winter is a former Catholic missionary that lost her faith on God after losing her daughter and her husband in Sudan , sacrificed by the locals that blamed them for the long drought . Presently she investigates religious phenomena with the intent of debunking them , finding a scientific cause for the event . She is invited to go to the small town of Haven , in Louisiana , where the river turned into blood after the death of a boy . After her arrival , each of one of the ten biblical plagues happens in the location dazing Katherine , who discloses the evil secret of the dwellers . . . . another by the numbers horror , from Silver and Zemeckis , courtesy of Dark Castle entertainment , featuring an Oscar winning actress , and still just as silly and enjoyable . nut they forgot to leave their tongue in cheek for this one , and it slightly lets the side down . the story is good and very interesting , but the first half is very bloated and has a ' children of the corn ' . we can all guess from the start that the townsfolk have something to hide , because they are all odd , apart from Morrisey , but here has to be one ' normal ' person doesn't there . and we can all guess that Ben will probably die toward the end because of his endless cross kissing and a little monologue indicating how he found god and how he shouldn't be alive . of course the main character has lost her faith in god after a tragedy ala ' ' Signs ' but if you have enjoyed the other movies by this company ( which to be fair have all had a critical bashing ) , you will find something here . the effects are good at times and terrible at times , and there are some major flaws in the narrative , but it's all good fun watching Swank do her thing . and there is the obligatory cameo from Stephen Rea , warning Swank of the prophecy . don't take it seriously and you will enjoy .
we don't put it on the table and call it caviar . . .	Financial " Master of the Universe " Sherman McCoy sees his life unravel when his mistress Maria Ruskin hits a black boy with his car . When yellow journalist Peter Fallow inflames public opinion with a series of distorted tabloid articles on the accident , the case is seized upon by opportunists like Reverend Bacon and mayoral candidate D . A . Abe Weiss . . . . trying to be a satire and failing on all accounts , the non-fire of the vanities dails on one main element , the casting . Hanks is woefully miscast as McCoy , the hotshot businessman who is having a fling and owns a 6 million dollar house , AND closes 600 million dollar deals a day . he just doesn't convince . the film is full of racial undertones and bias , but the steps the film takes to treat racism in the court room , could be deemed offensive to some peole as it is trying to hard to be funny . Willis is OK as fallow , but spends most of the film pretending to be drunk and falling over . all in all this has to be depalmas worst film out there , there never is much of the depalma magic , apart from the opening tracking shot of Willis which is a joy to behold . see it for curiosity value only
now thats what i call a one liner . . . . . .	On July 2nd , communications systems worldwide are sent into chaos by a strange atmospheric interference . It is soon learned by the military that a number of enormous objects are on a collision course with Earth . At first thought to be meteors , they are later revealed to be gigantic spacecraft , piloted by a mysterious alien species . After attempts to communicate with the aliens go nowhere , David Levinson , an ex-scientist turned cable technician , discovers that the aliens are going to attack major points around the globe in less than a day . On July 3rd , the aliens all but obliterate New York , Los Angeles , and Washington . The survivors set out in convoys towards Area 51 , a strange government testing ground where it is rumoured the military has a captured alien spacecraft of their own . The survivors devise a plan to fight back against the enslaving aliens , and July 4th becomes the day humanity will fight for its freedom . . . this is one of those movies that really does lose it's momentum when not viewed at the cinema . when first seen eleven years ago , it feel fresh , funny and vibrant . watching it today i felt the film was very patriotic , and very un P . C ( especially toward us Brits ) , and Will Smith has gone from quite endearing to purely irritating . his Captain Hiller is one whiny man , who can still spout out one liners , even after his best friend / crooner has been killed , and his Girlfriend / exotic dancer is MIA . but the effects are still stunning , and the set piece where the initial attack happens , is still awe inspiring . it's just the rest of the film , in the white house , makes it seem like the dummies guise to the west wing . but Goldblum is fantastic as usual , even though he is basically Dr Ian Malcom from Jurassic Park , and Hirsch is fine as the slightly racist comic relief . but the years have been unkind to the film and especially to Smith , who must watch this film and cringe every time his mouth opens . its full of plot holes and stupid characters and even stupider monologues from people who are hardly in the film . it's basically saying that everyone can be a hero , despite the fact that the world is being over run by silly aliens . and what is it with Emmerich and New York ? first this , then Godzilla , and then The day after tomorrow , he must have been thrown out of a few bars there . it was the event movie of 1996 , but then off the top of my head , it didn't really have any competition , did it ? Twister , Phenomenon and eraser are hardly classics , but for two hours of brainless fun with at the time great effects , you could do worse .
welcome to the fraternity . . . .	Wes is the most disaffected , cube-dwelling , clock-punching drone this planet has ever known . His boss chews him out hourly , his girlfriend ignores him routinely , and his life plods on in interminable boredom and routine . Everyone knows this disengaged slacker will amount to absolutely nothing , and so does he , until he meets the sexy , foxy woman named FOX , and then everything changes . Wes ' estranged father is murdered , and the deadly Fox recruits him into The Fraternity , a secret society that trains him to avenge his father's death , by unlocking his dormant powers . And oh boy does he have powers , as she teaches Wes how to develop his lightning-quick reflexes and phenomenal agility , he discovers that The Fraternity lives by an ancient , unbreakable code : to carry out the death orders given by emotionless Fate itself . Wes , with his wickedly brilliant and sexy tutor , plus the paternal guidance of The Fraternity's enigmatic leader , SLOAN , young Wes grows to enjoy all the strength and success he ever wanted . But , slowly , he realises there's more to his dangerous associates than meets the casual eye . And , as he wavers between new found heroism and vengeance , Wes will come to learn what no one can ever teach him ; that he alone controls his destiny . . . a big case of style over substance . the film is loud , brash and totally over the top , which in most cases i actually like , but this movie gets so bizarre it can actually become quite mundane at times . thats not to say that it hasn't got some fantastic set pieces and some funny scenes , but i just couldn't help but here the word ' matrix ' in the back of my head throughout . Macavoy is good in his role as the whiny hero whose life is hitting the doldrums , but he is outshone by the likes of Jolie and Freeman , who is great in this film because he uses a lot of profanity throughout . some of the ideas are quite , novel , but it all becomes a little convoluted toward the end , and as for the ' empire strikes back ' moment , it totally destroys any sense of thrills the film had . it's a good film , but there are too many plot holes , to make it a classic .
bad Dawg !	Morgan Adams is a female pirate who is given a piece of a treasure map by her dying father . there are two other pieces held by two of Morgans ' uncles , but one of them holds a grudge and will stop at nothing to get the maps and keep the treasure that is on Cutthroat island for himself . so it is a race against time for Morgan and her crew to get all pieces of the map , find the treasure , and stay alive ! ! you can tell by the fantastic sets , lavish costume design and gorgeous locations , that Renny Harlin spared no expense on this movie . its just a shame that he didn't spend more time on the script and the actors . Davis and Modine are good enough at what they are doing , but you could not care less for their cause . and when you find both leads irritating after a very short while , you know you are in trouble . i personally cared for Langellas ' character more as he was the only one who appeared to have a little depth in his role and steal every scene he was in . also with being at one time a major contender for a blockbuster , watching it can become tiresome and the story and script are very very bad . for a pirate movie , it never really delves into the legends of pirates , for an action adventure movie , it rarely is exciting , despite the marvellous set pieces and you can tell that no expense was there . but that too is another big problem , the set pieces are boring and too long . when one gets interesting , for example the escape from the island at the beginning of the second act , it just goes on and on and on and becomes dull . there is also some tragic use of cgi in some points during the film , but then contradicting myself it has the single best use of cgi i have ever seen in use in the nineties . so not a bad film , it would have been so much better if there were different leads and the script was rewritten and it wasn't so boring at times . watch it for it's beautiful sets and production values , but don't be surprised at why it bombed so hugely .
bite this . . . .	The nightmare isn't over , General Cain ordered The Hive to be reopened , and in doing so contaminated all of Raccoon City , a city of the dead , with Alice stuck right in the middle . Now , along with other survivors , Jill Valentine , Carlos Oliviera and his Captain , Nicholai , they must fight to survive , to escape the nightmare that has plagued Raccoon City . But now there is a new threat : Matt Addison has fully mutated into a seemingly unstoppable creature , code named Nemesis , who will stop at nothing until everything around it is dead , but it also has another agenda . . . the franchise continues in this , rather average second entry . Alice remembers everything ( again ) and the zombies start to attack . the story is pretty bad and so is most of the acting and the dialogue , but this wasn't the reason why i wanted to see this movie . the first one was pretty good and had some good set pieces , this has much more of the same , but also has the inclusion of an end of level boss who appears throughout the whole movie , with an almost infinite supply of rockets and bullets . the special effects are good , and this would be unfair to put this in the ' zombie ' genre . it's a silly big bang movie that has some silly editing funny fight sequences and a paraplegic zombie . it's not all that bad , but it's like McDonalds , nice while your watching it , but you will feel guilty after watching it .
i love being a turtle . . . .	After the defeat of their old arch nemesis , The Shredder , the Turtles have grown apart as a family . Struggling to keep them together , their sensei , Master Splinter , becomes worried when strange things brewing in New York City . Tech-industrialist tycoon Max Winters revives four ancient stone warriors and enlists the help of the foot clan to help capture ancient monsters . . . with the references to the previous three live action movies , this continuation isn't as bad as i thought it would be . the family have drifted apart , with Leonardo for some reason having to go away for a while to become a better leader , whilst the other three do their own thing . then comes along professor X and things become a little more complicated for the foursome . the story is good and captures the essence of the turtles from the dark horse comic , rather than the kiddie friendly series of the eighties and the movies of the early nineties . the film is much more at home being purely cgi , as a lot would not have been possible ( or too expensive ) for live action . the film is decidedly darker in tone than the previous entries and the CGi is really something to be in awe of . a very risky thing to do was to revive a ailing franchise from 14 years earlier , but they have just managed to pull it off . the voice casting is OK , but the set pieces are impressive making god use of the camera and the CGI . turtle fans won't be disappointed , but don't expect many people to convert to turtle power .
book ' em ducko	Howard , a duck the size of a human man , is accidentally brought to Earth through a laser beam in an experiment being performed by a Cleveland physicist Dr . Walter Jenning , and his assistant Phil Blumburtt . Howard ends up in Cleveland , where he rescues singer Beverly Switzer from a group of thugs . Beverly and Phil are friends , and when the government is told about Howard , she helps Phil and Dr . Jenning hide Howard from the authorities until they can get him back home - - but then an evil being arrives through the laser beam and takes possession of Dr . Jenning's body , putting Howard , Beverly , and Phil in a fight for their lives . . . more famous for being a total flop and putting Lucas nearly into bankruptcy , the film has a feeling of nostalgia to it whenever viewed , due to it mainly being stuck in the year it was made . the years have not been kind to the film , Howard looks abysmal , and the story is a complete shambles , but thanks to a really good performance by Thompson , and a really cool eighties soundtrack , you can forgive it's mistakes . it's not funny , it cannot decide what demographic it fits in ( it's not for kids , and adults wouldn't be interested ) . so it just lays dormant for kids who were between 12 and 16 when the film was released . a bad movie in every sense , but somehow endearing and memorable .
Ah , Bejesus ! ! !	Holly Kennedy is beautiful , smart and married to the love of her life - a passionate , funny , and impetuous Irishman named Gerry . So when Gerry's life is taken by an illness , it takes the life out of Holly . The only one who can help her is the person who is no longer there . Nobody knows Holly better than Gerry . So it's a good thing he planned ahead . Before he died , Gerry wrote Holly a series of letters that will guide her , not only through her grief , but in rediscovering herself . The first message arrives on Holly's 30th birthday in the form of a cake , and to her utter shock , a tape recording from Gerry , who proceeds to tell her to get out and " celebrate herself " . In the weeks and months that follow , more letters from Gerry are delivered in surprising ways , each sending her on a new adventure and each signing off in the same way ; P . S . I Love You . Holly's mother and best friends begin to worry that Gerry's letters are keeping Holly tied to the past , but in fact , each letter is pushing her further into a new future . With Gerry's words as her guide , Holly embarks on a journey of rediscovery in a story about marriage , friendship and how a love so strong can turn the finality of death into a new beginning for life . This isn't a bad movie , it's quite enjoyable in some places , but it's as subtle as a sledgehammer in others . Swank and Butler are great in the movie and the story is interesting but does drag on in some places . other characters in the movie begin to grate , such as Kudrow ( who is just in Friends mode yet again ) and Connick Jr . ( who is just plain weird . the idea though is great , it's just a shame that they made it just that little bit too long , because throughout the film , i did find myself clock watching .
they'll print anything these days . . . .	Elloit Carver is an egotistical media baron . Carver has the power to reach every person on the planet through his Carver Media Group Network - except for the People's Republic of Chinese who refuse his presence in their country . When he is tied to the disappearance of a British battleship in the South China Sea , James Bond is sent to investigate . It is in Hong Kong where Bond meets Wai Lin , a member of the People's External Security Force of China . With and without Wai Lin's help , Bond soon starts to uncover a plot that goes all the way back to a mission on the Russian-Kazakh Boarder , and will start a war only to feed the fire that is Carver's ego . . . not one of the best bond films made , it suffers from a very poor villain in the guise of Jonathan Pryce , who doesn't convince as an adversary worthy of Bond . instead he comes across as a snivelling spoilt little weasel , probably the Worst Villain since after Toby Stephens In DAD . Brosnan does his usual suave take on bond , but is given a script so hammy and cheesy , it could be put between two bits of bread and served as lunch . there are some positive points though . the pre credits sequence is exciting and full of what you'd expect from a big budget action franchise , the gadgets are good and bring a bit of light relief to the proceedings , and there are two good set pieces , one with the BMW , and the one with the motorbike . but these are majorly tainted by Yeohs boring character and stupid henchmen who are trying to hark back to the Moore / Connery days . it's all lethargically helmed by Spottiswoode , who seems a little out of his depth handling this sort of movie . not one of the best Bonds , but still worth a look .
you're not sending me to the cooler ! !	New troubles have arisen in Gotham City . First , there's a new super villain in town : Mr . Freeze , a former doctor whose blood is laced with cryogenic liquid , causing him to be cold in look and feeling who plans to freeze Gotham until he gets the money needed to finish finding the cure for a mysterious disease that has stricken his wife . Second , Poison Ivy , a villainess with luscious lips full of venom , has arrived in Gotham with her hulking servant , Bane , with plans to team up with Freeze and prepare the way for genetically enhanced plants . Third , Ivy has caused a rift between the partnership of the Dark Knight and the Boy Wonder . And finally , Alfred , Batman's trusted butler , has developed the same disease that Freeze's wife has . It is in this time of need that a new partner , Batgirl , steps forward to help the two rid the city of evil once more . some say this was the nail in the coffin for the franchise , but for me , it's a step up up from ' forever ' . Clooney looks like he is relishing his turn as the dark night , and he fits the role of Wayne well . Schwarzennegar is clearly having a ball as Freeze , and takes all the best lines ( but with this film , it's not saying much ! ) . again Scumacher goes all out campness and the sets are ghastly , also the story again is non-existent , but at least there is a little fun to be had at the end . this maybe the case that the film is ' so bad it's good ' but i cannot help but like parts of the film . the other surprise in this is Silverstone , who turns in a quite good performance as Batgirl . but again , compared to the first two movies , this is a laughable debacle , and shows no respect to the franchise . but like i have said before , i cannot help but like this movie . sorry ! !
Jill , we've traced the call . . . there coming from inside the house !	never have i seen such a tense , taut and gripping opening twenty minutes of cinema like this in my life . Jill is babysitting sleeping children , when she starts getting menacing calls from a man . repeating the question ' have you checked the children ? ' , Jill becomes increasingly concerned for her safety . she's phones the police who advise her to blow a whistle down the receiver to deter the assailant , but she does not have access to one . the officer asks her to stay on the line so they can trace the call . the calls are coming from inside the house ! ! as i have already stated , a great opening twenty minutes ( homaged in scream and the ring ) . this though is unfortunately the movies downfall . how can the final 75 minutes exceed this . simply , it doesn't . it's not the actors fault . they are all good in their roles , it's the story that's just not strong enough to support the opening . after the opening , every thing seems second rate and just added on to make it feature length . this would have been an amazing short film , but obviously the writer decided that more story needed to be told . the final act stretches the imagination and will make you laugh , and some of the scares are predictable if you watch recent horror . by all means not a bad film , but maybe they should have rethought the second and third act .
a dirty Sanchez . . . .	After meeting at a nightclub in a Mediterranean resort , seven young adults decide to continue partying aboard a luxury yacht in the middle of the ocean . But when one of them dies in a freak accident , the others argue about what to do , which leads to a ruthless fight for survival . . . it's a great idea , and is really well made , until the titular act is implemented , then we are treated to a sort of dead calm / i know what you did last summer / Kevin and perry hybrid of a movie . . . on a yacht . . . which lets down the proceedings . but the first half was so so impressive , the music to compliment the drug taking scene was spot on , as were the locations and the flirting going on between the group . the acting is so so at best and the guy with the hair-lip is very annoying , with his silly pseudo-gangster accent , god i hope he was putting in on ! i think the demographic this film is aimed at will probably find something out of it , it's aimed at males between 18-26 , they will probably lap it up , but as said before , it really goes downhill fast in the second and third act , and it's a shame , because it was really impressive to begin with .
my cloth protects you . . .	Father Gabriel ascends the mountains of Brazil to bring Christianity to the natives . He is successful and brings about a golden age among them . Mendoza , a slaver , kills his brother in a fit of rage , and only Fr . Gabriel's guidance prevents his suicide . Gabriel brings Mendoza to work at his mission with the natives , and Mendoza finds peace and asks to become a priest . The church , under pressure , cedes the land to the Portuguese which will allow slavers in again . Mendoza breaks his vows and organises the natives to resist while Gabriel warns him to help them as a priest . . . the film did absolutely nothing for me . if i want to See De Niro deliver penance , i watch rocky and Bullwinkle , if i want Irons delivering a good performance , i see reversal of fortune . after reading the reviews , i expected to see something eye opening , maybe even visceral , but what i got was a jealous Travis Bickle being saved by the unpopular Gruber brother and Qui Gon Jinn , trying to save a group of people who wanted to be left alone anyway . maybe i am missing the point , or maybe i don't care if the art-house folk read this and disapprove . but the cinematography was beautiful and there was one stand out scene after De Niro was shot and looking at Irons for hope , and then realising that there is no hope after he is shot dead . a pointless movie , with beautiful scenery .
they're filming midgets !	Should one who killed a child be allowed to live ? Harry Waters , a London thug , sends Irish hit men Ken and Ray to Bruges to lie low after a job goes awry in a London church . Ken's the old hand , fascinated by the Medieval , with a fatherly attitude toward Ray , who's young and bored but chastened after the London job . Ray's disposition changes when he meets Chloë , a hip young woman who sells drugs on the local set of a movie featuring Jimmy , an American dwarf . Harry calls with irrevocable instructions . Ken balks , setting up a showdown in the town square . A pregnant innkeeper , dumdum bullets , and a code of conduct play into the resolution . From what i was expecting from the ads and the press releases , was an offbeat amusing movie in the same way as films in the ' British Gangster ' genre . what i got was amusing at times , but all in all a movie with a very dark , melancholy edge to it . Farrell plays the tortured soul , not so tongue in cheek as one would thought but a very sympathetic character , who ironically , begins to grate toward the end . Gleeson does well in his role , but he gets a little repetitive after he reassures Farrell for the tenth time . And then there is Feinnes , who does his best impression of Ben Kingsley in Sexy Beast in his limited role . he's not scary or intimidating and this is down to Kingsleys performance in my honest opinion . but the cinematography is marvellous and some of the editing is dreamy , but it just makes you feel a little empty inside after . worth watching , but very disappointing , given that the film has such a high score on here .
she was the best part of me . . . .	A man who is scheduled to be executed for stealing 200 million dollars in gold , asks to see another inmate named Sasha ; it seems that several months ago when the FBI raided the place where Sasha was , he was shot and was dead for a few minutes . Now the man wants to know Sasha's experience before he goes . Before the execution can be carried out some men storm the prison and demand that the man tell them where he hid the gold , which he has never revealed . But in the process of breaking into the prison , they allow some of the inmates to be released . And led by Sasha , they try to stop them . . . Seagals last Uk cinema release isn't his best film by far , but is a lot better than his recent DVD drivel . obviously borrowing heavily from Bays ' The Rock ' , this film also features Ja Rule , and his ability to be thrown at ease , quite a long way whenever he is involved in a fight or speeding car scene , ans manage to come out unscathed . Seagal sans ponytail meanwhile , really takes a backseat in this movie , sitting back and letting ' actors ' like Chestnut , and Kurupt do their thing , while he walks around with a cool bandanna having fights that look little more than him playing patty cake close up . but its watchable nonsense , pleasantly short , and makes no sense really at all , which for a Seagal movie , is standard . the pyrotechnics are okay , the continuity not so , and the narrative laughable , but if your a Seagal fan , this will suffice .
pay no attention to the man in the trunk . . .	Christmas Eve in Wichita ; rain , sleet and ice . Vic , a pornographer , and Charlie , a shady attorney , have stolen two million dollars from their mob boss , and they need to appear calm for a few hours until their planned early morning departure . Vic , who's storing the money , is cool , but Charlie is nervous , especially when their boss's enforcer shows up looking for him . As the night drags on , Charlie does a favour for Renata , the lovely manager of one of the strip clubs , rescues his ex-wife's husband from a drunken public display , drops in on his ex-in-laws , sees his kids , and , between phone calls and visits to Renata , goes looking for Vic . Charlie's troubles are just beginning . . . . in a very different direction for ramis , what we have here is a film-noir like movie , which despite good performances from all concerned , fails to work as either a black comedy , or a thriller . Cusack as usual is fantastic as Charlie who has all the troubles in the world to deal with on Christmas eve . but the problem is , the audience can pretty much work out what is going on from the very upstart due to Connie Nielsons unconvincing performance , she has guilt written all over her face from the very moment we see her ( though this could have been Ramis ' intention ) . Thornton is good in his role , but is hardly in the movie , and supporting characters such as Platt and Quaid , are not used to good effect . but the cmerawork is marvellous and some of the dialogue is very witty , but on the other side of the spectrum , some of the dialogue is very poor and predictable . the big problem though is that there is not one single character that you feel sympathy for and for a film like this , there is a little too much flesh and profanity that sits uncomfortably in the film . disappointing .
that was sugar coated . . .	Taking a romantic tropical island week off with her boyfriend , an ambitious , decisive New York girl agrees to help her magazine out by covering a story on a neighbouring island . The only plane available is piloted by a laid-back heavy drinker with whom she shares a mutual dislike . But she has no choice and he can't refuse the money . When the plane crash-lands on an uninhabited island with little chance of rescue they both wish they had made other arrangements - at least to start with . . . what should have been a great movie , is totally ruined thanks to the lack of chemistry delivered by the two leads . Ford looks very uninterested in this movie and Anne Heche , even though she is good , is highly unbelievable , is it because of at the time of this release she was in the most high profile same-sex relationship in Hollywood ? from a director who is better known for his family orientated movies , this is very dark and at times quite sleazy , and the fact that Schwimmer is just playing Ross from friends , doesn't do the film any more favours . it's not very exciting , and even if you decide ' not to take it seriously ' it's still pretty average stuff . look at Fords expression in some scenes and see the ' I'm Indiana Jones again ! ' look on his face . very average , at best
i want to be relieved of my sins . . .	Elvis leaves the Navy and heads for Texas where he contacts his father , whom he's never met , the pastor at a Christian community church . Pastor Dave tells Elvis to stay away and , without telling his family that Elvis is his son from a pre-conversion liaison , tells them to have nothing to do with him . But Elvis has already connected with Malerie , the pastor's 16-year old daughter . Elvis embarks on the seduction of Malerie , while Dave examines his conscience and comes to a new conclusion . Can anyone get right with the Lord ? Does the Lord hear the pangs of the world ? . . . a film not for everybody's palette , The King features the main character who practises among other things , paedophilia , incest and arson . but what the film lacks is emotional edge . Brunel doesn't really seem to care about his character and by this is simply mis-cast . the story is good and intriguing , but the execution is very poor . William hurt is great though in his role as the father and the rest of the support do fine with their material , but the film is very uncomfortable to watch and seedy and unsettling for no good reason . but the film does finish really well .
i was having pie . . . .	Micheal Jennings is an engineer who works for a company and uses their rivals ' technology , alters it slightly , and has his memory wiped after each job . When he is offered a job by James Rethrick , he is told that the job will take three years and his mind will be wiped afterwards . Against the advice of his friend Shorty , he takes the job . When his mind is wiped , he heads to the bank to collect his multimillion fee where it turns out that he , during the erased three years , signed the money away and exchanged it for a group of nineteen seemingly worthless items . we then follow his efforts to uncover the secret of just what he was working on , what the items are for , evading arrest , and exploring his relationship with Rachel Porter , a bioscientist , who is a vital part of triggering what is left of the scraps of memory left to him . . . Paycheck , or how Ben , Uma and Paul look different to anyone else in the future , is a throwaway sci-fi romp from the genius mind of Dick and the sometimes genius mind of helmer Woo . for the latter of the two , the genius is missing somewhat in this project . first of all the script is unintentionally laugh out loud , not only because it is so crass and predictable , but the cast really deliver the lines so deadpan , that this could be classed as farce . Affleck proves that he isn't really the action man after the fluke that was Daredevil , but tries to remind us of that movie a little by doing a little martial arts with a staff . he just stands out too much in his role . surely someone who had their mind erased for a living would be a plain looking person , not a perma-tanned boy next door with a cheeky grin . Woo puts in some references to North by Northwest , and i'm sure he intended the suit to reference Roger Thornhill , but Affleck looks more like Johnny Nmemonic , than Cary Grant . Thurman , mid Kill Bill , looks extremely bored as the love interest . rather than just standing there occasionally caving some random extra head in , she looks like she really wants to jump into the brides shoes and whup some ass . and the rest of the cast look like they are heavily constipated , apart from Giamatti , who just acts ' zany ' in the few scenes he is in . for a John woo movie , this is very action-lite . we really don't see his trademark action until twenty minutes before the end , and for those who have seen face / off and the killer , it's a long time coming . even the biggest set piece of the movie , the bike chase , is ruined by a cheesy soundtrack , and even cheesier dialogue . but the film is bright and fun enough to be enjoyable , and will not ruin any brain cells by watching it . just don't bet on remembering anything about it a couple of weeks down the line . not a case of paycheck , more check please !
welcome to new york . . . . .	A whole high senior class is finally graduating . For that , they get into a luxury cruise called ' ' Lazarus ' ' . At the beginning they are all having fun , including our main heroine ' ' Rennie ' ' who has a serious problem with the water because of past traumatic events ' ' Almost got drowned when she was little ' ' . When we get to see all the young teenagers our friend Jason who got on board the ship starts with his killing rampage until we get to see only the main characters of the movie . . After that , they decide to look for the killer and kill him . . . Unfortunately , Jason got them first . . . After only a few of them escaped and got off the ship reached N . Y where they now have a bigger problem . Jason managed to get there too ! He's cashing the survivors so he can kill them . . . the eighth entry into the ever popular series isn't the best movie in the world , it has some absurd moments ( such as Jason popping up everywhere a victim moves their head ) and some silly characters who just deserve to die , and some pretty lame gore , but one cannot deny the power of Jason just standing there looking royally peeved all the time . a lot of humour has been injected into this entry ( when Jason lifts his mask to the teens who threaten him ) , and it's nice to see him in a different setting , but take Jason out of the equation , and this movie would be the pits . but it's a fun movie , and you just know whats going to happen to the majority of the characters and who will survive . if your a fan of Jason , this will suffice , and if your not , you'll hate this movie . .
safety never takes a holiday . . .	Paul Blart is a mild-mannered , dutiful family man who works as a security guard in a New Jersey mall . For years , he has applied to become a cop , but he always fails the physical exam because he is overweight . One day , a gang of organised criminals put the mall under siege and take hostages . Blart becomes trapped inside , and because of his sense of duty , refuses to leave . He thus becomes the police department's eyes on the inside and attempts to stop the criminals on his own . . . Kevin James is an endearing actor , even with a Freddy Mercury moustache . this is quite different from other Happy Madison projects , this one is directed straight toward the whole family , and it's not smutty or have fart jokes in it whatsoever ( there is a stomach rumbling joke , but thats as far as bodily part humour goes ) . it's not laugh out loud funny or anything special , it's just one of those nice little comedies that surprise people once in a while . a character you actually like , with people you can sort of relate to , and even though it does parody die hard toward the end , it's short enough and brisk enough not to get too silly . in the advent of bad comedies being released at the beginning of the year ( see Norbit , The pink Panther ) , this is a refreshing change , a family comedy that will make you smile . it's not going to damage Jame's career anyway
you're a silly sausage aren't you ?	a mockumentary in the style of best in show , the film tells the story of the titular magazines troubles and there plans to make it the number one selling magazine . they decide to hold a competition , in which three couples are battling out to win a £500 , 000 house . the most original wedding will win the house . the magazine editor chooses three finalists . the first couple , tennis obsessives . the second , the lovers of the musicaland the third , the naturists . the film then countdowns the final weeks to the wedding by following the couples with the wedding planners , and there problems with there weddings , each other , their families , jealousy , and ensuring that you can be nude on your wedding day . the film concludes with all three weddings in one venue and the judges having to decide who wins . . featuring some of the cream of British comedy ( Carr , Freeman , Davis , Colman , Heap ) who have been in the most elegant British sitcoms ( the office , peep show , look around you , spaced , nighty night , the green wing ) , you would be forgiven that this would have been a block of pure comedy gold . ehile the film is funny in places , it just doesn't hit the high points it should , especially when considering the talent involved and then the fact that the majority of the spoken word we see on screen is wholly improvised . one of the main problems is the predictability of it all . we know from the start who is going to win and that kind of spoils the planning of the weddings and the problems they face . the characters are predictable two , especially the tennis couple who are pretentious and want to win it . whereas at the other end of the spectrum , the naturists are a sort of bohemian twosome who couldn't care less if they win or lose . the story is good and i wouldn't be surprised if it materialises into a reality based TV show somewhere down the line . the one saving grace is of course the wedding planners , who sparkle the screen when they are present . they add a bit of life to the film and manage to make it watchable . an enjoyable film , even if it is a big disappointment if you love the recent era of British comedy . a let down
this drinks on me	wow , Zorro's back with his 40 plus hi-jinks and his problems . he is too busy saving people to recognise his own family . so his wife decides to leave him and file for divorce . in the meanwhile his wife fancies the baddie . Banderas and Zeta-Jones are back in what should have been an amazing sequel , but as most sequels go , this certainly does not cut up to the original . the main problem is that the movie is way too long , at least 30 minutes . yeas the fight scenes are exciting , but after a while you do become tired of Zorro kicking people the bad guys up the backside . the subplot involves Rufus Sewelll making nitro glycerine out of some substance . the film borrows heavily from Indiana Jones and various other movies , but it just does'NT cut the mustard . Banderas is fantastic , but Campbell should know better after its predecessor and goldeneye . a wasted opportunity . lets hope casino royale is a return to form .
you can take your job , and shovel it . . . . . .	Frozen in 1996 , Phoenix , a convicted killer is " thawed " out for parole well into the 21st century . Revived into a crime free society , Phoenix resumes his murderous rampage , and no one can stop him . Spartan , the cop who captured Phoenix in 1996 has also been cryogenically frozen , this time for a crime he didn't commit . In desperation they turn to Spartan to help recapture Phoenix . . . . the best thing this film does for itself , is the fact that it does not take itself seriously at all . with digs at Arnie and several major American chains , the film is pure comic book stuff . Stallone does well at self parody , and Snipes is in his best role since Nino Brown in 1991's ' New Jack City ' . predictably produced by Joel Silver , this has all the explosions and action we expect from the man who produced the original ' Die Hard ' and ' Lethal Weapon ' . some parts of the film do disappoint though . there is no real detail about Learys ' character and Stallone does ham it up a little . but this is brainless fun with a great original storey and great support from Bullock , Hawthorne , Schneider , and Bratt . leave your brain at the door , and have some fun . .
you shady lady ! ! ! . . . .	Set on a colourful Greek island , the plot serves as a background for a wealth of great ABBA songs which are used in remarkably appropriate ways . A young woman about to be married discovers that any one of three men could be her father . She invites all three to the wedding without telling her mother , Donna , who was once the lead singer of Donna and the Dynamos . In the meantime , Donna has invited her backup singers , Rosie and Tanya . . . i had no intentions of seeing this movie , and the fact that Firth , Brosnan and Skarsgard , were all singing , did not appeal to me in the slightest . the synopsis is vomit inducing , and the whole air of the proceedings wreaked of ' cheese ' and ' ham ' . so i'm asking myself , why oh why did i enjoy the damned thing so much ? it's a colourful romp , with plenty of laughs and some one in the film that everyone could relate to , and funnily enough the story is quite endearing too . as is the singing . fair enough , not everyone will have a future in the pop industry ( Mr . Brosnan please stand up ) , but it all goes along in such a bright and breezy manner , that you will find it hard to stop your feet tapping , even if you are not a fan of ABBA . the sets are not the best , and some of the editing could be improved , but all in all , this is a very god musical , the second best of the year in fact .
my god Norman , your enormous . . . .	Shortly after she moves into her own flat in Brighton , Bella finds she is being spied on and generally harassed by a man living across from her . Finally driven to solving the problem with a hammer , she realises she is then ready for a crusade against other such problem males . . . . . . Winner knows how to make a trashy film watchable , and this is no exception . He manages to make one of the UK's most desired and vibrant seaside cities , look grubby and dirty , but it all goes well with the movie . it's as if he's given the film a seventies feel to it . a cleverish spin on the death wish series , this see's the protagonist as a female , who meets the most sordid chauvinistic men you could wish to avoid . it's not for all tastes , and in some scenes it can be very off putting , not a date movie ! ! the acting isn't the best and Lia Williams hasn't really reached the heights that Wionner wanted her to get to , but she does well with the material given . sadly , the DVD is cut heavily compared to the VHS version released in 1995 , but it is still worth watching for some good early performances from Sewell and Pertwee . the ending is unsettling and Winner gives us men a little warning about meeting women in bars and then treating them like trash . talk about the pot calling the kettle . . .
things to remember . . . .	Sean Veil is an ultra paranoid murder suspect who takes to filming himself round the clock to provide an alibi , just in case he's ever accused of another crime . Problems arise however when the police do come calling and the one tape that can prove his innocence has mysteriously disappeared . . . another comedy actor tries to do a serious movie , with average results , and this time its none other than ' housewives favourite ' Lee Evans . playing a man who will not stop filming himself , which makes him even more freaky than he appeared at the beginning for shaving his head and eyebrows . but he is watchable and plays his part well , it's just down to the performances of the rest of the cast . Salmon who is usually reliable in his other work , looks like he is just wondering around in a vehicle for Evans serious side , whilst the rest of the cast just play your archetypal supporting roles . the final third tries to lay on some surprises , but by this time i was past caring and my main question was , why did he shave his eyebrows off ? the camera-work is wonderful though as is the editing , but i feel that this is trying to hard to be a thriller of hitchcockian standards ans is nowhere near as clever as it thinks . average .
who are you doing here ?	Peter Sanderson is a divorced , straight-laced , uptight attorney who still loves his ex-wife and can't figure out what he did wrong to make her leave him . However , Peter's trying to move on , and he's smitten with a brainy , bombshell barrister he's been chatting with online . However , when she comes to his house for their first face-to-face , she isn't refined , isn't Ivy League , and isn't even a lawyer . Instead , it's Charlene , a prison escapee who's proclaiming her innocence and wants Peter to help her clear her name . But Peter wants nothing to do with her , prompting the loud and shocking Charlene to turn Peter's perfectly ordered life upside down , jeopardising his effort to get back with his wife and woo a billion dollar client . another predictable comedy , in which a middle class families life is turned upside down by a total opposite . it's been done hundreds of times before , but thanks to the efforts of Martin , Latifah and Levy , the film is just above average . if this movie was in the dictionary , it would be under stereotypes , as their is not on missed in this movie . it could be deemed as offensive to some people , but it's heart is in the right place , and Martin swallows his pride in the final act to become a ' homie ' . there are some funny lines in this movie and some funny set pieces , but it's forgettable stuff at the end of the day .
you're a creepy person , aren't you . . . . . . . . . .	when the body of a man who died in his emergency room disappears , Guy Luthun begins to ask questions that nobody wants to hear . he soon is set-up for having drugs in his apartment and is suspended from his job , but he carries on his obsession . The trail leads Luthan to the door of the eminent surgeon Dr Lawrence Myrick ( Gene Hackman ) , but Luthan soon finds himself under in danger from people who want the hospital's secret to remain undiscovered . this is a very odd little film with an eclectic cast , but i think it is probably just another vehicle for Grant to crack the American market . he is hilarious as the doctor , and sounds wholly unconvincing when he is spouting out medical jargon . it almost seems that he has a consultant on hand to feed him his lines . Daviv Morse who is usually very good in his movies is pure filler as an FBI agent who shoots first , and asks questions later . he also looks like a maths teacher . and Hackman , who is second billed , does nothing more than have an extended cameo in his role . the story is not very convincing and the narration is boring , but there still are some fine set pieces . for example when Grant s being attacked on the lift by Morse , with Hackman watching them on the monitor whilst talking to the cops , is quite tense . but thats really all that is tense about the film . Grants character is so wet you don't really care what happens to him . not a bad film , it's just that it could have been so much better .
it's a cut throat business . . .	Novelist Thad Beaumount has buried his alter ego George Stark , a pseudonym he used when writing fiction of a darker nature than he would write using his real name . He even stages a mock burial of George for the benefit of the press . When a local man is killed , evidence leads Sheriff Alan Pangborn to George's grave , and he begins to suspect Thad . Meanwhile Thad is beginning to have visions of sparrows flying , something that hasn't occurred for twenty-three years since he had brain surgery . As the string of gruesome murders continue , someone claiming to be George Stark starts calling Thad on the phone . Thad fears for his family's safety , and Pangborn can't decide whether or not Thad is the murderer . . . another average King adaption , which was something of a regular activity in the nineties . having not read the book , it seems quite hypocritical to call the film average , but after a slew of King films being made in the nineties , which the majority of them turned out to be pretty average ( apart from misery ) this is just another horror movie thats worth watching for Hutton . it's even more of a disappointment knowing that this is directed by Romero , a man who defined a genre of his own in the sixties . but Stark is an amazing character , but when he is first introduced , he is all shadows and shillouettes , which makes the film rather meandering and predictable . not a bad film by any means , it's just slow in some places , and there are some gaping plot holes and the effects are nothing to write home about . if you are an avid King fan , you will find something about this film to shout about , but for me the incidental music , had me a little bit bored from the start .
for his play is always fair and just . .	A chess grandmaster is in a big tournament , and when his lover is found painted up and the blood drained out of her body he becomes a chief suspect . After he gets a call from the killer urging him to try and figure out the game , he cooperates with police and a psychologist to try and catch the killer , but doubts linger about the grandmaster's innocence as the string of grisly murders continues . . . another in a spate of early nineties thrillers in a slasher genre sort of way , it's Connor Maclouds turn to play the chief suspect in a murder case , whilst in the back drop of the exciting sport of . . . . . chess . it's a really bad movie with gaping plot holes , but there is fun to be had in it's running time , and Lambert is amiable in his role as Sanderson , even though he is unsure of his nationality throughout the duration of the movie . Lane is the main reason to watch the film as she is great in her role as she adds a little gravitas to the proceedings . the ending though is silly , and makes hardly any sense whatsoever and just makes the viewer go ' why ? ' at the end . still worth a watch though .
' for the dead travel fast '	A young man hitchhiking back home to visit his mother is picked up by a mysterious stranger . As the ride goes on , the young man uncovers a terrible secret about the stranger , and is given a choice by the stranger . A choice that can mean life or death . another low budget attempt to bring a Stephrn King adaptation to the screen , and while this isn't as bad as some of his adaptations ( Thinner , Maximum Overdrive ) , it still is below average compared to some of his theatrical counterparts . although the story is really good and at sometimes really haunting and macabre , but the overall feeling of the proceedings are slightly ruined by an over the top performance by Arquette and some dodgy effects . but Jackson just about does enough to keep the film interesting and there are some strange and bizarre characters we meet along the way to keep the average viewer involved . a very good premise about people not realising how precious life is , but poorly executed .
and that was without a single drop of rum . . .	when i first saw COTBP back at the movies , i wasn't very impressed , maybe i was in the wrong frame of mind to enjoy it , but then i bought the DVD and really enjoyed the movie , thought the story was great and the performances top notch . when DMC was released last year , i thought it usurped the original , as it was more dark , yet funnier and the characters had a lot of depth to them and the set pieces were particularly inspiring . Plus it had one of the best cliffhangers in cinema history . so Verbinski and Bruckheimer had an awful lot to live up to , and unsurprisingly , the outcome is a little disappointing , the main story is as good as any of the franchise , and the film is on a very grand scale , it's just that having sub-plot after sub-plot thrown in your face during the long running time does start to confuse , and by the time the third act starts , it's a case of just sitting back and enjoying the ride . as always Depp is the main draw here , and as Sparrow he can do no wrong ( which is quite annoying , because he could say anything after doing something brave , and he would get a laugh every time ) . but when he isn't on screen , the film seems a little lost , and when your main draw isn't in the film for the first 30 minutes , it seems a long time . the set pieces again are spectacular , but ultimately feel the same after a while , but the scene with Jack being trapped in Davy Jones Locker is fantastic and reminds me a little of the Simpson's episode where Homer has Hallucinations from eating Chilli . the rest of the cast are good , but with the exception of Knightley and Bloom , are not given a lot to do . even Davy Jones is threw to one side for the first two acts , and the main story is centred around him ! Rush nearly steals the movie from Depp and the two have great chemistry on screen , but they do not have enough time together . the Keith Richards cameo is a little redundant , and having Yun-Fat billed as one of the main cast is a little bit of a marketing ploy , as he is little more than a cameo . but if you love the world of Jack Sparrow , then you will enjoy the movie , and hunger for a little bit more of the character . the Hollywood equivalent of a McDonalds , lots of fun while it lasts , great to look at , but leaves you feeling a little empty when it's finished .
you're luggage !	Arnie plays John Kruger , a government agent who helps people in trouble disappear for good , ' erasing ' them from existence . basically this service is for people who are in a witness protection programme , and then disobey orders from the government and are spotted from the people they are trying to avoid . Vanessa Williams plays lee Cullen , a women who has been poached by the feds to get access to some new top of the range arsenal , that should not exist and could fall into the wrong hands . lee is uncovered and obviously it is only up to Arnie to save the day , but something is not right and john and lee soon find themselves at the centre of one of the biggest cover ups the government has ever done . this harks back to the Arnie of the late eighties , pure action one liners and tongue firmly in cheek . from the word go you know that this isn't the watered down Arnie we saw in last action hero and true lies ( both good films though ) but this is Arnie back in total recall mode . James caan hams it up too as the villain and he really is a sadistic one too . but he and Schwarzenegger have great chemistry and when they share the screen , the movie is solid gold . also Robert pastorelli provides some comic relief , and bounces off Schwarzenegger's deadpan delivering of his one liners . some of the set pieces are amazing the first set piece is good which sets up the story for Schwarzenegger's character and what he does , and also the final set piece in which Arnie uses the guns to their full effect against the bad guys . but the best one is the plane sequence with Arnie being faced with being smacked head on by a speeding plane ! the only problem with the film is Vanessa Williams who at times is a little too wooden and never really seems to be in too much peril . plus the cgi is a little bad at times , this being an Arnie film , you would expect high quality ( the crocs are the worst ) but still , this movie proved that Arnie still had what it takes when it came to summer blockbusters and still knew how to push the right action buttons
i'm an artist ! ! ! ! . . . .	typical British film about how life can be bad for you if you follow ' the principles of lust ' . the story is about a writer who meets a photographer , who is obviously a bit of a psycho , because he organises fights involving 11 year olds , takes drugs , and has lots of dirty sex . when the writer meets a girl , he soon ends up moving in with her and begins to realise his life could be in the doldrums . . . . part ' fight club ' part ' trainspotting ' , the movie essentially tells us not to move so fast in life , because thats where regrets can be made , as soon as Paul meets billy , he is dragged into a world of sordid sex , drugs and a really depressing livelihood . on the other hand when he meets Juliette , he instantly falls for her and moves in with her , because she makes him an offer he really cannot refuse . as predictable as lust is , they soon find themselves realising they have nothing in common , and start not to trust . the problem is , if the characters were likable , then this would have been a great movie , but not one character can be shown empathy , so we really do not care what the outcome is . the editing makes the film a little cold , as does the lighting . the narration of the story flows smoothly and the two male leads do well in their roles ( it's a shame that Warren feels a little typecast in his role ) . not as bad as some of the reviewers on this sit make it out to be , but with films like this trying to be too controversial , it's no wonder why film four became defunct .
you love the red sox , but have they ever loved you back ?	Ben is a schoolteacher who is unlucky in love due to his obsession with the red sox . he takes some of his students on a field trip where he meets Lindsay , a workaholic who has also had bad luck with relationships . they go out on a date or two , and when they have a BBQ , Ben confesses his love of the red sox to Lindsay . she is cool with this at first , but soon his obsession becomes too much for Lindsay . Fallon and Barrymore have great chemistry in this movie , nearly as much as when her and sandler share the screen . the problem is that the film is too predictable , and the experienced viewer can see the twists coming a mile off . the script isn't very inspired , and for a ' romantic comedy ' it is never funny or intimate enough to make the viewer care about the characters outcome . if you are a die-hard fan of romance , you could do a lot worse , but it will leave you wanting more . average .
shoot through him . . .	Based on the 1930's comic strip , puts the hero up against his arch enemy , Shiwan Khan , who plans to take over the world by holding a city to ransom using an atom bomb . Using his powers of invisibility and " The power to cloud men's minds " , the Shadow comes blazing to the city's rescue with explosive results . . . in one of the most campest superhero films ever made , Alec Baldwins main powers in this is to get the lighting crew to dim the lights on his face whenever he goes into ' big nose ' mode . it all starts for some reason as him with painted nails and a villain , and Mulcahy obviously can't be bothered to go through his training with the audience , so an epilogue is just put on screen , and we hit the grand old city of new york , with a very quiet Ian Mackellen and a brilliantly over the top Tim Curry . the film isn't bad , it's just silly dumb , good looking fun . the performances are average at best , as are the effects and the set pieces , but you get through it in one sitting . and why can descendent's of Ghengis Khan walk around in full gear without being noticed ? at least big nose is on the case with his maniacal laugh and his big hat . the cinematic equivalent of cheese on toast , enjoyable but bad for you at the same time . . .
enjoy the floor . . . .	At his new high school , a rebellious teen Jake Tyler is lured into an ultimate underground fighting club in a Backyard Fight , where he finds a mentor in a mixed martial arts veteran . After receiving threats to the safety of his friends and family , Jake seeks the mentoring of a veteran fighter , to train his mind and body for one final no-holds-barred elimination fight with his unrelenting personal nemesis and local martial arts champion Ryan McCarthy . . . a cross between Rocky , The Power Of One , The karate Kid , endless teen American soaps and boy done good movies , we get this silly but undeniably enjoyable piece of guilty pleasure . the film makes you sick , because the film is so full of flawless people , with inner demons and lots and lots of money ( apart from the main protagonist , because he's y'know a bit different ) . the film is beautiful to look at , and the fight scenes are funny but quite brutal in their their own ' beverly hills 90210 ' sort of way . the training sessions are quite predictable , as is the feud with his mother and the tired sub-plot where are ( anti ) hero blames himself for his fathers death . not a bad film , there are lots more fight club type movies out there which are pure tish , but this doesn't take itself too seriously . . . . much
he's totally gonna call . . . . .	imagine a sitcom , with loads of people in the dating scene , discussing how men are not into women if they don't call and how women should get girlpower and be able to spot these guys from a distance . imagine it having lots of characters with different problems , that sometimes intertwine with other people in the sitcoms problems , with a special guest star appearing every week in the sitcom , like Kris Kristofferson . imagine this sitcom being squashed into a two hour movie , based on a relatively funny book , about how bad men are . this is that film , and it's as confusing as hell , not to mention being derogatory toward men . don't get me wrong , i found some of it witty and charming , but when the most pleasant character in a date movie is the guy cheating on his wife with johannsen , it leaves little else to explain . . . basically this film is brainwashing women everywhere to dump there current partner , because they ain't gonna be perfect ladies are they . . . . . this tells us , that if a guy doesn't want to marry you , doesn't call you straight the way , or doesn't have another drink , he doesn't want to know . . what about the other end of the spectrum , the guy who is too afraid to ask a girl out , because maybe he feels the girl is out of their league , is this mentioned ? nobut other than that the acting is good , and it has the obligatory cheesy ending , and one of the best casts so far this year . just don't believe everything ladies . . .
here's your sub-zero ! now , plain zero !	Arnie plays Ben Richards a cop who was wrongly framed for the murder of innocents and branded ' the butcher of Bakersfield ' . having escaped from prison , via a set up with fellow inmates laughlin and Weiss , he goes to find refuge with his brother , but instead finds amber a new tenant , who has taken over his brothers apartment . set in a dystopian future where the media rules the wave and things deemed blasphemous and offensive are banned , the show that rules the airwaves is the running man , a game show where convicts get the chance to win a pardon live on air , if they can escape the stalkers , who are promptly chosen by the audience . now Ben has been caught and must face the biggest challenge of his life . . great premise , just very poorly executed and cheaply made . Schwarzenegger is perfect for the job as the convict and the film is great fun once Ben is thrown into the arena . joined by his inmates and amber ( the tenant ) . they plan to survive and overthrow the media station . it is fun . the stalkers are great and menacing , and the set pieces featuring the stalkers are fantastically ott . also there are sly winks to the debacle of what is television now , and what people would do to get on the box . such as climbing for dollars and captain freedoms workout . if they had left out the media overthrow and just kept to the main story , this would have been an . but the overthrow story gets lost in the narrative and unfortunately the underground troops just help Arnie at the end winning and you care very little for their cause . still a good watch if you like Schwarzenegger .
straight outta compton	you all read the reviews . . . . . you were all forewarned . . . . . . but yet you all went to see it . you people reading this . . . . especially you ! ! i saw it , and i thought it was an improvement on the first . the only reason that even though he is a muscle head , diesel just does'nt cut it as an action hero . his xxx was bland the only redeeming thing about the first film was sam jackson , you could tell by looking at him he was having a ball and i hope he is the same in snakes on a plane . anyway some of you may be saying ' but ice cube surely he is too rotund to be an action star ? ' well yes he is but so is seagal and he makes 76 films a year , AND they make revenue . what made ice ice baby a better xxx than diesel is that he had more attitude and was more cocky knowing he was xxx . diesel was just 1 dimensional . the story was pants but what do you expect ? i got what i expected , big explosions , ott action scenes , ice cube looking like he had just lost his dummy and sam jackson being sam jackson . see it . it's not bad
i pull the strings , you dance .	in another underwhelming buddy cop action comedy , Sam Jackson is teamed up with Eugene Levy after he is mistaken for someone else . this then leads to Levys ' character having to help Jackson uncover the whereabouts of some stolen guns and a few murders that are a little too close to agent Vann . this is very predictable fare with an impressive cast . the film is not funny or amusing , but Jackson and Levy just about manage to salvage the film from four star status thanks to their great chemistry . Levy just may as well be playing Jims ' dad from the American pie series , but he is good at doing the anally retentive role , and everybody likes Jackson in his shouty sweary role . it's just at times the humour is verging on the racial side . sometimes you feel it is written by a stand up comedian whose favourite joke is . . white people drive like this ( does a geeky action ) , and black people drive like this ( does a cool action ) . but you cannot help but enjoy the film to an extent . there is a little homage to Jacksons role in pulp fiction when he says the line ' it's a tasty burger ' you can almost see Jules on the screen . direction is flat and so is the story , and Mayfield just about throws every buddy comedy cliché into the mix and you can see them coming from a mile away . but at just over 75 minutes , it's harmless fun that won't damage your brain cells and will raise a smile or two .
sunburst cookies just light up my day . . . .	Michael J . Fox stars as a child actor who has grown up , and grown out of his popularity . He now runs a talent agency with his brother , specialising in child acts , trying to discover the next child star . but he gets more than he bargained for when he recruits a child pickpocket to be his next " star . " . . . . . . after Fox tried to win a more adult audience with ' bright lights , big city ' his star dwindled a little in the movie business . fair enough he did have success with the back to the future sequels , but they were more of a success because of the movie not the star . but starring in average movies such as ' doc Hollywood ' and ' the concierge ' certainly wouldn't have helped matters . in this movie we have Fox as the washed up child actor ( life imitating art ? ) trying to find the next best thing , but what we have here is a really sweet little comedy which shows that Fox can still carry a movie , and make it a pleasurable experience . yes it is very predictable , but then what do you expect from an early nineties family comedy , in the advent of curly sue and home alone , these comedies were the only way to go . throw away fun .
i'm a little tired , and i'm a little wired ! !	Kip Raines , a young car thief , was contracted to steal 50 specific cars but something went wrong . Now the man who hired him , Raymond Calitri , wants his head . When his brother , Memphis , once a great car thief , who retired a few years ago , learns of this , he comes back to town to see if he can help his brother . The only thing that will appease Calitri is if the order is fulfilled . So Memphis has to assemble his old crew , and he has to do the job in a few days . And a cop who hounded him , upon learning of his return , is keeping an eye on him . And another car thief , whom he competed with before wants to get the Calitri job , and is telling Memphis to back off , but he won't . . . after the double whammy of The Rock and Con Air , it was obvious that Cage would stand tall again with Bruckheimer . and while the film is still watchable , you can really tell that the film was rushed and that no real love has been put into it . saying that the cast work well with the script that they were handed and there are some funny scenes and even some very pathetic indeed ( the car jump at the end is very cheesy and cringeworthy ) . Ecclesston does his best as the villain , but there is not enough backstory to his character to make him evil or interesting . the scene near the climax where Cage says to Eccleston ' you've got a thing about wood ' is quite bizarre , though i guess they saved that for the directors cut , which i won't be conned into buying . saying that it's still worth the watch , even if it is mindless rubbish .
strap on the nitro . . . .	A high-adrenaline tale of young climber Peter Garrett , who must launch a treacherous and extraordinary rescue effort up K2 , the world's second highest peak . Confronting both his own limitations and the awesome power of nature's uncontrollable elements , Peter risks his life to save his sister , Annie , and her summit team in a race against time . The team is trapped in an icy grave at 26 , 000 feet - a death zone above the vertical limit of endurance where the human body cannot survive for long . Every second counts as Peter enlists the help of a crew of fellow climbers , including eccentric , reclusive mountain man Montgomery Wick , to ascend the chilling might of the world's most feared peak to save her . . . an absolutely brainless movie from the usual reliable Campbell . by no means is the film bad , it's just totally unbelievable in parts . whilst watching this , one cannot help but feel that this is a last chance effort for O ' Donnell to reach the big time , but the most part of the movie , he just stands ( or jumps ) there pining for his sister . the set pieces can be stunning at times , but watching this movie on hi-def , you can really tell when they are filming on sets , especially at the beginning . but it's all brainless fun , explosion after explosion , climbers in difficult situations , and the script describes difficult to understand terms in layman's right away , to keep the audience involved . but the scenery is stunning , just watch it with a huge pinch of salt and enjoy . . . . . to an extent .
i am not terrorised , you cannot be terrorised . . .	Jolie plays the wife of a Jewish journalist , who is kidnapped after a planned meeting with a sheik goes awry . the ' terrorists ' believe him to be CIA , and as the film goes on , it is told from the view of Jolies character , who is a journalist herself , so knows the realistic chances of her husband being released safely . although Jolie does put in a very good performance , a line in the film sums up her character . after being interviewed by the media , a character states , ' you wouldn't think her husband had been missing for six days ' , and thats where the main problem lies within this slow moving , often ( dare i say it ? ) boring movie , Jolie comes across as not caring as much as everyone else , but is that because of her professional background , or because of the title . but when the inevitable happens and Jolie breaks down , instead of it having an emotional impact as you would expect it to have , it is quite cringworthy , think Pacino screaming at the end of Godfather part III and you're somewhere there . but the film does carry a weighty message , and some may find this film to be politically incorrect , but Winterbottom has used a slapdash approach to the film , using a docu-drama style one minute , then having it as a movie the next . even though she does put in a good performance , Jolie is in my opinion the wrong choice to play the lead , as sometimes she just appears so cold hearted toward the subject matter , that as a viewer you care less and less about the outcome .
i love you , does he ? ? ?	Wealthy , brilliant , and meticulous Ted Crawford , a structural engineer in Los Angeles , shoots his wife and entraps her lover . He signs a confession ; at the arraignment , he asserts his rights to represent himself and asks the court to move immediately to trial . The prosecutor is Willy Beachum , a hotshot who's soon to join a fancy civil-law firm , told by everyone it's an open and shut case . Crawford sees Beachum's weakness , the hairline fracture of his character : Willy's a winner . The engineer sets in motion a clockwork crime with all the objects moving in the way he predicts . . . another predictable thriller from the people who love courtroom , yet this time , the shoe is on the other foot , as we all know who the murderer is and what hi motives are . the cast are great in their respective roles , but just don'y expect the power of the trailer and the script work of the afore mentioned trailer . the film id good and had lots of res herrings , but we have seen it all before . worth renting for the cast alone .
did the lawyer split ? . . .	Arthur and his two children , Kathy and Bobby , inherit his Uncle Cyrus's estate : a glass house that serves as a prison to 12 ghosts . When the family , accompanied by Bobby's Nanny and an attorney , enter the house they find themselves trapped inside an evil machine " designed by the devil and powered by the dead " to open the Eye of Hell . Aided by Dennis , a ghost hunter , and his rival Kalina , a ghost rights activist out to set the ghosts free , the group must do what they can to get out of the house alive . . another horror film from Zemeckis and Silver , and anyone who has followed their dark castle production company , will know what to expect . a talented actor who will take the lead , some eye candy for the teenage lads , great production values , and some good make up effects . it's very much like the house , extremely superficial and transparent , but it all looks great at the end . it's quite gory in parts , but it always has the cartoon feel to it . all the characters are 2 dimensional , and some of the camera work is dodgy , but than it's a horror movie with numbers replacing letters in the title , so what do you expect ? garbage , but watchable garbage nevertheless
time is just a counting system . . . .	the number 23 is another one of those high profile thrillers with a start that promise something very promising and intriguing in the trailers , but when the finished article is viewed , it rather fizzles than explodes . Carrey stars as a man who has a lot of coincidences that lead up to his wife buying him a book called the number 23 , and he starts to realise that he has a lot in common with the lead character , and starts to become obsessed with the number and the story . but as always with films like these , all is not what it seems . . . Carrey again tries to do something different for the big screen to reinvent himself after his star is starting to wane again in Hollywood , and decides to take this thriller / come noir tale under his wing and the results are quite average . the film promises so much and the build up is really interesting , but Carrey often doesn't look interested with the project and it all becomes sort of farcical come the final third . there are so many plot holes and so many questions that can be asked about this film , that in the end the film would not make any sense at all . throughout the film , there never is any real sense of dread or danger , and sometimes the film borderlines on just plain stupidness ( watch it and try not to smile when you see Ned for the third time ) . but there are a lot worse things to do with 90 minutes of your life than to watch this , watch it to see how desperate Carrey wants to stay famous . my advice , stick to doing what you do best , Gurning and making people laugh . 6+6+8+3 = average
no one is responsible for what they do . . . .	When Eastern European criminals Oleg and Emil come to New York City to pick up their share of a heist score , Oleg steals a video camera and starts filming their activities , both legal and illegal . When they learn how the American media circus can make a remorseless killer look like the victim and make them rich , they target media-savvy NYPD Homicide Detective Eddie Flemming and media-naive FDNY Fire Marshal Jordy Warsaw , the cops investigating their murder and torching of their former criminal partner , filming everything to sell to the local tabloid TV show " Top Story . . . . obviously this film is trying to be satirical on Warhols famous quote , and indicating that when someone from a different country visits the USA , they expect the streets to be paved with gold . on one hand we have a very interesting story , on how the media can influence the public and even court cases , when the right amount of money and coverage is involved . on the other , we have an average thriller , with a little comedy thrown into the proceedings , and a film trying to be controversial . but what we get is a film that tries too hard and the humour feels very out of place in this film . it fails on many levels due to this . if the film played it straight , all the way through , instead of the final act , the film would have worked better . if Emil and Oleg were not stereotypical movie villains ( they are almost cartoon like ) , and less of a double act , the movie may have worked better . but nevertheless , it's still entertaining , if infuriating . De Niro can do this type of thing in his sleep , and Burns offers good support . and it's also interesting to see such a daring turn as by the director to take a major character out of the film and the film makers views of media influence . but as i have stated , it's really annoying that every now and again it tries to be humorous when it doesn't need to be , thus failing to deliver it's message .
pretty busy week don't you think ? . . .	The teenager Bill Whitney ( Billy Warlock ) feels misfit with his parents and his sister Jenny Whitney ( Patrice Jennings ) . When his sister's boyfriend David Blanchard ( Tim Bartell ) bugs his family , he shows the disturbing tapes to Bill showing incest and a weird society . When Blanchard dies in a car accident , Bill decides to investigate his family and find a scary truth . . . . you have to be in the right frame of mind to watch or even enjoy this movie . the story is basically a riff on the class system , knowing how the other half live , and the other half namely being seriously rich people . the structure of the narrative can be very hard to follow , and you can tell where the extra bits have been added to make the story that little bit more easier for the viewer to understand . it's not that the film is bad , it just looks very cheap , and that the majority of the budget has been spent on ' screaming mad Georges ' very impressive effects third act . it's a film worth watching though , because i will doubt you will see anything like it again . it's just a shame that it's so average . .
i am Johnny Dazzle . . . .	i was dreading seeing this movie , but as i had nothing better to do , i thought i would give it a go . what i got was a predictable , sometimes silly movie , but a lot better than expected . Murphy goes for physical humour in this , and in the first act , learning about human life and different cultures and sexualities , he is especially hilarious . sadly though from there , we are ' blessed ' with the old fart gags and finding love routine that one comes to expect from these sort of comedies . all of the cast do a reasonable job , but it seems these days , that whenever a film bearing the name Eddie Murphy on the poster , has some sort of stigma to it . i for one can put my hands up and admit to this , after the debacle of ' Norbit ' i thought his career would be one fat suit after another , but this is not the case . yes it has toilet humour , and ' dave ' owes a little debt to one Homer Simpson , but it's charming in it's own special way . ignore the ratings on this site . it's not the best film in the world , but you may be a bit surprised when you have the chance to ' Meet Dave '
soviet method is more economical . . . .	Schwarzeneggar stars as politically correct captain Danko who travels to Chicago to catch clichéd Russian villain Rostov , after killing his partner . But thats not all Rostov has done , oh no . he has murdered , raped and probably swore too much to let Arnie forget about him . James Belushi plays a politically incorrect Chicago cop , who uses lots of profanity and eats junk food and cracks one liner after on liner , and the most hilarious thing about him is that he mocks Danko . a lot . so they get partnered up after each of their partners get killed , hilarity ensues , with these mismatched scallywags , and they end up bonding , just like all odd couples do at the end of the movie . probably one pf Schwarzeneggars weakest efforts of the eighties , this film is just a hybrid of 48 Hrs and lethal weapon , with none of the charm . Both the leads are fine and there are some good set pieces , it just feels so old now , just as it did back in 1989 . it has stereotypical characters , very racist undertones , and to top it all off , it's very bland between the initial fight on the prison and the bus chase at the end ( aka basically the whole movie ) . but for Arnie completest its an essential piece of cinema , if only to show that the Hollywood star did make at least one bad decision in the eighties . more lukewarm than red heat
there's more than meets the eye with you . . . .	High-school student Sam Witwicky buys his first car , who is actually the Autobot Bumblebee . Bumblebee defends Sam and his girlfriend Mikaela Banes from the Decepticon Barricade , before the other Autobots arrive on Earth . They are searching for the Allspark , and the war on Earth heats up as the Decepticons attack a United States military base in Qatar . Sam and Mikaela are taken by the top-secret agency Sector 7 to help stop the Decepticons , but when they learn the agency also intends to destroy the Autobots , they formulate their own plan to save the world . . . . Michael Bay has made a visually stunning movie . the titular characters are absolutely flawless in the film and have to be some of the best special effects ever seen on scree , and Shia Lebeouf is really good in his ' leading ' role . but whenever either of those two are not on screen , the film fails big time . for such a simple story , they have made the film quite bloated by introducing too many characters , thus making a lot of the film a chore to watch . but there are some really standout moments , and the best one has to be when the autobots are at Sams house and are trying to hide from his parents , this is pure Spielberg and the dialogue and situation is hilarious . there are references to other things too , such as Bays 1998 hit Armageddon and even my little pony . the action scenes are good , but it gets a little too much toward the end , as there is so much going on , you cannot make out who the decepticons are and who the autobots are . the film is easily half an hour too long and could have done with a fewer characters ( Andersons computer geek is needless and whilst Tuturro is good and very funny too , just pointless ) . so on the whole the film is visually stunning and you will probably not see a more cinema friendly film than this , but with the over emphasis on the heavy dramatic soundtrack and too many characters , Bay won't win any new fans with this . Good , but i was expecting something a little more special .
save yourself sweetheart . . . .	A number of fighters are invited to DOA , an invitational martial arts contest . They travel to the tournament island by plane , until they have to jump out mid-flight with parachutes , and then have until sundown to reach the main island to be entered into the tournament . Fighters are then pooled against one another in a knock-out style tournament , with the loser of a battle sent home , and the winner progressing to the subsequent round . The plot revolves around four female fighters who begin as rivals , but subsequently find themselves teaming up against another force . . . . first things first , this is not a film to be taken seriously . all this is an excuse for is to see bikini clad babes fighting in different elements on wires , so what is there not to like ? if if you take the advice of the above , there is lots to be liked from this video game adaptation . not really lot of story to speak of , if you have seen 1995's ' Mortal Kombat ' then you will know what to expect . the good fighters the dirty fighters the cocky fighters and some irrelevant sub-plots . the special effects are decidedly dodgy and the fighting is all seen it before , but the main characters are adequate , and the final third act is so stupendous , that it is just fun to watch . perhaps this won't win any awards , but you could do a lot worse than seeing this movie . a pure guilty pleasure .
i wanna tell you everything . . .	A serial killer brutally slays and dismembers several gay men in New York's S & M and leather districts . The young police officer Steve Burns is sent undercover onto the streets as decoy for the murderer . Working almost completely isolated from his department , he has to learn and practice the complex rules and signals of this little society . While barely seeing his girlfriend Nancy anymore , the work starts changing him . a typical Friedkin movie . there are no heroes in this movie , and the content , whilst explicit in some scenes , can evoke rage due to the subliminal images seen in the film so celebrated with his most famous film to date ' the exorcist ' . the film does start off promising , and you can see from the offset , how many films this picture has influenced . Pacino is good in his role , but as the film carries on , it appears that Pacino goes into autopilot , and this affecys the picture to a high extent . De Palma wanted to make this picture , and for me , as a big fan of his , sort of taints the proceedings . in some scenes the editing is decidedly dodgy as you can really tell when the film has been ' seamlessly ' edited . for a fim that was deemed very controversial at the time , it's very hard to understand why . at times , the film is unintentionally funny , for instance when Pacino is questioned whilst undercover , a guy just walks in and slaps him around the face . with no rationale for this , it does induce laughs to a high extent , which makes the rest of the film a little weak . i was waiting for this film to be released uncut for some time , and after seeing it , i was a bit ' meh ' . a good thriller , but no way does the film live up to it's notoriety .
your instincts are turned on . . . . .	eastern European locations ? footage taken from Top Gun ? Emma Samms ? a blockade that can only prevent an horse and cart proceeding ? welcome to the direct to DVD career of on Wesley Snipes . the plot less story involves terrorists who want something they cannot have , so they throw their toys out of their prams and threaten and take over some sort of power plant . the only thing is , if there is an air strike , something bad will happen , i think that was mentioned in the token board room meeting . so they send a ' crack command ' of soldiers in to infiltrate the plant and defeat the mulleted bad guy , but Snipes is with them , and by the look of the editing and some of the camera-work , he shares little screen time with the cast , in fact it would be fair to say he has little screen time whatsoever . the script is poor , the set pieces are silly ( snipes can dodge tank shells and outrun a jeep , and time a grenade just right to blow up said jeep ) . there is double cross after double cross , but there is a little fun to be had in the film , it's just a shame it does'nt start until 57 minutes into the film . if Snipes wants to be in the Van Damme / Seagal of direct to DVD movies and maintain his dignity , he will have to do better than this , but it's enjoyable enough .
a tracker keeper . . . .	Eighteen-year-old Ian Lafferty sets out on a cross country drive with his best friends Lance and Felicia in order to lose his virginity to a red-hot babe he met on the Internet . But the journey , filled with hilarious misadventures and raunchy escapades , teaches all three more than they expected about life and love . Randy , raucous and unexpectedly romantic , Sex Drive follows three friends on the road trip of a lifetime ! Ian can't seem to catch a break . He's taunted by his cocksure older brother Rex , shown up in the romance department by his 14-year-old younger brother and humiliated by his job at a mall do-nut shop . But Ian's biggest problem is that he's about to start college as a virgin ! Getting nowhere with the girl of his dreams and longtime best friend Felicia , Ian resorts to the Internet for dates . He soon hooks up with Ms . Tasty , a flaming hot blonde who can't wait to get busy . The only catch : Ian has to drive 500 miles from Chicago to Knoxville to consummate the deal . . . . it's been done a thousand times before , a lot better and a lot worse , but the film works , thanks to the performances from the three leads , and a couple of good cameos . taking pieces of American Pie , Road Trip and numerous other innuendo filled teen-aimed comedies , it's highly predictable stuff , where the trio get into situations and get out of them with their pride a little bit dented each time . my only Problem with this film is Marsden , even though he is good , he just plays Stifler , through and through , right down to his put downs on his brother through to his personality . it offers nothing new , nothing original , but it's funny because you know exactly what to expect from this film . the final third throws all logic out of the window , but if you just want to spend 2 hours watching people talk about sex and swear a lot , this is passable stuff . an above average teen comedy .
the force is strong this morning . . . . .	In Manhattan , Ashley Albright is a lucky woman and very successful in the agency where she works . clumsy Jake Hardin is an unlucky aspirant manager of the rock band McFly , who is unsuccessfully trying to contact the entrepreneur Damon Phillips to promote his band . When Ashley meets Jake in a masquerade party , they kiss each other , swapping her fortune with his bad luck . . . . . this isn't the best film to be released last year and won't win McFly any overseas fans ( they are really bad in this ) , but for a fun 90 minutes , it does it's job well . Lohan is annoyingly attractive and looks strangely older than twenty in this , and plays the part of a New York suburbanite , down to a tee , even the spending and the constant ( almost ) showing off to her friends . her luck is sickening in the first act , so it comes with quite a relief , that she gets her just desserts just near the halfway mark , and gives all her luck to Chris Pine ( who is also sickingly attractive ) . the rest is predictable and sugar coated pap , but it's well made pap , intended to give McFly a little break in the states . it doesn't work as a pop music vehicle , but as a Lohan film , it works well , and although a huge amount of you will disagree with me , Lhan is talented and performs her part well , as she is suited to these sort of roles , the rich teen girl who has everything , and i mean that in the nicest way possible . passable pap is all this is . .
take the plane . . .	Alex , his younger teenage sister Bea along with their close friend Amy are backpacking through Brazil , and meet up with Finn and Liam , together with Australian traveller Pru , on a cross country bus . They barely survive after it crashes . Further mishaps occur due to becoming stranded by so-called " friendly locals " , some of whom have deprived them of all their belongings . Searching for any sympathetic police , they meet a familiar face , who offers to lead them to sanctuary . But upon finally reaching this supposed safe haven Amy soon vanishes , and it is only then that they discover that their saviours offering shelter are operators of a black market specialising in running human organs , who are seeking unwilling donors to benefit their unfortunate countrymen . In their captors ' eyes foreigners have come into Brazil , raping their precious lands of its rubber , sugar , and gold . For this exploitation of their country , our backpackers are now set to go under the surgeon's scalpel . . . . . . . . in the advent of movies such as Hostel and the hills have eyes , the boundary for shocks has to be pushed a little further every time a new thriller is released . some are good and some are very bad . the movie just falls into the former with it's inventive story and hybrid of the beach / hostel . the characters in the film are the typical stereotypes you expect to see in these kind of movies , and if you are used to seeing these kind of films , then from the upstart you know who is going to live and vice-versa . the one thing this film has going for it is tension , and from the third act onwards , it can be unbearable at times . one standout scene is the cave set-piece , the main characters trying to get away from the henchman whilst the air pockets are becoming few and far between . quite an enjoyable movie , but the comparisons to the superior hostel are there , which is quite unfair , because this does deserve to be viewed . the editing is very poor at times , and the film does start to slow up around the halfway mark , but as i have said before , worth watching .
rabbit is good , rabbit is wise . . . . .	Bill Harding is trying to get his tornado-hunter wife , Jo , to sign divorce papers so he can marry his girlfriend Melissa . But Mother Nature , in the form of a series of intense storms sweeping across Oklahoma , has other plans . Soon the three have joined the team of storm chasers as they attempt to insert a revolutionary measuring device into the very heart of several extremely violent tornadoes . . . . a brash silly big film with nothing to scream about but it's intense effects and way over the top performances from such talent , but it's two hours of silly throwaway fun that some critic , somewhere has bound to have written ' it'll blow you away ! ! ' and laugh at you when you spent your money to watch it on the big screen . it loses a lot on the small screen , and unless you have a good surround sound system and a decent size television , this is cinematic pap , but it's funny and the effects are good . it's just an event movie , from that little era in the nineties when disaster movies came back in fashion for a while and Jan de Bont movies were not that bad .
Houston we have a little problem . . . .	the story is as straightforward as stories can go , three flies board the Apollo 11 shuttle , fly to the moon and come back . thats it . but the inclusion of 3-D makes it that little more interesting . some of the effects here are wonderful , and my daughter was having the time of her life when the flies finally go into space . it's definitely not for adults , i was looking at my watch at times , but the best character in this movie is the Grandpa , who brings and lot of warmth and mirth to this picturehe actually holds the film together , and the first half of the film is more entertaining than when the three young flies are in space . there is also a scene that basically rips off an episode of the Simpson's , but was visually stunning . the major bad point of this movie , was the inclusion of one Buzz Aldrin , explaining to the audience that this wasn't real . never before have i been patronised by such a 2-Dimensional person . the kids will love the film thoughthanks for the heads up Buzz ! ! !
it's not a cop , it's a cop , it's a cop . . . .	Some naughty maniac , is going around killing criminals who get away with literally murder and smile as they leave the court room . call in Robert De Niro , and Al Pacino , as two ' grizzled cops who are Luke warm on the trail of the killer who may or may not be linked to the crimes . Brian Dennehy wants De Niro and Pacino to find the killer before Avent reveals the twist before the films even halfway through . what should have been a major return to form from the two most prolific actors of recent years , feels more like a straight to DVD release unleashed on cinemas due to the power of these two great men . what should have been a classic like Heat feels more like 15 minutes , and even show time thanks to some ridiculous supporting characters , predictable story , horrible opening credit sequence and too may red herrings thrown into the melting pot . saying that , if you are expecting a dull , average movie , rather than an excellent psychological drama , you will be pleasantly surprised by the outcome . it does have some very good moments between the two leads , even if sometimes they do appear to be phoning in their performances . they bounce off each other , and have the chemistry that fans have always wished for . it's not the best film released , and the Inclusion of Curtis Jackson and a ridiculous Carla Guigino , do sometimes make the viewer cringe , but the main reason why most people will see this movie , is purely because of the two leads , and they do a satisfactory job . worth seeing .
chicks dig scars . . . .	RJ is a raccoon , specialist on finding and stealing food , as every raccoon in the world . During a night , RJ tries to steal all the food reserves of Vincent , a big bear , but the raccoon's ambition makes that all the food loot get lost . Vincent warns RJ that he'll should put back all his food when full moon comes , otherwise he will regret having stolen the food . Meanwhile , a group of animals headed by a cautious turtle , Verne , is worried because spring has come and there's not enough food for everyone . Verne tells that they will be fine eating plants and some bark . Later , they find that their wood has a frontier , formed by a giant bush . They're scared of crossing to the other side , where the suburbs exist . But RJ comes to the scene , telling that there's no danger in the suburbs , and that they will find all the food they want there . Nevertheless , Verne distrusts RJ , because he thinks that there's something suspicious about him , trying to convince the group that natural food is better than junk human food . Verne won't be wrong , because RJ is only using them to get the food for Vincent . even though this film has a great premise , and it's excellent to hear Willis doing some great voice work again , over the hedge just doesn't have enough memorable characters in the film . Even though R . J is a wisecracking raccoon and has some of the best lines , characters like his usually are supporting acts to better characters in other animated features . hammy is supposed to be the comedy value character , but he becomes rapidly annoying , and the rest are bland at best . but the animation is fantastic , and there are some good set pieces and some hilarious moments in the film . it's great for kids , as for once it doesn't really go down the innuendo line like some animated films do , and some of the movie references are funny too . it's harmless fun , but forgettable all the same .
i'll sic my dog onto you . . . .	Donna Trenton is a frustrated suburban housewife whose life is a turmoil after her husband learns about her having an affair . Brett Camber is a young boy whose only companion is a Saint-Bernard named " Cujo " , who in turn is bitten by a rabid bat . Whilst Vic , Donna's husband is away on business , and thinking over his marital troubles , Donna and her 5-year-old son Tad take her Pinto to Brett Cambers ' dad's car shop . . . the car fails , and " Cujo " is very , very sick . . . a film not just about a rabid dog , but a film that involves relationship problems and power trips among the nuclear family , Cujo just sums up the fact that he is the uber power in the family , and admittedly the final third is enthralling and very scary , especially for dog owners . one of those rare Stephen movies that is actually quite watchable and stays with you a long while after the film has finished . the situation that the mother has at the end are desperate , but she is only after one thing the well being of her son . an enjoyable movie
bust a move !	in this average comedy , Kennedy plays Justin , a twelve year old boy who hits his head and ends up in a coma for twenty years after a break dancing accident . after waking up and missing the nineties , he wants to get back to what he knows best , dancing , and recruits his old dancing group , the ' fab fresh four ' and enter the competition . but as always in these comedies , there is a bad guy , and of course the bad guy is dating the girl he wanted in high school , so predictability is never too far away . but what is good about this film is quite a lot of attention to detail paid to the eighties , such as the masters of the universe figures that are in Justins room , and little digs at sequels that were not as good as their predecessors , as he states in the film ' he missed gremlins 2 and ghost busters 2 ' which made me smile . but thats the problem with the film , it's obvious that the film is aimed at one demographic , people who grew up in the eighties , and this was done to better effect ten years ago with Sandlers ' the wedding singer ' albeit without the break dancing . but it isn't all bad , the soundtrack is very good and the film is very nostalgic and remembers the eighties fondly . just don't expect to get half of the jokes if you were born in the nineties
his name will live on forever . . .	even though the film is a visual masterpiece and has some stunning set pieces , i cannot help but feel short changed with what zemeckis has delivered . Zemeckis knows how to entertain , as he has proved with the back to the future movies , and all the while he has something new and innovative to show in his film making . the main problem here is , that when there are no fights / battles / beasties on the screen , the novelty soon wears off . in this day and age , it's not very entertaining to have a spear pointed at the screen ala ' 3-D which after the first hour becomes rather mundane . having said that though i cannot begin to express how visually stunning some of the movie is and how it drags you into the film . the battle with Grendal is stunning , as is the battle with the dragon at the end . the story is well told , and there are some dazzling performances from the likes of Hopkins , Malkovich and Winstone ( who has never looked better . it is really worth seeing this film on the big screen , where you will have the ultimate experience , but in my opinion when this gets released on blu-ray or hd-DVD , it will become just another cgi movie . enjoyable in places , dull as ditch-water in others
this is ready for the kiln . . . .	Jerome , a kid from the suburbs who loves to draw , goes to New York City's Strathmore College for his freshman year as a drawing major . Competition and petty jealousy consume faculty and students , with an end-of-first-semester best-student award held out as a grand plum . Worse , a strangler is on the loose , killing people on or next to campus . The idealistic Jerome falls in love with Audrey , a student who models for life-drawing classes and who responds to his sweetness . But he has a rival : the clean-cut , manly Jonah , also a first-year drawing student , whose primitive work draws raves and Audrey's attention . As cynicism seems to corrode everything , Jerome is desperate to win . . . an interesting movie from Zwigoff , but it doesn't quite work well enough . the cast are great and the story and characters work well , but the overall effect doesn't make the film as enjoyable as expected . the sub-plot involving the strangler on the campus is good and has potential , but is quickly distinguished by being very predictable , and from there , the movie goes pretty much downhill from there . but the characters are kooky enough to keep you interested for the duration , but in the end it just doesn't work well enough .
if you look closely , you can see bone . . .	the film starts with the tragic murder of James Crays ' wife , in a hit and run killing . James saw everything and went after the killer and crippled him for life . after spending three years in prison , James is still on the trail of his wife's killer , Fargo , as he keeps sending James newspaper clippings of his most recent killings . the film starts proper five years after the events mentioned above , and we meet Molly , she is on her way home from practice , when she becomes the next intended victim of Fargo . Fargo kills her friend and goes after her , but is interrupted by a vehicle . later on Fargo again tries to kill Molly but this time she is rescued by James , and a deadly game of cat and mouse ensues . . . as soon as the movie starts , you can see that this movie has been inspired from other , better movies such as ' the hitcher ' and ' mad max ' . the movie is set in the present , but it does have a little of an apocalyptic feel to it , when it is set on the highway . but the story is very bland and uninvolving . it's a basic revenge / road movie , which was done many a time in the late eighties / early nineties . Caviezel is very bland in his role and does not show the emotion one would expect from somebody who saw their wife killed . also in some scenes , the editing is really poor and done amateurish . the rest of the cast are quite good , especially Nitra who plays the damsel in distress down to a tee . Frankie Faison though is just pure filler , and whilst he does a good job with the material , his character serves no real purpose and is probably in the movie for his last line . and on the subject of the last line , this destroys any credibility that the film had up until this point . believe me it is as bad as the ending to ' pay it forward ' . with lots of plot holes throughout the movie and some very unbelievable set pieces , this is a film that once seen , will be forgotten . quite boring , but just about worth a look
this towns gone to hell . . . . . . .	It is twenty years in the future , and the planet has been devastated by vicious fire-breathing dragons . The last vestiges of humanity now struggle for survival in at remote outposts . In a ruined castle in the English countryside , Quinn is desperately trying to hold together a band of frightened , restless survivors . As a boy , Quinn watched his mother die protecting him from one of the beasts , and is still haunted by the memory . One day , a group of American rouges shows up , led by a brash , tough-guy named Van Zam . He claims to have discovered a way to kill the dragons once and for all , and enlists Quinn's help . But doing so will force Quinn to confront his own frightening memories . This , and Quinn's responsibilities to those that are under his protection , results in a battle of wills between the two men . In the end , events cause them both to realise that they must work together to defeat the monsters - - both without and within . . . . . i remember when Empire magazine where doing the greatest movie posters of 2002 , and this film won ! ! it has to be one of the biggest sham posters ever going , because it gives the potential viewer the false sense that this will be an effects fest event of a movie . it really lets it down . but thats not saying it's a bad movie though , because it isn't , it's just a real let down , because the marketing really builds it up , and then the film tears it down . Bale is reliable as ever , but McConaughy really ruins the movie , and the beards ! ! they are a shambles . when the effects are on screen , they are a joy , but you may as well be watching king Arthur if you are looking for a big summer blockbuster . this is low budget stuff , and watching it now , makes you laugh . there are a few good moments though . Bale and Butler doing ' empire ' is funny and the chopper set piece is quite amazing , but this doesn't make a good movie . it's an average post apocalyptic actioner , with very little to give , and has quite huge plot holes throughout , but if you like films about dragons , and Bale doing his best cockney accent , you could do worse .
you got hemo blood on me . . .	as the story goes violet is part vampire , part human and as usual there is a war between humans and these hybrids . when a boy is discovered who carries a virus to kill out all the hemos , violet stops at nothing to protect the boy as she feels that he must carry a cure for the hemos . . . well this film borrows heavily from the following . equilibriumthe matrix28 days later total recalland many many more sci-movies . director Wimmer incorporates the same ' gun-kata ' technique he used in his previous directorial effort ' equilibrium ' which was made on a tighter budget , had a more stellar cast and was frankly , a lot better than this . not that there is any fun to had with this movie . there is plenty of fighting and action for fans of this genre , but that is about it . not that it is Wimmers fault . the studio cut his film heavily in order to release it for a family friendly audience , and it ruins the film . i did not have a chance to view the ' unrated directors cut ' as it is not available in the UK , so i guess i will have to invest in the region 1 version . a fun movie with heavy comic book and video game influence , but thats about it .
let's go get our boy back . . .	Fighter navigator Chris Burnett wants out : he was looking for something more than the boring re-con missions he's been flying . He finds himself flying the lone Christmas day mission over war-torn Bosnia . But when he talks pilot Stackhouse into flying slightly off-course to check out an interesting target , the two get shot down . Burnett is soon alone , trying to outrun a pursuing army , while commanding officer Reigert finds his rescue operation hamstrung by politics , forcing Burnett to run far out of his way . . . Owens foray into the action genre , is unfortunate to say , rather a damp squib . this is by no means due to Wilson himself ( although it does take a while to take him seriously ) , or the plot . it's down to the stupid MTV style editing and camera work that the director thinks will stand out . well it does stand out , but for all the wrong reasons . instead of all the flash cuts and slow motion making the movie more pulse pounding , it starts to irritate soon into the movie , as does some dodgy soundtrack choices . the does have a very cold bleak feel to it , which makes Wilsons mission a little more uncomfortable for the viewer . it takes a good 30 minutes for the film to kick in , and there are some good set pieces , but again these are tainted thanks to some cheap CGI , which really does look cheap when watched on Blu-Ray . it's not surprising that Wilson has steered clear of these sort of movies , because he does belong in comedy . it's a passable movie , but nothing spectacular , just like Moores other movies , very average .
it's your loaf of bread . . .	An abused woman discovers that the dream man she married isn't who she thought he was . She and her daughter try to escape ( aided by her previous boyfriend ) , but he pursues her relentlessly . Fearing also for the safety of her daughter , she decides that there's only one way out of the marriage : kill him . . . previously made in 1991 starring Julia Roberts , Enough is your typical girl power flick with all the boxes marked to get women into a rage if their husbands walk in drunk one night , or just walk in . Lopez should have seen it , coming , back in 1991 when a franchise was born but buried quickly due to poor box office receipts , nobody had heard from the Rocketeer in eleven years , and then he turns up in her diner and as soon as you can say hit me , they get married , and he suddenly changes . she tries to leave him but he gets people to follow her everywhere , and it's only thanks to Fred Ward , that she has the chance to fight back . what we get then is a little Rocky / Karate kid montage with a very scary mantis teaching her how to kick ass , and set up all devices and look for guns . then they have a big scrap at the end , and all the women in the audience cheer , and the film finishes . it's watchable enough pap , and Lopez is quite endearing as the victim , it's just though it's been done time and time before .
objection ! overruled . . . . .	Inspired by a true story , A petty criminal sent to Alcatraz in the 1930s is caught attempting to make an escape . As punishment , he is put in solitary confinement . The maximum stay is supposed to be 19 days , but Henry spends years alone , cold and in complete darkness , only to emerge a madman and soon to be a murderer . The story follows a rookie lawyer attempting to prove that Alcatraz was to blame , and that Henry should not be executed . . . . . Coyld this have been Slaters sole attempt at going for an Oscar ? pure theatrics by all involved brings what could have been an interesting character piece , into pantomime for the over actor . the story is good ( it has to be , as it is inspired by a true one ) but the way it's executed is very poor indeed , and miscast in some instances . Slater just looks too young to play a lawyer that would bring a case like this to justice , and every time i see R . Lee Ermey , i just think of the drill Sergent from full metal jacket . Macy is wasted in his role , and spends the final third of the film exclaiming ' objection . . . . objection ! ' ( aka wasted ) . but Bacon is exceptional as the tortured inmate and really convinces , but as usual it's Gary Oldman who steals the whole move . Chewing his Dualogue with relishing Glee , the film is not the same when he is not on screen . Worth watching , but if you are expecting a quality drama , forget . if you are expecting an Oscar attempt by Slater , go ahead .
he may have my soul , but he doesn't have my spirit . . . .	the long awaited Ghostrider finally hits our screen , and was it really worth waiting all this time for , considering the teasers were released nearly a year ago , and the release date kept getting pulled back ? the answer is definitely yes , the film is great and goes along at a nice pace , and Cage looks like he's having as much fun as he did when playing Castor Troy in Face / off . the premise is simple , johnny Blaze sells his soul to the devil ( here named Mephistopheles for some reason ) so his dad can be cured of cancer . the devil does this but kills his dad the same day ! the devil then lets blaze know that he will call upon him one day for service . obviously that day comes in the shape of Wes Bentley , so Blaze turns into Ghostrider to prevent Wes Bentley from causing the end of days . it's very simple to follow follow and the narration is great , and like daredevil , Johnson keeps the back story to a minimum , and leaves it to the first act . the film is filled with very wry humour , and this makes the film more original , whereas if the film went seriously , it would have fell into ' crow ' like territory . the effects are not mind blowing but amiable enough , and do not hinder the movie , but ghost rider is a wonderful creation , all swagger and one liners and has to be one of the most fun things to be seen on screen so far this year . Mendes does OK , but her part adds no significance to the movie and wouldn't have changed much if she wasn't in it . there are a few minor quibbles to be had though . 1 . every time the devil or blackheart utter a word , they always end it with ' mmmmm'2 . the first act featuring cage is just him doing an Elvis like personality , and is quite irritating . 3 . Sam Elliott is great , but i feel he is just there to give Cage an audio commentary on the history of the story . 4 . Wes Bentley is absolutely awful in this movie , and he is the reason why i have only rated this a six . but aside from these and the bad editing and gaping plot-holes , it isn't a bad superhero movie , and Cage is back to his Manical best since Face / off . worth catching .
stick It in your brain . . . .	New York police are bemused by a spate of reports of a giant flying lizard that has been spotted around the rooftops of New York , which they assume to be bogus until the lizard starts to eat people . An out-of-work , ex-con piano player is the only person who knows the location of the monster's nest and is determined to turn the knowledge to his advantage , but will his gamble pay off or will he end up as lizard food ? . . not just your typical b-movie horror with dodgy effects and some even dodgier performances , but obviously a poke on becoming celebrity in one of the most sought after places in the world . the script is corny , but one cannot find the whole she-bang quite endearing as Jimmy Quinn will do anything for some quick cash and get his face on the cover of magazines , even if it means that David Carradine doesn't get a haircut for the entire movie . the final third of the movie is where it's at though as the middle sags with all the silly plot development , over acting and not enough dodgy special effects . if you enjoyed the old harryhausen films of the fifties and the sixties , you will be disappointed , this is just a total poke at culture and society , with a big winged serpent ! . . . .
i'm done chasing monsters in the dark . . .	former FBI agent Doctor Dana Scully is now a staff physician at Our Lady of Sorrows , a Catholic hospital , and treating a boy named Christian who has Sandhoff disease , a terminal brain condition . FBI agent Drummy arrives to ask Scully's help in locating Fox Mulder , the fugitive former head of the X-Files division , and says they will call off its manhunt for him if he will help investigate the disappearances of several women , including young FBI agent Monica Banan . Scully agrees and convinces Mulder who is living in a nearby small home , bearded and clipping newspaper articles about the paranormal to help , despite Mulder's initial misgivings that this is an FBI trick to capture him . The duo is taken to Washington , D . C . , where Agent Dakota Whitney wants Mulder's expertise with the paranormal as they have been led to a clue by Father Joseph ( Joe ) Fitzgerald Crissman , a priest defrocked for paedophilia who claims God is sending him visions of the crimes . Mulder wants to believe the man , but Scully is disgusted by Father Joe's past and disregards his " visions " . Whitney and Drummy take Father Joe and Mulder to the kidnapped Banan's home , where the former priest overcomes the others ' scepticism when , in anguish and on his knees in pain , he begins bleeding from the eyes . . this has to be the most unnecessary film ever made . it feels like an extended episode of the series , and one of the average ones at that . the first movie was mediocre , but this pushes the boundaries a little too far . yes it's great to see Mulder and Scully back in action and the chemistry is still there , it's just a shame that they have been given such a shoddy story to appear in a film together . it becomes very mundane at times , but on the plus side , the settings and locales are tremendous .
roger that . . . . . .	another month , another direct to DVD movie for Seagal . after the dismal attack force , things could only go up for Seagal , and to be fair , he actually delivers a good action movie , probably his best since today you die . Seagal plays john ( original name ) , a shady pilot , who knows a lot of things people would rather him not know , thats why at the beginning , we see him nearly getting his mind erased . instead of letting them do that ( he would forget attack force and black dawn ) , he escapes , only to get captured at a café ' after defending himself . he agrees to fly out to Afghanistan to recover a stolen aircraft and two nuclear weapons , with which the owner intends dispersing on to European and American soil . . . . seeing as Seagal produced this and wrote the Screenply , there is really no excuse for him to use a voice double this time , this would have been marked up one , but the voice over always appears in his films now , it's become a part of his movies , so unfortunately , it's now expected . secondly , why does Seagal have to use a stunt double for doing the simplest of things ? laying on top of a truck , turning round to put a gun in his pocket , running ? but the action does come thick and fast and Seagal does finally have a decent fight in a film , and spend the rest of the time throwing knives into peoples throats , finally Seagal is getting back into fighting spirit . but my main concern is how lazily the film was made . nearly all of the flight footage is used from other material and it is painfully obvious to watch , and when the final third contains a dogfight , you're in trouble . even the explosions on the ground are stock footage , so when a film like this costs over 12 million , you are sitting there wondering where all the money has gone . support is fine , but if you live in Engalnd , you will notice the majority as they have all been in the bill , casualty , itv crime dramas , at one time or another . but Seagal does look like he's coming back to form , while no the greatest film on earth , it will satisfy Seagal fans , after a slew of bombs he has made .
i'm older than i look . . . . .	A prehistoric epic that follows a young mammoth hunter named D'Leh's journey through uncharted territory to secure the future of his tribe . When a band of mysterious horse-riding warlords raid the Yaghal camp and kidnaps his heart's desire - the beautiful Evolet along with many others , D'Leh is forced to lead a small group of hunters south to pursue the warlords to the end of the world to save her . Driven by destiny , the unlikely band of warriors must battle sabre-toothed cats and terror birds in the Levant . . . this is Apocalypse for kids , with a little bit of star-gate and a friendly sabre tooth tiger thrown in for good measure . oh and a set piece that rips off the lost world : Jurassic Park for good measure . it's just another spectacle film from the director who loves to trash new york at any given opportunity in his movies , but underneath all the special effects and the spectacular cinematography , it's a bland piece of film making . the characters are pretty much one dimensional , and it lacks any thrills whatsoever . our ' hero ' basically just walks and gets attacked in numerous destinations to get back his blue eyed girlfriend . some of it is remarkable , some of it unbelievable , and most of it downright ridiculous . but it's not as bad as what the critics make it out to be . the final third is a well made piece of cinema , and has an eerie Mayan feel to it , it's just a shame that the preceding 90 minutes is full of stupid dialogue and people collapsing from dehydration . it's like they have remade ' warlords of Atlantis ' and forgot to put the fun into it . it tries hard , but fails on so many levels . an average movie
the road you took to avoid it . . . .	Interpol Agent Louis Salinger and Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Eleanor Whitman are determined to bring to justice one of the world's most powerful banks . Uncovering illegal activities including money laundering , arms trading , and the destabilisation of governments , Salinger and Whitman's investigation takes them from Berlin to Milan to New York and to Istanbul . Finding themselves in a high-stakes chase across the globe , their relentless tenacity puts their own lives at risk as the bank will stop at nothing - even murder - to continue financing terror and war . . . answers on a postcard to me please , if anyone has any idea what this movie has to do with anything apart from building up to a spectacular shoot out , and Owen proving again he could have been quite a good Bond . he spends all of this film looking moody ( he has a past of course ) and Watts does nothing in this film apart from receiving text messages saying no , and having the phone hung up on her . it's a good looking film , but very shallow . the acting is good and the story has a very good potential to it , but come the closing credits , you maybe like me and be scratching your head about the previous 110 minutes . worth watching for the shoot-out , which is expertly done , but coming from such a prolific director , i was expecting a whole lot more , even the trailers were a cop out . . .
i'm coming for you , depend on it . . .	widower teacher and baseball and basketball coach Ray Keene lost his wife that died of cancer two years ago . When his teenage son Chris Keene is caught by the police smoking pot , Ray invites him to hike and camp in the woods to increase their bonds . Meanwhile , mercenary assassin Frank Cardin is arrested by FBI after a car accident in the middle of a contract to kill an important target . While Frank is travelling on the road escorted by three FBI agents , his men try to rescue him , but his car falls into a river and is carried by the drift . Ray helps the wounded agent and the cuffed Frank to leave the river , and feels responsible to deliver Frank to justice . The former policeman and stubborn Ray does not listen to Frank's proposal to leave him alone and travel through the woods with Chris , trying to find a safe place . But Frank's men and an undercover agent in the team are chasing the group with different lethal intentions . a nice premise with a good cast , is let down by not enough suspense and it relies heavily on the vulnerability of the father and son bond , which does work to begin with , but then begins to grate a little toward the end . at times the film appears to be very artificial , like the cast are not really on the mountains or in the forest , and the henchman are your stereotypical bad guys who argue a lot and have different traits . but Cusack and Freeman are as dependable as ever and make the film worth renting .
got any booze ? . . .	Brian and Charlie ( B & C ) work for a gangster . When the boss learns they want to " leave " , he sets them up to be killed , after they help rob the local Triads of their drug dealing profits . B & C decide to steal the money for themselves , but when their escape doesn't go to plan , they have to seek refuge in a Nuns ' teacher training school . Disguised as nuns , B & C have to avoid their boss , Triads , police and Brian's girlfriend . There's also the problem of them being men disguised as nuns in an all women institution . . . take this for what it is , it's a one joke movie . two men dressed as nuns , thats it plain and simple . it's predictable , yet the performances from Idle and Coltrane , shift this movie from the mundane to the endearing . it's just easy viewing , with plenty of jokes and funny set pieces and the two leads work really well together . 18 years on it does seem a little dated , but this is a handmade film , and they certainly knew how to pull in the crowds . a laid back comedy , with plenty of laughs , but as i've already said , it's a one joke movie .
you're leaning on my scarf . . . .	A master chef , Kate lives her life like she runs the kitchen at upscale 22 Bleecker Restaurant in Manhattan - - with a no-nonsense intensity that both captivates and intimidates everyone around her . With breathtaking precision , she powers through each hectic shift , coordinating hundreds of meals , preparing delicate sauces , seasoning and simmering each dish to absolute perfection . But after an accident , her life changes as she has to look after her niece , and then all of a sudden a love interest joins the kitchen , she hates him at first , but then the best way to a mans / woman's heart , is their stomach . . having not seen the original , i wasn't holding any reservations for this movie . the reviews were average , as was the box office , buy Zeta-Jones can act when the director demands it , and i wondered what it would be like for her to be in a Gordon Ramsey type role . but she does spend most of the movie spitting her dummy out of her pram and comes across as a spoilt brat , which doesn't make a likable character . but then Eckhart comes along and and adds a little spice to the movie , even if his role is a little two dimensional . it's all predictable stuff , but it's great to see Jone's character change and bond with her Niece , and as always with films like this , the ending is predictable . but worth seeing .
your shirt says free tibet . . .	Dave Chappelle presents a Brooklyn neighbourhood with its very own once-in-a-lifetime free block party . In addition to Chappelle , the roster of artists includes Kanye West , Mos Def , Talib Kweli , Common , Dead Prez , Erykah Badu , Jill Scott , the Roots , Cody ChesnuTT , Big Daddy Kane , and - reunited for their first performance in over seven years - the Fugees . Includes private rehearsals footage and Chappelle in the small Ohio town he calls home , where he wanders through town handing out golden tickets to invite several dozen citizens to join the party , providing transportation and lodging for their visit to Brooklyn . Ohio's Central State University marching band makes the trip and kicks off the festivities at the intersection of Quincy and Downing Streets . . . block party , or Dave Chapelles vanity project . this isn't really about giving the people a good time on a rainy night , this is about Dave chapelle showing the people how much money he has and how many people he knows . a lot of you may disagree with what i say , and thats fair enough , but watch the movie again and count how many times he goes on about his fortune , and see him standing numerous times on the roof with his loudspeaker , acting like a god , it does start to grate after a while . on the plus side , we have some great footage by Gondry and some great performances from the artists , and a little of it is funny ( apart from the really old racist jokes , enough with the white jokes , philistine ! ! ! ) , but as i said before , pure vanity . cannot wait for the Chris rock project .
everybody makes mistakes . . . .	when Aviva becomes pregnant , her mother and father makes the decision for her to abort the unborn baby . when the procedure goes wrong , Aviva has to have a hysterectomy . Aviva then goes on a journey to a weird and unsettling world , played by different actresses Aviva encounters strange and bizarre characters . having never seen a film by Solondz before i have to confess i was very confused by the whole movie . Solondz ' world is a very disturbing vision , making it uneasy viewing for the audience . somewhere in the story is the ' leopard never changes it's spots ' theme . Aviva still thinks she can conceive , and meets earl a truck driver / paedophile hit-man , who by all accounts is a paedophile himself . the film is very ambiguous in it's theme and the choice to have multiple actresses play Aviva could represent that beneath everything she has been through , Aviva hasn't changed . i have been advised to see ' welcome to the dolls house ' before this , but i didn't . a very confusing film , and probably not the best way to introduce you into the world of Solondz .
start with the comics , you'll live longer . . .	At a time of international incident , the body of a young female staffer is found in a White House wash room . Homicide detective Harlan Regis is called in to investigate the murder only to discover the secret service had taken hold of all the evidence for their own investigation . A frustrated Regis becomes suspicious of a cover-up and convinces secret service agent Nina Chance to aid him . The remainder of the plot is spent following Regis and Chance as they uncover the answers as to who is behind the conspiracy and why . . . an uneventful movie and story is made watchable by the presence of Snipes ( who was just at the peak of his career here , you can't really count Blade ) and Lane who in my opinion just cannot do wrong in any movie . its a by the numbers conspiracy thriller , served up now on numerous crime dramas across commercial TV , only this has the little twist of it being in the white house . Snipes does his best with the material given , but spends most of the time running around really fast in a vest and carrying an unlit cigar in his mouth ( whilst running really fast ) . oh , and he has a model of Washington in his lounge , just to give him that human side . aided along by the token partner , who you just know from the start , will probably have something bad happen to him , whilst Snipes is running really fast . Benzali is areal pain in the zali and plays your stereotypical shady government agent , which is annoying as the rest of the cast are great . and the final final third is exciting enough . its just a shame that the first two acts are not as good , else this would have been a well paced enjoyable thriller , instead of a mildly diverting Snipes movie where he doesn't fight much , but runs really fast .
why did G-Girl throw a shark at us ? ?	In New York , when the shy and lonely project manager of a design firm Matt meets Jenny Johnson in the subway , he invites her to date and have dinner with him . Jenny immediately falls in love for him , they have sex and she discloses her true identity to him , telling that she is the powerful superhero G-Girl . After meeting his co-worker and friend Hannah Lewis , the needy Jenny becomes jealous , controlling and manipulative , and Matt follows the advice of his best friend Vaughn Haige and dumps her , breaking her heart . Jenny turns Matt's life into hell , while he has a romance with Hannah . However , the archenemy of G-Girl and former high school sweetheart of Jenny , Professor Bedlam , proposes Matt to lure Jenny to strip her superpowers . . . . a fantastic story and what could have been one of the summers biggest hits , is spoilt by bad directing from a director who should be able to do this standing on his head , and average performances from the main cast . none of the characters are very believable , apart from when Thurman becomes bitter and twisted , then the film takes an interesting turn . instead of being the hero , being jilted turns her into some kind of uber-villain , using her powers to hurt and ruin Matts life . Thurman is great and adds some sexual chemistry when she is in ' bad ' mode , but before all this ( over half the movie ) she is just like the rest of the movie ( dull ) . but seeing that this is brought to us from the guy who gave the world the fantastic movie ' Ghostbusters ' you see he is clearly just doing this for the cash . there is no love and dedication put into the film , none of the characters are explained in depth ( apart from G - girl ) . and you really start to lose interest just about the halfway mark . so as i said before , thank heavens that the story took a genius turn and made Thuman ' evil ' halfway through . and a special mention to Eddie Izzard for putting in a decent performance and giving the film a little bit more credibility . a wasted chance , this could have been an amazing movie , if the attention and love had been put into it .
the earth isn't ready for this technology . . .	Dallas returns to Gunnison after a stint in the state penitentiary . He is picked up at the bus station by Morales ; Dallas and Morales used to be partners in crime , but Morales is now the county's sheriff . Also arriving home is Kelly , after a tour of duty in Iraq . Her husband , Tim is overjoyed to see her , but their daughter , Molly , is unsure of how to react to her mother's return . She does , however , enjoy the night-vision goggles Kelly brought home as a souvenir . Meanwhile , Dallas's younger brother Ricky , is beaten up by Dale and his friends . Ricky has been flirting with Dale's girlfriend , Jesse . The fight is the last straw and Jesse breaks things off with Dale . She invites Ricky to go skinny-dipping with her at the high school's pool later that night . The Predator arrives and scavenges weapons from the downed vessel then destroys it . He uses an acid to destroy the corpses of the alien's current victims as well as the facehuggers he finds . When Deputy Ray stumbles upon the scene , the Predator kills him and skins his corpse . When Morales and Dallas find Ray's body , they realise that something horrible is stalking the town . if the fist instalment of this franchise disappointed a lot of people , this will please a lot more of the old fans , but will not win any new ones . the story carries on straight from the 2004 hit when the alien impregnated the predator . so the ship crashes and lands on earth . it's not long until carnage ensues , and for people who were disappointed with the lack of gore in the first one , will be a little bit more satisfied with this one . the story is anaemic though and the characters are not very interesting or sympathetic , but there are enough references from the predator and alien movies to satisfy the fans . its not the best film in the world , and it did disappoint me in the sense that the trailer showed all the best bits , but as just under 90 minutes , it won't ruin your night out if you just want to see the alien and predators give it some for the last half an hour . a good movie , but a terrible disappointment .
i eat alone . . . i sleep alone . . . .	first things first . the major talking point of this movie is cages hair . yes , it's hilarious , but hair does not make a movie . . . . cage plays a lonely assassin who has had enough of his life in the shadows ( is there any other type of assassin ? ) and falls in lust with a mute pharmacist , while training up a young whipper-snapper called Kong , who cage would usually kill after he has finished his business time . a re-make of the 99 film of the same name ( which i have not seen , so cannot express an opinion ) , this feels just like other cage films that are a huge disappointment . . . see Windtalkers , the wicker man , captain Corellis mandolin , and guarding Tess , in that it ; s just an average 99 minute movie , which offers nothing new and has Cage ( even though the guy produced it ) on auto pilot for the whole duration . none of the other characters are explored , and there is no back story to Joe , who it appears , just turns up to burn some photos and do some shooting . still , it's flashily edited , with some John Woo-lite set pieces , but in the advent of films such as Collaterall , it falls way short of the mark . you end up not caring for Cage's character , which in turn , makes you care less for anyone involved with him . it starts off really promising , but as soon as we enter the titular city , it loses it's pace and focus . plus it doesn't help when it features the most lethargic boat / bike chase this year , and with a decidedly un-sympathetic ending . it does have some redeeming factors though , the mugging scene , which is the most effective part of the film , and it is quite funny when Cage is eating spicy food , but i wonder if Cage was method acting for this part . not a disaster as everyone says it is , but highly average in all respects . more Bangkok tedious , than dangerous , i'm afraid to say
OK , we got a sucker . . .	Semi-sequel to ' John Carpenter's Vampires ' . In Mexico , another vampire slayer , Derek Bliss , is hired by a shady priest and aided by a group of fellow slayers in finding a large nest of ' suckers ' and their powerful leader , a vampire princess . She is seeking a legendary black crucifix - - the same crucifix used unsuccessfully in the first movie to perform a ritual which will enable vampires to walk in sunlight and be invulnerable . . . my expectations were not high for this sequel , seeing that the first film was very good but died a death at the box office . and taking woods , and replacing him with Bon Jovi as ' the leading man ' was not such a good idea . the first film worked really well because of woods ' sarcasm and panache with playing his character tongue in cheek , plus it was quite tense and gory . Jovi plays it straight and the guy cannot do straight . the set pieces are nothing original and the film does tend to drag a little bit during the second act , but there is something about it that you just cannot switch the movie off . maybe it's because Thomas Ian Griffith was quite overpowering in the first film , but this vampire looks like Sadie frost in Coppolas Dracula . it's not a bad film , but could have been a better movie .
cherish your life . . .	Jigsaw and his apprentice Amanda are dead . Now , upon the news of Detective Kerry's murder , two seasoned FBI profilers , Agent Strahm and Agent Perez , arrive in the terrified community to assist the veteran Detective Hoffman in sifting through Jigsaw's latest grizzly remains and piecing together the puzzle . However , when SWAT Commander Rigg is abducted and thrust into a game , the last officer untouched by Jigsaw has but ninety minutes to overcome a series of demented traps and save an old friend or face the deadly consequences . . . Saw IV goes down the same path that 2001's Hannibal did , it begins to make the audience sympathise with the character . as we all know , Jigsaw died in the third instalment , but through the gift of being able to swallow Dictaphone tapes , his games continue . it's not as gory as the other three , and the traps are not as inventive as the others , but if you are a saw fan , there is enough sub-plots and twists to keep you entertained . no doubt this cash cow will continue , as this must be now one of the most successful horror franchises this side of Elm st . compared to the first movie , it's utter tripe , but in the law of diminishing plot lines and story , it does hold up just long enough to keep the viewer entertained .
ninjas , ninjas , everywhere . . . .	Joe Armstrong , an orphaned drifter will little respect for much other than martial arts , finds himself on an American Army base in The Philippines after a judge gives him a choice of enlistment or prison . On one of his first missions driving a convoy , his platoon is attacked by a group of rebels who try to steal the weapons the platoon is transporting and kidnap Patricia , the base colonel's daughter , who happens to be along for the ride . Joe rescues Patricia and gets her safely back to the base , but everyone else in the platoon is killed , leading his superiors to conclude that Joe is guilty of cowardice , collaboration or simple incompetence . At the same time , the rebel leader vows revenge against the serviceman who disrupted his plans , and sends an army of ninjas to assassinate him and bring back Patricia . . . Michael Dudikoff shows what an awesome actor he is by standing silent for about ten minutes in the opening scene of this cult classic , showing that maybe he is the James Dean of ninja . it's throwaway stuff , but funny . with ninjas with lasers and all sorts of accessories , the vanishing powder is especially unique . there is a story in there somewhere , about some missiles being stole or something , but that goes out of the window when there is a back flip or a shiruken thrown ( the sound effects guys most have worked overtime in this film ! ) instantly forgettable , it's pure Cannon cheese and it wears it proudly on its sleeve , watch it ans remember the eighties .
some you win . . . . . and dim sum , you lose . . .	When a Chinese gang lord's son is murdered in Oakland , his brother , Han , breaks out of a Hong Kong prison to find out how it happened and to avenge his death . He arrives on controlled turf , a waterfront run by the rival gang-lords Ch'u Sing ( Han's father ) and Isaak O'Day , and their respective Chinese and African-American crime organisations . When it is clear that something bigger is involved , Han teams up with O'Day's daughter Trish to continue the hunt for justice . a modern day take on Romeo and Juliet , Li's first major Hollywood movie has it's flaws , but just about keeps the audience entertained throughout . it certainly has promise , from the young fresh cast come some good acting , and Li certainly knows how to kick ass , but Silver ruins a lot of this by using flashy visuals and a silly X-ray bone breaking gimmick . Li's later western films are a lot better ( apart from The One ) , but like other Actors trying to break into Hollywood and it's a good effort , even if most of the tickets were sold due to the one sheet having ' from the producers of the matrix ' all over it .
the Scottish McVicar . . . .	basically another tale of a hoodlum who ruled the roost for a while in Scotland and got caught and banged away for a while , but was put in solitary confinement , released , wrote a book about his time in nick , and now reaps the benefits from silly people like us who watch it it . but obviously on the threat of finding this comment un useful , it's a good character study into one mans psyche , to some he may have seemed absolutely nuts , wiping his own faecal matter across cell walls and his self and taking beatings like there was no tomorrow , but to others , he was standing for his rights as a human being , even though he was a vicious animal on the street , he still had human rights , when he was in prison . the performances are great and the first act is breath taking , but as the film goes on , you do start to question your own ' sense of freedom ' . . .
they've come to make things right once and for all .	it starts off as a good premise . a boy who does not speak walks into a sheriffs office covered from head to toe in blood . no explanation and no reason why . his fingertips contain the same prints from several other people who have been missing over the last year . the main twist in this scenario is that when all the photos of the missing are combined , they resemble the said boy . and then it starts to fall apart . instead off going for decent psychological horror , this goes for the ' jeepers creepers ' monster movie , where the unbelievable is more entertaining than the believable . basically this film is about the dead returning to get revenge on their killers , whenever somebody touches them or steps in their blood they have a ' unbreakable ' flashback which shows them being tortured , raped etc . it is an original idea , just poorly executed , with lots of plot holes , you too will become confused during the second act . watch out for the shock finale , it made me jump and then realise that the meaning of this ' twist ' was that the story and the film was pretty much pointless .
i want my dog back . . .	Radio host Erica Bain is working and living a wonderful life in New York City without a care in the world . One night she and her fiancé , David , are brutally attacked by three thugs in the park . David is killed and Erica is beaten within an inch of her life . Erica is traumatised to a point where she can not sleep and will not leave her apartment . To cope and work past this tragic event , Erica becomes someone else . She buys a gun and begins to roam the streets at night looking to take her revenge on the men who were responsible for killing her one true love . One late night , Erica is in the back of a convenience store about to purchase a soft drink when a man comes in and kills his wife , who is a clerk in the store . Erica is a witness , and he comes after her . Erica protects herself and finds that it is very easy to shoot a gun . . . Jodie Foster has made some very strange career choices of late , with the below average flightplan , to the fantastic inside man , her films have never been consistently good . this falls between the two . it's a female death wish , plain and simple , with nothing original about the film whatsoever . Foster as usual is fantastic in her role , she could star in a film about paint drying and it would still be watchable , but the problem here is director Jordan . usually his films are a visual feast full of connotations and denotations , but his style in this film leaves it feeling a little desolate and redundant . not a bad film by any means , it's just highly unoriginal with a predictable ending .
thats not a woman . . . .	Agent 47 is a one in a long line of suit wearing uber-hit-man who never fail to exterminate a target . when the plot of hit-man borrows from most-wanted and shooter and even a little bit of Leon , agent 47 becomes the hunted and he will stop at nothing to discover the real truth , all the while assisted with a woman with a tattoo in an inappropriate place . there is nothing grandeur about the movie , it doesn't hide it's video game history , in fact there are plenty of references to the video game , but there is something not quite right about Olyphant in the title role . he is a great supporting actor , especially when he plays sarcastic characters ( see gone in 60 seconds , live free or die hard ) but in this he is given very little to do , apart from look a little grumpy and shoot guns with a certain flair . in my opinion he is totally miscast as agent 47 . the action set pieces are good , but nothing different than Woo did more than fifteen years ago with hard boiled and even Face / off . the film is passable enough to enjoy it's running time and there is enough action and explosions to keep the average action fan enthralled . but thats just the problem , it doesn't succeed where other video game inspired films have failed it's just an instantly ( undeniable stylish ) forgettable action movie .
i'll get you laid this weekend	this comedy grew on me because of the predictability of the story had me guessing the outcome of each scenario , so instead of enduring another gross out comedy , we turned it into a game instead . Ed works in advertising and has just been dumped by his girlfriend . flash forward to a year later and he hasn't been with another woman since and it is affecting his job . given one last chance on his birthday ha plans to spend the weekend trying to get his work back on line . but his elder brother Cooper has other plans . from the word go this has ' american pie ' humour written all over it . but instead of going for the traditional gross out gags ( though it does have plenty ) , the film shows what is going on in Ed's head ( via the use of you've been framed style camcorder mishaps ) . this is pivotal to the film as in the opening credits , narration explains that in his junior years , Ed spent a lot of time filming everyday life . the viewer can guess the outcome from the out-start , but thanks to the two leads and the reasonably short running time , it can be quite fun to watch . though the director has threw every gross out cliché there is . . . such asfarting . evacuating of bowels being caught with a prostitute wrongful arrest girlfriend being caught with best friend being fired and finally everything coming up trumps for the pivotal character . it does raise a few smiles , and it is better produced than your average straight to DVD release , but then again this would have been a massive failure at the box office . not bad .
excuse me , i got a bullet in my leg . . . .	Two mis-matched men , Arlo a Ice Cream truck driver , and Tim a convenience store clerk , are forced to team up with each other , and get on each others nerves , when through a series of circumstances , they get possession of a top-secret , bio-warfare weapon , when heated to over 50 F , detonates and releases a lethal cloud of radioactivityA disgruntled , former U . S . Army officer and his team of alienated , former Army soldiers - turned-terrorists , want to use this against the government for making them the scapegoats years earlier for their handling of the virus and covering up the existence of the weapon . With time running out , and the outdoor temperature rising , Arlo and Tim must outwit their pursuers and try to find a way to dispose of the weapon before they both become dead meat . . nine years after this was released in Brirish cinemas ( a Cuba film getting a cinema release , what a drop this guy has taken ) when i had the choice of seeing this or , Reindeer games ( AKA Deception ) i probably made the right choice . basically a re-hash of speed and the rock , this sees one of the most cheesiest villains to hit the screen since John Lithgow in Ricochet . it's not all bad . for ninety minutes , you get a good vibe from the two leads , they bounce of one another , and there are a few crazy set pieces that won't go down in the history books for pyrotechnics , but are endearing in this . one thing that really got on my nerves with this film and nearly made me turn it off , was the amount of times that Arlo had to say Sht , whenever he was in a dangerous situation , once was funny , but five or six times ? you could play a drinking game to how many times he says it . it's a high concept movie of the laughable highest order , but it's not bad , just not great .
you owe me awe . . . . . . .	FBI Agent Will Graham has been called out of early retirement to catch a serial killer , known by authorities as " The Tooth Fairy " . He asks for the help of his arch-nemesis , Dr . Hannibal " The Cannibal " Lecter , so that he can be able to catch " The Tooth Fairy " and bring him to justice . The only problem is that " The Tooth Fairy " is getting inside information about Graham and his family from none other than Dr . Lecter . . . . in a pointless remake to the fantastic Micheal Mann movie of 1986 , Ratner makes Red Dragon for the people who wouldn't know there was an original , were too young to see ' the silence of the lambs ' , and were first in line to see Ridley Scotts Hannibal . the outcome is a mixed bag . firstly , i am still trying to get my head round the fact that Hopkins was convinced not only to reprise his role as the eponymous Lecter , but for Ratner to convince him it would be a good idea for him to play Lecter at a younger age than he did eleven years prior to this movie ( a little make up doesn't convince ) . and secondly , the fact that Hopkins is top billed in this is ludicrous and a marketing ploy , as his role is little more than an extended cameo , as the film belongs to Feinnes . his portrayal as Dolarhyde is nothing short of thrilling and he rules the screen whenever he is on it . Ratner has done a good job of staying faithful to the book and gets good performances from all involved , and the film is skillfully made , albeit a little too glamorous for such a subject matter . with a great reference to ' silence of the lambs ' at the end of the movie , and bringing back token members of the cast from the same film , Ratner did what the studio wanted him to do , make profit from the Lecter name . better than Hannibal and Hannibal Rising , but nothing compared to Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs . if you are a fan of the book or Lecter , it is worth checking out , but see Manhunter though before .
your cremated now mo-fo . . . .	Matt is an elite ex-cop whose life has gone down hill since he was kicked off the Force . After a rough encounter with a mysterious henchman , Matt is brought face to face with his only chance at reclaiming his life and clearing his gambling debt markers . Only after he gets started on his new tasks does he recognise good guy from bad . Meanwhile Matt's love for his only daughter helps him battle one of his greatest enemies , alcoholism . . . Seagal back in decent movie shock ! ! ! after a few years churning out not very good action fodder ( flight of fury , the one with his voice dubbed ) he actually puts in a reasonable performance as Matt , an ex-cop who has gambling problems that are resolved within the first fifteen minutes . he also has a drinking problem , the problem is he orders a drink and just sniffs it several times . but thats not what the average Seagal fan wants to see . nowadays we are more interested in how much of his voice is dubbed ( to my knowledge in this , none ) and how much stunt doubles are used ( lots ) . there fights are short and sweet , but effective as Seagal does all of his own fights , and there are a few good set pieces , especially the gun fight at the end , which harks at Woo-lite , but is let down due to the way that the henchman fall when they are shot . there is a mundane car chase in the proceedings and an extended cameo from Henriksen , which is nothing more than him looking broody whilst sitting in an abandoned cinema . so it's not the best action film out there , but ( i'm saying this through gritted teeth ) is better than the shepherd , and one of Seagals best in a long time . worth checking out for Seagal fans . looks like he's finally listening to them .
you're on the wrong team . . . .	U . S . Marshall Pete Nessip and his brother , Terry also a Marshall is escorting a computer criminal Earl Leedy when all of a sudden a high-jacking on the plane they are on occurs . Now Leedy and Terry are sucked out of the plane when Pete discharges his weapon and a hole in the plane is made . Nesbitt is blamed for the whole thing and is suspended . Now Terry's dead and Leedy , whose body hasn't been found is believed to be . But what they don't know is that Leedy is now with some people who want to use his computer skills . Pete doesn't believe that Leedy is dead and that the whole thing was to spring Leedy . So he turns to Jess Crossman , a skydiver , for help on who may have done this whole thing . another average action thriller from director Badham , most famous for Saturday Night Fever , and then some corny eighties and early nineties action comedies . Snipes is adequate as Nessip , but sometimes he looks as if he just wants to get paid , and some of the fight scenes are badly choreographed that you can see the punches are not connecting . Busey is as cheesy as ever and his hair gets scarily bigger as the film goes on . but it's nowhere near as big as his stunt double . the only one who really looks like they are giving it their all is Butler , who gives a very convincing performance . all in all it's just your average action flick that references die hard heavily toward the end , and some nice editing . one for Snipes fans
this genre is getting tired now . . . .	with this film it's a case of , if it ain't broke , don't fix it . don't get worried , when you have a certain deja vu when watching this , it borrows heavily from other superior eastern horrors such as , The Grudge , The Ring , One Missed Call , The Eye , Dark Water and so on . . . people start to die and eat cat food when they enter the titular place , someone died there , and something sinister is causing smoke to come out of a closet . a creepy girl lives next door and lots of people smoke cigarettes , but this could have something to do with the strange goings onit ticks all the boxes , weird noise , feet appearing and disappearing , photos have something sinister in the background , same old same old . the acting is fine , and even though it looks like it was filmed on the cheap , can be quite unsettling at times . if you are a huge fan of this genre , watch it , you will get something out of it , but if you have never seen an eastern horror movie before , watch something else first .
' god you must be joking ! ! ! '	When David and his clumsy brother Peter kidnap the daughter of a powerful gangster , they bring Tracey to a cottage in the countryside in the trunk of their car . Peter calls Tracey's father and asks a ransom of one hundred thousand pound to be delivered to her step-brother Andrew . When the bag is delivered to the moron Andrew , he does not check the content and is followed to the remote location by two Chinese hit-men hired by Tracey's father . When the abductors discover that the bag has only paper , David drives to a nearby village to make a phone call to demand the money . When he returns , he finds Andrew fainted and later that Tracey had reverted the situation and escaped with his brother as hostage . Meanwhile an insane and deformed farmer has just killed the killers and Tracey and Peter are heading to his farmer seeking a phone to call her father . . . a worthy attempt t another British-horror , but this falls short on scares and laughs . to think that this was made behind the brains of ' london to Brighton ' makes it even more of a disappointment . the cast are great , all the lines that are delivered are superb , especially from Serkis and Shearsmith . but this tries too hard to be like ' from dusk till dawn ' where it takes a different curve halfway through the movie . it owes a lot to films such as straw dogs , and an American werewolf in London , but never has the gravitas of either two . it's funny at times , and after a promising 30 minutes , starts to flag very quickly . not a bad film by any means , just a lot more could have been put into it .
be my bloody valentine . . . .	On Valentine's Day 20 years before , an explosion of methane gas took the lives of a group of coal miners working in the Hanniger Mine near the small Nova Socia town of Valentine Bluffs . The accident occurred because supervisors left their posts to attend the annual Valentine's Day dance . A year after-ward , Harry Warden - the only survivor of the accident - retaliated by killing the two supervisors , and leaving a terrifying warning never to hold another Valentine's Day dance . Now , a group of young adults decides to hold another dance , despite warnings . When a blood-soaked heart arrives at the police station , accompanied by an ominous message , the dance is cancelled . But a Valentine party is held in its place . . . at the coal mine , and it isn't long before the town's young people begin dying violently . It appears Harry Warden has returned to punish those who did not heed his warning . . . i only saw this movie because of the 3-D versions release , and really wanted to know what all the fuss was about , to be honest being a horror fan i'm a bit of a philistine for never hearing of this movie before . what i got was just an average movie , which was obviously made because at the time , this sub-genre in horror was very popular , so it seemed a good idea at the time . it's not a bad movie , it's just very predictable with a lot of bad acting and some laugh out loud lines ( the bar owner is my favourite character ) . you can see the ' jump ' moments coming a mile off , and you can actually guess who is going to get killed and when they will get killed , but then again it's all part of the fun of watching these kind of movies . the little twist at the end of the movie is good , and the whole rationale of the killings is clever too , it's just a shame that it's just another average slasher flick .
give me something to scream about . . . .	The next day after the events from the prior one , Jason goes to a roadside store where he gets a new set of clothes , and stalks a married couple . Meanwhile , Chris and her friends make their way to her family cabin , Higgins Haven . But , this time Jason , with his new famous hockey mask that got from one he murdered , will not let the teenagers have fun . Once again he starts in a killing spree . . . watching this in 2-D does bring some unintentional laughs into this entry of the ever popular series . the clothes prop pointing to the audience , the popcorn , the yo-yo , the snake , Jason's arms , the list is endless . other than that , there's not a lot more to say about the characters or the story , it's the same old thing , but Miner knows what the audience want and delivers it in droves . you could bets on who will die first , and if your a die hard horror fan , you could come up trumps . it doesn't take itself serious and the killings are as inventive as ever . if you are a fan of the series ( which you are , because your reading this ) then you will be pleased with the amount deaths and gore . a nice entry into the series . . .
bad news crews . . . .	A distraught little Tina dreams of the time when she believes she drowned her father with her anger-triggered psychic powers . A trip back to the site is supposed to help Tina , but her doctor merely wants to exploit her . In a rage , Tina accidentally frees Jason from the bottom of the lake with her powers , and he begins to slaughter the teens next door . Tina becomes able to control her telekinesis in her fear-state and gives a strong showing against Jason . in a little twist to the series we have this time Carrie versus Jason . it's pretty much more of the same stuff as the last installment , but it's fun throwaway stuff , that will satisfy any fan of Voorhees . though i think the region 2 version is slightly chopped for violence . the performances are bog standard , but we have the ultimate jason Kane Hodder in all his glory . well worth seeing if you are a fan .
are you free tonight ? . . .	Jonathan McQuarry is an auditor in Manhattan , moving from office to office checking their books . While working late , a smooth and well-dressed man named Wyatt Bose chats Jonathan up , offers him a joint , and soon they're pals . When their cell phones are accidentally swapped , Jonathan answers Wyatt's phone to a series of women asking if he's free tonight . Jonathan discovers it's a sex club : busy powerful people meet each other anonymously in hotels . Jonathan falls for one of the club members , whom he knows only as " S , " whom he's also seen on a subway . When she goes missing , patterns emerge and Jonathan faces demands involving violence and lots of money . . . anyone who doe not get this movie , within the first ten minutes ( i . e who the bad guy is ) then you need shooting ! ! even Jackmans face looks slightly sinister on the one sheet ! ! him and Ewan become best mates in about three minutes , and when wolverine discovers that obi-wan has been using his phone to do his sordid thing with his light saner , he's like ' no worries mate , crack on ! ! ' i would be otherwise inclined . with the material on offer here , it's surprising to see such high profile actors in such a bland predictable movie , albeit a bland , predictable movie that has a bit of charm to it . the sets are very good and the whole film has a very cold atmosphere to it . Jackman comes across a little Jim Carrey in the opening scenes , and Renton , well he's a complete gimp until he undergoes his transformation . if you want to see a predictable movie with two biggish stars , you can do a lot worse . if you know that this is gonna be bad , stay away . it's a perfect rainy day movie , it doesn't harm , doesn't challenge the grey matter , doesn't do much really . . . .
all they want is surrender . . . .	One of top Northern Ireland IRA terrorists , Frankie McGuire , escapes to NY , where he , under the name of Rory Devaney , with support of friendly judge Peter Fitzsimmons , lives in the house of Irish cop Tom O'Meara , who doesn't know who Frankie really is . Rory tries to buy some weapons from dealer Billy Burke , while Tom has moral problems covering up his partner cop Edwin Diaz . The problems arise when Tom begins to suspect something about Rory's identity . what could have been a mind blowing thriller becomes just an average run of the mill yarn , thanks to a poor narrative , script and a tiresome looking performance from Ford . Even when we first meet his character , he is lying down on a sofa ! Ford looks bored throughout the film , and while Pitt puts on a reasonable Irish Brogue , the screenwriters could have left out a few ' Ayes ' and made a more believable plot . there are very few action scenes , and the grand finale between Ford and Pitt leaves you wanting more . not as bad as the critics made out , just boring . . .
trust me - were in 1357 France	whilst on an archaeological dig , Prof Johnstone states to his son , Chris that he is leaving the dig and going to shave his beard off . why is never really explained and the same goes for how , but when a tunnel is discovered , they find a bi-focal lens and a note from Prof Johnstone from 1357 saying help me . what they uncover is that a private company known as ITC have been trying to perfect a transport system , but for reasons not explained , have found a worm-hole to the already said century . so a group of the archaeologists including Chris , decide to embark on an adventure to get back his father to the present . when they first reach the century , they are attacked by the English and two of the group are killed , but before one is , he presses his ' marker ' which enables him to go back to the present , and lets off a hand grenade destroying the time machine . now the group have less than six hours to save Prof Johnstone , stay out of trouble , and help the French defeat the English . . a great premise marred by a very clunky opening , heavy handed editing , crucial plot points missing , and a bad choice of lead in the form of Paul Walker . he is given very little to do apart from pout , and keep asking Frances o Connor if she is alright and telling her to be careful . but with all the critical bashing this film received when released and all the release problems , it is a very enjoyable piece of trash . the supporting cast are very good , especially Butler and Friel who make the movie even more watchable . David Thewlis does his best Ben Kingsley in ' a sound of thunder ' impression and does nothing but shout very loud and cause problems back in the present . the second act is very bloated and does drag in paces and makes the film a little bit boring , and coming from a director such as Donner , i would have expected something a little bit more interesting from him in this act , but he more than makes up for it in the final third , which is where the majority of the budget must have gone . this is where the film goes into action overdrive and everything falls into place , with some great twists and brings the narrative together . all in all a good if not great adventure with some really good plot twists and a great final act .
let's keep your death between us . . .	Elektra , once a student of Kimagure , a force for good , who's masters can see the future and even bring people back from the dead , is now a paid assassin . The enemy , the force for evil , at this time is known as the hand , whose members use the dark arts . In this tale Elektra is given an assignment to kill a man and his daughter . However when the time comes to complete the mission she is unable to . The daughter is also being sought by the Hand , for she is known as a treasure that can tip the scales in favour of either good or evil . The Hand , who have the policy of " If we can't have her then no one can " , send their own people to kill her . Elektra then allies herself with the Millers and helps to protect them from the Hand . . almost completely forgetting the fact that she was killed in ' Daredevil ' the makers of this movie realised that the character was quite popular in the mentioned film ( popular in the fact that Garner is fit , not the fact that Elektra is interesting ) , so decided to give her her own movie . the solution ? easy , just get her resurrected by Terence Stamp ( who , does the most unconvincing blind man ever , he just looks down every now and again ) , and work from there . not knowing ( or really caring ) about the comic book of Elektra , the film does work on different levels , and on others it doesn't . Garner is good in her role , but doesn't show the warmth her character did in Daredevil ( maybe to do with the fact that she is dead ) and appears a lot more tough in this . her foes may as well be cast offs from Mortal Kombat , because thats how the film pans out in the second half , Elektra fighting foe after foe , each having different powers . for crying out loud , there's even a scene in a forest ala ' Scorpion in the original movie . but if these type of movies float your boat , then you could do a lot worse . there's the obligatory introduction about Elektra , and it's straight down to the action . the story is a complete rip off of ' the replacement killers ' , but if you are a Marvel fan , it will suffice .
i'm in dog heaven . . . .	Soul mates Chris and Annie couldn't be happier , having married each other and had two wonderful children . Unforutnately , tragedy strikes when they lose them both in a car accident , and then again for Annie many years later when Chris is killed in another accident . What Chris finds is a Paradise unlike anything he ever imagined , where he is guided by Albert , the first doctor he interned under and is helped to see his children once again . Unfortunately , when Annie takes her life in despair , she does not venture to the same plane of existence . Taking it upon himself to rescue her , Chris ventures into the pit of Hell with Albert and a Tracker to save his wife from the damnation she doesn't even know she is forcing on herself . i don't know whether this film is trying to define the meaning of life , but it can sometimes be an awkward film with clunky dialogue and some very strange casting choices . with a topic so huge as in life after death , it just doesn't seem to give the audience enough to chew on . but the film is a dream to watch . it's a visceral journey through someones depiction of heaven and hell , and no expense has been spared on the effects . sometimes the film is so beautiful to look at , you completely get lost with the cinematography and lose track of the story . maybe if this was in the hands of a more surreal director such as Gilliam , then it would be a gem , instead we get an average film which is stunning to watch , then forgettable . but worth watching for curiosity value
it's OK , ,	some of this film looks like it was filmed in an underpass . bad points first . 1 . the acting . all of it . 2 . looks very , very cheap ? intentionalthis basically a rip off of sorts to mad max and every other post apocalyptic future movie made in the eighties , but with the twist of van damage ! ! van damme does his finest Russell crowe impression in this , looking moody and miserable . ( well you would too , if you had to climb out of a well after being dropped down there by some bloke with dodgy eyes ) on the plus side there are some really disturbing and surreal moments , which just about save this move . such as the Crucifixion scene and the scene where the pirates make the little girl hold the barbed wire which has snared van damme . there are some pretty good fight scenes especially the end battle which is set during a rain storm and is quite unsettling . van damme fans will not be disappointed but it will leave them wanting more .
she gave you three minutes . . . .	another Clive barker short story turned into a Hollywood b-movie , but this one is quite sinister and the fact that it doesn't pull it's punches regarding it's content and theme , makes it all the more affable for horror aficionados . the story is about some guy who wants to make it big in the the photography business . so he goes and takes risqué photos of people being threatened in the early hours in New York . when he stops a gang from attacking a young girl , he becomes intertwined in an obsession with a Butcher who could be a serial killer on the underground . as he becomes more obsessed , the more he becomes detached from his normal life . . Even though i rate this movie , Vinnie Jones does no more than reprise his role as the Sphinx in " gone in 60 seconds ' albeit with a massive hammer . the gore is decidedly dodgy in some places , as are the train sequences in some scenes . but all in all , this is a good Halloween movie which will be forgotten the minute you leave the cinema . worth the watch .
it's just us and them . . .	After returning from a wedding reception , a couple staying in an isolated vacation house receive a knock on the door in the mid-hours of the night . What ensues is a violent invasion by three strangers , their faces hidden behind masks . The couple find themselves in a violent struggle , in which they go beyond what either of them thought capable in order to survive . it's fair to say that this movie has got comparisons to last years ' vacancy ' , ' them ' , and even 8mm to some extent , but undeniably this does have it's fair share of thrills and scares . the film does sometimes drag and on occasions you can see the predictable ending coming from a mile off , and as usual horror films go , it starts to lose it's grip just at the beginning of the third act . saying that though , Tyler and Speedman do really well in their roles , and the mood is effective throughout , just don't expect to be blown away by this film .
i must warn you , i'm Roger Moore . . .	A wild , illegal , and popular cross-country car is organised , and the eccentric entrants will do anything to win , including low-down , dirty tricks . . . . a movie with no real plot , no real story , this is just an excuse to showcase car stunts and gather an amazing ensemble cast for a bit of a laugh . you could imagine what the makers where thinking when they were filming this . ' yes we have the worlds most bankable star ( Reynolds ) , James Bond , the two funny ones from the Rat Pack , the boss eyed one from bonanza and the bloke from easy rider , we cannot fail ! ! well this movie is funny and it would have been great to see it filmed as they look like they were having so much fun while making it . and this is what the film is just fun , and it delivers it in shovel loads . Moore really stands out in his role , giving self parody a new high . referencing Bond movies ( the fly who bugged me ) and the saint , all doing this straight faced and even allowing himself to be smacked in the face and being fired from an ejector seat . otherwise this is forgettable stuff and nothing to write home about , but it is charming in its own special way .
more like a nonja . . . . . . .	Hurtling down the track , careening around , over and through the competition , Speed Racer is a natural behind the wheel . Born to race cars , Speed is aggressive , instinctive and , most of all , fearless . His only real competition is the memory of the brother he idolised-the legendary Rex Racer - whose death in a race has left behind a legacy that Speed is driven to fulfil . Speed is loyal to the family racing business , led by his father , Pops Racer , the designer of Speed's thundering Mach 5 . When Speed turns down a lucrative and tempting offer from Royalton Industries , he not only infuriates the company's maniacal owner but uncovers a terrible secret-some of the biggest races are being fixed by a handful of ruthless moguls who manipulate the top drivers to boost profits . If Speed won't drive for Royalton , Royalton will see to it that the Mach 5 never crosses another finish line . The only way for Speed to save his family's business and the sport he loves is to beat Royalton at his own game . With the support of his family and his loyal girlfriend , Trixie , Speed teams with his one-time rival-the mysterious Racer X - to win the race that had taken his brother's life : the death - defying , cross-country rally known as The Crucible . . . Eye candy cannot even begin to describe what this movie looks like on the big screen . it's loud , fast , slickly edited and the races carry some wonderful special effects , and there are harks of the Wachowski genius , and the old Joel Silver in some set pieces , but it's the scenes between the races and the fights that make the film fall flat . the performances are not bad , in fact they are quite good , and from some of the reviews i read about the film , i was expecting a mega turkey . it's a little too long , by at least 20 minutes , and it really does drag in places , but the colourful vibrancy of the film will make it worth watching , even though the script is dull and the outcome is highly predictable .
rubbernecker . . .	Mort Rainey is a successful writer going through a rather unfriendly divorce from his wife of ten years , Amy . Alone and bitter in his cabin , he continues to work on his writing when a stranger named John Shooter shows up on his doorstep , claiming Rainey stole his story . Mort says he can prove the story belongs to him and not Shooter , but while Mort digs around for the magazine which published the story in question years ago , things begin to happen around Shooter . Mort's dog dies , people begin to die , and his divorce proceedings with Amy continue to get uglier . It seems that Shooter has Mort over a barrel , but perhaps Mort has his own ideas on how to resolve all the problems that plague him lately . . . Riding on the success of a certain Pirate movie , Depp goes the other way with an enthralling performance from beginning to end , it's a damn shame that the film and the script cannot keep up with the star . to be honest , the twist is very neat , and i'll be the first to admit that it was very surprising , but after that , it all becomes just a little too familiar . Tutturto isn't very good in his role , but he only did this because his son likes King . as King adaptations go this is somewhere in the middle , nowhere near as good as Shawshank or Stand By Me , but it's out standing compared to the likes of the Dark Half , Sleepwalkers , The Lawnmower Man , Sometimes They Come Back , Thinner . . . . you get the jist . an above average thriller with a great central performance , let down by a mediocre final ten minutes .
you were having a bad dream . . . . .	Michael J . Fox continues his run of seriousness after bright Lights , Big City , with this wartime thriller , about a soldier who unwisely disagrees with Sean Penn , after he and a few other soldiers kidnap a young Vietnamese girl and submit her to torture and rape before finally killing her . the idea was good and Sean Penn was at the Height of his ' bad boy in Hollywood ' role , but the film doesn't feel quite right in De Palmas hands , and the incidental music ans J . Fox are woefully miscast in this flick . it all feels rather cheap compared to other films such as Platoon , and i was expecting a lot more considering it was made by one of my favourite directors , the camera work is there and so is the mise en scene , but the narration fails to compel the audience and you never feel empathy for Fox and his struggle , you find yourself shouting at the screen ' stand up for yourself , you over actor you'he doesn't convince as a soldier in this , even though he did as a drug addict in the afore mentioned film , Casualties of war feels redundant whenever Penn isn't on scree , he surely is the soul of this picture , his insanity and pure evil shown on screen in full . the film is quite quick with the courtroom sequence and the sentences are a little random , but De Palma does do the film justice by not letting the audience hear what Penn says to Fox at the end , something that stays with the audience long after anything else previously shown . disappointing
is it safe ? . . .	The lives of reporter Polly Perkins and her ex-boyfriend , Sky Captain Joe Sutton , intersect . For the past three years , large robots have been roaming the Earth , taking what they need , and vanishing as quickly as they appeared . Joe and his technical assistant Dex have been investigating and battling these mysterious robots . Meanwhile , many of the world's scientists have been systematically kidnapped . A Dr . Jennings , believing that he is the next target , tells what little he knows to Polly . His beliefs are that a Dr . Totenkopf , who has not been heard from in over thirty years , is carrying out a project he started prior to World War I , this project which may be associated with these robots . Polly and Joe , with Dex , join forces to find Totenkopf , which may not be easy due to their still antagonistic relationship . As they piece together Totenkopf's plot , Polly and Joe realise that stopping him from carrying out his grand plan of creating his version of a Utopian society may not be as easy as killing him . . . . Wha this film lacks in character development , plot and a smooth narrative , ultimately makes up for it in visuals , by the time the second act is underway , you forget about the fact that this is a movie and just enjoy the visual feast your eyes are treated to . on Blu-Ray though this is another story . the initial attack by the robots , seems pretty bad now as you can really tell that blue screen has been used throughout , but it still looks great in several scenes and set pieces , such as the dogfight . Law and paltrow literally have no chemistry whatsoever , and this lets the film down a little , Jolie looks bemused throughout and was probably used to get bums on seats , which isn't a bad thing , because she looks great in her outfit . it becomes more and more ridiculous as the film unfolds , but the director has caught the right feel for the film and captures the essence of the era . and for anyone who has seen marathon man , there is a great use for Olviers most famous line in that movie . all in all , it's a really average film , but it's visuals are so good , you will forget about the flaws and just enjoy it for what it is , a guilty pleasure .
don't think , drink ! ! !	In the near future , the Navy develops a fighter jet piloted by an artificial intelligence computer . The jet is placed on an aircraft carrier in the Pacific to learn combat manoeuvres from the human pilots aboard . But when the computer develops a mind of its own , it's the humans who are charged with stopping it before it incites a war . . . the problem with this box office disaster is that it takes itself far too seriously , and gets rid of the best character in the second act . everybody involved in the project look like they are making a masterpiece , but truth be told , it's just a special effects extravaganza , with some cool explosions and flight sequences . the dialogue is painful sometimes , and i still don't know whether Josh Lucas has been cursed , because every blockbuster he has starred in has flopped or been lambasted big time . watch the film , it's no where near as bad as what the critics say , but it's not good . just don't take it as serious as the cast and crew .
how were the children ? . . . .	a remake of the first fifteen minutes of the 1979 film of the same name . a babysitter is terrorised by menacing phonecalls asking her if the ' children are safe ' . the calls carry on throughout the night and increasingly scare the sitter . the police cannot do anything as the calls are not threatening , but they would like the sitter to try and keep the caller on the phone for at least a minute to ba able to trace them . when the call is traced , they are coming from within the house . at first i thought this film was going to be very bad , because of the reviews , and secondly because the original movie had this scene last for just over fifteen minutes and was very very tense . so how could they make this as tense extending it to just over eighty minutes ? ? Simon West does an adequate job and i have always liked him since he directed 1997 ' Con Air ' and made one of the best action films of the nineties . what ruins this film slightly is the dreaded pg-13 rating and the predictable shock-jump moments with screeching soundtrack . the house is great to look at though and the design of the film has good production value . but we learn nothing of the killer and really not much about the sitter ( apart from the fact she is having boyfriend trouble and her best friend kissed him blah blah blah ) . not as bad as the critics made it out to be as the original was very poor after the initial opening scene , and it does add a little gravitas that the phones are portable , so the killer could be any where . few plot holes aside , this is worth a watch , even if it is just for trying to spot Lance Henriksens voice .
a deal is a deal . . . . . .	wrongfully advertised as a ' laugh riot ' , this film does have funny moments , but is a very sombre affair throughout . Crook plays a tube driver who falls victim to two people falling under his carriage in the space of two weeks , when his work colleagues tell him that if one more person falls under his carriage within four weeks , he will be paid off with ten years salary . he has a dream of buying a home in Scotland , so he can do what he does best , write . so when he comes across a vagrant who is attempting to jump off a bridge , he makes a pact with him , but they form a bond and more , when he meets his family and learns more about his life . this film reminded me ( cinematography wise ) of eighties movies such as Clockwise , Restless Natives and in some respects , Local hero . it's quite a grittily made movie , with a very cold feel about the film . the performances are very good , but it's really only funny in the very beginning and a few scenes in the lake District . Meany is reliable as usual , and it makes a refreshing change to see Crook , playing an ' ordinary ' guy . the final third gives a few twists to the audience and one that comes out of nowhere . if you are looking for a laugh out loud Brit-Comedy , you will be disappointed , it's very hard to place this film in a genre , it's too serious to be a black comedy , but too light to be a drama , it's a very different film that is worth seeing for the performances .
big brother isn't watching you !	six people awake in a lightened room shaped which is cube shaped and on each of the six walls is a door , which leads to another room . the twist is that some rooms are booby trapped and the group have to use their intelligence , cunning and maths skill to figure out which rooms are trapped , and which ones are not . the questions are , how many rooms are there ? and will they make it out alive ? and is there even a way out ? the pre-credits sequence gives the viewer a little taste for the what the next 84 minutes holds for them . we see a man wake up to find him self alone in a cubed room , no idea how he got there , and no idea what to do . he opens one of the doors and it closes behind him . all of a sudden there is a swoosh ( the noise is like wolverine unleashing his claws ) and the man falls to the ground , in several pieces . when we first meet the group , we are led to believe that they are all there for a reason . the math expert , they would be able to decipher what the numbers meanthe cop , would be able to calm tense situationthe doctor , who could help with ailments ( common colds can become widespread in confined spaces ! ) the escape artist ( duh ! ) and the office worker with a secret . the film is very well made and can sometimes be very unbearable to watch , but you cannot resist what the next room has in store for them . the screenplay though is very clichéd and leaves a lot to be desired . and some of the acting is rotten . top marks go to Maurice Wint , who is wholly unconvincing in his role . from the good guy to the wide eyed maniac , he spoils the film from time to time . there are no real twists in this film and if you are not a fan of maths , then the film does add another dimension of terror for you . there are some very good points to this film though . even though the script is cheesy , there are some quite good play on words at the beginning of the filmone scene that did have me holding my breath was the noise activated room , which is something that Spielberg and Hitchcock would be proud of . and also the way the story falsely gives the viewer believe who to root for at the beginning . never the less , this film would be in the top 250 if the calibre of acting was better . a great film to watch for curiosity , but for Oscar worthy performances , avoid like the plague
if this was my home , i could walk out of the door . . . .	Monroe Hutchens is the heavyweight champion of Sweetwater , a maximum security prison . He was convicted to a life sentence due to a passionate crime . Iceman Chambers is the heavyweight champion , who lost his title due to a rape conviction to ten years in Sweetwater . When these two giants collide in the same prison , they fight against each other disputing who is the real champion . obviously the Iceman character is arguably based in Mike Tyson ( earbiter ! ) and his case in the nineties , but what we have here is an average prison flick about boxing , without much of the latter . Snipes role is more of a cameo , but plays it very calm and affluent throughout , more like a grasshopper than a convicted murderer , and with some good support from Stevens , Falk and Rooker , there is quite an ensemble cast here , but the outcome is quite average . considering this is from Walter Hill , director of movies such as 48hrs and the Warriors , it's pretty lightweight throwaway stuff . and the ending is pretty pointless , making the rest of the movie seem unnecessary . still worth the watch though .
it ain't over til the wolf howls . . . .	second Seagal film for me today , and i think after Flight of Fury , i have hit a double whammy with this , another ( almost ) solid movie from Seagal , with amiable support ( trevor from east enders , and Eva pope who was in coronation street ) and for once there is plenty of action to keep Seagal fans happy . Jack is a man who wears tight suits , and loves his daughter , when meeting his father-in-law , he slips some sort of blood toxin into Jacks hand-held Pc , so he can carry it safely . meeting him later , old daddy gets blown up in a car , and Jacks daughter gets kidnapped by a taxi driver , now it's up to Seagal , his suede jacket , and numerous stunt doubles to save the day , whilst avoiding corrupt cops , the Russian mob and Vera Drakes men . the same old complaints are here for Seagal , using a voice over , though to be fair , it's to a minimum in this movie , but alas stunt doubles are used a lot in this movie ( what actor needs a stunt double for getting in and out of a car , and using stairs . plus the back projector during the car chases is as bad as the ones , used in ' north by northwest . but still Seagal uses a lot of martial arts in this movies , and for once the action is pretty slick , as is the story . lighting is bad though , although i must imagine that this is to cover Seagals chin ( s ) . but if you want to see Seagal in a good movie for once and with good support from the rest of the cast , this is one of the better movies he has made .
when i was six years old , i had a full time job . . .	Major Benson Winifred Payne is being discharged from the Marines . Payne is a killin ' machine , but the wars of the world are no longer fought on the battlefield . A career Marine , he has no idea what to do as a civilian , so his commander finds him a job - commanding officer of a local school's JROTC program , a bunch or ragtag losers with no hope . Using such teaching tools as live grenades and real bullets , Payne starts to instill the corp with some hope . But when Payne is recalled to fight in Bosnia , will he leave the corp who has just started the believe in him , or will he find out that killin ' ain't much of a livin ' ? . . . it's an easy story to follow , teacher is hated by pupils , starts to get respect from pupils , has a chance to go back to doing what he does best , declines and saves the day , it's that simple , but Wayans screenplay just makes Payne that little more despicable , yet lovable . the film depends on Payne and his one-liners , and the man is full of them , most of them being very un-PC , which could put a lot of people off , but it never really gets too out of hand . it's simple and straight forward , but fun for all the family , and it's also amazing how Wayans can actually convince the kids he's a killing machine with such a silly accent . forgettable , predictable , but funny .
i'm going to the prom . . .	Holly has moved out of the apartment she was sharing with Jan , because Jan slept with Hollys ' man . so she moves in with Tess who appears to be a very sweet girl , but she has scars on her wrist and is into bondage and keeps a lot of ' secret ' stuff locked up , so she has to be weird . but Holly and Jan are fighting for promotion at work and Tess is a shoulder for Holly to cry on . Tess starts to copy Holly by wearing her clothes and even dyeing her hair to look the same , but thats not all , Tess is hiding a big secret that could be the death of Holly , and it's not the fact that she is a nurse killing patients , or the fact that she keeps a locket with both their pictures in it . . . . well this is just a remake of the 1992 movie of the same name , but with a much lower budget , and younger actors taking the lead . the story and plot outlines are a carbon copy of the original , even down to the hair dyeing sequence . the two leads are not bad in this , and Kristen miller is very good in her performance and holds the movie well . it's just the fact that for the other characters , you couldn't care less if they lived or died , and you are supposed to be intrigued with a thriller . sometimes the film is boring and then in the next instant it is totally insane , and the story is sometimes very , very stupid . but with all these direct to DVD sequels , it is just pure filler and is a quick cash in for people who liked the original . lie 8mm2 and American psycho 2 this does tarnish the original and really could have been released alone without the sequel tag-line . and the sequel subtitle . . . the psycho , just really states the obvious . not a bad film , just boring .
action is the enemy of thought . . . .	Coleman Silk , a classics professor with a terrible secret that is about to shatter his life in a small New England town . When his affair with a young troubled janitor is uncovered , the secret Silk had harboured for over fifty years from his wife , his children and colleague , writer Nathan Zuckerman , fast explodes in a conflagration of devastating consequences . It is Zuckerman who stumbles upon Silk's secret and sets out to reconstruct the unknown biography of this eminent , upright man , esteemed as an educator for nearly all his life , and to understand how this ingeniously contrived life came unravelled . . . . . endlessly going backwards and forwards from flashback to the present , the movie can be very hard to follow , and the narration is somewhat below par . a very good idea , but poorly told , and in some instances , woefully mis-cast . Hopkins is good as Silk , a man with a lot of secrets he has kept to himself , but what i cannot buy is the whole relationship with Kidman . she is a very unlikeable character and there is virtually any chemistry between the two , so why would Silk choose to tell such an ignorant individual ? ? Sinise and Harris are wasted in their roles and add nothing to the story . that said , the cinematography is to die for and really add dept to the movie . but all in all , a very average film , trying to be controversial , but ends up dull and depressing
ignorance is bliss . . . .	When the DEA shut down its dummy corporation operation codenamed Swordfish in 1986 , they had generated $400 million which they let sit around ; fifteen years of compound interest has swelled it to $9 . 5 billion . A covert counter-terrorist unit called Black Cell , headed by the duplicitous and suave Gabriel Shear , wants the money to help finance their raise-the-stakes vengeance war against international terrorism , but it's all locked away behind super-encryption . He brings in convicted hacker Stanley Jobson , who only wants to see his daughter Holly again but can't afford the legal fees , to slice into the government mainframes and get the money . . . the first line to this movie really sums up the whole picture and the way you feel after you have seen it more than a few times . Travolta Reprises his face / off and Broken Arrow roles as the villain you love to hate , but really want to slap because . . . 1 ) he has an answer for everything and randomly babbles on about nothing . 2 ) he has irritating facial hair . 3 ) he wears pin striped suits to hide his paunch . added to the mixture , is the very hip Hugh Jackman , to make computer hacking and so on look sexy , so every hacker who lives in their mothers basement can feel good about themselves for a while . then we have Berry , who proves she was a fluke with Monsters ball and will be a one hit wonder just like other winners Mira Sorvino . she is very wooden and the reason why people got excited about her being in this was for one thing only ( well two actually ) . the script is bad , Cheadle plays the most unconvincing agent and the set pieces are too absurd for such a lo-fi movie . plot holes develop and scenes become unintentionally funny ( the fellatio scene is embarrassing to say the least ) . but the film does have one of the best explosions ever seen on screen , and warner bros . know this that much , they show it twice . it's car crash cinema , you know you shouldn't be watching this , but you cannot take your eyes off the screen . worth a watch for Travoltas hammy scene stealing villain , nearly as bad as Terl
i might be back . . . .	In the near future , cloning is now technically advanced , but human cloning is still illegal . Adam Gibson returns home after working with his friend Hank Morgan , only to find a clone of himself with his family . Before he has chance to find out the truth , he is attacked by a group who want him dead . Adam must escape and find out the truth from the creator of the clones , Michael Drucker . Adam knows for sure he couldn't have been cloned , but isn't ready for what he's about to hear . there was a time when a Schwarzeneggar film was an event movie in it's own right , he owned the summer blockbuster from the late eighties until True Lies . this seemed to come out under the radar , and unfortunately , it shows . he seems totally uninterested with the movie , and the Arnie from films such as Eraser and Total Recall has gone , and we are left with someone who knows his career is nearly over and just wants that one last hit . it's not a bad idea for a film , it just seems too much like an episode of the twilight zone , to be a decent sci-fi movie . and even though the scenes where Gibson is interacting with himself are funny and interesting , it doesn't make up for the fact that the set pieces are poorly staged and the action seems ever so lethargic . it's not a bad movie by any means , it's just that Arnie could have been in something so much better , any old actor could have been in this and turned into a dark thriller , instead of hoping Arnie would return to form . it's a case of the actors iconic image ruining a film he should not have been in .
i'm not a criminal . . .	when you reference , or homage movies like reservoir dogs or the usual suspects , you have to be sure that you are able to hold and captivate your audience , like the other two movies did . it has to be something special . the set-up is s great idea , five guys wake up in a factory , wondering what they are doing there and have no idea of who they are and aht they do . what they do know is that a few of them are injured and two of them are bound . now this is the tricky part for the film makers , they have to keep the audience guessing , and keep the tension high , unfortunately , this doesn't happen very often , and the outcome is more like five schoolboys having an argument about who took what , and who's who , with a little bit more violence . with a cast like this , i expect more , and they all do well in their respective roles , even if a few of them are typecast ( Stormare has this mad gangster thing down to a tee now ) and Caviezal is ever the brooding lead . but the film fails in the final third , with double crossings and red-herrings and suffering from the the twist too clever for it's own good syndrome . even at the slim running time , the film can be a chore to watch , but just don't expect the outcome to be as interesting as the premise .
i'm a vet , you're not a dog . . . . . .	Supposing you are just one person , there are many other versions of you in the other universes , there are ways to travel , but only a police agency , MVA , can travel only for police procedures . Gabriel Yulaw is a former MVA agent , who killed another version of himself in self-defence . It made the other versions of him stronger . When Yulaw found out about this , he became power-hungry killing the 122 other versions for two years . After killing Lawless and getting captured by his former partner Roedecker and a new MVA agent Funsch , Yulaw manages to escape the prison and is trying to kill his last target , Gabe Law who is a police officer . He is also at Yulaw's strength . Roedecker and Funsch now have to arrest Yulaw before he can kill Gabe . There is a possibility that the universe could die or make Yulaw invincible . After encountering Yulaw for the first time , Gabe thought that it was his split personality , but it wasn't . Will Gabe be able to confront Yulaw before or after Yulaw ruins his life ? this film is probably best known as the movie that steered Li well clear of the Matrix franchise . in another ' multiverse ' , would the trilogy have been better with Li in it , rather than this being made ? well nobody will know the answer , but this is enjoyable , if forgettable stuff . it's a hybrid of ' Highlander ' and double impact , with some decidedly dodgy effects , and the most unbelievable martial arts expert in Delroy Lindo . but this is just a showcase for Li's talent and he has got talent , the story is passable , although Stathams American accent isn't , the film is just ninety minutes of fun , when a film maker can make the audience believe a man is running 50 miles an hour by making the cars in the scene drive really slowly , you know you're in for a treat . worth a watch , but only ' the one ' .
i am bolo man . . .	A comedy that follows the misadventures of two friends from Brooklyn who are forced to deliver mob money to Australia . While taking pictures of a kangaroo , one of them places his red jacket on it . When the wild kangaroo bounces off , they realise the mob money is in the jacket and are forced to give chase through the Outback . . . anybody who is expecting a masterpiece , when the DVD cover features a kangaroo wearing shades and a jacket , will be sorely disappointed or needs to be jetted off to their home planet . it's not rocket science to know that this film is aimed purely at kiddies , , and if you can forgive the dreadful performance by O'Connell and the shoddy CGI , you will be treated to a bright colourful fun movie that will keep the youngsters happy for a while . it has stereotypical mafia villains ( yes they wear gold chains and leather jackets , even in the blistering heat ) but it does also feature the most restrained performance from Anthony Anderson , he doesn't shout that much through the film for once . it has a predictable ending , but what do you expect .
your the one with the red nose . . . .	Tommy returns to the grave to make sure Jason is dead and accidentally brings him back to life . Now it's up to Tommy to stop Jason's mindless killing and put him back where he belongs . another sequel thats worth watching purely for the mayhem that Jason puts in , in the ninety odd minutes the film is on for . the acting is average , but what would you expect in a film like this . anyone who watches this series are not interested in narrative and character development , they just want Jason to kill and then get killed , and then open his eyes at the end , so that there will be another sequel . and that is exactly what the film delivers , albeit , i saw the region 2 version of the film and i believe it was heavily cut in some scenes , but it was a fun movie never the less . but instantly forgettable . .
can a heart still break after it's stopped beating ?	mild mannered Victor accidentally marries Emily , the titular character , when practising his marriage vows to Victoria . he soon discovers that there is more fun to be had in the land of the dead , and begins to fall in love with his innocent bride . meanwhile , Victoria has been drawn into a scam of a marriage and may not escape with her life . . . . . in the same vein as Edward scissorhands and the nightmare before Christmas , Burton continues to combine wholesome comedy and creepy horror in this feast on the eyes . as always , Elfman does an excellent job with the score and the songs , and Depp and Bonham-Carter are supported by a great cast . the land of the dead is like a Gothic carnival , the only thing missing is Jack Skeleton . it's just that the film has nothing really new to offer and can start to grate after a while . the first hour does unfortunately drag and even the visuals begin to tire the eyes . so praise be for the final twenty minutes when mayhem ensues . for Burton fanatics and Depp fans alike .
Charles rane is not insane . . . .	John Cutter is a security expert , who is presently still mourning the death of his wife . His friend , who works for an airline , offers him the job of chief of security , which he accepts . He is then being flown to L . A . for the company's annual meeting , where he will be introduced as the new Chief of Security . But unfortunately for him , Charles Rane , a stoic and deranged terrorist , who was caught by the FBI and is also being flown to L . A . is on the plane . And Rane's people are on board , who then takeover the plane but Cutter throws a monkey wrench into his plans . what could have been just another ' die hard ' rip off , actually turns into a very good , if throwaway movie , thanks to the over the top performance from Payne , who tries his best Hannibal lecter impression , and is very cold blooded . Snipes again proves he was something special in the nineties , but the best thing about this movie is that it has one of the best lines from an action movie , which even has its own build up music and camera zoom ' always bet on black ' . some of the script is pretty poor , but for fans of the action genre , this does not disappoint .
lie , lie and lie some more	Roger , a beleaguered New York City meter maid , is plagued by anxiety and low self-esteem . In order to overcome his feelings of inadequacy , Roger enrolls in a top-secret confidence - building class taught by the suavely underhanded Dr . P . Aided by his assistant , Lesher , Dr . P uses unorthodox , often dangerous methods , but he guarantees results : Employ his techniques and you will unleash your inner lion . Surrounded by a band of misfit classmates - Walsh , who's dying to move out of mother's basement ; Diego , a punching bag for his hen-pecker of a wife ; and Eli , a shy guy just looking for female companionship - Roger's confidence grows and he makes his way to the head of the class , even finding the courage to ask out his longtime crush , Amanda . But Roger quickly discovers that star students have a way of catapulting Dr . P's competitive side into high gear . Soon enough , the teacher sets out to infiltrate and destroy Roger's personal and professional life . Nothing is off limits for Dr . P , not even the object of Roger's affection . In order to show Amanda Dr . P's true colours , Roger must rally his new friends and find a way to beat the master at his own game . . . i wasn't really looking forward to this movie , as the critics lambasted it and i'm not Jon Heders biggest fan , but i was surprised at how much i actually laughed during the movie . Heder plays his usual nerdy self and uses it to good effect , but Thornton steals the show completely from everybody involved . he is razor sharp with his timing , and this sort of role suits him down to a tee . the twist at the end is obvious and it can be slow in places , but you will have some fun whilst watching . and Ben Stillers cameo is hilarious .
do we get to win this time ? . . . . . .	John Rambo is removed from prison by his former superior , Colonel Samuel Trautman , for a top-secret operation to bring back POW's still held in Vietnam . Rambo's assignment is to only take pictures of where the POWs are being held , but Rambo wants to get the POWs out of Vietnam . Teamed up with female Vietnamese freedom fighter Co Bao , Rambo embarks on a mission to rescue the POWs , who are being held by sadistic Vietnamese Captain Vinh and his Russian comrade , Lieutenant Colonel Padovsky . when Co Bao is killed by Captain Vinh , Rambo wants revenge , so he starts killing every enemy in sight while still focusing on his intentions to rescue the POWs . There are also corrupt American officials involved in the mission , including Marshall Murdock , one of Rambo's superiors . . . 1985 , the year of Stallone . this and the other film that made Russia look bed , Rocky IV . but this is Stallones world , and i was glad he let me into his mind for 100 minutes . this is poor propaganda for the armed forces , but boy , does it work . Allegedly Reagans favourite film , it's easy to see why . Americans breed lean , mean , fighting machines , who will not leave any man behind and risk their own lives for that of others . the story is pure and simple . Rambo gets in . Rambo disobeys orders , Rambo gets left behind enemy lines , Rambo gets mad . Rambo has explosive arrows and so on . but tits the execution of the film that makes it such a guilty pleasure . it never lets up never gives you time to think about the plot and has you waiting for another explosion . films like this wouldn't get made today because they would be un-pc . shame really , because at least we would have a few more films that could be enjoyed better at the cinema . pure fun all the way .
i can see intangible things . . . .	When sabotage destroys part of an aircraft plant , plant worker Barry Kane is falsely blamed for the crime . Determined to clear his name , he sets out to track down the man he believes to be the actual saboteur , the mysterious Mr . Fry . He chases Fry across the western deserts to New York , where the two men confront each other atop the Statue of Liberty . . . another good film from Hitchcock but not one of his best . it's another film where a man is falsely accused of a crime and meets bizarre , friendly , and unfriendly people along the way . there are double crosses galore in the final third , and the cast are all fine in their respective roles , but at times i found my self clock watching . the finale at the statue of liberty is exciting and makes the palms a little sweaty . but the best thing about this movie are the subliminal messages that Kanr receives via the billboards that he passes on several occasions , which is truly a mark of a genius . a great film in all respects , but an average one from Hitchcock .
can we dial down the boobies ?	When a terrorist bomb detonates inside a Western housing compound in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia , an international incident is ignited . While diplomats slowly debate equations of territorialism , FBI Special Agent Ronald Fleury quickly assembles an elite team and negotiates a secret five-day trip into Saudi Arabia to locate the madman behind the bombing . Upon landing in the desert kingdom , however , Fleury and his team discover Saudi authorities suspicious and unwelcoming of American interlopers into what they consider a local matter . Hamstrung by protocol-and with the clock ticking on their five days-the FBI agents find their expertise worthless without the trust of their Saudi counterparts , who want to locate the terrorist in their homeland on their own terms . Fleury's crew finds a like-minded partner in Saudi Colonel Al-Ghazi , who helps them navigate royal politics and unlock the secrets of the crime scene and the workings of an extremist cell bent on further destruction . With these unlikely allies sharing a propulsive commitment to crack the case , the team is led to the killer's front door in a blistering do-or-die confrontation . this movie tries to give the same message as syriana did , but the movie ends up feeling like an episode of ' 24 ' . the cast are great though especially Piven and Foxx , but Cooper and Garner seem criminally underused in the film . the film is very harrowing in parts and the scenes involving Bateman and the extremists is one of the most tense scenes seen on screen this year . Produced by Mann , the film has his expert sheen to it and feels fresh and vibrant throughout , just like collateral did . what should have been a powerful political drama really turns into an action movie with some added tension and drama , but thats not a bad thing .
inferior to the original but . . . . . . . . . . . .	its still a damn fine thriller in its own merits . ethan hawke is acting like hes just stepped into training day 2 : the night shift and thankfully he is very well supported by most concerned ( john leguizamo and ja rule let the side down a little ) but the movie is stolen from hawke by fishburne who is clearly enjoying himself after those turgid matrix sequels . The film is set in winter which gives it a more claustrophobic feeling to it because even though the movie is set at night you still get that surreal blue light you get from snow which defined the mood of the film for me . You get the usual twists and plot Revelations which come as standard in most Hollywood movies now but do not let that put you off , just sit back and enjoy a thriller like they used to make , it will not disappoint .
come and get me , you son of a . . . . .	although sharks have big mouths , the one in this movie finds it hard to swallow that the Brody family can still walk around with their heads held high , even though Martin Brody has died of a heart attack brought on by the fear of sharks . as any angry shark would do , it gobbles up poor old Sean Brody and plans on doing the same to the rest of the family . thank goodness that Ellen Brody makes sense to move to the Bahamas to her elder son and his family , forget about the events of the third movie and fall for Micheal Caine . but the shark is More intelligent than her and swims faster to the Bahamas than her jetting their , kicks back for a while and get some rays before exacting revenge ' the bride ' style . . . . . wow , this film is bad , really bad . but so bad it demands repeat viewings to realise just how wrong the makers of this film went . four things i learnt from this movie were . 1 . sharks scream loud when being flashed at . 2 . sharks hold grudges when other sharks are killed . 3 . sharks explode when impaled . 4 . Micheal Caine can do ' serious ' effectively when the realisation has sunk in that he is making this instead of collecting an academy award . but the photography is good , the soundtrack is dramatic enough to add a little tension to the film , and the actual shark is so badly done , that it is a joy to see all the hydraulics and seams when it is present . Gary does good with the material given to her and can hold her head up high knowing that she went out with a bang . it is bad as everyone says it is , but it just adds to the charm of the bad movie status it has . see it and bathe in the badness .
very time you light a cigarette for me , i know you're lying .	being young and from England ( and somewhat ignorant ) , i was unaware of senator McCarthy and his scare mongering about Communism . sounding a Hitler sort of character , it is stated in the film that ' anybody who disagrees with McCarthys opinions , is a communist . Clooneys film deals with what happened in the the fifties and how one t . v programme tried to exploit McCarthy and try to bring him down . the film never really sheds any new light on McCarthty and what his aims were , but the film is a fascinating character study , and a fantastic second directorial outing by clooney . with a very restraint budget , clooney gets the best out of some of the cream of American talent . standouts include straitharn , Daniels , Downey junior , and ray wise . the film works better in monochrome , as the cigarette smoke could indicate some of the cloak and dagger / smoke and mirrors problems for journalists and media sorts come across . well worth watching , but if you have no idea of the subject , would be worth reading up about it before viewing .
wheres Charles Bronson ?	An older , reclusive man's best friend and inspiration for living is his 14-year-old dog named " Red " . When three troublesome teens kill the dog for no good reason , the grieving man sets out for justice and redemption by whatever means available to him . this is the canine death wish , plain and simple . there is a lot more to this film than a man on a quest to get revenge on the kids that killed red though , as during the film we learn why the dog meant so much to him . it's great while Cox is trying to get justice the legal way , but then it goes a little bit too far when buildings start burning down and Tom Sizemore dyes his hair . But the performance from Cox is stunning , all mean and broody from the upstart , sizemore is just a pointless inclusion to the film , and the ending lets it down a little . but it's still worth watching for Cox alone .
i chill you ! , , ,	A woman is kidnapped out of her house and locked in a room . Now there's a phone in the room but before she could use it , her captor smashes it . She then tinkers with it and manages to get a dial tone but is unable to dial . She then crosses wires and contacts a young surfer . When she tells him that she has been kidnapped ; he doesn't believe her , but he goes to the police to report the crime . When he gets to the station he gets the run around . While waiting he hears the woman's conversation with her captor and learns that her family's in danger so he tries to help them but in the process of doing that he commits some acts that make the police think he's a criminal or crazy ; like stealing a car and brandishing a gun in public . . . even though this film has some dark moments in it , it has it's tongue firmly in cheek throughout the film . it's bright and breezy and all of the cast seem to be having a good time making it . and it's also goo for the cast to be playing against their arch typical roles , Statham as the bad guy and Macy as the hero leaves you smiling . it's very silly in places and you have to take everything with a large pinch of salt , but come the the finale , you will be glad yo endured the movie
decent , low budget horror . . .	obviously this film come mockumentary , is heavily inspired by 1999's Blair witch project , and 2002's 28 days later . the premise is more or less the same as Boyles thriller , where an unknown virus infects the nation , and only a handful of people get to survive off the land ( they always have a spare farm to live in in these films don't they ? ) and conveniently have camcorders at hand . what we get to see is the footage that was salvaged by an unknown source . . the film is split into different diaries , one depicting when the virus starts , and the others depicting what happens after the initial infection . shot on a very small budget , the DVD cover is very deceptive as it does imply that the film is of a high calibre , but the overall product , is somewhat different . the acting is very poor to say the least , but passable in this movie , and there are very few ' zombies ' in the whole movie , what we get instead are people walking around fields slowly towards the camera and occasional shots being fired and the ' infected ' falling down dead . but there are some original moments to be had during the movie , such as the assumption of ' zombie ' rape , and ' zombie ' torture , plus the obligatory twist during the films finale , that does leave a nasty after taste once the credits roll . it does not justify the credit it receives on the DVD , but again it doesn't justify the pounding it has received by a few people on this site . not destined for cult status or anything else really , it's just one of those films thats worth watching once , it's passable enough and original enough for that .
all unattended children will be eaten . . . .	Manny , Sid , and Diego are currently living in a large valley surrounded by an enormously high ice wall on all sides . When a water park begins to form , the trio discovers that the ice wall is actually a wall that is barely holding a massive body of water that could flood the valley to nearly a mile underwater . A vulture tells them that there is a boat at the other end of the valley that may save them all , but they only have 3 days to make it or die . Manny is having trouble facing the fact that he may be the last mammoth left . Along the way , they meet Ellie , a mammoth who thinks she is a possum , and her possum brothers Crash and Eddie . As they begin to travel together , Manny learns , with help from Diego and Sid , that having this new mammoth with them , may not be as bad as Manny makes it out to be while they try to escape the oncoming and continually threatening flood . . . much more of the same here , and thats not a bad thing . again the animation is amazing ( especially on blu-ray ) and there is much chemistry between the trio as they continue their quest to find ' dry-land ' . it's a great film for kids and adults alike and even though it won't cause too much trouble on the synapses , it's a lot of fun on the journey . a great continuation to a good franchise .
i put a needle in the back of your neck . . .	Liu Jian , a police officer from China , comes to Paris to help the vice squad apprehend a Chinese drug lord and his unknown French connection . The French connection is Richard , the head of the vice squad , who intends to kill the drug lord then frame Jian . Jian ducks a bullet and escapes with a tape of what really happened . By chance , Jian turns to Jessica - a US farm girl who is one of Richard's hookers - for help . She has her own problems , including the fact that Richard has her daughter locked in an orphanage to keep Jessica on the streets and silent about his activities . Can Jian protect Jessica , rescue her daughter , and give Richard the kiss of the dragon ? another Western movie from Li features the producing talents of Besson , makes for an enjoyable action movie , but with more of an adult theme to it . Li is great in his role , saying very little , but using his physical techniques to the extreme . the fight scenes are truly awesome and although over top in some places , are really pleasing on the eye . Besson has produced more and more extremely ridiculous movies as the years have progressed , but this is really something .
are you into any kind of banging ?	at a dig outside a hotel of sorts , Angus finds a skull of of an animal , it could be a cow or it could be the head of a reptile . it just turns out that the same house where the dig is being set , the mother and father who owned the house , disappeared without a trace . Legend has it that centuries ago , the then lord of D'ampton slayed the white worm , and since then , they have been celebrating the defeat of the worm at a sort of party yearly . strange things start to happen , lady sylvia marsh arrives on the scene and people start to get attacked and start to act differently . the fathers watch is found and so the search resumes for the parents . what happens from here is a visceral journey of blasphemy and paganism which is really confusing to describe as a plot but it is worth watching . russell has made an assault on the senses just like he did with altered states , and makes his obsession with phalluses and the phallic symbol evident . the is intensely erotic and has intense images that are sometimes disturbing and sometimes damn near confusing . the story and narrative is easy to understand but very hard to explain . the only real acting standout is donohoe who makes a convincing temptress . the rest of the cast are below par , but this is one film that does not take itself too seriously . a great guilty pleasure .
i'm all about the romance . . .	A mysterious epidemic is sweeping the world , but it takes one Washington DC psychiatrist to discover that the disease is extraterrestrial in origin . When her son becomes infected , she and a colleague must work together to find a cure , before the entire world is lost . . . although this is a remake of a remake of a remake , it has been updated for our times , The Invasion could be classed in some peoples opinions as an allegory to chemical warfare , and the paranoia surrounding the world since the beginning of the new millennium . there are some hidden meanings in this film , but in the end it comes across as a hybrid of ' Shaun of the Dead ' ( especially in the first act with random people standing around looking bored ) and ' 28 days later ' . in fact this could even be sneaked in to the zombie genre , rather than science fiction , although these ' beings do not eat brains etc , they still have the emotionless factor of the said Zombie . but the weak link in this movie is Kidman who just doesn't suit the part , and is utterly unconvincing , and Craig is just James Bond with longer hair and a Medical degree . the editing too is a little too sharp and can make the narrative seem a little confusing at times . but it's not the travesty it has been made out to be , there are some tense moments in the film and at just over ninety minutes it doesn't outstay it's welcome .
i get porn reaction . . . .	four people gather in an all night café whilst they are working their night shift . one works for a supermarket , Vince , who thinks he can have any woman and wears a watch that was supposed to belong to Errol Flynn . then we have one who works for a tele-communications company , Lenny , who fancies a girl he works with , but cannot speak to her because he gets ' porn reaction ' because he wrote for an adult magazine . so he pretends to be someone else on the phone to her . Jodie who has just been fired from her job , but keeps meeting through the night , because she has nothing better to do . and finally Sean , who works as a porter in a hospital , and has not seen his girlfriend for three weeks and now doubts that she still lives there . still , there is the girl at the hospital whose boyfriend is in a coma . when something happens that involves the group , they gather together and go on a little journey . along the way they find themselves . . . if you work night-shifts , then you can instantly relate to the problems that these people go through in their daily lives . not knowing anyone really out of work , realise what you are missing when you are at work , and most important of all having a lot of time on your hands , so you think and think , until fantasy can become a reality in your mind and paranoia sets in . the good things about this film are the subtle things that the director has thrown in . for example , when Sean is going to work near the beginning , we see him on one side of the escalator , and a group of people on another side , possibly indicating that not many people work night shifts . the story is good and the filming style and script , is very similar to Kerrigans 1999 movie ' human traffic ' which is basically the same premise , but with drugs and clubs thrown in . the characters are very likable and for the majority of people who watch this film could probably relate to them and show empathy . a great movie with some quotable dialogue , very funny and dramatic in equal measures . with some great plot developments .
i forgot to bring the ladder down .	A weekend cruise on a luxurious party yacht goes horribly wrong for a group of old high - school friends . They forget to let the ladder down before they jump into the ocean for a swim . The boat proves impossible to climb . They are stuck in the water many miles from shore , with baby Sara left alone on board . Sara's mother Amy must contend with her aqua-phobia as well as the group's increasing desperation , as the friends begin to turn on each other . Soon the exhaustion of keeping afloat and the struggle to get back on board begin to take a terrible toll . The happy reunion turns into a fight for survival . . . obviously cashing in on the success of open water , and while this is not an official sequel to open water , it follows along the same line . even though open water was based loosely on fact , this is all fiction . but the story is a lot more griping and the performances and production values are a lot more convincing . this time there are no sharks or danger in the water , but if you are a parent , you will know the terror that the parents are facing during their ordeal . the performances are great if corny , and the cinematography adds to the tension . if like me , you despised open water , then you may not want to see this , but it is worth watching .
he's not failing me . . . .	two determined students at a West Coast University , Arian and Ernest , follow the inspiration of their idealistic professor , Dr . Malley , and attempt to do something important with their lives . But when the two make the bold decision to join the battle in Afghanistan , Malley is both moved and distraught . Now , as Arian and Ernest fight for survival in the field , they become the string that binds together two disparate stories on opposite sides of America . In California , an anguished Dr . Malley attempts to reach a privileged but disaffected student who is the very opposite of Arian and Ernest . Meanwhile , in Washington D . C . the charismatic Presidential hopeful , Senator Jasper Irving , is about to give a bombshell story to a probing TV journalist that may affect Arian and Ernest's fates . . . with all the movies good intentions about covering up war ( as seen in the final reel ) the film does sidestep a few major issues , and the one thing that prevents this film to be as important as it makes out to be , is the fact that the Arian and Ernest segment of the film is unemotional and not very interesting . but the rest of the film is very good , Streep battles well with Cruises slimy senator ( which hopefully will bag him a best actor nomination come awards season ) , their scenes together are very involving and you can almost chew the tension between them , no matter how ' friendly ' Irving appears to be . but the reason to watch this is Redford . his character is enthralling and the film is fantastic whenever he is in it ( maybe something to do with the fact he directed it ! ) the narrative is good and for a film with so much talking and political agenda going on , it goes through its 90 minute duration quite quickly . an underrated movie
two in the head and one in the balls , thats what i say . . .	On a flight from Los Angeles to Paris , a mad scientist on the run from the CIA is transporting a coffin containing the body of a colleague infected with a genetically modified virus . While the 747 crosses a violent thunderstorm , the instability of the aircraft allows the corpse to get out of its container . The flesh-eating zombie quickly starts to spread the virus , infecting many of the passengers which now will have to fight for their lives stranded in the air with no way out . . . whilst watching this movie , you cannot help but compare it to last years ' Snakes on a plane ' , the premise is actually rather good , and falls into the same category as snakes , but this time the characters are patchy and there are only a few that you actually care for . as for the zombie scenes , they never really get going until the final act , but than all hell literally does break loose as it's just a handful of survivors against the infected . but when you get legless zombie nuns and zombies with no lower body , and funniest of all a poor zombie you actually feel sorry for because he cannot get his seat belt off and kill anyone . it's just a fun movie , there are a lot worse movies out there , particularly in this genre , and the title is intriguing enough , though it does makes the film sound better than it actually is . if you are a fan of this genre , you will find it enjoyable , but obviously , not to be taken seriously at all .
i'm trying to catch a bus . . . .	In Miami , professional driver Frank Martin is working temporarily for the Billings family , transporting their son Jack while his driver is on vacation . Mr . Billings is an important member of the government and Mrs . Audrey Billings trusts on Frank , who promises to protect the boy . When Jack is kidnapped by a mercenary hired by the Colombian cartels , Frank faces the criminals and the Miami police force trying to rescue the kid . When the boy returns to his family , Jack discloses the real and lethal intention of the abduction of Jack . . . if you enjoyed the no nonsense , no story high concept original , expect more of the same from this great sequel . it won't win any awards for originality or story , and the acting is a bit decisive ( yet Modine can cough convincingly ) , but if you want a film that is over the top in a ludicrous way , with plenty of action and little ' talking ' , then this is definitely for you . statham once again proves that he is an up and coming action star in Hollywood , and impresses with his deadpan delivery of his lines and good fighting skills . it's just a shame that he didn't keep his English accent for the film , as their really is no need for him to do a bad American accent . well produced by Besson , if you have seen Bessons other produced action movies , you know what to expect . not much story , but a lot of fun . worth checking out if you liked the first one
cue the sun . . . . .	Truman Burbank is a normal man , living in a normal town . He grew up to be a desk clerk for a insurance company , living an ordinary life , having an ordinary wife , an ordinary neighbour and an ordinary bud , who pops in from time to time with a six pack . But Truman is not happy with his life . He wants to see the world . He wants to get away from his happy-happy , ever tidy little island town at the seaside . In reality , Truman was an unwanted pregnancy . His " father " , Christof , a reckless TV-Producer whom he never met , made up the Truman Show - the greatest show on earth - a show in which life is live . So , everyone around poor Truman is an actor with a little headphone in the ear . One day , Truman accidentally bumps into a catering area backstage and gets pretty suspicious . . . director Weir has come up with a fascinating prospect with this film , but ten years down the line , the film has become more or less a reality with the advent of Big Brother and other reality programmes . Carrey is wonderful as the main character , slowly becoming aware that his life is a facade . it doesn't take long for him ' in his own world ' having delusional episodes and wanting to escape his perfect life in his town . to him , perfect is becoming boring , and with the flashbacks , it is easy to see where the creator Christof has gone wrong , using loops , which means for Truman , that he wants to be different from anyone else . the audience is treated as a voyeur , looking in on Trumans every move from day to day , seeing Truman go to work and the product placement that is thrusted toward him at any given chance . on weak link though of the movie is Linney . a fine actress she is , she just feels out of place as the fifties-esquire housewife who does not really like Truman in reality . is she an actress really , or is her character a high class call-girl ( she does have to sleep with Truman ) . but the final act with truman trying to escape is pure genius , ehn he his the wall , it brings a tear to your eye , knowing that everything Truman has learned , everything that has happened to him , has been staged . and weir had a stroke of genius showing Christoph speak to Truman as a god-like character . a really good idea made into an enjoyable movie , but nevertheless , slightly over rated .
let them eat cake . . . .	" All eyes will be on you , " says the Austrian duchess , Maria Theresa to her youngest daughter Marie Antoinette . The film , marketed for a teen audience , is an impressionistic retelling of Marie Antoinette's life as a young queen in the opulent and eccentric court at Versailles . The film focuses on Marie Antoinette , as she matures from a teenage bride to a young woman and eventual queen of France . . . and if the film was to be a cake , it would indeed be a Dundee cake . Rich , fruity and very nutty . it is impossible not to like Coppolas movie , even when realising how absurd the whole thing is when watching it . it does take an hour to get going but once it does get going , it is like a psychedelic trip through candy-land , full of wonderful characters and amazing scenery . the problem is the script , it's trying to be too hip , almost teaching a history lesson to the MTV generation , and becomes it's own worse enemy . the cast are fine in their respective roles , but Schwartzman does feel a little out of place and doesn't really convince as the young easily influenced King . Dunst is wonderful as the titular character , having an air of teenage angst about her , and adds the ' fruit ' to the recipe . but the icing on the proverbial ' cake ' is the mesmerising soundtrack . attention to detail has been made for the music and it really makes the movie the leftfield piece it is . a very odd movie , arguably bad , but impossible not to enjoy .
i don't want to dirty my bullets . . .	Forrest Taft is an environmental agent who works for the Aegis Oil Company in Alaska . Aegis Oil's corrupt CEO , Michael Jennings , is the kind of person who doesn't care whether or not oil spills into the ocean or onto the land , just as long as it's making money for him . He even makes commercials that make him look like he cares about the environment . Jennings is almost finished with building his new state-of-the art oil rig : AEGIS-1 . The problem is that if he doesn't finish building the rig in thirteen days , the land rights will be returned to the Eskimos and the Alaskan government . When Jennings finds out that Taft's best friend Hugh Palmer has a computer disk that contains information about defective equipment on AEGIS-1 , he sends out his goons to murder Palmer . When Taft tries to interfere , Jennings tries to kill Taft . But an Eskimo woman named Masu , who introduces Taft to her father Silook , the chief of her tribe , rescues Taft . With Masu's help , Taft begins a trek through the Alaskan wilderness , heading straight for AEGIS-1 . . . seagals directorial debut , carries a very heavy message with it . so heavy that he even includes his own party political broadcast at the end . the rest is just pure mysticism and mumbo jumbo , but it is still a very enjoyable movie . the second act sags a little with Taft being compared to a bear every other line , but the last act takes us back to under siege territory where it's just Taft against a gang of thugs including Billy Bob Thornton and R Lee Ermey , finally getting on to big bad boss Caine , who is clearly having a ball in his role . not a great film by any standards , but Seagal tries to be different with his good intentions .
i have the power ! ! !	An admired high school hockey player with a bright future foolishly takes a drive in the night with his girl friend and two other friends with his headlights off with devastating results . The former athlete is left with a brain injury that prevents him from remembering many things for extended periods of time . To compensate , he keeps notes in a small notebook to aid him in remembering what he is to do . He also lives with a blind friend who aids him . Obviously , with the mental incapacitation , he is unable to have meaningful work . Thus he works as a night cleaning man in a bank . It is there he comes under the scrutiny of a gang planning to rob the bank . The leader befriends him and gets him involved with a young woman who further reels him in . After they get close and after reeling him in with his own failures , the bank plan unfolds . Confused but wanting to escape his current existence , he initially goes along with the scheme . After realising he is being used , he attempts to stop the robbery , which of course immediately goes awry . . . . a great performance once again from Levitt proves that he can make a film with plot holes and a strange narrative a joy to watch . everybody involved with the film put in impressive Performances , especially Daniels , who is very funny as the blind house mate , a guru like character giving out advice . it's just a shame though that Fisher is given very little screen time , even though she is just a moll in the plan , her character is very likable and it would have been nice to see more of her on screen . the final third is very tense and well planned , as Levitt begins to realise he is being used . Levitt makes the film , and it's only time before he becomes huge in Hollywood . it's good to see he is going down the same path depp did in earlier on in his career .
let's see what this thing can do . . . .	The Firefox is a high tech fighter plane built by the Soviet Union . It's faster than any other fighter plane , and is undetectable to radar , and has a new weapon control system that is thought controlled . When the West learns of it , they decide that it's necessary to get it before it could be mass produced . They need a pilot , and the best and probably only man for the job is Mitchell Gant , a former Air Force pilot , who is now retired . They convince him to do it , even though the chance of his success , is very slim . He begins by pretending to be a man , whom the Soviet police is investigating , when he goes to meet his contacts which includes the man he is impersonating , he is killed . The sight of his death brings about one of Gant's delayed stress attacks , but he gets away . With help from the underground , he is brought to where the plane is . Though he manages to get it , the Soviets mount an offensive to find him , which includes another version of the Firefox , which might catch up with him . watching this when i was ten , i remember that i only wanted to see the bit with the plane at the end , and that the rest of movie seemed to go on forever . twenty years later watching for the second time , i was again waiting for the plane bit , but the film was more intriguing , although very confusing at times , very watchable . but me still remembering the days when i was ten , the final set piece is still fun too watch , and for a film made nearly thirty years ago , the effects are not too bad , and Eastwood has made himself look great in the titular vehicle . not a great film by any means , but worth watching .
we're the last of the real hunters . . .	Bo Laramie is an action superstar with his own production company . his new movie is a big time hit and he is the golden boy of Hollywood . he has a great house and a wife and son who are devoted to him . everything is going well for him until he is charged with assaulting a member of the press for taking pictures of his family . when Laramie refuses to apologise on t . v to the press , they make a personal vendetta to get him and to expose him in anyway possible . driving home from a party one night , the press causes an accident that injure his wife and critically injure his son . Laramie decides its time to turn the tables . the first i realised after watching this movie , is just how bad a time some major stars can have from the press . this makes you realise that stars do make a lot of money , but they don't have the privilege of a private life . i do not envy them one bit . when Gibson was producing this he must have made a few enemies from the press , as he makes them out to be the scum of the earth . they are really sadistic dogs who will stop at nothing to ruin someones life . obviously they are not like this in real life , but the fabrication of them is enough to make you feel sympathy for Laramie . the acting is very bad with special honours going to Farina , who looks plain bored to be in this and Sizemore , who must be in the worst role of his career . the script too is very very bad and makes it a little too campy for such a potentially dark subject . if this was in the hands of somebody like Fincher , this would be awesome . the story is good and the execution too , and the film doesn't take long to get into action . of course there are some major plot holes , but when you are watching a movie that has been almost universally criticised , you excuse the plot holes . some great cameos add to the fun and some of the editing is good . but if you are looking for a better revenge flick , you should try death wish or any other 80s slasher . not a bad film , just a wasted opportunity of a great premise .
songs of joy . . . .	It all began so innocently for two children growing up in the deepest countryside , their imaginations set ablaze by a book on local myths and legends . Berenice convinces her younger brother Brian that she is the reincarnation of a witch with the powers to put everything right . As they grow up Brian becomes emotionally dependent on his sister , so that when she returns to the family home for Christmas with her new boyfriend he feels totally betrayed . At the same time a man strongly resembling the mythical Jake the Mid-Folker is closing in . An overwhelming sense of impending horror surrounds the house , but is the enemy outside - or is the enemy within ? . . . this film really has to be viewed more than once , to actually understand the entire concept , of mythology and how it can influence a youngsters mind . the main protagonist here is Brian , mentally tortured by his sister all them years , growing up with her stories and only having her to depend on as the rest of the family were arguing or being nasty to him , then she just ups and leaves . when she returns , Brian is really a tortured soul now , but a few red herrings draw us away from this , and although the movie is very good , there are several plot holes that go unanswered , but this can all be forgiven for such visceral imagery . heavily influenced by the shining in the final act , the toybox is a great British movie which will soon become a cult . see it .
it's more fun when you raise your arms up ! !	New York Zoo animals , Alex the Lion , Marty the Zebra , Melman the Giraffe and Gloria the Hippo , still stranded on Madagascar , start to leave the island . All of a sudden , they land in the wilderness of Africa , where Alex meets the rest of his family , but has trouble communicating with them after spending so much time at the Central Park Zoo . . . not being a fan of the first movie , i wasn't expecting a lot from this sequel , other than ' cash-in ' . i was very surprised to find that this usurped the original way possible , and was a lot of fun also , even though Julien was still very annoying whenever he popped up . the voice acting is very well done , and the pop-culture references are very funny and quite intelligent , something that dreamworks have been doing now for a while to the adults from being bored . if anything , this could be ' the lion kings ' idiotic cousin , as there are references sprawled along this movie to the Disney classic ( son gets lost , a bad lion wants to take control as the alpha lion , but with less trauma of course ) there are a lot of life lessons as always in films like this , but they are subtle and short . the penguins almost steal the show again , but the granny takes credit for this , as she is probably the nastiest animated non-villain ever . a good sequel .
houses don't kill people . . . . . . . . .	the Lutz family find their dream home in Amityville and think that they have finally started to get the life that they have always wanted . but when closing the deal on the house , they find out that there was a tragedy that happened to the family that lived there before . George starts to become increasingly agitated and impatient with his family , and his eyes also become bloodshot when he has been in the house for too long . the young daughter begins a friendship with someone who isn't there and George begins to get progressively agitated . it turns out that the previous family were slaughtered by one of the sons , and he stated that he could hear voices in his head saying to kill his family . . . now George is hearing the same voices . . . based on the so-called true story back in the seventies , this is a souped up shock value remake for the teenage generation . the casting is perfect , although Melissa George looks a little too young for her role . a great step-up from the original , this has scares a plenty and goes a little deeper into the history of the house . Ryan Reynolds is great in his role and is quite menacing toward the end of the second act and the third act . the only let down really is the cop out ending where they all sail away safely . but if you like your horrors with predictable scares and jump scenes , you can do a lot worse . one of the better remakes of recent times .
showdown on sesame street . . . .	Jack Cole is a soft spoken , mystical , new age New York cop with a checkered past . He is transferred to Los Angeles to help Los Angeles cop Jim Campbell solve a series of brutal murders in which the victims are crucified . The murders that have happened since Jack arrived in Los Angeles just don't sit right with him . When the killer , known as the " Family Man " , kills Ellen DunLeavy , who happens to be Jack's ex wife and the mother of his two kids , and Ellen's husband Andrew DunLeavy , it becomes personal - especially when Jack's prints are found on Ellen's body . Jack meets with his military mentor Smith , not knowing that Smith is in cahoots with local crime boss Frank Deverell . . . . basically , when you start to watch the film as the credits roll , you may be mistaken that this is a hybrid of the years earlier hit ' Se7en ' . we have the rain , the moody credits and a serial killer , killing people in an odd way . then Seagal comes on to the screen , and it turns into a lethal weapon hybrid . this film should have been so bad , but it turns out to be Seagals last great film of the nineties , with thanks to Wayans , who has excellent chemistry with the lead . there are a few plot holes and continuity problems , but the fight scenes are great and Seagal shows he has the moves . with good support from Cox and some certain powdered deer anatomy , this is an enjoyable Friday night movie , nothing else .
different . . . .	i really wasn't looking forward to this film , due to the negative reviews but what i uncovered was a great movie basically explaining what a waste of time the gulf war was . gyllenhall was fantastic as swoft and in my opinion , outshone his performance in brokeback . but predictably it was foxx who stole the show . every scene he commanded and his presence was electric . he more than made up for stealthwith some of the best cinematography ever to grace the big screen since Lawrence of Arabia , this will not disappoint . with sly nods to three kings , full metal jacket and even an officer and a gentleman , this is a war film with a difference none of the main characters see any real action . just the after effects and views from afar . welcome to the suck indeed . being involved in this stupid war must have sucked . your privileges taken away , your freedom of speech taken away , and of course your pride and dignity taken away . all this whilst fighting for the freedom of your country . this film will entertain , anger and enlighten people in equal amounts . this should not have been ignored by the academy . . . nor you
silky smooth . . . .	This is the story about a Mossad agent Zohan Dvir , who fakes his death so he can re-emerge in New York City as a hair stylist . He romances his clients by giving them " special services " in the back room . However , he is eventually recognised , and risks losing his newfound life and career . . another year another , culture or ethnic race for Sandler to to rip into shreds . this has to be the most random and surreal comedy i have seen in a long time , and for once , it's really funny ! ! the story is simple , soldier wants to leave his country and go to America to cut hair , and then his nemesis finds him . it's that simple . if you don't like Sandler , or his movies , then you will literally hate this . but if you like this sort of stuff , filled with childish humour and stupid . . . just stupid random set pieces that made me laugh right down to the last part of the final third ( it gets a bit sentimental at the end ) , then you will love it . as silly as little Nicky , but so much more , this can be sometimes bordering sometimes on homophobic as it really delves into a mans feminine side and more , but i feel this is the writer silly sense of humour . if you can imagine the fun they had whilst making this with all the random cameos and lines , then this could be the movie for you . i really liked it .
i drink to make you more interesting . . . . .	Two young couples holidaying in Papua New Guinea , come up with a plan to find missing heir Michael Rockerfeller , the son of the US vice president who mysteriously went missing there in 1960 . Rockerfeller is naturally presumed dead , perhaps eaten by cannibals , but the foursome argue that finding him would be worth at least a million dollars to the press or his family , if they found him alive . A sighting by local pilot of a white man in his 70's deep in the jungle , convinces them their plan has some foundation . They hire a minibus and head off deep into the jungle , where they are shot at by would be hijackers and have their lives threatened by some unscrupulous border guards . Finally in the mountainous region they want to be , they continue despite a serious falling out between the two couples , one couple is serious about their investigation the other is there for some fun , fun that sees them defile a native burial ground . . . . if this was made a decade ago , it would have been something else , it would have been classed as innovative , original , and taut . now , after the aftermath of a certain witch , moviegoers are used to this sort of ' guerrila ' film making . thats not to say the film is bad , the cast are okay with what they are given , and there are a few uneasy scenes in the film , the standout scenes are the ones with the natives just watching the couples while they are drifting on their home made rafts . there isn't anything original about though , which is a shame , but there is a lot of fun to be had , because you know what will happen to the quartet and the final 15 minutes are quite spectacular . it's been slated by a lot of users on this site , but if you haven't already seen this , put yourself in the characters shoes , you will see the film in a different light . worth watching
nothing is what it seems . . .	In an era when the country's first line of defence , intelligence , is more important than ever , this story opens the CIA's infamous closed doors and gives an insider's view into the Agency : how trainees are recruited , how they are prepared for the spy game , and what they learn to survive . James Clayton might not have the attitude of a typical recruit , but he is one of the smartest graduating seniors in the country - and he's just the person that Walter Burke wants in the Agency . James regards the CIA's mission as an intriguing alternative to an ordinary life , but before he becomes an Ops Officer , James has to survive the Agency's secret training ground , where green recruits are molded into seasoned veterans . As Burke teaches him the ropes and the rules of the game , James quickly rises through the ranks and falls for Layla , one of his fellow recruits . But just when James starts to question his role and his cat-and-mouse relationship with his mentor , Burke taps him for a special assignment to root out a mole . another over the top performance from Pacino saves this movie from being average . he repeated lines of ' don't trust anyone ' and ' nothing is what it seems ' do grate a little toward the end , but he is on manic form in this thriller . the plot is just about passable as is the narrative , but the editing is excellent , and Farrell is watchable as ever too . the second act is thrilling on ' the farm ' where they are trained , but it's slightly let down by the final act and the ending . watchable enough though .
was it a slow dance ?	welcome to the world of Guy Ritchie . from this picture , it doesn't seem as if he has progressed , but has improved on his last two pictures . with this film , he's back to the basics that made him such a vibrant and exciting film maker . the story is as involving and layered just like his first two movies , and owes a hell of a lot to pulp fiction . the thing is with Ritchie , is that he knows what his audience wants , and always delivers , but adds a little bit of very good editing , and brings a little bit more to his set pieces than other film makers . this may be to do with a certain Joel Silver producing the film , but it still has that Ritchie originality , and it shows in certain scenes . the opening credits ring back to the 2005 movie Revolver , which i found quite interesting , but is hated world wide . and the one action scene in the film , is funny as well as exciting , the two Russians really have to be seen to be believed . he also adds his own brand of humour , to what may be the worst dancing scene in any movie ever , tho maybe the shortest sex scene ever . but Ritchie always makes his characters interesting , and he doesn't lose his grasp with any character in this film . be it One Two , Mumbles , Johnny Quid , Lenny or Archie , the characters are really evolved in this , and the film carries along swiftly and speedy . it's a return to form for Ritchie , who has basically gone back to his roots , and realised that the nineties isn't a bad place to be after all . with a great soundtrack , and a good story , this is a good film , but forgettable all the same
i can confidently say , Ibiza is , dot dot dot .	Frankie Wilde is one of the most successful British D . J . s of all time . he has the biggest selling single ever released by a D . J . and Pacha the nightclub on Ibiza is always full when he is doing a set there . but with all jobs come hazards , and Frankie takes to many recreational drugs and drinks too much alcohol , to try and keep up with his unsociable job . slowly , while recording an album , he starts to lose his hearing , and though at first he denies this , the problem becomes more rapid and he cannot do his job anymore due to his loss . so Frankie becomes a recluse , locking himself up in a soundproof room , hoping that the silence will cure his hearing . but bigger things are in store for Frankie . i'm sure if this movie was released ten years ago it would have been huge . Ibiza has become a bit of a parody now . the thing is the place is so famous for it's music and clubs that it can attract the wrong sort of people , people who listen to the music but don't feel it . this film is about feeling . but people go back to Ibiza year after year , for pointless binge drinking and drug taking . but hat isn't the essence of Ibiza . the essence is to feel love and to be at one with yourself . to have FEELING . Frankie Wilde is played to perfection by Paul Kaye , who can do this sort of thing in his sleep . the music is gorgeous and it sometimes it does play as a docu-drama with all the D . Js we all know and love making cameo interviews to the cameras . symbols is evident in the form of the badger as this represents Frankies coke addiction and the deafness most probably represents losing the one thing you love the most . if you are reading this , you love movies , right ? imagine having to come to terms with losing your sight . imagine how Frankie feels , but his hearing is crucial to his job . although you would think by the trailer that this film is a comedy , but it is very dark and gritty . when Frankie seems to have lost everything , the weather in Ibiza gradually goes from being very Sunny and welcoming , to looking cold and desolate . a good film with some good morals , which is well worth seeing .
the last one to kill a bad guy buys the beer . . . .	With the Earth running short of natural energy resources the Jupiter mission to colonise and exploit Alpha Prime seems to be the only chance of survival . Professor John Robinson together with his wife Maureen , his family and fighter pilot Don West , lead a desperate attempt to create a Hyper-Gate in orbit around the planet Alpha Prime to enable the rescue of Earth to begin . However , others have different reasons for reaching Alpha Prime and Dr . Smith sabotages the Jupiter 2 but fails to get clear and becomes an unwelcome stowaway aboard the ship . To escape the gravitational pull of the sun the Hyper-Drive is fired and the Jupiter 2 , after a trip through hyperspace , emerges into a completely unknown part of the galaxy . A search of the star charts reveals that they are completely lost in an uncharted sector of space but this is only the beginning of their problems . . . for all the effects that are thrown on to the screen in this movie adaption , it cannot mask the lack of story or narrative in the actual movie . the bottom line is , it's just an event movie , with a good cast and Gary Oldman as the ever faithful cheesy bad guy . he steals the show from anyone who dare share the screen with him , and is the best thing in the whole thing , even though he has some awful dialogue . a lot of it doesn't make sense , but for the kids , there's a cute little alien , and for the girls Joey from friends has become all macho . for everyone else , there's William Hurt and the aforementioned effects , which are very impressive . it's watchable , but but empty at the same time . on the plus side , the end credits are one of the best i have ever seen , and even though it leaves us with the fact that the makers were hoping that this would make enough money for it to to green-light a sequel , it doesn't spoil the spectacle . the cinema equivalent of watching a friend play a video game .
i'm the terminator . . . .	Chev Chelios is a professional assassin working for the West Coast crime syndicate . Chev's girlfriend Eve doesn't know what Chev does and Chev is planning to quit the crime syndicate so he can spend more time with her . But for Chev , things about to get very bad , when he learns he has been injected with a poison called " The Beijing Cocktail " by his rival Verona , which will kill him if his heart rate drops . Trying to stay alive and seeking help from friend , Kaylo and Doc Miles , to keep his heart pumping . Chev sets out to find answers as well as protecting Eve , and get his revenge on those who have betrayed him before the poison kills him . . . . this is what Statham does best . not too much dialogue and a lot of running , looking fierce and letting no-one stand in his way . hooray for the director for letting Statham keep his accent and not the stupid American one he had for the ' transporter ' movies . very much inspired by films such as ' run lola run ' , ' D . O . A ' , ' speed ' and ' district 13 ' , the film is let down somewhat by its flashy visuals and filming styles . sometimes it can be effective , other times it can be plain annoying . but this is Stathams movie all the way and proves what a versatile action star he is and what potential the guy has . one of the best action movies of the year , it never gets boring , has a very sleek running time and a great soundtrack , this is made very cheaply and all the better for it . the story is great and the narrative flows and flows , and there are some stunning set pieces in the mix . if you just want a film that is all out action , that makes little sense and lots of noise , then this is for you .
courage is the answer . . . .	a dying firefighter reminisces about the initial start of his firefighting career , from being a rookie , the highs , the lows , meeting the woman of his life , and losing close friends , all whilst trapped in a burning building . a film with very good intentions , portraying emergency services and giving them credit that they finally deserve , the film does the fire service justice , portraying them as a team , a group and a family . it's just a shame that the narrative is so poor . if you get my drift , the movie really begins at the end , so you know that Pheonixs ' character is really in no peril when in fires building up to the fateful one . instead it plays out like a ' disaster ' movie , maybe in the same vein as the ' towering inferno ' eg . the audience are guessing which member of the fire crew dies next . we know that Travolta and Patrick are safe as they are in the final act , so we are guessing which of the supporting cast ' gets ' it . another problem is that the flashbacks are so clichéd . from the initial rookie ' initiation ' where Pheonix goes to confession , you can kind of guess that he will make good friends , lose them , and have an argument or too . the cliché's carry on , from meeting his Wife , to the marriage and so on and so on . it's a good job that all the cast are very good and do a very good job of portraying the fire service . the fire scenes are spectacular and are on a par with Howard's ' ' backdraft ' and are quite intense , but as i have already said before , lose a little bit of intensity due to the opening . but it's a fitting tribute to the emergency services and it goes to show the pain and anguish they go through on a day to day basis . well worth a look .
you dig like a dog . . . .	Ahmad Ibn Fadlan is sent to the barbaric north as an emissary , because he fell in love with the wrong woman . In AD 922 , this usually meant goodbye forever . Shortly after the party ran into exploring Vikings and befriended them , a young boy reaches the camp to call the warriors home : The Wendol , creatures of the Mist , have started attacking their homeland , killing and eating everyone in their way . The oracle forces a thirteenth warrior to accompany the Vikings , but this must not be a man from the north . Ahmad Ibn Fadlan , who quickly is nicknamed Eban , first does not feel comfortable with the strange men of the north , but when he finds out that the Wendol really exist he bravely fights alongside the Vikings in a battle that can't be won . . this movie was doomed before it was ever released on the big screen , but take it for what it is , big dumb fun . Banderas is perfect in the titular role and there are some grand set pieces , particularly the scene where Banderas learns the language ( a lenghtened trick used by McTiernan before in ' red October ' ) and the obligatory final battle in the rain . this is a typical viking movie though . full of blood and gore and be-headings , but one of the main problems with this film is that most of the battles are in the dark , thus making it very hard to work out what is going on . but like i have said before , this is dumb fun , not to be taken seriously , and instantly forgettable once it's finished .
what the hell did you do to all these people ? ?	it's new years eve and the Poseidon is hosting a great new years eve party . there are several guests on the ship such as an ex new york mayor and firefighter ( ironic ) , a card shark , a suicidal homosexual , Fergie from the black eyed peas and Matt Dillons brother . after the new year has been rung in , the ship is hit by a freak wave and capsizes , leaving a only a handful of survivors desperate to make it to the surface , before the ship sinks to a watery grave . . . a film that is very grand in scale and spectacle , it works on many levels , but character development certainly isn't one of them . it is pretty easy to guess who survives and who dies in this film , but nevertheless it is still fun to watch . not as claustrophobic as the original ( due to the budgets ) each set piece is more impressive than the last and the initial capsizing of the boat is breath taking . the actors do their best and Lucas and Russell really do stand out and also a good turn from Kevin Dillon add to the films enjoyability . its a shame then that Rossum and Dreyfuss are wasted in their typecast roles , with the latter being their just to make the cast look good . overall a good film with somes minor flaws and sometimes it does leave plausibility at the bottom of the ocean . but it's a disaster movie and we just want to see who lives and who dies . there is some irony to the film if you read between the lines and at least fergie from the black eyed peas doesn't do a UB40 in speed 2 and disappear from the film . my only little beef with the film is that if you were going to commit suicide by throwing yourself off of the ship , and you saw a huge wave approaching , would you really have second thoughts about the suicide ? ? ? ? great film for a brainless evenings entertainment .
where you going ' sunshine ? ?	Joanna is determined to learn the truth behind the increasingly terrifying supernatural visions that have been haunting her . Joanna has made a successful career for herself , as sales representative for a trucking company . But her private life has been difficult ; estranged from her father , stalked by an obsessed ex - boyfriend , and with few friends , Joanna fears that she is losing control . She sees and feels the brutal murder of a young woman she's never met , at the hands of a heartless killer , a man who appears to be making Joanna his next target . Determined to fight back , Joanna is guided by her nightmares to the murdered woman's hometown . Once there , she will discover that some secrets can't be buried ; some spirits never die ; and that the murder she is trying to solve may be her own . . . . . . for a start this movie is a prime example of how the media and its apparatus can influence the determined success of a movie . the trailers really attracted the wrong demographic , hinting that it would be another ' grudge ' type psychological horror . but what we have here is a suspense movie in which the wrong man has been accused of murder , and his dead partner trying to show him what really happens . unfortunately , for the first twenty or so minutes of the movie , we are treated to a badly lit , very slow piece with Gellar generally looking subdued . but once we get to the town where the murder took place , it notched up the tension a few gears and the movie really comes into it's own . Gellar is OK in her role , but she has already proved she can do frightened and determined in the grudge , so it does appear that she is sleepwalking through her role . it's a saving grace that she is well supported by the rest of the cast and a great storyline . if you are interested by the film from the trailer , you will be disappointed , but if you are looking for a film in the tradition of Japanese / Korean style thrillers , then you could do a lot worse than this .
do it while the adrenaline is still surging . . . .	Stewart Kane , an Irishman living in the Australian town of Jindabyne , is on a fishing trip in isolated hill country with three other men when they discover the body of a murdered girl in the river . Rather than return to the town immediately , they continue fishing and report their gruesome find days later . Stewart's wife Claire is the last to find out . Deeply disturbed by her husband's action , her faith in her relationship with Stewart is shaken to the core . She wants to understand and tries to make things right . In her determination to help the victim's family Claire sets herself not only against her own family and friends but also those of the dead girl . Her marriage is taken to the brink and her peaceful life with Stewart and their young son hangs in the balanceanother great , somewhat mystical film from the director of ' Lantana ' giving Australia its own character and letting the superb cast have decent dialogue to chew on . the film could be compared to a middle age stand by me , but what we get is a very intimate look into the private lives of the ' guilty ' parties . an immense movie that should be experienced
i don't eat junk food . . .	th movie follows th story of Manfred , Sid and Diego , and their story of finding the family of a little boy who was found by them . but what Manfred and Sid do not know , is that Diego is setting them up as the family of the little boy have hunted and killed his kind in order to get their fur and so on . Diego has promised that he will deliver the little boy and Manfred to his group , but will he change his mind after the adventures that the group share ? from the upstart the movie is dazzling in spectacle , and all of the characters are adorable and you get to know them very , very well . so well , that by the end of the movie , you really miss them . top marks go to Leary , Romano and Leguizamo for their voice talents and they add the needed depth that the characters need . the computer generated effects are fantastic , even at this early stage of computer generated movies . there are some standout scenes too , especially involving the ice slide and the ' tae-kwon - dodos ' there are also some nods to the adult audience and some great movie references . but the characters that stand out the most are Sid , who at times is so pathetic but at the same time the most human character of the group . and also scrat , the little squirrel / rat hybrid who is never ending chasing an acorn , is just silly sub-plot , but lovable , nevertheless . religious plot holes aside , this is a movie that all the family will enjoy and at sometimes could be compared to the lion king , and the similarities are really blatant on the screen . a great film and i cannot wait to see the sequel
we made our toaster dance . . . .	Five years after the events of the first film , the Ghostbusters have been plagued by lawsuits and court orders , and their once-lucrative business is bankrupt . However , when Dana begins to have ghost problems again , the boys come out of retirement only to be promptly arrested . The Ghostbusters discover that New York is once again headed for supernatural doom , with a river of ectoplasmic slime bubbling beneath the city and an ancient sorcerer attempting to possess Dana's baby and be born anew . Can the Ghostbusters quell the negative emotions feeding the otherworldly threat and stop the world from being slimed ? this does follow the law of the sequel never being as good as the original , but this movie does have a lot to live up to . this time centering around the ' fact ' that all New-Yorkers have attitude problems , the film follows the simple tactics of the original . keep the laughs coming and the effects up to date . for 1989 , some of the effects are very outstanding , and some are worse than the original . as usual Murray gets all the best lines and steals the show , but the film is basically more of the same . which is a shame because thats what made the first film so much fun , it's freshness and vibrancy , it was something different , thats why it's so legendary . the bad guy isn't anything compared to ' Zool ' , but if you are a fan of the original , there still is a great script to be found , and some fun to be had . worth seeing .
in the land of the infected , the immune man is king . . .	A lethal virus spreads throughout the British isles , infecting millions and killing hundreds of thousands . To contain the threat , acting authorities brutally quarantine the country as it succumbs to fear and chaos . The quarantine is successful . Three decades later , the Reaper virus violently resurfaces in a major city . An elite group of specialists , including Eden Sinclair , is urgently dispatched into the still-quarantined country to retrieve a cure by any means necessary . Shut off from the rest of the world , the unit must battle through a landscape that has become a waking nightmare . after success with his first two movies , you can forgive Marshall for going off on one in this , what can only be described as a guilty pleasure , nothing more , nothing less . basically all of the post apocalyptic films from the late seventies / early eighties ( mad max and escape from new york most noticeable ) have been homaged here and some of it works , but a lot of it doesn't . it's just that really stupid things have been left unanswered , such as why have the survivors got an endless supply of beer ? where are they getting there power from ? and why if the initial virus started in 2007 , do they only have eighties music on the soundtrack ? but for a British action movie , it really is good to see that such a small budget has gone a long way . the car chases are good , but you are left feeling a little redundant because Tarantino just pipped this at the post with last years Death Proof , so it's not very exciting . and while it is very gory in some scenes , it becomes tiresome after a while as you can only take so many be-headings and squelchy noises before you start rolling your eyes . the editing is bad and some of the performances are decidedly dodgy ( Hoskins and McDowell are particularly weak links in this movie ) . but one cannot help but like a film like this , even though it really makes no sense , and the ending is like . . . . what ? ? you can really tell that Marshall has put a lot of effort into this movie , and his love for it shows on screen . if you like post apocalyptic thrillers with a lot of movie references , then go see . if you hate shouting , swearing and watching Sean pertwee getting killed for the umpteenth time , avoid .
Con Air . . . . .	Sidney Young is a disillusioned intellectual who both adores and despises the world of celebrity , fame and glamour . His alternative magazine , Post Modern Review , pokes fun at the media obsessed stars and bucks trends , and so when Young is offered a job at the diametrically opposed conservative New York based Sharps magazine its something of a shock ! It seems Sharps editor Clayton Harding is amused by Young's disruption of a post-BAFTA party with a pig posing as Babe . Thus begins Sidney's descent into success - his gradual move from derided outsider to confidante of starlet Sophie Maes - and a love affair with colleague Alison Olsen , that will either make him or break him . . . having not read the book , i didn't know what to expect from the film , but being a firm fan of Pegg , i just had to see it . it's a pretty restrained movie , one that reminds you of programmes such as ugly Betty , with the fish out of water scenario . it's all pretty predictable stuff , but with Pegg in the lead role , it really works as Sidney is a quite endearing character ( at times ) . there is fantastic support from Bridges , Dunst and Huston , but Fox and Anderson slightly let the side down . it's not laugh out loud stuff , but it's humorous all the same and there are some great cameos in it . the narrative is good and there is some fantastic editing in some scenes , but the ' silly ' humour involving pratfalls and half naked transvestites does seem a little out of place in this . it won't win Pegg any new fans , but it won't lose him any either . worth checking out , if you love the fact that ' celebdom ' exists .
You shimmer , and you glow . . . . . .	Gilbert Grape lives in Endora , a place where nothing much happens . The only times the police got something to do is when Gilbert's autistic brother Arnie tries to climb up on the water tower nearby . Taking care of Arnie is mostly Gilbert's task which can be pretty demanding , at least while you are working at the local grocery store . Then one day Becky and her grandmother passes through Endora getting trouble with the car . Gilbert falls in love with Becky , but gets problems when he tries to find time for his own private life . . . . . featuring a towering performance by DiCaprio , the movie is one where nothing much happens , but the character arc in this is very strong . the cast all have a lot to do competing with DiCaprio , but the movie moves along very slickly , but very slowly . there are a lot of ' quirky ' characters in the town of Endora , and that ' why there is so much to gain from the movie . Depp is fantastic as usual and carries the movie on his shoulders , being the ' knight in shimmering armour ' , okay , he may only work at a store , but the jobs he has to do outside of his occupation is more difficult than any other job one could wish to ask for . funny in places , deeply saddening in others , what makes the movie standout , is the love that Gilbert has for his mother and his brother . he never gets dismayed , never shows any regret in his life , and what he does for his mother at the end , shows true love and respect . a lovely movie .
you conniving cT ! ! ! !	In September 1971 , thieves tunneled into the vault of a bank in London's Baker Street and looted safe deposit boxes of cash and jewellry worth over three million pounds . None of it was recovered . Nobody was ever arrested . The robbery made headlines for a few days and then disappeared - the result of a ' D ' Notice , gagging the press . This film reveals what was hidden for the first time . The story involves murder , corruption and a sex scandal with links to the Royal Family - a story in which the thieves were the most innocent people involved . . . if anything , this is the bigger harder more profane big brother to 1988's ' Buster ' , but this isn't a bad thing . anybody expecting a Guy Ritchie-esquire caper packed with laughs and big names , will be sorely disappointed . this movie is very interesting and very revealing in some parts , in other parts , little sub-plots are quicly covered and i feel that a lot was left on the cutting room floor . but the film runs at a quick pace and the performances are good . well worth seeing
you were right to trust him . . .	After his partner Tom Wynne and family are killed apparently by the infamous and elusive assassin Rogue , FBI agent Jack Crawford becomes obsessed with revenge as his world unravels into a vortex of guilt and betrayal . Rogue eventually resurfaces to settle a score of his own , setting off a bloody crime war between Asian mob rivals Chang of the Triad's and Yakuza boss Shiro . When Jack and Rogue finally come face to face , the ultimate truth of their pasts will be revealed . Li and Statham , reunite on the screen after five long years in what could be classed as the b - movie heat . one things for sure , it's not going to win any awards for originality and , for a name like war , the set pieces are a tad disappointing . but if you like the two leads , you will love the film , Li has it easy by not uttering a single line for about half of the film , and Statham wanders around , dressed very well and threatening anybody who appears yakuza-ish or triad-ish . it's very predictable , apart from the ending , which really threw me , as it does completely randomly come from nowhere . worth seeing , but don't expect it to be the action movie you were hoping for . a good sword fight at the end though .
your uselessness is epic . . .	Benjamin Finnegan is a deep-sea treasure hunter certain he's onto the find of the century in waters near an island close to Key West owned by a murderous rap star to whom Ben is in debt . Ben's flat broke and recently divorced from Tess , his long-time research and diving partner whom he still loves . She's nearby , working as a steward aboard the yacht of Nigel Honeycutt , a multimillionaire . The rapper has hired a rival treasurer hunter . Can Ben convince Nigel to bankroll his search , convince Tess to work with him , keep the rapper and his thugs at bay , and find a Spanish treasure hidden for centuries and rich beyond imagination ? . . . being really reluctant to see this movie , i was pleasantly surprised by what i found , a simple no brainer romantic action comedy , probably borrowing a lot from films such as romancing the stone and jewel of the Nile . the plot is straightforward and easy to follow , and the locations , probably make the film better than what it is , but one cannot deny the chemistry between the two leads , and they make the film a proper guilty pleasure . it's pretty action packed , though a little too violent for little ones , and some of the characters are worthless ( Gemma springs to mind ) and a few of the stars are wasted with the material given to them ( Winstone , Bremner ) , but at the end of the day , movies are made to entertain , and this does . ignore the reviews , but bear in mind that it is just a guilty pleasure movie , and any film about sunken treasure featuring Sutherland with an English accent , should not be taken seriously .
kill the brain , and you kill the ghoul . . .	there is not much to say about this movie what has not already been said . this is guerrilla film making at it's finest and dirtiest . if you read between the lines , this is about racial tension at the time of the movies production . a satellite has exploded and has ' infected ' hundreds of people . these people now have a taste for human flesh . a small group of people are trapped in a house in the middle of acemetary and are attacked from all angles by these creatures . ( the word zombie id never said in the film , they are referred to as ghouls , there was a homage to this in ' shaun of the dead ' ) . you can see that a lot of inspiration has been taken from this film , namely carpenter's assault on precint 13 , which is also claustrophobic . the acting isn't the best ever and the lighting is poor , but if you have a limited budget , you have to make exceptions . eerie and spooky , it will question your morals and make you lock the doors at night ! ! ! still at least the zombies are not fast ! ! !
thunderbolt and lightfoot , that sounds like something . . . . .	Retired thief Thunderbolt ( Clint Eastwood ) and sweet drifter Lightfoot ( Jeff Bridges ) meet cute when Thunderbolt jumps into Lightfoot's stolen car to escape a gunman . The pair embark on an oddball journey to get Thunderbolt's loot from an old robbery before his former associates , the sadistic Red ( George Kennedy ) and cretinous Goody ( Geoffrey Lewis ) , get to it first , but all four are too late ; the one-room schoolhouse hiding place has apparently vanished . instead , the four play house and work legit jobs while they plot to rob the same place Thunderbolt and Red hit before . Although the plan goes awry , Thunderbolt and Lightfoot discover that they may still have succeeded-or so they think . . . . . . . part comedy , part thriller and part tragedy , this is a very bizarre movie from Eastwoods production company , with some very oddball characters and a little bit of a homosexual undertone to the movie . Eastwood plays against type as thunderbolt , someone who is very laid back and not like a ' traditional Eastwood character ' at all . Bridges is the more feminine sidekick ' lightfoot ' , trying to get it on with women all the time ( we never actually see him succeed ) , very loud mouthed and brash , but with such admiration for thunderbolt . but the film goes to George Kennedy who as Red makes for a very un-nerving character who is like a loose cannon . with some great scenery and a fantastic script , this film is very easy going , but some times the nudity and the violence does seem out of place in thunderbolt and lightfoots world . sometimes laugh out loud funny and sometimes very tragic , this is another of those Eastwood film that has been unfairly forgot about .
i'm not gonna let this stand . . . .	When a former member of the U . S . Army Special Forces returns to his small hometown in rural Washington State hoping to realise a childhood dream of working in the local lumber mill , he discovers that much has changed , as the normally tranquil town is now besieged by drugs , outbreaks of violence and a general feeling of malaise and terror , with many pointing a finger at the influence of a crooked casino where his ex-girlfriend now works as a dancer . Seeking to wreak vengeance , with a four-foot-long 4-by-4 in his hand , and righteousness in his heart , the highly-trained soldier , now the county's sheriff , and his deputy , realises it's time to bust some heads with a very hard piece of wood . . . a remake of the 1973 ' classic ' this is basically another vehicle for the behemoth ' The Rock ' but going down the Lone Wolf McQuade route . this is a very very short film , about 78 minutes long , but in that duration you do get a lot of action and it does hark back to the precious days of the eighties , where real men liked to shoot the hell out of the Sherriffs office and then get blown away . how true the ' inspired ' story is , but at one point in the film , the story goes completely implausible , but for what it is , it's a good movie . again The Rock proves that he could be the next action star in the making , but the same cannot be said for Knoxville who is supposedly playing the comic relief , but does very little funny . a good old fashioned action film , like your dad used to see
second sucks . . . .	Lincoln Hawk is a struggling trucker who's trying to rebuild his life . After the death of his wife , he tries to make amends with his son who he left behind years earlier . Upon their first meeting , his son doesn't think too highly of him until he enters the nation - wide arm wrestling competition in Las Vegas . . . after a slew of killing troops and members of a cult , Stallone decided to go for something different in this 1987 ' vehicle ' . the story is pure rocky IV and this is mirrored in the final third . Stallone as always plays the against type who has an annoying stuck up son , who he tries to get to know and teach about life in three days . his son hates him because perma-tanned Robert Loggia has been telling him lies about Hawk , along the lines of if you wear your cap backwards , your a loser and a bad person . but this doesn't phase Stallone as he is up to his oiled biceps in handle bar moustaches and Mullets . yes this is pure eighties cheese and is one of the guiltiest pleasures of all time , but if you were aged around ten when this was first released , it was a magical movie . Rocky does Arm wrestling ? what's not to like ? the cool eighties soundtrack and the clothes only add to it's charm . a classic in every sense of sarcastic .
what a mystery , this world . . . .	While young Alexandria is recuperating from a fractured arm in a Los Angeles Hospital , she befriends another patient , Roy Walker , who tells a variety of tales , including one about Emperor Alexander , and the second story of six men : Luigi - an explosions expert ; a Native American Indian ; A runaway slave ; an East Indian swordsman ; a masked bandit ; and Charles Darwin - all on a quest to kill oppressive Spanish Governor Odious for individually inflicting atrocities on each and every one of them . She soon becomes embroiled in this tale and starts mixing fiction with reality not realising that Roy is using her to procure a drug for him . . . . The only other time i have come across director Tarsem , was the 2000 movie ' the cell ' . while the film in a whole wasn't very good , it had some amazing sets and the imagery was very vivid and nightmarish . Now put that into this film , where the storyteller is allegedly under the influence of morphine , making his story more visceral and lucid throughout , and you get something in the vein of ' koyannisqattsi ' with a little bit of ' the princess bride ' thrown in . it's a marvellous spectacle , full of awe-inspiring and jaw dropping sequences , filmed in beautiful locations , that just feed your brain something that other movies do not give you very often . beautiful sometimes and nightmarish in others , ' the fall ' is sometimes hard to follow , but always beautiful to look at .
you'll look more convincing with a dagger in your back . . .	During the reign of the Tang dynasty in China , a secret organisation called " The House of the Flying Daggers " rises and opposes the government . A police officer called Leo sends officer Jin to investigate a young dancer named Mei , claiming that she has ties to the " Flying Daggers " . Leo arrests Mei , only to have Jin breaking her free in a plot to gain her trust and lead the police to the new leader of the secret organisation . But things are far more complicated than they seem . . . . this film was very very good until the final third of the movie , when revelation after revelation were revealed , and the whole thing became very messy . before this , the film was a beautiful study of the forbidden and the dangers of keeping secrets from the ones that you care for . the set pieces in this film are very impressive , exciting , yet at the same time haunting and poetic . the sounds of the wind breezing through the trees adds to the mood of the film . the performances are all fine and the characters are tremendous , but as i said before , it runs out of ideas toward the end and is a little too long . still a good movie , but nowhere near as good as ' hero ' or ' crouching tiger '
' wait till you try the toast '	cop Danny o ' Brien is haunted by nightmares of Simon Moon ( the terror ) , a psychopath that Danny apprehended prior to the beginning of the movie . Danny has had counselling for this problem , as the media nicknamed Danny ' the hero ' after capturing Moon . the only problem is that Danny really didn't do much to catch Moon , he just knocked himself out on a ladder step . But now Moon has escaped the mental institution he is being held at ( using dental floss , a chap-stick , and some sediment ) , and is back on the rampage , killing young girls by holding their head and making them look to the left very quickly . but now Danny is in between a rock and a hard place as the mayor of L . A wants people to think that Moon died during his escape as the last time Moon was killing , there were copycat murders . so Danny lies to the press and has to face hi demons once again . . . . . . in a typical late eighties thriller ( very darkly shot with grim murders and seemingly invincible villain ( much like the same years ' dead pool ' ) , Norris headlines this very dark and sometimes tense little film . as usual Norris isn't very good , but in this film we get several different Norris persona's eg . comedy Norris ( he faints when his wife goes into labour ) scared Norris ( he wakes up sweating after a nightmare ) sad Norris ( when finding that Moon made Steve James ' character look to the left very quickly ) reminiscing Norris ( when walking along the beach in a blue tracksuit ) and straining Norris ( when he is weight training ) . but with these persona's , he always has one facial expression . but i like his films anyway , and i expect this of Norris . but what makes this film so tense is Jack o ' Halloran as Moon . He gives the film the sense of unease and tension it deserves and even gives Norris a run for his money . It's just a shame that they writers didn't add a little depth to the character because he is basically a carbon copy of nearly every serial killer to come from that decade ( think of the killer in Cobra and you are pretty much there ) . supporting cast are average , and the romantic sub-plot with Norris is cringe inducing . but if you like Norris , it's a good movie .
we all eat a little sht . . . . .	Linklater adapts the book of the same name , and the result leaves the viewer a little like they feel after they have eaten a quarter pounder , satisfied but left hungry for a little more , but with a Little bit of a dodgy after taste . the film is split into three narratives , one from the view of the corporate bigwig , who just happens to find out that fecal matter is appearing in the burgers . the second is from the view of the autonomous till workers , the people who are de-skilled and de-moralised , people who will just answer a question as they have been trained to be . this evidence is brought full circle to us when kinnear answers ' no ' to the have you had a comfortable stay question , by the hotel concierge , and she doesn't even flinch . these are the most dangerous people in the movie , because they have dreams outside of the system , and sometimes want to rebel against the machine ( or sometimes be just like the cattle , stay there lifeless ) . the final story comes from the ' immigrants ' point of view , which may be the most harshest part of the films , these are the people who are treated like cattle , are totally de-moralised , and given no real human rights to think of , and are thought of by their superiors as animals ( which again is evident in the scene where the cleaner is accused of taking amphetamines , so there will be no case raised ) . all these segments ask different questions , but we are left with very little answered , but we are treated to some wonderful performances , especially from Wills , kinnear , Hawke and Arquette . not as satisfying as the book , the film wants to be daring , but only attempts to be near the end where we see the cattle being slaughtered , which isn't very surprising , seeing as the film is surrounded by fast food . for a more informative look on the fast food monster , watch super size me , but this is still a really good and well made film by Linklater .
let me buy you an ice cream . . . .	A mysterious gentleman's club sets the scene for this mystery as two brothers discover an underground world of danger and intrigue . Silvio and Victor are a tight-knit pair teetering on the verge of adulthood , and when Silvio takes his younger brother to Don Pascual's strip club , a new world of opportunity opens up when the feared and respected club owner offers the elder sibling a job . As Silvio accepts and Victor is initiated into adulthood , the pair are instantly mesmerised by alluring club girl Gracia . Everything is not what it appears to be in Don Pascual's risqué club though , and by the time Silvio and Victor realise the truth behind their surprising stroke of luck , it may be too late to turn back . . . this film is told from three different perspectives , firstly from Victor , then Silvio , and finally from Gracia , both with different takes from previous scenes . this works very well and the narrative makes good sense for the duration of the movie , but as the three perspectives are finally told , the film goes into Tarantino mode , with ' mexican stand-offs ' et al . not a bad debut , with some colourful characters and explicit scenes . it's just these films are so common now that that become too predictable .
You hear that ! You don't even have to chew it . . . . .	with the starring power of Romano and James , and their comic talents in ' Everybody loves Raymond ' and ' The King of Queens ' , i had to see this movie . i wasn't disappointed with their respective roles and they where well supported by the likes of Reynolds , Rappaport , Lewis , and Coates , but what makes this film a little bit weak , is the story . the two leads play meat salesman who are failing to close a deal . when one potential buyer gets a call from one of her friends , they become mixed up with Mafia hits and the execution of the prolific Mr Goldbluth . but it's the running time . at only 75 minutes long , the film takes the build up to the finale too slowly and by that time , the final third just happens too quickly , you are wondering what happened . but some of the script is tight , it is very amusing in parts ( especially the desperation the pair show , trying to close deals at gunpoint , and even before informing people about their impending danger ) . but the two leads could have done with more ' meat ' to their back-story . James has problems with his daughter , and we never really find out what the deal is here , we also learn that Romano , is a bit of a Ladies man , but not enough . Reynolds part is no more than an extended cameo , but plays his role very well . it's a shame that the movie wasn't released theatrically , as i imagine it would have done quite well in the states ( i doubt it would have done well in the UK ) , as the film has a very glossy feel to it , is well produced , and sometimes gives you a ' summer ' vibe at times . also the soundtrack is very good , and used to good effect . not the best film out there , but if you are a fan of the two leads , it is better than the recent roles they have played on the big screen .
you fight like a girl . . . .	It started when five people agreed to spend one night in a haunted house . . . What began as an evening of fun a harmless scares in exchange for one million dollars to anyone who stayed the night - - and survived - - soon turned into a night of terror . Years later , several more people risk their lives in search of a cursed statue of Baphomet , a relic worth millions that will come at the cost of their souls . Now , the terror begins when the doomed Return to House on Haunted Hill . . . . a rather unnecessary sequel turns up almost eight years after the remake , and to be fair it's not all that bad . i'm sure the writers have stolen one of the numerous Indiana Jones part IV scripts for the main story , as the film surrounds an idol that ' contains pure evil ' or another precious metal of some sort . as all sequels go , there is a little bit of a connection to the 1999 movie , but it's only mentioned in name . and one of the main flaws of the movie is that it's missing the grandeur production and sets of the first movie . also Rush is sorely missed as he was in my opinion the thing that made the first movie so much fun . but the film does have it's fair share of gore , and even if its not the most scariest film ever made , it's short and gets to the point very quickly . it's worth a rental if you were a fan of the original ( 1999 ) version , but don't expect the campy fun of that one .
no controversy ? ?	this is a good film , but if you have seen the original you will be thinking ' did'nt van sant do this with psycho ? ' or ' whats the point ? ' i was in the latter . yes the film is gory but it get's too gory and by the end you cannot help but laugh at the absurdity . i mean c'mon when a guy gets stabbed in the stomach with a baseball bat and barely flinches , and then the same guy gets stabbed in the foot with a nail and screams , you have to think , whats wrong with his picture . this should have had less gore . switchblade romance had less and was all the better for it . still , ted levine was good ( though i think Micheal rooker would have been a better choice ) and there were some shocking moments . and of course it's always a pleasure to see billy drago , even though all he did was sneer and die . average , wait for the DV
sometimes dead is better . . . .	After moving into their new home the Creed family's cat is killed after wondering onto the highway . Jud an elderly neighbour shows Louis , the father , to an isolated hill behind the local Pet Cemetery and instructs him to bury the deceased feline there . Not long after the cat reappears at the Creed home , only he is not the same . The docile cat is now vicious and destructive . When their youngest son meets with a fatal accident , the distraught Louis buries him in the same location hoping to revive him . Unfortunately he unleashes far more than he had bargained for . . . . not many King adaptations are standouts in the horror genre . anybody who can name more than six theatrical releases , are doing good , and this should be included in that six . it's a very quiet film for the most part , with an eerie ambiance surrounding the road that separates the Doctor and Jud . the film soon escalates into a paranoid nightmare , not quite hitting the heights of the shining or Misery , but the film delivers a few very good scary moments and one genuinely disgusting moment . it's surprising that Midkiff never went on to do as well as he did in this movie , as he holds the film well . with a great ending , if you have not seen this movie and are a horror fan , it's worth checking out .
you want to eat better ? drink less beer . . . l .	Bud Johnson , an apathetic , beer slinging , lovable loser , is coasting through a life that has passed him by , except for the one bright spot in his mundane existence , his precocious , over achieving twelve-year old daughter , Molly . She takes care of them both , until one mischievous moment on Election Day , when she accidentally sets off a chain of events which culminates in the presidential election coming down to one vote , her dads . Suddenly , Bud Johnson , the nobody , becomes the voice for everybody when the world realises that his vote will be the one that elects the next president . Politicians invade the small town of Texico , New Mexico and its unwitting inhabitants , waging war for Bud's vote . . . . Maybe because of the films release date , or maybe the fact that some people have an opinion that it's impossible for Costner to star in a good movie , this charming little story was overlooked on it's initial release . the trailer did make it look a little too much like a slapstick sort of comedy , but it's much more than that . yes it does have it's funny moments , especially some of the candidates TV promos , and the struggle that Bud is going through makes the audience feel great empathy for him . it's the final act that really makes this film though , when Bud begins to realise that the fate of the country is on his shoulders , and the film takes a dramatic turn . Costner is great as the slob-like Bud , but always keeping that little swagger he has in the majority of his movies . the supporting cast are good , if a little underused . all in all it's a great high concept movie , which reminds me of a good old fashioned feel good film , and the ending could not have been more perfect .
i say who lives , i say who dies . . . . . .	Nick Hume is a mild-mannered executive with a perfect life , until one gruesome night he witnesses something that changes him forever . Transformed by grief , Hume eventually comes to the disturbing conclusion that no length is too great when protecting his family . . . when watching the opening credits , i wasn't expecting much , it was your typical opening montage of a happy family , going through the ages of their life and were particularly elated throughout . they may have all had bulls-eyes on their heads . when the inevitable happens , it all is quite nasty but not ' moving ' as the trailer really took the surprise away from us . Bacon does a great job as their grieving father , part Paul Kersey , part Travis Bickle , and half way through the film , we are treated to a ' mini-twist ' , the tables are turned , as he is the one who is hunted for revenge . by the director of ' Saw ' , if you are expecting something in that vein , ala ' plenty of gore , you will be disappointed , it doesn't get very violent until the final act , but what we get is another great performance from a great actor who proves that he is very versatile . it won't be remembered for much , and their some scenes and lines that you have to take a pinch of salt with , but if you want something in the vein of Death wish , the this is a good option .
information is power . . .	Youngsters from different countries , races , and social background are forced to integrate when they all enrol in Columbus University . They all have their own problems , such as finance , harassment , personal safety , and self doubt . Additionally , campus life seems to be causing a problem for everyone : racism . Students , already under pressure to perform in the classroom , on the track , or in front of their friends , are strained to the breaking point by prejudice , inexperience , and misunderstanding . . Singletons second film after the phenomenal ' Boyz n the hood ' is still quite an achievement , but gives its anti-race message as subtle as a sledge hammer . the stereo types here are rife , as Cubes character Fudge points out in the first act . the Nazis in this film are proper evil people as one would expect , and the Agrican Americans portrayed are pretty much the same people you would bump into in Singletons debut . but the film holds itself together due to the fantastic cast and the cinematography . but again one of it's main flaws is that there are too many characters that get you involved . Fishburne is way underused and is just there really to justify why we should ' work for ourself and not someone else ' as does Fudge but with a little more ' attitude ' . Swansons character is also underused , as is her story , as it remains one of the most interesting in the whole movie . an interesting movie , but it does have its flaws .
tell Rostov it's time to die .	Matt Hunter is a retired soldier or something who now resides in the keys with his comedy pet armadillo and his comedy friend , who makes some wisecracks about frogs and being on the run from the tax man . Matt is at peace with himself and has adapted to being retired , as he spends to majority of the film in tight denim . Mikhail Rostov is an ex spy who has joined forces with other people who ' hate ' the U . S . A . and for no real reason decide to turn the people of the country against each other by committing acts of violence . now this group of terrorists consist of nearly one hundred men armed to the teeth with heavy weaponry , but instead of the government sending in special units , they opt for Matt who does hold a grudge against Rostov and starts to act all Charles Bronson on the streets of the U . S . A , mainly Florida . . . OK so the summary isn't very serious , but how could anyone take this seriously ? this is what the eighties was all about , people of Russian origin attacking America for no good reason and only lone hero's could save the day . this references commando from the very beginning with Norris trying to live a quiet life , but ends up being thrown into the thick of it . the movie is unintentionally hilarious and Norris gets the chance to look buff and cool and have all the best lines ( he did co-write the script after all ) . but while writing the script , he should have done something about the gaping plot holes and some jaw dropping ' what the fk ' scenes . for example , how did Rostov know where Hunter lived ? and if he was that scared of Hunter , wouldn't he have made sure that he had done th job right ? and also , when he is arrested , the final act shows Hunter standing on a roof with a rocket launcher . how did that happen ? ? still there were more good things than bad , the villains were especially sadistic and were quite brutal for the film and with it being the eighties , featured stereotypical people , like the family putting the star on the Christmas tree and the couple making out in the car before there street is blown up by the amazing rocket launcher that never has to be reloaded . if you love the action movies from the eighties , you will love this if you don't , then you won't .
get them back to daylight . . . .	When an explosion blocks New York's Hudson Tunnel at both ends , ex Emergency Medical Services Chief Kit Latura is the only one with the know-how and experience to save the day . Risking his life to join the survivors in the tunnel ; he finds a feisty writer , an elderly couple , a famous action-man , a quarrelling family , some young hoodlums , a security guard and even a Weimaraner dog . Can he put his own past tragedies behind him and bring this disparate group to safety ? after the flops Judge Dredd and Assassins , Stallone goes back to old fashion disaster , with this nineties spin on films such as the Poseidon adventure , and the towering inferno . though the film is nowhere near either of their league , there still is fun to be had with this exciting yarn . Stallone has possibly the funniest name in film history , playing an ex fire chief with a tragic past , who just happens to be in the right place at the right time . the rest of the cast are what you expect , and you can see which ones will come to a watery and and which ones will survive , but it's a produced , if sometimes poorly acted movie . the set pieces are fun and some of the movie is quite unbelievable , but it's Stallone in a disaster film with a cool name , what do you expect ? a good old fashioned disaster film , with a massive budget . worth seeing with some mates and a few beers .
i don't trust myself with you . . . . .	Bickering step-siblings together quietly control much of the social lives of the students in an affluent NY prep school . Sebastian sees himself as a kind of Don Juan , who always gets his woman , while Katherine would rather enact revenge on ex-flames and corrupt incoming freshmen . One day , Kathryn and Sebastian , driven by a mutual lust for each other and a love of messing with innocent young people's lives , hatch a nefarious plan , and place a kind of bet . Sebastian is to woo and bed the daughter of the new headmaster ( a very adamant virgin with plans to only " wait until marriage " ) , and if he is able to accomplish this seemingly impossible task , he can have his way with Kathryn - the one woman whom he KNOWS he can not have . If he is unable to seduce the ice queen , however , Katherine gets his classic car . . . . it's a guilty pleasure this film is . a virtual re-hash of ' Dangerous Liasons ' this features the best looking cast of it's time and the director plays on it all the way through . it's quite a shallow affair , but it's a fun ride while it lasts . the casting is odd too , but in a good way . Blair , probably the oldest out of the main cast , plays the young innocent involved in the game , and plays it very well . the film is full of innuendo and some of it is funny , other stuff is cringeworthy . Phillipe plays the lead role with so much slime and bitterness , he's ironically impossible not to like , but when he and Gellar are together , the chemistry fades , and when you see them standing in the lift lobby holding a letter in shades , you may as well be watching the matrix , as they are very autonomous throughout . it's throwaway stuff , but it's worth watching for the glamour .
redemption is the path to hell . . .	A man seeks out and murders the thief that left him and a bank teller for dead during a robbery , only to end up having the slain thief's associates come after him in retaliation . . what is with Cuba's movies , and the fact that i get that ' urgh ' feeling every time i get one of his movies through the post ? he has made some bad movies , but this is an exception to the rule , it's a well made thriller , with some gaping plot holes , but it's got good actors in it , playing stereotypical parts , and it has a twist , for once that you can't see coming from a mile off . it awful to begin with , Cuba puking all over a bartender , does not equal a good movie , but then he starts to narrate , and it becomes something more . imagine Bronsan actually setting up his vengeance plot in death wish , and your almost there . Cuba does okay in his role , and even though Liottas paunch out acts most of the cast , he is great in his extended cameo . but hands up to Kim Coates , one of those actors whom when you see him , your like , where have i seen him before ? and he does a good job in his role . all in all this is one of Cubas better straight to DVD movies , and even though it borrows from a lot of movies , and Ben Cross is wasted , it's worth your time .
respect the desert . . .	Eddie finds himself being forced at a gunpoint , by an unseen assailant , on a dark and brutal journey through the harsh terrain of the Mojave desert . His nemesis is Jimmy , a man with an aberrant agenda ; armed with a rifle , a scope , walkie - talkies and a truck , he has organised a series of ambushes and mantraps designed to push Eddie to the limits of his humanity and beyond . . . . from the very upstart , you know that there is something suspicious about Goss's character , as soon as he leaves the diner , you know things will not bode well for him . anyone who watches movies will know by about six minutes in Eddie has done something to upset Jimmy , and boy , does he do some torture . the film is very claustrophobic and sometimes makes the viewer feel arrid , but there is also a sense of Deja vu ' throughout . Henriksen is great as jimmy , but one cannot help but feel he is reprising his roles from Hard Target and Near Dark respectively , but Goss does play his role well , even if it is just to walk around the desert spluttering mundane lines to Henriksen via walkie talkie . there is a pointless subplot involving drug runners , which has no point whatsoever , but it is still worth a watch . imagine a cross between Hard Target , Seraphim Falls , with a little bit of the Hitcher thrown in for good measure , and your almost there . my only other gripe with the movie is that you are just waiting for the inevitable twist , which is no surprise . still worth a watch though for the scenery and the two leads .
the mind is a terrible thing to waste . . . .	In Guesta Verde University , the deranged Professor Curien is trying to bring back the dead , killing students for the experiment . There is an outbreak of zombies in the campus , and the government sends a NSA medical research team , formed by Dr . Alexandra Morgan a . k . a . Nightingale and lieutenant Ellis , with a special force leaded by lieutenant Dalton , trying to get the zero sample from the first generation zombie . The team has a very short time to accomplish their mission and leave the place before missiles are sent to destroy the area . However , the place is crowded of hyper sapiens and the group has to fight to survive . . . . . after the debacle that was the original movie , i had no hopes for this sequel , however , it really has nothing to do with the original and could have been released as a stand alone movie . veering more toward the ' resident evil ' kind of zombie movies , the gang have to face zombies and inevitably each other . surprisingly gory in places and quite funny , the films story rolls along nicely and has great production values for a cheaply made movie . but still it's no where near as good as Romero's classics or other films from the genre . the performances are average , ranging from the sadistic , scared , to the hard as nails female . all the cast are typecast , but it's great to see Sid Haig in it ( if it is only for about three minutes . if you like violence , zombies in NFL kit and pointless nudity , then you could do far worse .
you shook Sinatras hand , you should know better . . . .	Reuben Tishkoff builds a hotel with known casino owner Willy Banks , the last thing he ever wanted was to get cut out of the deal personally by the loathsome Banks . Banks ' attitude even goes so far as to finding the amusement in Tishkoff's misfortune when the double crossing lands Reuben in the hospital because of a heart attack . However , Danny and his crew won't stand for Banks and what he's done to a friend . Uniting with their old enemy Benedict , who himself has a vendetta against Banks , the crew is out to pull off a major plan . One that will unfold on the night Banks ' newest hot spot opens up , when the crew is out to bankrupt one of the city's most despised businessmen . But they're not in this for the money , but for the revenge . . . i believe that one of the reasons why a lot of major critics are hailing this as the best of the trilogy , is because the second instalment was so banal and full of self appreciating garbage . the latter is still evident in some scenes , but the film feels at home in Vegas and Soderbergh has done a great job of the locations and letting the cast do what they want . but the main advantage of the film is the inclusion of Pacino as Banks , aman so vein and pretentious he oozes ' booness ' factor from the very beginning , and makes the film a lot more enjoyable . the set ups , the comedy and the double crosses are all still here , but it's bright and breezy enough to let the second instalment be forgiven . and there is a great joke between Clooney and Pitt at the end about their real lives . a great return to from that shouldn't be spoilt by oceans 14
you're going no higher . . .	Ray Quick is a former CIA explosives expert turned bomber-for-hire living in Miami , Florida . Ray's latest client is a beautiful woman named May Munro , May hires Ray to assassinate Miami mobsters who murdered her parents when she was a child . Agreeing , Ray eliminates the three mobsters one-by-one and blows them up . But things go from bad to worse , one of the mobsters Ray has killed is Tomas Leon , the son of Miami crime boss Joe Leon and Ned Trent , a vicious and crooked Ex CIA agent ( Ray's former college ) is working for the Miami mob and was Tomas's bodyguard , has been assigned by Joe to find the bomber-for-hire who killed his son and his two employees . Ray becomes distrustful and suspicious of May , and suspects May has set him up and is working for Ned who is out to get his revenge on Ray . forget all the plausibility of this movie and you will literally have a blast . so what if Eric Roberts doesn't age in the maybe thirty year time gap . so what if Steigers accent is so cheesy you could dip nachos in it . the point of the film is good old fashioned revenge . Stone has got the hump because her parents were murdered , so she hires fashion icon Stallone as her bomb foe hire . we know he's the best because he wears special glasses when making bombs and walks around moodily in his cool clothes , and fights for pregnant ladies on the bus . Woods is as hammy as Stallone is beefy , but the action scenes are good and the explosions are funny and wildly over the top . not Stallone's best film by far , but one to enjoy with a nice cold beer . just fast forward the sex scene . yuck ! !
my father's gonna kill you ! !	Warren Stacey has been shunned by one of his work colleagues after making sexual advances toward her . instead of taking it like a man , he decides to kill her and her boyfriend while they are making out , in the nude ( Stacey , not the couple ) . he has the perfect alibi though . before he commits the crime , he goes to a movie theatre and harasses 2 girls , and whilst the film is playing , he leaves the cinema via the toilet window , commits the crime ( in the nude ) and returns back to the theatre in time for the finale . but Stacey didn't plan on Leo Kessler ( Bronsan , in full Paul Kersey mode ) taking on the case . Kessler knows that Stacey had something to do with the crime but cannot get proof . when Stacey starts to harass Kerseys ' sorry , Kesslers daughter , Kessler decides to take the law into his own hands . He plants some of the victims blood on Staceys jacket , so Stacey gets charged for murder one . in court though , Kessler comes clean about the plant and gets fired , whilst the killer gets to walk free . now Kessler is really mad . . . a basic reprise of Bronsans successful ' death wish ' franchise , this was made in the early eighties when these films were two a penny at the box office , and for some have long been forgotten or never been heard of . the story is a little different from your standard thriller fare though as this mixes a little horror into the plot . even though the characters are stereotypical of their time . for example , Bronson is the grizzled stone faced cop , who doesn't mind bending the rules . on the other hand , his partner is as straight as a die and will not bend any rules , hence the reason why Bronson loses his shield . and see Bronsons daughter , playing the most naive and straight laced student nurse , who lives with three other students / bait . and then of course there is the killer . we all can guess he is bad because of the evidence . a ) he walks around like Yul Brynner and is very one dimensional b ) he wears brut aftershave c ) he has a poster of himself doing karate on his wall d ) he kills people . . . . . in the nude ! ! ! bu this doesn't slow the pace of the film , and even if the story and narrative is a little predictable , it is always fun to watch Bronson trying to intimidate someone who is probably forty years his junior . some negative points though . the editing is very poor and leaves you confused in some scenes . the party scene is very embarrassing for all concerned , and they should all hang there head in shame . Gene Davis is not convincing as the killer , and i fear he was only hired because of his physique . and as i have pointed out before , these sort of films were released more or less every week in the early eighties , so it is like watching a carbon copy at times . but in other films like this i reviewed , you either like them or you don't . i for one , do and if you are reading this , so do you . enjoy the movie .
why are you slapping a monkey ? . . . .	When Larry Daley , a divorced father who can't seem to keep a job for more than a week , applies for a job at the Museum of Natural History , he is assigned as a night guard . However , a seemingly easy job turns out to be a wild ride when he finds that an ancient curse has caused the " inhabitants " of the museum to come to life . . . for the first time in over ten years , a proper holiday movie gets released at the right time . watching this reminds you of the good days where home alone and other family comedies ruled the roost . the premise is simple . a golden tablet that belongs to a mummy makes the inhabitants of the museum come to life at night , and Larry is the just the right guy to play scape goat for the three other guards who are coming close to retirement . this film does though rely heavily on the high concept and special effects shown throughout the movie . Stllier is once again flawless in his portrayal as Larry , but to be fair , the role is so varied , it could have been played by anybody . ten years ago , Edie Murphy probably would have got the lead . support is fantastic from the likes of Coogan , Wilson , Williams , Gugino and in particular Rooney , Van Dyke and Cobbs . it has all the great the great things about a Christmas movie , silly script , snow , big set-pieces and much much more . the script could have been a little more up to scratch , but at the end of the day , this is aimed purely at the little ones . really enjoyable fluff from start to finish .
give my regards to King Tut . . . .	Egyptologist Daniel Jackson is brought to an underground military base where he decodes the symbols on Egyptian cover stones as star constellations . That allows a alien device known as the Stargate to be opened and a team led by Air Force Colonel Jack ' O ' Neil and Jackson to travel across the known universe to a distant planet . Arriving on the planet , they find a culture ruled by someone pretending to be the Egyptian sun god Ra . Soon , Ra captures the team and takes control of a nuclear weapon brought to the planet in case of the discovery of hostile aliens . Jackson and O'Neil escape and must fight Ra and his army of warriors to save Earth from being destroyed by Ra . this is one of the most original science-fiction stories conceived in a very long time , and is very detailed in it's story and the narrative is very well explained through the movie . Russell and Spader make a very good team throughout the film , and predictably , have a love hate relationship at the beginning and become sort of friends at the end . the only letdown in the film is Ra , as all i can think of is the crying game every time i see Ra . but the film is well presented and very impressive for a film made in 1994 , ( on blu-ray some of the cinematography is awesome ) some of the special effects are good , some are decidedly dodgy , but you can't have everything you want . the set pieces are fantastic and add real gravitas to the film , and i get this feeling that the next time i watch the ' fifth element ' or ' waterworld ' this will spring to mind . a pulse pounding original sci-fi , let down by a silly villain .
maybe this time , i can get some prints . . .	In Manhattan , Detective Frank Keller is an efficient and veteran cop with twenty years on the force , who is lonely and misses his ex-wife Denise . She left him to live with his colleague from the same precinct Gruber . When a killer kills his victim with a shot on the neck and leaves a single playing " Sea of Love " , Frank is in charge of the investigation . Detective Sherman , from a district outside Manhattan , joins Frank when a second victim is killed in the same MO . They find that both victims have written poetry in the lonely hearts column of the single magazine " New York Weekly " . When there is a third case , Frank convinces his chief to write for the magazine and work undercover investigating the women that reply the advertisement . Frank falls in love for the prime suspect , the manager of a shoe store Helen Cruger , jeopardising his investigation . a return to form for Pacino after a four year absence from the big screen . the film is a by the numbers thriller , but due to the performances from the central characters and the good narrative , it's a little bit more enjoyable . the story is nothing to write home about and the revelation of the killer is quite obvious , but Pacino proves in his hey day , he could make a film work , if he put his all into it . with good support from Barkin and Goodman , it won't go down in history as the best thriller out there , but it's worth watching .
you wouldn't like me when i'm angry . . . .	Bruce Banner , a brilliant scientist with a cloudy past about his family , is involved in an accident in his laboratory causing him to become exposed to gamma radiation and Nanomeds ( A tiny life-form that is supposed to heal wounds but has killed everything with which they have made contact . ) Confused and curious about his survival , Banner discovers that since the accident , whenever he becomes angry he transforms into a giant green monster destroying everything in sight in an act of fury . Bruce's mysterious past and the answer to why the radiation had this effect becomes revealed to him as his Birth Father David Banner intervenes with hopes to continue experimenting on him . . . so Lees vision of the hulk was not what everyone was expecting . i wasn't expecting a great story , some brilliant character development and some cracking cinematography with very good narrative . i was expecting the Hulk to fight , fight , fight and become more angry , and i believe that this is the reason why the film got so much negativity on release . it's not your typical comic book movie , it's an intelligent look into a mans psyche and the way he has to control himself from the emotions inside him , albeit with man eating poodles . the performances are good , even from Lucas , who seems to put a little curse on every blockbuster he has been in . the effects are good too , even though we do have to wait a while before we see the transformation from man to beast . obviously not what everyone was expecting , but enjoyable nevertheless .
great story . . . .	this was van dammes most successful film and you can see why . reasonable budget , great effects and a great story make this a true winner . van dammes wife is killed in the opening fifteen minutes , flash to ten years later to the futuristic 2004 ( which was two years ago ) , van damme is working for a corporation where he travels back in time to arrest people who are making profit from knowing the future . we know that van damme is grieving because he has a mullet and wakes on the sofa with an empty spirit bottle on his table . this is his first collaboration with peter hyams who i think brings the best out of van damme . the action is slick , the running time is just about right and ron silver is great as van dammes adversary . their are some truly funny lines from van damme and silver alike and the script makes van damme shine . plus he has his trademark head twitch a few times . see it enjoy it and do not be pretentious as all this is , is a high concept action sci-fi that should have made van damme an a list
we are on the verge of a major climate shift ! ! ! !	This movie takes look at what the world would look like if the greenhouse effect and global warming continued at such levels that they resulted in worldwide catastrophe and disaster , including multiple hurricanes , tornadoes , tidal waves , floods and the beginning of the next Ice Age . At the centre of the story is a paleoclimatologist , Professor Jack Hall , who tries to save the world from the effects of global warming while also trying to get to his son , Sam , who was in New York City as part of a scholastic competition , when the city was overwhelmed by the chilling beginnings of the new Ice Age . In addition to all of the other challenges Dr . Hall faces , he's also going against the flow as humanity races south to warmer climes , and he's nearly the only one going north . . . Another excuse for director Emmerich to destroy new york , , part 3 . the film does start off really well , it looks as if the writers have done their research , as the dialogue is full of rich words that would go beyond most cinema goers heads . but i fear this is to up the intensity of the set pieces that the audiences have paid to see the film , namely destruction . the effects are very impressive , and as usual the dog survives , and a best friend dies . but does this stop Quaid ? no . whilst he's making his way to Manhatten from heaven knows where , his son is busy burning very important library books and fighting dodgy cgi wolves trying to get his girlfriend some antibiotics , with out even asking her if shes allergic to any drugs ! ! the film does begin to falter after the set pieces and it turns into one mans quest , but it's worth watching for just how ridiculous the writing and dialogue goes toward a downward spiral very quickly and the film soon becomes farcical . worth a watch .
i want my molecules back . . . .	Nick Halloway is accidentally made invisible during an accident . When Jenkins finds out about Nick , he set out to recruit him into the world of espionage , seeing the potential for an invisible CIA agent . When Alice Monroe falls in love with Nick , they are forced to flee the attentions of Jenkins . Nick also has the problem of living invisibly whilst trying to find a cure . . . if you can forgive the fact that Hannah falls in love with Chevy Chase , and half the extras just spend their time slipping over , it is a good comedy drama . chase does what he does best , narrating , and he and the rest of the cast have a ball , with having props stuck to their body parts . the story is simple and good and it has some good comedic values to it , even though it can be serious at times . it goes to a different level from other Carpenter movies , and even though it ' disappeared ' from the box office , there is fun to be had . and the effects are not half bad either . a hidden gem of a movie
crib midgets . . . . .	rising star ( over here in England anyway ) Dane Cook , once again plays a one note character who is quite lovable , yet has a little bit of a problem . when he was a young boy , he had a curse put on him by a girl whom he rejected and since then , every girl he sleeps with , finds true love the next time they date somebody . then he meets Jessica Alba , and obviously wants to get rid of the curse , because who would want to get rid of her ? so the film spends a lot of time watching Cook having lots of sex with different people , and then he starts to date Alba , but knows that if he does sleep with her , she will waltz off with the next man she meets . so they date for a while , and in the meantime Cook is trying to get rid of the curse , by experimenting with different things , with one truly memorable moment with a woman who has a food problem . the film is predictable and sweetly gooey , but Cook and Alba have enough charm just about to carry the film and make it watchable . it's an original enough idea , but it could have been so much better in the hands of a different writer .
holy moly ! ! !	Charlie is an ex-teacher turned reluctant call centre employee who gets fired on the first day . Distraught on being unable to provide for his daughter Emily and cop wife , Penelope , he is suddenly contacted by Gus , an aspiring scam artist who presents Charlie with a seemingly snag-free plan to make some cash : Blackmail Reverend Smalls a man of the cloth , who's frequently turned up in the company database of visitors to illegal porn-sites . Gus plans on extorting Reverend Smalls , with the intention of publicly exposing his secret shame , should he refuse , with this scandal potentially destroying the man's career . Normally cautious Charlie , is keen on participating in this scam , confident that with this money maker he'll garner from the deal and will finally help turn things around for him and his family . . . if you turn off your believability for 90 minutes , there is some fun to be had in this film which is heavily influenced by the Coen Brothers and film noir . Plot holes are rife throughout and the film becomes more ridiculous toward the finale , but is the sheer ridiculousness of the film that actually makes it work , and what makes it so funny . deep down inside , you know that everything is going to go awry , and that no character is what they seem , ala ' Twin Peaks . Pegg as usual is fantastic in his role and pulls off a very convincing accent , and Schwimmer just about loses that ' Ross ' feel to him . with a macabre ending , some great camera-work and narration , Big Nothing is something .
a dead man talking . . .	Statham is back as Frank Martin , and this time he leaves his dodgy American accent behind ! going along the lines of ' it it ain't broke , don't try to fix it ' , frank is literally thrown in at the deep end when another transporter crashes into his house and the next thing we know , poor old frank is semi-naked with an explosive bracelet around his wrist , which will detonate if he moves within 75 feet of his car . the reason why ? i have no idea , but it has something to do with Jerome Krabbe and his daughter and a ship which could be carrying toxic waste . so it's more fights and car chases for Frank then . . . when you watch watch a movie directed by somebody with the surname Megaton , you really do have to take everything you see with a huge pinch of salt , but your seeing a Transporter movie , this kind of stuff eases the pain for people who want a bit of light relief in a time of award season distribution , and this hits all the right notes , most of the time . some of the fights have been edited poorly , and you know when you are watching this , somewhere in the future is an unrated blu-ray release begging to come out . the editing makes the fight scenes a little less fluid this time around , and leaves thinking , why ? but other than this minor gripe , it's absolutely hilarious stuff to watch , with a really unintentionally funny script ( in one scene , Frank is on the phone after crashing his car into the river . . . ' i'm in the river ' says Frank ' you'll have to be more specific ' ' the one near the bridge ' ' i know the one ' absolute class ) and stupendous stunts , with an endless supply of bad guys . if you liked the first two , this will please most Transporter fans , it does exactly what it's meant to do , deliver brainless fun .
' i love this game ' . . . .	In 2012 , the United States economy collapses and life for everyone is not the same . Once a NASCAR champion , Jensen Ames , hits rock bottom and spent several years in prison . His life was improving and changing for the better after meeting and marrying Suzy and having a baby girl . Then the steel mill closes , and he loses his job . But that was not the worst thing to happen to Jenson that day . Suzy is brutally murdered , and he is framed for her murder . Jenson is sent to Terminal Island , the worst and toughest for-profit prison in the country run by Warden Hennessey . She has created the country's most popular pay-per-view sport , a kill-or-be-killed car race where the inmates race to win their freedom from prison after 5 wins . Every inmate driver is driving a monster car that they built which is loaded with machine guns , missiles , flamethrowers , napalm , and no rules . Warden Hennessey convinces Jensen to secretly take the place of the late 4-time superstar winner , Frankenstein , and wear his metallic mask in the race . If Jensen wins just one race , he can go home to his baby daughter . . . This could be Andersons best Hollywood film to date . best in the fact that he hasn't angered any video game fans ( even though the film does resemble wipeout a touch ) or ruined a once respected sci-fi franchise . some may argue that event horizon is his greatest picture , but for a totally guilty pleasure of a ' lad's ' film , he has hit the nail right on the head . it's a dumb movie . the script is predictable as are the characters and the story . but anyone who knows the directors work , will know that if they are paying to see one of his films , they are not expecting an art-house movie of any sort . it's loud , brash in your face , and at times unintentionally hilarious , but somehow , the film works in so many ways . Statham plays his usual role , with that silly accent that should be left at home and is good , i think he has finally found his calling . the rest of the cast are full of people you may recognise from other crass action films , and of course ' lovejoy'it doesn't let up for the duration of the film and never takes itself seriously . the film knows it has b-movie roots and wears it proudly on it's sleeve . it's total dross at the end of the day , but it's fun dross , which entertains throughout , and in Hollywood these days , it's refreshing to find a film that just let's itself go and entertains the audience without taking itself seriously . if you know what to expect , go and see it you will be surprised . if you hate Anderson's work . . you're not the only one , but will be cursing yourself for actually liking this . big stupid fun . .
surrounding thems out . . . . . .	John Rambo's former Vietnam superior , Colonel Samuel Trautman , has been assigned to lead a mission to help the Mujahedeen rebels who are fighting the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , but the Buddhist Rambo turns down Trautman's request that Rambo help out . When the mission goes belly up and Trautman is kidnapped and tortured by Russian Colonel Zaysen , Rambo launches a rescue effort and allies himself with the Mujahedeen rebels and gets their help in trying to rescue Trautman . . . . . . the third entry into the behemoth that is the Rambo series , goes all out in the action stakes , and it comes out being a little disappointing . Zaysen is just a carbon copy of Berkoffs ' villain in the last movie , and one cannot help to notice that Stallone looks a little bored at moments . there are some moments of genius , the stick fight at the beginning is hilarious , as is the interrogation of Trautman , oh and the scene where Rambo sets fire to himself via first aid . but this is all brawn and no brains , a typicalfriday night action movie , that will be remembered as the first real flop that Stallone starred in . at the time , it was the biggest flop of all time and was ridiculed by various critics ( even the movie ' twins ' mocks this ) . but this movie still is fun and is never boring , lets hope that the fourth outing is a little bit more special .
kitchen sink	having never really read any of Plaths work , i was somewhat dubious of watching this movie , especially with gwyneth ' TAKE ME SERIOUS ! ' Paltrow . i was astonished , the undertones of this movie made great sense , poets best steer clear of this because they do get criticised somewhat . basically Plath was unfortunately damaged goods since the advent of her fathers death . trying to kill herself twice in the past tense . some of you may disagree with me , but i really believe that Plath was making up Hughes ' infidelity . the scene where Plath is burning documents and keeps cutting to hughes and aerial having sex , i believe this was a delusion from Plath . not once did Hughes admit to the affair . you may say what about when Hughes told Plath about aerial being pregnant ? another delusion . when Plath asks Gambon's character for a stamp , not once does he mention about a man visiting her . if you were to watch the movie in this context , i'm sure some may agree . all in all a great film . Paltrow has never been better , and the ever reliable Craig proves just what a stellar actor he is . a must -
you never know where i might ' pop ' up . . . . . .	Kristy , Ben and Liz are three pals in their twenties who set out to hike through the scenic Wolf Creek National Park in the Australian Outback . The trouble begins when they get back only to find that their car won't start . The trio think they have a way out when they run into a local bushman named Mick Taylor . Wait until you get a load of what Mick has in store for them . Their troubles have just begun . . . . . . apparently based on a true story , this sounds more like an urban myth told to new back - packers all over the world . here we are introduced to a new kind of screen terror . that in the very human form of Mick Taylor . a very pleasant person at first , Taylor appears to be the relief that our trio need when they are stuck in the middle of nowhere . but once the torture and murder begin , the camera never lets up , all the while Taylor remaining eerily calm doing his deeds . the makers of the film succeed with their entry in the genre by focusing heavily on the trio , we get to know them and get to like and relate to them , so when they are subjected to Taylor , we really begin to care for them , which doesn't often happen in these types of movie . the camera work is suited well for this movie , and gives the film a sense of reality and urgency , especially during the final act . what makes this film work on a more psychological scale , is that back-packers go missing in the outback , on a regular basis , is this there story ? whatever the facts this film has , you will never watch ' Crocodile Dundee ' in the same light again .
you can't beat the clock Riggs . . . .	Riggs and Murtaugh are back , each now feeling too old to be doing what they're doing , try to stop the Chinese Triads from doing their illegal business in the U . S . Uncle Benny , Chinatown's mob boss , has imported Chinese slaves to pay for an artist to create counterfeit Chinese currency which the Triads will use to buy the Four Fathers ( heads of the Triads ) back from the Chinese military . not only have they got to contend with this , but Rianne is pregnant and married to a police officer , unbeknownst to Roger . . . . the fourth and maybe final movie in the franchise feels a lot weaker and a lot more softer than the previous three . watching the movie though does feel like having family you have not seen in a while round for dinner and the beautiful chemistry between Gibson and Glover is still here . after Conspiracy theory , Donner has once again proved he is a master at the sction genre , as this delivers the action in droves , although it seems a little watered down for the lethal weapon Veterans . the story is a basic money laundering one , and won't win any awards , but they could have written anything , and this would have been green lighted . the only weak point about this film is Rock , who feels very out of place , and seems to be in his stand up mode for most of his scenes , which is quite annoying . now some may say that this may be due to the fact that he joined the series so late , but Russo did too , and fitted well into the ' lethal family ' straight away . but it's a great finish to a great series of movies , and if you have not seen any of the previous movies and were going to see this first , my advice is don't , watch them in chronological order , as you will really appreciate the jokes and the references .
winners make the rules . . . . .	In the Caribbean Sea , diver Jared and his girlfriend Sam have a simple life , aiming at finding a treasure , but without money to buy the necessary ship and equipment . When Jared's friend , the egocentric and selfish young lawyer Bryce , and his new girlfriend Amanda arrive in the island to spend a couple of days with them , they dive together and accidentally find a wrecked airplane loaded with cocaine , and evidences of a sunken boat with a treasure . Afraid of losing the treasure for the arrogant hunter Bates , Bryce tries to convince Jared and Sam to negotiate a small part of the drug to raise the necessary money for the expedition , but the correct couple does not accept the proposal . Bryce and Amanda decide to deal themselves with a drug lord , jeopardising the life and integrity of Jared and Sam . . . . wow , this movie is the cinematic equivalent of Kelly Brook . nice to look at , but very shallow . what we have is basically a movie about beautiful people on a beautiful island doing things that everybody in the real world wished they could do for a living . but it's fun and clichéd , which makes it easy to watch . we know who the bad guys are , because they are the only ones with facial hair , and despite the first very slow half , the film does pick up and becomes ( embarassing to say ) quite entertaining in the final third . not the sort of film to stay in my mind for long , i was swept away by the beautiful camera-work , locations , and the time that the main characters could hold their breath for underwater .
this looks like a library of classics . . .	A bickering young couple must join as one to escape from a deranged maniac with twisted intentions after checking into a motel of a snuff movie maker . It has been a long day for Amy and David Fox . Amid the usual arguments and bust ups , the couple are horrified when their car suddenly plunges out of form leaving them stranded on a lonely highway . However things are about to get a whole lot worse for the pair , and soon they are about to become the main attraction in their own fates as victims of a twisted plot which sees them pit against a jittery camera left to record their every move as they are chased through the darkened hallways of a creepy motel . . . . this film is very under-rated . yes it does have comparisons to ' psycho ' and some respects ' 8mm ' and ' hostel ' , but the class of acting that is displayed here , is better than anything seen in the latter two . the plot is unoriginal and has been done to death the past couple of years , and don't expect anything out of the ordinary twist or jump wise , but it's just the fact that the movie puts the couple into the situation from the word go , so the audience do not have time to prepare themselves for what could potentially happen to the couple . Wilson and Beckinsale are really convincing as the couple in danger , but to be fair , you would rather walk in the pitch black on your own than to rent a room from Whaleys character . he is unfortunately your typical by the numbers creep , who from the word go is just plain nuts . but thats why the film works in so many ways , it doesn't try to surprise the audience with red herrings or other twists , it just gets in with suspense . the only thing that really annoyed me was the silly happy-ish ending . totally out of place in this movie and pointless . otherwise , this is a very strong thriller , with a good cast and a good story .
back ? he was never gone !	why do so many people say that this was arnies comeback movie ? only two years prior to this he was in batman and robin , which by no means was a typical arnie film still made over 100 million at the us box office alone and a year earlier he made eraser which also made just over 100 million at the box office . So in theory he was never gone , but hey thats only me . Anyway arnie plays jericho cane , a sort of martin riggs light ( Both of these characters more or less have an identical scene at the beginning of their respective movies ) , who is a burnt out alcoholic ex cop who is still coping with the loss of his dead family and also the loss of electricity and the ability to tidy his apartment . The plot is very simple , basically Satan has until midnight new years eve to conceive with " the chosen one " . ( arnie even sends up the plot with the line " midnight , is that eastern time ? " ) . Gabriel byrne was an excellent choice to play Satan and the scenes between him and cane are sensational . Only a couple of quibbles , the ending is very cringeworthy and is reminiscent of the crow , and also the " vatican city assassins " look like cypress hill ! Very good movie but also suffers from the fact that it dated hugely when 1999 came to an end ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
those aren't chocolate buttons . . .	Roddy is a decidedly upper-crust " society mouse " who lives the life of a beloved pet in a posh Kensington flat . When a sewer rat named Sid comes spewing out of the sink and decides he's hit the jackpot , Roddy schemes to rid himself of the pest by luring him into the " whirlpool . " Sid may be an ignorant slob , but he's no fool , so it is Roddy who winds up being flushed away into the bustling sewer world of Ratropolis . There Roddy meets Rita , an enterprising scavenger who works the sewers in her faithful boat , the Jammy Dodger . Roddy immediately wants out , or rather , up ; Rita wants to be paid for her trouble ; and , speaking of trouble , the villainous Toad - - who royally despises all rodents equally , making no distinction between mice and rats - - wants them iced . . . literally . The Toad dispatches his two hapless hench-rats , Spike and Whitey , to get the job done . When they fail , the Toad has no choice but to send to France for his cousin - - that dreaded mercenary , Le Frog . . . not a bad effort from Dreamworks and Aardman , but it doesn't really bring anything new to the world of computer animated movies . the voice cast are exceptional and all stand out as being recognisable . my only problem is that Reno was obviously typecast as Le Frog . but there are references to dozens of other movies and the animation is stunning , so in some respects , it does call for a repeat viewing . and it's good to see predominantly British Movie be self deprecating toward our views ( eg . the whole sub-plot surrounding the world cup ) . adults may find this a little dull and predictable , but the kids will lap it up . the characters are bright and funny , but there are plenty of characters involved in the whole story . worth a watch .
cross your heart , not your butt . . . . .	Lucas gets so fed up with being bullied , he takes out his frustration on ants in his backyard in hilarious ways , like squirting them with his garden hose or stamping on the ant hill . The ants are understandably fed up with this and Zoc the ant wizard uses a potion to shrink him down to ant size . Lucas is sentenced to hard labour in the ruins and learns to be more compassionate to ants . He becomes an ant friend , then must become an ant hero when Stan Beals , the local pest control guy , who's an even bigger bully , comes to wipe out the entire colony . An " ants vs pest control " battle ensues and Zoc reluctantly accepts that Lucas may be the ants ' only chance of survival . . . another animated movie with another humanistic message hits our screens , and after the meagre box office , i wasn't expecting great things . it's not Toy Story , or Finding Nemo , but it's still above a lot of the animated films to be released last year . heavily inspired by a bugs life , the message is clearly ' be nice to everybody , even those who are wimps ' , and while the kids will lap this up , there is still fun to be had or adults . Nicolas Cage is good in his voice role , but sometimes he sounds like he is trying to be a little too much like Tom Hanks as Woody . but the movie belongs to Bruce Campbell , who is in full on self deprecating mode here , and gains all the smile the film delivers . the animation is good but nothing special , and one set piece reminds the viewer slightly of Verhoevans Starship Troopers . a good kids film , but nothing spectacular .
i knew you'd say that . . . . .	In a dystopic future , where urban areas have grown into megacities that cover entire coastal regions , the justice system has evolved to a single person invested with the power of police , judge , jury , and executioner : the Judge . Among the Judges of Mega-City One , Judge Dredd is one of the best , and a particular favourite of the Head of the Council , Judge Fargo . But there are evil forces at work in the Justice Dept : block riots and the escape of Rico , a homicidal maniac , are only steps in a plan that ultimately lead to the sentencing of Dredd for a murder he didn't commit . And Dredd must discover the secrets of his own past and survive to stop the evildoers . . . the fan boys were not happy in the summer of 95 with this adaptation of the famous comic strip , but with a big Hollywood production and a star whose ego is bigger than his biceps , you're not going to please everyone are you ? in my opinion , the film is very similar to 93's Demolition Man , and the final set piece almost mirror images the film . Stallone is fine in his role , not really using any emotion sorts of suits him ( even though the contacts don't ) and is ably supported by the funny , if sometimes irritating Schneider . Assante hams up the film with wilful glee and for director Cannon , he does a good Job of handling a big budget movie for somebody in his twenties . the set pieces are exciting , the action rarely lets up , and Souza once again proves he is capable of making some of the worst scripts amusing . the special effects are very good for their time , but now they look a little dodgy . a good film , not the best comic adaptation . bit not the worse . ' Judge ' for yourself
the twist makes the movie . . . . . .	OK so to begin with it's just your average thriller . girl goes to look after an elderly man for an obscene amount of money per week ( for a carer anyway ) , and almost immediately senses that something is not quite right . so far , so predictable . . . . . . the film continues with by the numbers horror / supernatural thriller , woman of the house explains the past of the house ( with the token black and white flashback ) whilst five minutes later , a voodoo priestess ( is that right ? ) explains the history of the house from a slightly different angle . then you get your obligatory rain storms , power cuts , dream sequences and jump shocks . this is when i started to tire of ' the skeleton key ' . i thought i knew the twist from the upstart , but what Ehren Kruger has done has thrown so many red herrings into the pot that i actually went totally the wrong way about the narrative . the only bad thing about films like this is that when tabloids and magazines review this type of film , they always mention the twist . thank you M . Night Shyalaman ! ! ! if you really want to enjoy a film like this , ignore the reviews , do not read them and sit back and enjoy . contradicting the above statement , the twist is above par and is really disturbing . Hudson and Rowlands work really well together and the story is quite original . it's just a shame that Softley did not use an original approach to this type of movie and delve into the history of voodoo , and leave the weather forecast to the weathermen .
we do love a challenge . . . .	Years after the Raccoon City disaster , Alice is on her own ; aware that she has become a liability and could endanger those around her , she is struggling to survive and bring down the Umbrella Corporation led by the sinister Albert Wesker and head researcher Dr . Isaacs . Meanwhile , travelling through the Nevada Desert and the ruins of Las Vegas , Carlos Olivera , L . J . , and new survivors K-Mart , Claire Redfield , and Nurse Betty must fight to survive extinction against hordes of zombies , killer crows , and the most terrifying creatures created as a result of the deadly T-Virus that has killed millions . if you enjoyed the first two movies , then you will not be disappointed with this third instalment , which pretty much owes a little bit more than a debt to ' The Road Warrior ' , ' The Hills Have Eyes ' , and in one scene , even ' The Birds ' . but the action never really lets up in the the slim running time and Jovovich doesn't disappoint as Alice , who for the majority of the film gets her ' big weapon out ' and slices and dices the ' infected ' . but even if you are not a fan of this franchise , the movie satisfies the fans doesn't fail to deliver a good old slice of ' zombie ' action . with references to the first movie and some pretty good twists during the movie , its just a movie that doesn't take its self very seriously , as you shouldn't , just have some fun watching the action
i have two words for you , blow me ! ! !	In Seattle , detective Quentin Conners is unfairly suspended and his partner Jason York leaves the police force after a tragic shooting on Pearl Street Bridge , when the hostage and the criminal die . When a bank is heist with hostage situation , Conners is assigned in charge of the operation having rookie Shane Dekker as partner . The thieves , leaded by Lorenz , apparently do no steal a penny from the bank . While chasing the gangsters , the police team discloses that they planted a virus in the system , stealing one billion dollars from the most different accounts , using the principle of the Chaos Theory . Further , they find that Lorenz is killing his accomplices . . first of all this movie just jumped out of nowhere after nearly two years in purgatory , and it is difficult to see why . it has a good cast , one of the best performances that snipes has given in a long time and the inevitable , predictable twist . it's just a shame that Statham has to use that silly dodgy accent for this film , he hasn't mastered American very well , and could be the Dick Van Dyke of the United Kingdom . Phillipe does very little in this film , apart from figuring out the twist just as it's too late . plot holes aside , this is just a good action film , that should come with a six-pack and a takeaway .
more plastic than Cher . . . . .	Riggs and Murtaugh are back . This time after another one of Riggs ' goofs , they are busted down to patrolmen . But they come across a robbery and they catch one of the robbers and discover that he has in his possession Armour piercing bullets . Which means that no cop is safe . They go and try to speak to the man but Lorna Cole , a cop from Internal Affairs also wants to speak to him but Riggs is obstinate , so they go to the Captain , who not only backs them up but reinstates them as detectives . But when they go to see him , they find the man dead . they learn who the killer is , a former cop named Jack Travis . they get a lead from Leo Getz but unfortunately he gets away . Riggs is confronted by Cole who tells him that she should have been informed of the lead he had on Travis . after they kiss and make up , the three go out to try and find Travis . . . . ignoring the laws of diminishing returns , Silver and Donner up the ante by having the largest building explosion ( at the time ) as the opening . but five years after the original , the film loses it's rawness and thrilling edge that made the original one of the best films of the eighties . the plot is straight out of any straight to video film of the same time , so the makers focus on set pieces and one liners , which are still as funny as Blacks original script , but i feel that by the final third of the film , the writers were running out of dialogue , as the phrase ' son of a bith ' is uttered over twenty times , and sadly becomes unintentionally funny . the film also suffers from stereotypical disposable henchmen , and unnecessary subplots . watching the directors cut makes the film more enjoyable and a little more human , and explains why some of the theatrical version had hideous editing . but Gibson and Glover still have the magic and this is still one of the best action movies of the early nineties ( along with the last boy scout ) . but with references to the second movie rife throughout , this still shows respect to the franchise and is a solid Friday night action flick .
bun doctor to you , chubby cheeks . . .	A British multinational seeks to overthrow a vicious dictator in central Africa . It hires a band of ( largely aged ) mercenaries in London and sends them in to save the virtuous but imprisoned opposition leader who is also critically ill and due for execution . Just when the team has performed a perfect rescue , the multinational does a deal with the vicious dictator leaving the mercenary band to escape under their own steam and exact revenge . . . this is what it's all about , silly script , silly set pieces , and extras who cannot do a convincing ' death ' if their life depended on it . the film is an absolute blast from start to finish . it's humouros , but only in the way a true Brit would understand . it's offensive in every aspect , from racial overtones to dialogue , to stereotypes . it's the dirty dozens posher British cousin . it's dad's army with profanity . the three leads are fantastic and deliver just about the right amount of tongue in cheekiness to give this movie it's kitsch value . thi was aimed directly at men in the seventies , who drank out of a tankard , smoked twenty a day and got up at four in the morning . . . every morning . absolutely fantastic stuff
America is a wall , and your on the other side . . .	Matthew McConaughey , a young , attractive and highly-skilled attorney is faced with the toughest case of his life , one that on many occasions may also threaten it . In the southern Mississippi town of Clanton , the K . K . K . is active and the tension is high when the black majority is angered at the rape and beating of a black man's 10-year-old daughter . Against Jake's advice , the distraught father takes revenge , gunning down the two criminals in the local courthouse . Racial hatred heightens with the suspense and conflict threatens to break out regardless of the verdict . Jake must decide , along with his new , eager assistant whether he and his family can run the risk of defending the man . . . segregation runs rife throughout this movie , and although the film has a long running time , it is well worth the wait for the actual courtroom sequence . as with all Grisham adaptations , the audience instantly takes sides with the party that we feel empathy for ( with Jackson on trial , who wouldn't ? ) and in my opinion , this has to be the most easily accessible of the Grisham adaptations to hit the screens . it's easily McConaughys best performance and he is well supported by Spacey ( who hams it up post Oscar ) and Jackson ( who could do no wrong at this point in his career ) . but Bullock is wasted in her part and i feel that her character could have been left out of the project . Kudos to , to Kiefer ' hostile down ' Sutherland for portraying such a controversial character . but the film does lose interest in the second act and becomes a bit of a chore to watch , but the payoff is worth it . one of Schumachers last great films ( remember the year after ? Batman and Robin ! ) . well worth your ' verdict ' .
i need you to call the florist . . . . . . . .	A dying mob boss takes out a $1 million contract on the life of his former protégé , a Vegas magician turned gangster who has agreed to testify against the mob . The FBI attempts to protect their key witness as an array of hit men and women descend on Lake Tahoe in a race to take the magician out . . . . . . from the trailer it looked like it was going to be an energetic romp , full of humour , gun fights and great dialogue , with an all star cast , we do get humour , gun fights and great dialogue , but it's a shame that the movie isn't full of it . and i mean a real shame , because the characters are so full of depth and so interesting , that ninety minutes just didn't do it justice . if only Carnahan had made the film a little longer , we could have had a little backstory for the main characters and not just the titular one , instead of the tired introductions we get from these sort of movies now . on the plus side we do get some great action pieces and some great tension in the second act , and also , not one character in the film is dull . all characters have some sort of trait or dialogue that makes for one of the best ensemble casts of the year . Piven is great and is the stand out in the film , but it would be silly if he wasn't because the whole movie centres around him . it's just a shame that the movie has the ending that it does . it really does make you feel ' is that it ? ' instead of the ' ooohhhh ' factor that Carnahan was probably expecting from the audience . as the end credits rolled i felt how Reynolds looked . it's just another case of great advertising , great first and second act , lame finale . worth watching , but to get the utmost enjoyment , turn off ten minutes before the end . you may enjoy it more than i did .
say it a million times . . . .	Jim Carrey is back , in one of his most endearing roles in a long time . he plays a guy , who has to say yes to everything after attending a seminar led by Zod from Superman II , and guess what ? hilarity is the rule of the day ! ! it's a great concept , the book is better , only following that by title alone , but Carrey can do this sort of stuff in his sleep , but thankfully for the audience , he's fully awake for the duration . i wasn't really looking forward to this , it seemed too much of a hybrid of ' Bruce almighty ' and ' Liar , Liar ' but the narrative and performances do the film justice and make it a really endearing film all the way through . it proves that Carreys star is still shining , and when he put's his mind to it , he can make a movie work . i'not saying that he's made a second coming . his best work in my opinion has long gone , he just hasn't got that wow factor anymore , because he just went into overdrive so early in his career and thats a shame . but for Carrey fans this will please them , but don't expect the belly laughs from his mid nineties classics , there is fun to be had , but it just makes you smile , rather than laugh . all in all it's a good movie , but nothing memorable .
i'm gonna see you all sniffin ' cyanide . . . .	Packard Walsh and his motorised gang lord and terrorise an Arizona desert town , where they force boys to drag-race so they can ' win ' their vehicles . After they beat the decent teenager Jamie Hankins to death , dragging him from his girlfriend while they made love , a mysterious power creates Jake Kesey , an extremely cool motor - biker , who has a car which makes invincible . Jake befriends Jamie's girlfriend Keri Johnson , takes Jamie's sweet brother Bill under his wing and manages what sheriff Loomis couldn't : eliminate Packard's criminal gang the hard way . . Wanted to see this movie for a very long time , but never had the chance , and what a movie ! it's an epitome to the eighties : great soundtrack , bad hair , bad clothes , and a sheriff who loves sugar in his coffee . the diet of the cast is only burgers , because it seems that the beach and burgers is all they have to do of a summers day . no wonder there's a wraith about . the plot is funny , and the script is bad , but we are talking about low budget eighties movies here ! in an era of Chuck , Bronson , Lundgren , and Reagan , this is just a guilty pleasure . the special effects are poor in some places , very poor in the final third , but the bad guys are a cross between something out of the warriors and escape from new york , and Randy Quaid could have been a sheriff in about four or five different movies at the time and we would have not have noticed . Sheen surprisingly isn't in the film as much as i would have hoped , but is good nevertheless . if you like your film with good car chases , explosions , sunny locations and silly bad guys , then this is for you . . .
you don't need you're mouth to pee . . . . .	Frank Martin is a former soldier now living a solitary existence in France , Frank runs a private business as a " Transporter " a hired criminal whose job is to transport cargo , packages and passengers without question . Playing by the rules , Frank is the best in the business and he has never broken the rules . Until , Frank is hired by an American criminal known as " Wall Street " to deliver a package . Frank's curiosity leads him to break the rules , and he discovers the package he is delivering to Wall Street is a Chinese woman named Lai . Learning that Frank broke the rules and learn about Lai , Wall Street sends his mercenaries to assassinate him . With his own life in danger , Frank takes it upon himself to protect not only himself , but Lai , as he agrees to help Lai rescue enslaved people from China , who are being smuggled into France by Wall Street helped by Lai's father . . . an action movie by producer Luc Besson means that you are in store for a totally over the top and an unbelievable movie with hilarious set pieces . but when one of the main villains is called Wall Street , it has to be seen . it's pure hokum from the start , if you see this film take nothing about it seriously , as this is just a pure unadulterated action movie to satisfy action junkies . and thank heavens that Statham ditched the ' American ' accent for this film , as in other films it does tend to grate . the action scenes are wonderfully produced and the editing makes the film more exciting . a pure silly film from beginning to end , but we have to watch these sometimes for escapism . fun .
should we break this up ?	Two foster brothers , work as transit cops . While one's life is as good as it gets , the other's is a pit . After losing his job , getting dumped by his brother , and getting the crap kicked out of him by a loan shark for the umpteenth time , He implements his plan to steal the " money train , " a train carrying the New York Subway's weekly revenue . But when things go awry , will his brother be able to save him in time ? after the success of ' white men can't jump ' and ' bad boys ' it was inevitable that someone would combine the two and bring us this , very lightweight , but watchable movie . while the story is here and there in certain places , it's always colorful and entertaining , even if Harrelson is annoying from the start ( good method acting ? ) even Lopez does well in her role as santiago , but the only weak link in this movie , is their boss , who is way over the top in his role and entirely unconvincing . but the chemistry between the two leads is still there , and they seem to be having a whale of a time . a good movie , but one that Chris Cooper would want off his C . V ! !
please don't touch my Ruffles . . . .	half expecting the banality of ' Wedding Creashers ' and a love in for Aniston and Vaughn , my expectations were not very high for this movie . the story is basically about a couple who break up ( hence the title ) after an argument rings in some home truths about on another . and for the majority of the film , we see either on of the couple trying to get one over the other . this movie has to have one of the most deceptive trailers ever known to man . watching the trailer , you would expect a film just like the above mentioned , and other frat pack comedies . what we get though is a touching ( and sometimes very real ) portrayal of how immature people can be when they are going through a break up . neither on wants to back down , but both want to reconcile what they have lost . the film features some very funny moments ( as seen on the trailer ) , but also some very dramatic moments , given from both leads . especially the look on their faces when they realise they have taken one upmanship a little too far . if you are expecting a frat pack ' laugh riot ' , you will be sorely disappointed . Vaughn is Vaughn in this movie , the same arrogant persona he has played in every film since his performance in Psycho 98 ' . but for once it works well in this film and at times is justified , because no one is showing empathy toward him , just like in any real break-up . and with an ending that for once isn't sugar coated Hollywood trash , the break-up starts as your average stale frat-pack comedy , but finishes very different and makes the film better for it .
' long live sacred Germany '	At the height of WW2 , a group of high-ranking German officers hatched a plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler , and seize power of the military command in order to end the war . The operation was codenamed " Valkyrie " , for the emergency plan that was meant to be used in case of a revolt against the Nazi government . wasn't really looking forward to this movie , after all the bad publicity the film received even before it was released , the setbacks , the dates being pushed back and all the other things that tarnished the production didn't give me high hopes . but thats just me being led by the stupid media pipe like a rat to water . what we have here is a very thorough and well acted drama from Singer , who has assembled an amazing cast to tell the story of the planned attempt to kill Hitler . having no knowledge of this event made the film that more interesting for me , how would these people even dare think of killing someone who at the time was the most self righteous genocidal maniac at the time . the cinematography and the sets are amazing and it appears that no expense has been spared to make this film as authentic as possible . one saving grace is that Singer decided to let the actors keep their own accents for the film ( ala the hunt for red October ) as i feel that this would have tainted the film a little with the comedy accents . Cruise is excellent in his role , and doesn't really take centre stage , as their are some prolific actors among the cast , this could probably be the best ensemble cast of the year . it's slow at times , and very heavy on the history of the story , which could deter a few people from seeing this . it's a heavy going film , but very thorough and entertaining throughout . . .
she had a hair lip . . .	Carl and James are two pleasant but unambitious garbage men . Carl has a telescope with which he observes his neighbours . One evening he sees a man giving a female neighbour a hard time . As she leaves he shoots the man with a pellet gun . Hiding , he and James miss two men strangling the man and leaving with the body . When he appears in a can on their route they are afraid and hide the body , fearing that they may be implicated in the death . Trying to crack the case , they spy on the woman , join up with a slightly to majorly crazed Vietnam vet , kidnap a pizza man and help to protect the ecology . another one of those movies that i was really reluctant to see when first released here in england in 1991 . it had a limited release and very average reviews , so i avoided it . what a mistake that was . it's the epitome of an early nineties movie , mullets , bad fashion , a soundtrack that you actually recognise , and it has a summer feel to it all the way through . Sheen and Estevez have great chemistry together , and the latter is very skilled behind a camera and does appear to give his Brother all the best lines and scenes . it's full of characters you would expect from a movie like like this , with not laugh out loud moments , but moments that make you smile . it hasn't aged much in eighteen years , but the non subtle pollution message is a bit corny . but this is just a fun movie which could brighten any dreary afternoon up . .
what lies beneath . . . . lite . . .	In London , successful novelist Rachel Carlson is married with the mediocre aspirant writer and great editor Brian and they live in a comfortable apartment with her son Thomas Carlson . While writing a new novel , Rachel forgets the back gate open and Thomas drowns in a lake . Eight months later , Rachel is still disturbed and she decides to move alone to a seaside cottage in Ingonish Cove , a very small coastal Scottish village . Sarah decides to visit the lighthouse in the island close to her house to help in her research for the book , where she meets the lighthouse keeper Angus McCulloch . One month later , she falls for him and they make love . On the next morning , she invites Angus to go to a birthday party in the shore , and while waiting for him , she discloses that Angus McCulloch died seven years ago . Rachel returns to the island trying to prove her sanity to her neighbour Finlay Murray , and they see that the lighthouse is completely empty . Rachel has a breakdown and she asks for help to her psychiatric Dr . Robert Freedman and to best friend Sharon Winton while she is haunted by ghosts . supposed to be the comeback foe Moore , this movie does very little other than riff on ' don't look now ' . what lies beneath , and a friendlier version of the wicker man . Moore is god in her role , but the story has been told a dozen times before and has been told better . the story is predictable , but for once is a little bit fun whilst watching , but nothing on Moore . she is deserved of better than this , but for curiosity value , it's worth a look , despite some silly plot holes .
pray for me . . .	In February , 2001 , Robert Hanssen , a senior agent with 25 years in the FBI , is arrested for spying . Jump back two months : Eric O'Neill , a computer specialist who wants to be made an agent is assigned to clerk for Hanssen and to write down everything Hanssen does . O'Neill's told it's an investigation of Hanssen's sexual habits . Within weeks , the crusty Hanssen , a devout Catholic , has warmed to O'Neill , who grows to respect Hanssen . O'Neill's wife resents Hanssen's intrusiveness ; the personal and professional stakes get higher . How they catch Hanssen and why he spies become the film's story . Can O'Neill help catch red-handed " the worst spy in history " and hold onto his personal life ? a very low brow movie , especially here in the UK , which has been released here quite under the radar . it's nothing special , but the performances are very convincing , and Cooper hasn't been this good on screen in a very long time . it's very hard for the viewer not to show empathy toward Hanssen , as obviously he is a very troubled man , and i found myself feeling a little sorry for him when he was eventually apprehended by the FBI ( especially as the camera focuses on ' dads keys ' showing that he did have a ' normal ' life also ) . Phillipe is okay as O'Neill but doesn't really stretch his acting muscles like he should in some key scenes . the film is very slow burning , and not very exciting , so if you thinking of something in the vein of ' 24 ' or ' Bourne ' , you will be disappointed . but it is an interesting story and very involving , even if it wasn't a big story here in England . but kudos to the director for showing a more human side to the spy genre and making the main protagonist sympathetic . worth watching
these guys don't use doors . . .	Ten years after the cursed high-priest Imhotep was resurrected and defeated by Rick O'Connell and Evelyn and Jonathon Carnahan , he is resurrected once again by a mysterious woman Meela armed with the knowledge of centuries ! Together , Imhotep and Meela have one goal : Defeat the Scorpion King and use his army to destroy mankind ! Meanwhile , Rick and his wife , Evelyn , are busy raising their son , Alex . On the Egyptian New Year , Evie begins having dreams about ancient Egypt , which lead her straight to the Bracelet of Anubis . Meela's henchmen come for it , but Ardeth Bey appears as well . Ardeth explains the legend , the mythos , and the problem . Now it becomes a race against time to get to Ahm Shere . Will Rick defeat the Scorpion King and send the Army back to the underworld ? Or will Imhotep do so and rule the world ? Or worse . . . Is the Scorpion King so powerful that he cannot be defeated , and he himself will raise the Army for global victory ? this sequel was never going to live up to the first instalment , but it does have it's moments . the director obviously knows what the audience found exciting in the original , so he implements a lot of the elements of that one in here . the film is a lot bigger than the first one , yet this one tries and caters for the family , by the inclusion of the annoying child , and having a wrestler in a bad guy role . Fraser does his beast Indiana Jones impression , and it sails along nicely , until the final set piece where Fraser and Vosloo fight the worst piece of CGI ever committed to film . it's loud throwaway summer popcorn fluff , instantly forgettable . one of those movies that when you watch it a second time , you wonder what all the fuss was about .
do whatever it is morons do . . . .	While San Juan celebrates San Sebastian's Feast , recently-divorced and world-weary police captain Victor Benezet calls in prominent attorney Henry Hearst to clarify his statement about discovering the body of a girl of about 12 , the second such murder in two weeks . As Hearst answers unconvincingly , Benezet reveals circumstantial evidence : the lawyer is under suspicion . The interrogation strips away Hearst's dignity , public persona , and even his toupee , exposing a breech with his beautiful and much younger wife , questionable sexual predilections and a damning hobby . Then , Hearst's wife volunteers information that confirms police suspicions . Is Hearst finally at the breaking point ? . . . . as intriguing as the movie is , it's the ending that really suffers with problems . the main problem being that it doesn't know how to end , so from an amazing 110 minutes of vocal fisticuffs from the two leads , we are basically given a nonsense ending , which i guess Hopkins would have hoped would have the audience debating and so on . the main question i was asking at the end of the film was , why ? and what was the whole point ? obviously people are going to have their own opinions of Hearsts reason , as i do myself , but a lot of people may feel a little cheated as the film does lead the audience up the ' big revelation ' path , only for them to hit a brick wall . but the film is great to watch and offers red herrings galore . Jane in particular was a very suspicious character , and threw me off the films trail at times , but the film is a lesson in acting masterclass whenever hackman and Freeman share the screen . a genius part of film making is putting all the characters into Hearsts recollections , as i feel this would have been a rather redundant production if it was in one setting . Maybe Hearst was taking his power and seeing how far it would take him , or maybe he wanted to set his wife free , the explanation is never revealed , but if you are a fan of the two leads , this will suffice .
nothing is as painful as an invisible wound . . .	this story chronicles the memoirs of warrant officer Gregory whilst being ' in charge ' of Mandela whilst he was held as a prisoner . the story is good and the narration ample , but one cannot feel that the story is one sided as it comes from one persons view of Mandelas stay and how he was treated . it's not the most interesting film in the world , but for people who have a fascination of Mandela and his struggle , it is essential viewing . Haysbert is good as Mandela , but he has very little to do other than act laid back and speak wisely through the movie . Fiennes is good as Gregory but one cannot help but wonder why in the almost thirty years that this film spans , why did they only age him by giving him a comedy moustache . sometimes the plot can delve too deep into the mind of Gregory and it becomes a little too much too digest , and gives you less sympathy for the characters , but it does have touching moments , such as the stick fight between Gregory and Mandela and the final act when Mandela is freed . if you do not know the history of Mandela and the struggle and sacrifices he took for his cause , this will give you little insight , but the cinematography and soundtrack are beautiful .
the truth is complicated . . .	Samir Horn , a devout American Muslim , and a former U . S . Army Special Forces expert in explosives , has been mysteriously showing up on the FBI's radar for being in the area of terrorist bombings . FBI agent Roy Clayton heads up a task force investigation to link Horn to these bombings . Clayton is able to question Horn after he was arrested in Yemen for attempting to sell explosives to an Islamic terrorist group . The terrorists break out of prison and take Horn with them . With the help of Max Archer , Clayton is able to link Horn to a bombing of an American Consulate in Nice , and a failed police raid to capture his top terrorist contact in London . Clayton has been pursuing Horn around the world and has tracked him to the United States . Clayton must capture Horn before he strikes his next target . if it wasn't for the performances from Cheadle and Pearce , this would have been an average run of the mill post drama . but the two leads give so much to their performances , that the film is unmissable when they are on screen . some of the content is a little bit intense and the plotting and Samirs involvement with the group is unnerving , just showing how much power people can have and be so laid back at the same time . the script is just above average , but the settings and the cinematography more than make up for that . there are some plot holes , and some pointless sub-plots , but all in all a good thriller .
where's Cusack ? he's out saving the world	After a drugs bust goes wrong and an innocent boy is murdered , Eddie Cusack has two things to contend with , a mob war and the corruption of the police . all his officers under him have a lot of respect for Eddie and are dedicated to him , but will they be more loyal to the officer who shot an unarmed boy and planted a gun on him ? Eddie is assigned a new partner , the same officer who witnessed the shooting . elsewhere the mob war is hotting up after one of the families are wiped out except for one . can Eddie save the final member of the family from execution and will his fellow officers support him ? this has to be chuck Norris ' most popular movie . he is quite good in his undemanding role and he is supported well by familiar faces . Davis does a good job with his direction , and as in ' The Fugitive ' uses the city of Chicago to good effect . with such a serious story , there are still some moments of comedy , especially the scene where two robbers try to hold up a bar frequented by police . sometimes the narrative is very clunkey and plot holes are huge , for instance characters are introduced for no reason at all and we learn no more about them . two things that let the film down are . 1 . we never really know why this botched drug bust started the war , and how Luna was involved ( yes two brothers were killed , but where were the Lunas ' involved ? 02 . the final act is way over the top and in return very disappointing as we see Eddie and his robot friend take the enemy down . a good film , but the ending should have been as gritty as the rest .
i'm never late . if i'm late it's because i'm dead .	Sean Connery plays a master thief who teams up with Catherine zeta Jones to steal 8 billion dollars , the only catch is that it can only be done during the 30 seconds after the birth of the new millennium . the film starts excitingly enough , with an exhilarating theft of a painting , using state of the art gadgets . zeta Jones works for an insurance company , who have been trying to track Connery's character for art theft . so her boss who is played by will Patton agrees for her to track him down . after discovering Connery in London , and being double crossed by him , zeta Jones joins forces with Connery to steal a mask . the theft is a success , but zeta Jones then wants the ultimate jackpot . the loot as mentioned above . the problem with this film is that sometimes it is too clever for its own good , with double crosses and triple crosses that can sometimes just plainly confuse the audience . Connery as usual is flawless in his role , as he just has to play Connery . Zeta Jones sizzles when she is on screen and although a lot of people may disagree with my opinion , but they have great chemistry and despite their age gap , make a great couple . Patton unfortunately is left in the background and from the look of him , Amiel's motivation for him was to look concerned and perplexed . Rhames just reprises his role from pulp fiction yet again , as he does in all of his roles . their are few faults with this film , continuity , a little of the editing is dire and in one stand out scene one of the worst attempts of dubbing i have ever witnessed . yet the film still manages to be slick , fun , and way over the top . one of the better blockbusters to be released in the summer of 99
it's curtains Dutch , the Jig is up . . . . .	The film focuses on the war of two gangs in 1930s Harlem for the control of illegal gaming - one headed by black strategic godfather Bumpy Johnson and another by white ruthless hothead Dutch Schultz . Negotiations proposed by white syndicate boss Lucky Luciano never get under way , blood flows and Johnson gets jailed . When Johnson is paroled , he gets the work of enforcer for mighty Stephanie " The Queen " St . Clair . She is also jailed for racketeering and when she leaves she makes him promise " no violence " . bill Duke is trying too hard to make a ' black ' Untouchables , and achieves it a little , but fails with the same trodden soundtrack and the godawful spinning paper montage that was used in all the gangster films in the thirties and forties . Fishburne is the main reason that the film gets a 7 , because as always , he's amazing and controls the film every time he's on screen . Garcia just sits there and does his thing , so laid back , you get a feeling that Duke just cast him because he was in the ' Godfather part III ' . the weak link in the movie the , is unfortunately Roth , who puts in such a cheesy performance , that he would probably be offered to you at an Italian restaurant . he ruins every scene he's in and this could be his worst performance , knowing that he has been in classics such as ' Made in Britain ' and the first two Tarantino masterpieces . but the film is still really worth watching in you are into the prohibition and the gangster era . even if the editing is slightly poor and the female cast are pushed aside for the majority of the film . just about above average .
i am a martyr ! ! !	Two cops in Los Angeles try to track down the vicious criminal Eric Masters . Then , one of them is killed by Masters and the other one swears revenge no matter what the cost . After that , the hunt becomes an ob - session and the law he once swore to uphold becomes meaningless to him . Friedkin proves once again that he had some raw talent when it came down to making grimy cop thrillers . this movie bears more than a resemblance to his classic French Connection , except Petersen is a complete ass toward all who standby him or get in his way . the plot is your typical eighties cop thriller , man wants vengeance on man who killed his partner , and thats it , what makes this film , is how he goes about doing it , bending all the rules and being totally lawless throughout , and trying to drag everybody down to get to his goal . Dafoe is also brilliant as the counterfeiter , but does come across a little to camp for my liking , in fact the whole film is the epitome of eighties , right down to the soundtrack , to the cool clothes . the set pieces are fantastic , and Friedkin again proves he can orchestrate an amazing chase scene , but keeping it ' real ' . the film does have a very big ' shock ' toward the finale , and sadly goes downhill from there , but all in all this is very intense and even experimental stuff that is worth watching .
why is rod kissing his sister ?	Rod Kimble is a lovable loser who is , without a doubt , the worlds worst stuntman and probably the only one that performs on a Moped . He does have a group of loyal friends who serve as his crew and a possible romance with girl-next-door , Denise . When Rods hated step-fathers life is dependant on an expensive transplant , Kimble wants to perform the ultimate stunt to raise the money to save his life , just so he can have yet another chance to beat the tough old guy in a fight and earn his respect . juvenile , crass and with a story so simple that a two year old could write , Hot Rod should have been such a failure , but with endearing and kooky characters , it's hard not to be drawn in by this tosh . yes it's full of gross out jokes and stupid dialogue , but the cast fit the bill the bill well . the set pieces are random , the Asian guy who just gyrates through the movie is hilarious , and the whole point of raising the cash just so he can fight his step dad is funny enough to carry the film . a cross between Napoleon dynamite and possibly anchorman , Hot Rod won't suit every taste , but for the immature kid in all of us , it will suffice .
it's getting kind of hot in here , huh ?	as the previous two movies start , we find several different stereotypes at a fair ground and are given a brief introduction to them all . the set up as usual is fantastic and your palms will be sweating . Wendy has a premonition about the roller-coaster that they are about to ride has a malfunction , and one by one they are killed . when Wendy wakes up , she freaks out and a select few leave the ride cheating death . what happens next is that the order of the people who die on the roller-coaster are killed in gruesome sadistic ways . this is one franchise that i will never grow tired of . and if the writers keep coming up with new ways to kill the cast , it will keep going and going . my only niggle with this film is that apart from Wendy none of the cast are very likable . we have the muscular jock , who likes to use profanity whilst working out . the ' clueless ' girls , who know the price of everything and the value of nothing . we also have the goth and the ' bitchy ' sister . but the kills are the main thing that people see this movie for and the tense build up . Wong uses the build up to the kills to great effect and with tension comes the great payoff when the deaths happen . as usual with this film , we have the gross , and the shocking ' make you jump ' ones . the story is the same as the previous two and there are a couple of good twists , but in parts you do start to realise that the writers are just copying from the previous two . but as i said , the premise is simple enough and people know the story , but the trick to this franchise is that no one in this movie is safe and that's what makes the film so much fun to watch . so prepare to have sweaty palms and also prepare to think twice about ever going on a roller-coaster , or using a sun bed again . mindless fun .
you'll find a way in , Jack . that's why we chose you .	Jack Stanfield is head of security for one of the biggest chains of banks known . he has been doing his Job for twenty years and is on of the best at it . he has the perfect family life and is happy and content with his work colleagues . after having drinks one night with his friend , he finds that there is a man in the back of his car with a gun pointing to him . Bill Cox has the perfect plan . to steal $10 , 000 from the 10 , 000 most wealthy clients at Jacks bank . but only Jack can breach security and Get Cox his money . his wife and children depend on doing this . from seeing this movie , i now feel that Ford can just about manage to pull off another Indiana Jones movie . but only just . and thats if he does it in the next year or so . for his age Ford can do a lot more than people who are twenty years his junior , and it shows that when he chooses a project , he is committed to it . that's the problem though , the choosing of the projects . Fords choices can almost always fall into the ' if it ain't broke don't fix it ' mould of the family in peril vehicle . Ford can play concerned and perplexed with his eyes shut , and the only difference this character has from his character in Patriot Games is the surname . but the film manages to pull it off , thanks to great support from Madson and especially Paul Bettany who plays cox with sadistic Glee and adds his name to the British plaque of villainy . the story is a good one and it does take a while to get going and good character actors such as Forster and Patrick are wasted in their roles . the film does finally come into it's own in the last third and Ford turns into the man we all love to cheer . the film does borrow heavily from the likes of Ransom and Air Force One , but they were both greatish films as well so who's complaining ? ignore the negativity , if you are a fan of Ford and like him in this kind of role , you will not be disappointed .
we had lots of trees . . .	Terry Brogan , an ageing football player in L . A . , is cut early in the season ; he needs money , so he takes a job from a shady friend of his , Jake Wise , to track down Wise's girlfriend , Jessie , who's somewhere in Mexico . She's also the daughter of a very wealthy land developer , who owns Terry's team . He heads for Cozumel , finds Jessie , and promptly falls in love with her . He thinks it's mutual , then without warning , she heads back to L . A . and Jake . What's going on with her , and what's the connection between Jake's hold on Jessie and the various politicians , lawyers , and environmentalists who seem to be converging on some sort of land deal ? Terry keeps looking for answers . . . what starts off as an intriguing thriller , ends up really nowhere , but showing us lovely locations in the world , the odd sweaty fumble between the two leads , and James Woods as his usual slimy self , the type of role he could do now in his sleep . the premise is simple and should be effective , but it seems that the makers of the film have spent far too long on the locations and making the stars look good , rather than character development and a good narrative . still at least Phil Collins will always be remembered for this !
rough neighbourhoods are Americas last advantage . . . .	At the offices of a Japanese corporation , during a party , a woman , who's evidently a professional mistress , is found dead , apparently after some rough sex . A police detective , Web Smith is called in to investigate but before getting there , he gets a call from someone who instructs him to pick up John Connor , a former police Captain and expert on Japanese affairs . When they arrive there Web thinks that everything is obvious but Connor tells him that there's a lot more going on . . . . an interesting thriller that plays the racial cared heavily throughout the movie . it's funny to watch mow , with all the ' technology ' that is used throughout the movie , and all the explanations about how the ' laserdisc ' was doctored instantly makes the film slightly dated . it's slickly made , the camera-work and the editing is first class , but it doesn't stop the film from becoming slightly confusing at times . as Executive Producer , Connery gets the best lines and the best clothes and the best hair , and one cannot help but smile to their self to See the man do martial arts next to Snipes . Snipes is great in this , as this was the time where he had big box office potential , but it soon went , ironically around the time of ' Drop Zone ' ( the Blade Trilogy excluded ) and his character is well fleshed out , and gets plenty of screen time with Connery . at times the film feels like it is treating the viewer as not very bright , as things are explained step by step , and some sub-plots are not followed through or just forgotten . but otherwise , it's a good movie with an ending that makes you think .
fair fight ? this is Hollywood .	ricci plays a P . R type who is out with her brother one night and witnesses an accident . they both get attacked by a wolf or werewolf . the next thing that happens is that they are discovering new sensations , new feelings and a taste for something they have never felt before . with craven at the helm and Williamson with the pen , i was expecting an updated spin on the werewolf fable and films , much like they both did back in 1996 with with scream . what craven has done is release a tepid watered down family friendly horror that isn't scary , funny or even ironic , only just though to the most devout horror fan . all the werewolf clichés come up though , the silver burning the taste for meat , the strength surge and of course the passion of the wolf . this was done a lot better twenty one years prior to this in Neil Jordan's ' a company of wolves ' which was more straightforward and scary . if you really want to see this movie , watch the unrated version . it doesn't add much to the story or narrative , but at least there is a little bit more for the gore hound . ricci and Jackson have very little to do with a poor script and the effects are drab and poor , but maybe thats just part of the irony . this is the only film i have ever seen at the cinema where i was the only person in the theatre . not bad , just poorly edited and cut very poorly .
emily , can you hear me ?	The nineteen years old Catholic college girl Emily Rose dies a couple of days after being submitted to an exorcism carried out by her parish priest , Father Moore . Emily believed she was possessed by six demons , and although authorised by Emily and he parents , Father Moore is accused of negligent homicide , since he had suggested Emily to interrupt the use of medications for epilepsy . In order to avoid a scandal , the Archdiocese hires the successful , ambitious and agnostic lawyer Erin Bruner , and the prosecution assigns the religious prosecutor Ethan Thomas . Along the days , there is a battle between science and religion in the court . . . . the trailers made this out to be quite a hard core horror movie , and any movie that has any influence to the world of exorcism , can be quite ' special to some horror aficionados since the release of ' that ' film in 1973 . but the majority of the film is placed in court , and it is quite interesting to see the story viewed from both sides , from the sceptics to the believers . all of the cast are fine , even if Tom Wilkinsons accent is a bit dodgy at times , he portrays Moore with great ease and brings a lot of ' soul to the character . Carpenter too is good in the titular , but then again , she doesn't have much else to do than look scared , angry , and perplexed . a horror film with a difference , but with some very good chills in the flashback sequences , but sometimes it just seems to be too clever for it's own good .
four eyed Clyde . . . .	Fred Claus has lived his entire life in his brother's very large shadow . Fred tried , but could hardly live up to the example set by the younger Nicholas , who was just a perfect , well , saint . True to form , Nicholas grew up to be the model of giving , while Fred became the polar opposite : a fast-talking repo man who's run out of luck and money . Eventually Fred's bad behaviour catches up with him and he is sent to jail . His only recourse is to turn to his brother . Over Mrs . Claus ' objections , Nicholas agrees to help his brother on one condition : that he come to the North Pole and earn the money he needs by working in Santa's Toy Shop . The trouble is that Fred isn't exactly elf material and cut out for creating toys and spreading good cheer . With Christmas fast approaching , Fred could jeopardise the jolliest holiday of the year and ruin Christmaswow , it's unbelievable how many people hate this film . OK the script and plot isn't up to much and Vaughn does his normal loud mouth turn , but one thing the adult audience and critics are missing , that this is a Christmas movie , and who is Christmas aimed at ? Kids ! ! the film has all the ingredients of becoming a decent Christmas movie in years to come ( yes there are better , it's a wonderful life , a Christmas carol , and scrooged ) but it still has it's charm , it has a nasty villain in the form of a wonderfully hammy Kevin Spacey and it's so predictable you can see the ending while queueing up for the film . but leave your inhibitions and critique at the door and just let your kids realise what Christmas is all about , loving , caring and sharing . and isn't it about time that the season released a movie which doesn't involve dragons , talking lions and huge apes . worth taking to see for your little ones .
thanks for the hook up ! ! . . . .	After the accidental death of a friend during a dangerous skateboard stunt , a group of friends decide to cover-up his death and act as if they didn't see anything ( knowing that his Sheriff father will make sure they do time ) . However , one year passes and the friends are having their fair share of problems and haven't been together for a while . But they are soon bought together when somebody keeps sending lots of intimidating messages titled ' I Know What You Did Last Summer ' and begins making the teens ' lives hell . Soon , the friends find themselves being murdered one-by-one by a mysterious figure in a slicker and with a large hook as a weapon . . . with all the trite sequels that are being released on DVD at the moment , i wasn't expecting anything from this sequel knowing that none of the original cast were in it and the last installment was not good . how surprised i was to find a great little horror film in the ninety minutes that this film took to play . there is really a good story to this , basically the same as the first movie , and then the killings start , quite gruesomely . for a straight to DVD effort the production values are good , editing great and performances OK . the only thing that bought this film down a point , was the fact that the film turned into ' Jeepers Creepers ' in the final reel . but the killings are inventive , there are tense moments and it is a breath of fresh air for a sequel like this to be enjoyable . a welcome sequel .
we got to pray just to make it today . . . .	after all the bad reviews this film received and Wiliams recent track history ( R . V especially ) i was not looking forward to this movie one bit . but i'll always give a movie a chance , and i was pleasantly surprised by how amusing and enduring the film was . the plot is simple , Williams is a reverend who has implemented a course for people who want to get married , to see whether they are suitable to wed . thats the premise , and as you would expect from the trailers and the advertising , things don't go according to plan for the ' happy ' couple ( played by Mandy Moore who looks just like a young Diane Lane and some bloke i have never heard of ) and everything in the plot is predictable , but it goes along at a nice steady pace . it's great also to see Williams on almost top form , but he does get all the best lines and is very funny from the start , his little sidekick too is funny , but a little creepy ( where are his parents at ? ) . a lot of the cast are wasted , given very little to do , but it isn't really necessary for them to do much really . if you want to watch something lightweight and throwaway , this is ample enough stuff .
walk this way	from the start of the movie , the narration hints at film noir , and for some reason , until i saw Harrelsons character on a computer , i was sure the film was set in the fifties . the plot is simple , an escort finds a dead body in the house of someone he escorts and gets stuck into the middle of things , thats the plot basically , but the writing and directing is done so wonderfully , that a story this simple is advanced greatly due to the narrative . Harrelson puts in an almost career best performance as the titular character , a homosexual who women like to be seen with , but proves the theory that beauty is only skin deep and he learns not to be so nice to people . the moods change with harrelsons ' sexuality ' , when he's with the ladies , it's almost a restoration piece , yet when hes with the same sex , you could almost be forgiven that you were watching ' irreversible ' . a recommended film , the soundtrack is wonderful as is the dialogue , it does begin to falter toward the end , but is worth watching
that's why it's called chow mein . . . .	following the suicide of a fellow inmate , six young offenders are sent with Sean Pertwee , to ' the isle ' on order from the governor . this will enable them to build confidence , find themselves and probably get along a bit better . the gang consist of two neo-Nazis , a sex offender , a murderer who cannot decide whether he is a killer or not , and a pathetic excuse for a punching bag , among others . along the way they bump into another camp , this time all female and slightly tougher , because the guard has a bowie knife . but they soon realise that they are not alone on the island , as ne by one they are picked off in gruesome ways , starting with the hermit who dwells on the island . . . on renting , this and not seeing any trailers , i was just expecting another slasher film but with a brit twist . how delighted i was to see , a refreshing thriller , very well made with taught camera-work , story and strong play from the male leads . the execution of the film is good , but i feel that they concentrated more on the male counterparts rather than the females ( who to me just seemed too typecast , and didn't really add depth too the movie ) . and the only other character who seemed to be a problem with me was Callum , who couldn't decide whether to be friendly , psycho or just plain ordinary . one scene he's saying he didn't kill anybody , and the next scene he's threatening to ' gut somebody ' . the film also suffers from some deja vu ' . if you have seen films such as Severance / Dog Soldiers / Ravenous / Predator / First Blood / Scum , you will recognise something from this . but as i have already said , this isn't your typical slasher movie and has a lot more in common with films such as ' Dead mans shoes ' than ' Scream ' . a very well made film , which sadly went straight to DVD rather than having a limited cinema release .
i told you it was out . . . . .	Russian mobster Terek Murad has declared open season on the Russian militia and the FBI over the shooting of his brother in a Moscow nightclub . He hires the Jackal , a nasty assassin whom nobody has even seen , to kill the Director of the FBI . With nowhere else to turn ( except a woman who used to work with the Basque separatists , who is now in the USA but whose exact whereabouts in unknown to all save Mulqueen ) , FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston ( who was present at the Moscow shooting ) and Major Valentina Koslova of the Russian milita ( who pulled the trigger in that shooting ) enlist the reluctant services of Declan Mulqueen , an imprisoned IRA sniper , to track the Jackal down . for Declan is the only other person who can positively identify the Jackal . another unnecessary remake this time pits the wits of Willis ( with fifth element hair ) and Gere ( with dodgy Oirish accent ) . Willis plays the titular character with plenty of aplomb and just the right amount of menace . gere on the other hand has problems with his accent , and it seems that the makers knew this , so they give him less lines come the final act . the whole thing is very blasé ' and totally over the top , but it's enjoyable enough . fluff . the set pieces are exciting enough and the support is excellent . but the script could have done with a little touch up , and more though could have been put into Willis ' disguises . instead of looking like the cool customer , he ends up looking like he is wearing , Kilmers cast offs from the saint . Poitier is really hammy in his role , and overacts his lines to laugh out loud extent . but if you are a fan of the two leads and just want two hours of cat and mouse antics across the globe , you could do a lot worse .
he was caught in the threshing machine . . . .	Young Arnie , walking through the Vermont woods , hears some threats , and then gunshots . Investigating , he finds the body of Harry Worp , and he thinks Harry has been murdered . He tells his mother , Jennifer Rogers , who recognises the man as her ex-husband . She , along with the elderly Captain Wiles and the spinster Ivy Gravely , believe they will be prime suspects when Harry's body is found , so they conspire to bury it with the help of artist Sam Marlowe . . . . if like me you are working your way through the Hitchcock library watching the most popular / best known ones first ( eg . the birds , vertigo , north by northwest , frenzy ) then this movie will surprise you in that it is very light hearted on the verge of sadistic , that the main players in this movie are treating a thing such as murder so lightly . from the opening , where we first find the body of Harry , we are treated to a delicious screenplay , full of witticism and wordplay , which all of the cast share , and the characters have different problems on their mind , sharing them with their neighbour on the porch , over muffins and lemonade . but with all of them knowing that there is a dead body in the Forest . the scene where the Captain is waiting to drag the body into an enclosed space but keeps getting disturbed , is comedy gold , and the majority of the film borderlines on farce , albeit sinister farce . so it's a good black comedy from Hitchcock , but maybe not the best place to start for a Hitchcock newbie .
i'm every woman , it's all in me . .	Chuck Levine and Larry Valentine firefighters . They are good friends . However , Larry is a widower ( with two small children ) and Chuck is single . Larry dares Chuck one day to eat a dead rat , but he falls from the ladder that he was going to the drop the rat from . Chuck saves him but the two are rushed to the hospital and quickly recover . Larry calls in that favor big time when civic red tape prevents him from naming his two kids as his pension beneficiaries . All that Chuck has to do is claim to be Larry's domestic partner on some city forms . They think it will be easy because nobody will ever know . After Chuck agrees to the ruse , the two men go to Niagara Falls to get married , and Chuck moves in with Larry and his unsuspecting kids . But an official becomes suspicious , and the new couple's arrangement becomes a citywide issue and goes from confidential to front-page news . Forced to improvise as love-struck newlyweds , Chuck and Larry must now fumble through a charade of domestic bliss under one roof . . sometimes it's understandable why this movie could be deemed as offence , but after watching the whole movie , it's quite possible that it's the most inoffensive film ever , because it offends almost every minority out there , so it kind of cancels itself out . it's probably Sandlers most serious comedy to date , although all the regulars from his other films are here . like last years click , it doesn't have the goofines of happy gilmore or billy madison , but the joke ratio still hits high in this . Schneider again usurps the Star as having all the laughs , but the film has to go to Rhames , as his shower scene is the funniest thing in the film . but Sandler and James have great chemistry together , and even Biel seems to be enjoying herself . if you don't like Sandlers sense of humour , obviously you will hate this , but the majority of people don't take life too serious , so sit back and enjoy this funny if a little overlong , comedy .
tick-tock , doc . . . . .	In Seattle , the successful forensic psychiatrist and college professor Jack Gramm is in evidence since he was responsible for the condemnation of the serial killer Jon Forster , influencing the jury to sentence him to the death row . Jon accuses Jack of manipulation , inducing one witness and sister of one of his victims to testify against him . On the eve of Jon's execution , Jack receives a phone call telling him that he has only eighty-eight minutes of life , while a killer is copycatting Jon , killing women with the same " modus-operandi " and is investigated by Seattle Slayer Task Force . With the support of Shelly Barnes , FBI agent and his friend Frank Parks and Kim Cummings , Jack investigate some weird and problematic students , a security guard of the campus and the woman with whom he had one night stand . . . . Pacino again is good in his portrayal of the main character , who isn't dissimilar to the character De Niro played in 15 minutes . Pacino is given plenty of dialogue to chew with , and is his usual flamboyant self , but he is shadowed by the directors over effort to try and get the audience to guess who the culprit is . and to some extent it is clever , but on the other hand , looking back , it is quite funny to see all the cast , apart from Pacino , looking a little shifty at one point during the movie . but the outcome is pretty predictable . the Gimmick of the 88 minutes is good , but not urgent , as according to the tag-line , he hasn't been poisoned etc , he just keeps getting little messages every couple of minutes . but all in all an enjoyable little thriller , if not memorable , but worth watching .
how about this weather ?	in this very pointless remake to the 1971 movie of the same name , Stallone plays the titular character , who goes back to his home town where his brother has died . Jack smells something fishy , because his brothers daughter states he would never drink and drive . Jack goes on the rampage and stares very hardly at Micheal Caine , Micky Rourke and Alan Cumming , before mumbling something inaudible and walk off . the bloke off scrubs is constantly calling him to go back to Vegas , but Jack wants to find out what happened to his brother , and what exactly did Rhona Mitra have to do with him ? this movie is nowhere near as bad as what the critics said it was way back at the turn of the millennium , by all means , it is very easy and enjoyable to watch . but one cannot help but think , whats the point ? was it because Mel Gibson went against type the previous year with ' Payback ' ? or was it purely because Stallone wanted a comeback vehicle ? who knows . the story is basically the same as the previous film , but obviously this being the noughties , there is an internet sub-plot ad flashier visuals . aah , the visuals , and how horrid they can be at times . firstly , the editing is damn horrid at times , from the stylish fast cuts at the beginning , to sped up and slowed down frames near the finale . then there is the music , all rave and Moby , which feels totally out of place in this move , which ironically enough , has a retro feel to it . now if all these visuals were to update the movie for generation X , the makers had to remember one important thing , the original was in Newcastle in 1971 , a fast car would have been enough of an update . another big thing they messed up was Stallone copying exact dialogue from the original . it just doesn't suit him saying stuff like ' cat pee in the snow ' to Micky Rourke , or saying the ' your a big man ' quote to Caine . but not everything about this film is silly . Stallone is very good in his role and does a very good ' angry ' , but as i have already said , the poor dialogue doesn't help . a massive plus is having Caine in a reverse role in this and it does the film justice . Rourke is good in the token bad gut role , and Cumming plays snidely very well . i's just a shame whenever Cumming and Stallone share a scene together , it almost comes across as if they are flirting . the relationship between Carter and his Niece isn't really took into detail , and neither is the reason why he hadn't been in contact with his brother for so long . so the film isn't perfect , but it isn't bad , and if you are a Stallone fan , you will not be disappointed .
average thriller with silly moral . .	Sandra Bullock stars as a woman who has a premonition of Julian Mcmahons death . at first she is overwrought with distress , as anyone would be , and then goes to bed . the next morning she awakes to find that Julian is alive and well and maybe it was all a dream , or maybe she is looking ahead into the future and having ' premonitions ' . with a title like this movie , i think the latter is the way to go . as the days go by , we flip from the future to the present , Bullocks present consisting of her finding clues about maybe what had happened and being committed , and the past consisting her of making a graph , and leaving herself clues to what she will find later ( a but like deja vu but without the flashy editing ) . but what i don't get about this film is that Bullock does not seem too concerned that her husband is nearing his demise , she spends most of the time saying ' oh please don't go to that business interview ' . this is the father of her kids , she must scream at him or tie him up . but inside the film and poor narrative and gaping plot holes , their is a fantastic story to be told , it's just a shame that it has to be so convoluted at times . we never really learn why the couple have become so unhappy , why at the start of the movie doesn't her daughter have scars etc . Bullock is fine in her role , she could have put a little bit more urgency in to it though . and then there is the ending . for most peole it will come to you very quickly , and they will have fun guessing what will happen next . but i really do believe that the writer got their wires crossed as the moral to this story is . . . ' cheat on your wife and live . . . be faithful to her , make her pregnant , and die in a very nasty accident'should it not have been the other way around . still there is a lot worse you could do with 110 mins
your wife is one stupid lady , you wanna go get drunk ? . . .	Policeman Marshal William T . O ' Niel has been transferred to the mining outpost located on Io , one of Jupiter's moons . And O ' Neil is about to have the worst time of his life at the mining outpost , when he is assigned to investigate the violent deaths of miners , only to discover the miners have died of drug overdoses from a lethal drug . As O ' Niel sets out to find the drug dealers , he finds himself the target of hired assassins , whom have been hired to assassinate O ' Niel . With no help from the Police Force , O ' Niel sets out to stand against the drug dealers , as he begins to suspect the outpost's corrupt administrator Sheppard may be involved with the drug dealers . . . . heavily influenced and inspired by the classic Western High Noon , Outland is a slow burning sci-fi western , featuring Connery as a Scottish ( well thats his accent ) Marshall who is investigating some prolific British Actors going insane and killing themselves in bizarre ways . the film takes a while to get going and when the film features the countdown of the clock for the shuttle to arrive , it's where the film becomes it's most tense . Connery can do this sort of film walking in his sleep , and one thinks he is doing this film to pay the bills . the effects are suitable for the year it was made and the supporting cast are adequate . Hyam's direction is tight throughout , and the film does exactly what it says on the tin . there are no surprises in the film , and equally it is instantly forgettable .
" The following takes place between 3 p . m . and 5 p . m . Events occur in real time . "	Men drive through the streets of a shantytown with machine guns and young boys in the back of a truck . A man reports to his colonel that he has five boy soldiers . At the training camp , boys no older than 14 practice shooting with automatic weapons . They swig from presumably laced bottles , woozy and pliant . Colonel Dubaku gives the boys a pep talk about exterminating cockroaches ( i . e . dissenters ) and puts a machete in a stoned boy's hands . He whacks at the " cockroach " as the crowd of children cheers . The 24 clock ticks . . . . after being fed up with seeing the dead in mirrors , Bauer goes and spends sometime with begbie from trainspotting in Africa , and no sooner as the clock starts ticking , Bauer is in peril again , but why isn't it as exciting as a whole season ? maybe it's because he hasn't got his cellphone , maybe it's because he doesn't say ' hostile down ' or maybe it's because this was made because Fox doesn't want the public to forget the greatest drama they have ever madedon't get me wrong , it's great entertainment , but if you are a 24 addict like me , 2 hours isn't enough for me , and i wanted more from this feature length episode . it never really get's going until the final 45 minutes , but we are introduced to a wealth of new characters that could make or break season 7 . if you are a fan , see it . it will not disappoint , just don't expect anything like the seasons we have known to love . . .
does this mean i don't get a baseball ? . . .	When a shoulder injury ended his minor league pitching career twelve years ago , Jim Morris resorted to the next best thing : coaching . But Jim's team , knowing their coach is a great ball player , makes a deal with him : if they win the district championship , they want Jim to try out for a major-league organisation . Going from worst to first , the team makes it to state , and Jim is forced to live up to his end of the deal . While there prove to be a lot of pitches to be thrown before he makes it off the mound , big - league dreams are revived , and there's no telling where he could go . . . Another feel good sports film inspired by a true story ( is this some kind of sub-genre ? ) that is actually very good and hits all the right notes in the right places . coming from the UK , i obviously have no idea what all the fuss is about baseball and have no idea how to play it , but it's an American institution and i respect that . Disney help the British out a lot during the games , by playing feel-good music , which indicates that the team Quaid is coaching / playing for are winning , so it helps the film keep at a pace . as usual in these films , there is one parent who doesn't give a hoot but makes amends come the end and everything is hunky dory , don't get me wrong , this is a good thing in these kinds of movies . the performances are good and the editing and narrative are spot on too , and Quaid , is as reliable as ever . worth seeing , but films like this are overlooked here in the UK , which is a shame .
i've had it with these motherfukin ' neighbours ! ! ! !	Neil LaBute has made some strange decisions in the past couple of years . his re-imagining of the Wicker Man was laughable at best , and now he has decided to resurrect the early nineties slew of psycho movies that were released every other week . seen Pacific heights ? Unlawful Entry ? Single White Female ? you'll remember each one of those when you are watching this , not as bad as you would expect racially charged thriller . Disappointingly , Jackson is on autopilot for the majority of the film , and his character is basically a reprise of Zeus from Die Hard With A Vengeance ( although he is less than a good Samaritan in this ) . he plays a cop , who just after watching Jungle Fever , realises that his new neighbours are not what he expected . the man is white , and the woman is black , what is the world coming to ? though this is never said once in the film , the implications are clearly there , Abel does not like the thought of this , and starts to vex the couple by putting on a security light , having late night parties and wearing loud shirts . it's an extremely over the top film , but is has some great connotations to it . for example , the fires that are burning throughout the film are slowly getting closer , which for some , could indicate the tension between the neighbours . the first two acts are great , and Patrick Wilson is really good as the neighbour in peril . Jackson on the other hand , just hams it up . he knows he can do this sort of thing in his sleep and for the majority of the film he just does the crazy eyed look with the big smile . the final act is a bit of a letdown , it happens to quickly and finishes without much satisfaction . if this was released maybe 14 or 15 years ago , this would have been something else , it would have meant more , sent out a more powerful message , but in these times people know better and should know better . it's not a failure , it's just a little late coming .
you were only supposed to blow the goddamned doors off !	The plan was flawless . . . the job was executed perfectly . . . the escape was clean . The only threat mastermind thief Charlie Croker never saw coming was a member of his own crew . After pulling off an amazing gold bullion heist from a heavily guarded palazzo in Venice , Italy . Charlie and his gang , inside man Steve , computer genius Lyle , wheel man handsome Rob , explosives expert Left-Ear and veteran safe cracker John Bridger - can't believe when one of them turns out to be a double-crosser . Enter Stella , a beautiful nerves-of-steel safe cracker , who joins Charlie and his former gang when they follow the backstabber to California , where they plan to re-steal the gold by tapping into Los Angeles ' traffic control system , manipulating signals and creating one of the biggest traffic jams in LA history . Now the job isn't the payoff , it's about payback . . . really only a remake by names and minis alone , this film is more of a revenge movie than a copy of the sixties original . the actual titular job starts at the beginning , and the events which continue the story . it's basically a poor mans Oceans 11 , poor only in the fact that this isn't as glamorous as Soderberghs movie . all the cast are fine , even Norton who allegedly had problems making this movie . it's fast paced , with some good chemistry between the cast and the set pieces are enjoyable enough . not the best movie in the world , but a love of fun never the less
dodgy camera-work marrs an enjoyable story . . .	Sean bean Stars as Bryant , a Para who arrives home to find his wife in the arms of another man . staying at a hotel in London , he acquaints loner security guard Hillier , who lets on to bryant that he knows about his stash of weapons . a sub-plot involving an underworld mobster centres around barrister Munroe , who has been threatened to give up the case . another sub-plot involves Dekker , a city boy who is just fed up of being pushed around ( ala falling down ) . together with another victim of assault , they join Bryant into forming a gang of vigilantes , ever under the watchful eye of Bob Hoskins , who just happens to be an officer of the law and has access to cctv tapes and names of criminals . much darker than Loves last two efforts , Outlaw is a very gritty drama with a half decent story and performances from the leads . it's just a shame that the script is badly done , sub - plots go away and are never resolved , and the film features some of the worst camera work ever committed to celluloid . but otherwise there is some enjoyment to be had from this movie . after reading some of the reviews on this site , i was expecting something drastically bad , but in all fairness it was always going to be compared to ' death wish ' from the very start . it is heavily influenced by the above film , but it also references other films such as Fallin down , First Blood and Fight Club . OK this film is not going to win any awards and it does contain some very offensive material , but when a film is about a Paratrooper turning into a vigilante , what more do you expect . the final third does let the terrific opening down a bit , but it still makes for good viewing . just sort out those cameras ! !
i'm gonna walk out the white house carrying this ?	Pete Garrison took a bullet for Reagan in the assassination attempt on his life back in the early eighties . Pete is a secret service agent who lives for his job , he gets up every morning at 04 . 00 to do at least six sit-ups , spend ten seconds on his cross trainer and drink lots of coffee . Pete is also having an affair with the first lady , and when he is delivered pictures of the two ' having a scene of sensuality ' , he falls into the middle of an assassination attempt on the president which involves a mole in the white house . there has never been a traitor in the secret service until now , and Pete is the prime suspect . now on the run , he is being pursued by two federal investigators , he must clear his name and thwart the attempt on the presidents life at the same time . . . a great premise that has been done hundreds of times , you cannot help but compare this piece to the far superior ' in the line of fire ' from 1993 . in that film the main character had been involved in a real presidential assassination and was in the centre of the conspiracy . but that film had tension , used it's locations to great effect and was ' exciting ' all throughout . this film is executed well , but i'm afraid that it never really gets going until halfway through the final act . Douglas is fine in his role , but it seems that he is just a little too old to be convincing as a secret service agent , someone who could outrun people twice his age , have an affair with Kim Basinger , and also be accused of sleeping with Kiefer Sutherlands wife . Sutherland is just doing Jack Bauer , and you cannot help but compare him to his t . v role , but that isn't saying that he isn't good . Sutherland could do this sort of thing with his eyes closed and is the best thing about this movie . the other support are pure filler and just make Douglas and Sutherland look great . even Longoria is wasted in such a poor role . but the final twenty minutes are breathtaking , there are no big surprises and the ending is predictable , but the it just is essentially a great finale and is up there with any tense scene from 24 . my only problem is the choice of actor who played the president . i could not take it seriously because the president was played by sledgehammer ! and therefore the film lost a touch of tension for me . overall another vanity project for Douglas after ' the in-laws ' , but it is entertaining and interesting enough to hold your attention . what would have made better for me is that if Douglas and Sutherland switched roles . then the film would have been more believablebut try watching it without thinking of 24 or ' in the line of fire ' and your a better man than me .
just you left Dan . . . . . .	Ben Wade and his gang have just robbed an armed stage coach carrying the Southern Pacific Railroads payroll . They kill everyone on board except Pinkerton guard , Byron McElroy . A poor rancher Dan Evans finds McElroy and take him to Bisbee , Arizona to find a doctor . Ben Wade is in town without his gang and the sheriff immediately surrounds the hotel . Dan distracts Ben Wade , who is captured without a shot being fired . Railroad representative Grayson Butterfield asks for paid volunteers to join McElroy's posse to take Wade to the train station in the town of Contention three days away . The train is due at 3 : 10 , and they must put Wade on the train's prison car bound for Yuma . Once Wade arrives in Yuma , he will receive a quick trial in Federal Court and be hanged . Dan Evans , desperately needing money to save his farm , agrees to help transport Wade to Contention but he must be paid $200 . Wade's right hand man , sees what has happened to Wade , and he goes after the rest of the gang to help liberate Wade . . . . despite the film having a great cast in Crowe and Bale , the stand out in this movie has to be Foster , who once again shows he can do maniacal without going over the top too much . the film does liven up whenever he is on screen and he makes the final battle all the more thrilling to watch . Bale and Crowe are both fantastic , but they could their respective roles in their sleep . and the film doesn't really get going until at least an hour after the beginning . but the cinematography is outstanding , and in some respects , it's the anti Nutch Cassidy and the Sundance , where as in this they are constantly on the run from the bad guys a western style midnight run , if you please . it's hasn't done anything though that will change the western genre good or bad , the film just entertains enough to keep it from running out of steam and the sub plot involving Bales son gives it a human edge . so in the end , nothing mind blowing , but still a great film
if you save a life . . . you are responsible for it .	in this better than average thriller , Nathon Fillion , fills the ghostly shoes of Micheal Keaton , in a film which surprisingly entertains more than the first installment . after seeing his family murdered by cockney actor Craig Fairbrass , Fillion decides to kill himself , but alas he fails and is brought back to life , but just has enough time to see ' the light ' . soon after , he starts to see auras around people , but it turns out that these people are soon to expire . not liking this much , Fillion decides to save the people from impending doom , but there are consequences , for on the third day , the people who he saves decide to go nuts and kill as many people as possible , hence why the cheeky cockney killed his family . so should he decide to go in the same route as the cockney , or sort something out . . . for a film where its predecessor was ratrher mundane and Sixth Sense lite , this movie has a lot to owe Shyalamans other movie with Willis ' unbreakable ' as Fillions characters traits do bear a resemblance to David Dunn . the movie does come with it's obligatory scares and these do start to become tiresome toward the end , but the story is interesting enough to keep you watching until the final reel . surprisingly good .
Phyl and Barb are upstairs sleeping . . . . . . . . . .	It's time for Christmas break , and the sorority sisters make plans for the holiday , but the strange anonymous phone calls are beginning to put them on edge . When Clare disappears , they contact the police , who don't express much concern . Meanwhile Jess is planning to get an abortion , but boyfriend Peter is very much against it . The police finally begin to get concerned when a 13-year-old girl is found dead in the park . They set up a wiretap to the sorority house , but will they be in time to prevent a sorority girl attrition problem ? . . . . . the good thing about this movie is that it isn't your normal formula of a horror movie . for starters none of the girls who live in the house seem particularly vulnerable , as they have very strong characteristics and seem very level headed . secondly , the killer does not seem to have a motive and does not really un-nerve the girls until well into the third act , which by then a lot of them have been killed . what is scary about this is the actual phone calls made by the killer . they are very random and at first are very hard to understand , but if you watch the film with surround sound , they are pretty un-nerving . the cast are all very good , especially Kidder and Saxon who make the film a little more appealing . with some added humor thrown in , and the added tension of the killer being in the house for the majority of the film , this is really good stuff , and probably inspired a lot of stalk and slash films . it's just a shame that the killer line is wasted if you have seen ' when a stranger calls'but a great anti-Christmas film if you're not feeling too festive .
you just dug your own grave . . . . .	Young friends Whitney , Mike , Richie , Amanda , and Wade end up missing in the woods near the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake , after allowing their curiosity to get the better of them and visiting the site where a psychopathic killer resides . Six weeks later , Trent invites friends Jenna , Bree , Chewie , Chelsea , Lawrence , and Nolan to his father's cabin on Crystal Lake for a weekend of sex , booze , pot smoking , and water skiing . However their seemingly fun weekend soon escalates into a nightmare after lone traveller Clay shows up looking for his missing sister Whitney . The police have searched with no luck , and Clay is now searching alone . Local citizens have advised Clay not to go into those woods , because anyone who shows up missing is already dead , and he is wasting his time . During his search , one of the students , Jenna , decides to help Clay find his sister , and they go into the woods . They find the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake and search the dilapidated camp house for any signs of his sister . it's not just a remake of the first chapter of the huge franchise , it also has factors of part 2 and 3 involved in it . we see Jason , wearing the pillow case with the one eye hole , and then later we see him discover the iconic hockey mask . for a remake of a horror movie , it has one of the longest pre credit sequences ever seen , and it is a blessing , because that sequence is the worse part of the movie . the acting is terrible and the score is totally from another movie . after this , we have a surprisingly interesting sub-plot , but stereotypical characters that you will find in numerous other horror movies . it's decidedly gory in parts , and it sticks to the rules that if you have sex , take drugs or are being cheated on , you will get killed . . . no doubt about it . Nispel does a good job with the script and the settings , and there are some great camera angles during the film . but it didn't need to be remade , it won't win the franchise any new fans , but it won't destroy the icon . it's a novel idea for it to be released on the titular date , but this is forgetful stuff , and will soon be forgotten , like a lot of other horror remakes . not a bad remake , with the standards that other remakes have set , buy it's just pointless stuff , good , but pointless .
Peckinpah Resurrected and Oldman in Bronson mode . . .	Summer 1978 : an English couple are going through a difficult patch in their relationship , and so decide to spend the summer in the house that their friends have bought in the north of Spain . Very much off the beaten track , the house seems ideal for some peaceful holidays . But their tranquillity is abruptly shattered when they discover a girl with horribly deformed hands locked away in a cabin in the woods . Filthy and unable to talk , the girl is obviously terrified and so the couple decide to take her to the police . But their attempts to help the girl are hampered by the denseness of the forest , as well as by a group of local villagers who seem determined to keep the girl in atrocious conditions . . . the first thing you think after watching this movie is , Straw Dogs , Deliverance , Southern Comfort , Gary Oldmans moustache and a whole host of other ' Backwoods ' movies . hell , even Wrong Turn went through my mind when watching this ! ! ! Oldman and Considine are great in their respective roles and they are the real reason why i wanted to see this film so bad , it looked god , looked like Oldman was going a bit retro again and so on . but the story is dull and the dialogue is flat throughout , and Ledoyen , who i found to be so effervescent in ' the beach ' looks as if she is on a downer in this , i mean there's relationship problems , but she really was dull in this . the film takes a sadistic turn after two of the locals decide to re-enact straw Dogs , and it all goes a bit messy toward the end . still , if you like the two leads , and love to hear Oldman swear with his great accent , then this is for you .
van damme + bond = bloodsport 2	van dammes directorial debut is funny for all the wrong reasons . basically this is a hybrid of bloodsport , kickboxer and streetfighter of sortsvan damme plays dubois , a man on the run who is conned by james bond to fight for a living . it's not a bad film by no means , but it is a rehash of other van damme moviesthere is some enjoyment to be had . when dobbs meets dubois later in the film he has turned into a tong po sculpture who is basically a killing machine . in these films van dammes opponents are always spectacularly colourful and camp , and as a bonus van damme gets to fight the bloke out of hot chocolate at the end . this film went straight to video in the UK and it is easy to see why . let's hope kumite is a little better .
drive monkey , drive	if are even thinking about renting this movie out , you must be sure that you know that this is a ' Happy Madison ' production , AKA , it had some input from Adam Sandler , then you'll know what to expect . this was the sole reason that i rented this movie out , because once in a while , it doesn't hurt to watch a film that has been criticised by the mass media , but hasn't been advertised to hell , to reap a little profit ( also known as ' epic movie ' ) . i was pleasantly surprised to find that this is another in a long line of funny , because it's so random movies that actually turned out to be a lot more than sight gags and fart noises . the main characters were likable and quite ' normal ' , and with all Sandler produced movies , there are some really gross bits , and some plain stupid bits , but like i aid before , if you like this kind of movie , you won't care what the media has to say about it . the plot is silly enough , a guy gets chucked out of his apartment and has to stay with his grandma who gets stoned with his stash , and then a pretty girl comes to work at his place and really thats all what happens for the first hour , people getting stoned , swearing a lot and playing video games , a real geeks film . expect media and film students to turn their noses up at films like this , but really enjoy it deep , deep , down . remember , it's not a crime to enjoy a dumb comedy once in a while ! with cameos from Rob Schneider and David Spade , it may not make you laugh out loud , but it will leave you smiling .
whats up vanilla face ? ? ?	Kazakhstani TV personality Borat is dispatched to the United States to report on the " greatest country in the world . " after watching ' baywatch ' in his hotel room , Borat becomes more interested in locating and marrying Pamela Anderson than on his assignment , and meets weird and ( sometimes wonderful ) people on his trail of obsession . . . . what Cohen has done here is pure genius . not only has he made a very funny film with some very funny pokes at America , but he seamlessly puts an interesting story in this documentary . the only thing i can say about Cohen is , the man has a lot of guts . along with his racist , anti - semitist , religious and sexist digs , he sometimes does put himself at risk of being assaulted by members of the public . for example , when he is on the subway at the beginning and is threatened by a patron . when he sings the Kazakhstan national anthem to the theme of the USA national anthemwhen he has a naked fight with his producerand when he tries to kidnap Pamela Anderson . after seeing this , the guys from Jackass have a lot to live up to . this is truly gob smacking stuff , with Cohen really breaking the taboo on what can be said and what cannot be . the dinner party scene for example , not only does he insult the guests by calling them retarded and ugly , and bringing a bag of faeces to the table , BUT ! ! ! he invites a prostitute to the party . Gulp ! ! ! there are some scenes that just are simply bad and you feel guilty for laughing , like when he spends the night with the Jewish couple and then run away in the middle of the night . but maybe thats Cohen trying to make us feel guilty for laughing . where the film does fail though is the seen it all before routine . several of the skits he has done on his previous show , and the film has been over hyped a lot . but it still is one of the funniest films in recent history with real genius and does show just how shallow some members of the public can be , and what ignorant opinions they have ( the frat boys , the rodeo guy ) . a film to laugh at and to dissect after . a good , but over rated film .
strike three , you're out ! ! !	after a daring escape from a prison bus , Sam finds refuge in the woods with a tent he bought . one night he gets hungry for a steak , but he already has the steak , but no condiment ! ! instead of going to the local store to buy some , he breaks into Clydies house to borrow it . luckily foe her Sam is now able to protect her and her family from Joss Ackland and Ted Levine , as they will stop at nothing from buying her land and turning it into whatever they desire . a little break from the martial arts movies , this could be classed as Van Dammes first ' dramatic role ' . yes there are fights and silly on liners , but not one round house kick to be seen , which could disappoint his many fans . that's not saying that there is nothing to enjoy from this movie . it references ' shane ' in many scenes and some of the camera-work is beautiful . Van Damme is as wooden as ever , but we all expect that now anyway . the main problem with his , is that the villains are not very villainous . fair enough Levine has a moustache and throws kid around , but would you be convinced that he could stand up against Van Damme ? without roundhouses ? minor plot holes and not very good story aside , if you are a van damme fan like me , you could do a lot worse with 95 minutes . and he jumps on a bike great too .
nobody understands what is out there . . . . .	Robert S . McNamara discusses his experiences and lessons learned during his tenure as Secretary of Defense under John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson . He talks about his work as a bombing statistician during World War II , his brief tenure as president of Ford Motor Company , and the Kennedy administration's triumph during the Cuban Missle Crisis . However , the film focuses primarily on his failures in Vietnam . The theme of the film are his " eleven lessons " learned during this time . Some of these include improving military efficiency , understanding your enemy , and the frustrations of trying to deal with ( and unsuccessfully trying to change ) human nature . . . . the fog of war is basically one man , describing to the audience , the mistakes that were made and how , at 87 years old , he has learned from them , and ' how close ' the world was to nuclear war in the sixties . now this is no big secret to anybody , and the premise of watching a man on screen for 100 minutes talking about this and that doesn't sound appealing , but thanks to a great score by Phillip Glass and some stark imagery , the mundane turns into the tolerable . the film though is poorly edited , and a i feel that there is a ' juicier ' version of the movie out there under lock and key . here is a man with a lot to say , but its just a spin on things we already know .
a sequel that surpasses the previous 2 . expect the impossible .	let's get the cringe worthy moments out of the way . . . . 1 . cruise escaping the IMF HQ to to we are family by sister sledge2 . cruises disguise whilst getting a plane to shanghai . the saint would be proud ! 3 . cruises impression of Stallone in cliffhanger when jumping over the hole on the bridge . look at them jowls shake . 4 . and finally at the end when Julie is trying to revive hunt by using compressions . fair enough the 15 compressions to every 2 breaths is correct , but she wasn't pushing hard enough . lo and behold , using Peri cardial thumps brought hunt to life ! ! ! i was not excited in the least to see this movie after the disaster of mi : 2 especially with woo being one of my favourite directors . having never seen anything by jj Abrams i was even more pessimistic . it's not the best film in the world and the plot does mirror true lies when it comes to cruises home life . even one set piece reminded me from a set piece in true lies . what makes this film work is the characters . cruise is impressive as ever , rhames is reliable as Luther but the standouts are , Rhys Meyers , pegg , fishburne , and Seymour Hoffman . the latter would put any bond villain to shame , this guy does not have a sympathetic bone in his body , and boy does he make cruise pay . the action does make the film sail along quickly , and there are only a hand full of scenes that slow up the pace . if this sort of movie is your thing , then i urge you to see it . you will not be disappointed .
the human torch was denied a bank loan	While Ron Burgundy's rivalry with Veronica Corningstone continues , a group of unprofessional thieves better known as ' The Alarm Clock ' try to make the truth known , whatever that may be . . . everyone knows that this movie is compiled of alternate takes and deleted scenes from the original movie , but in a silly way , it really works as a standalone movie . as expected , the editing and the direction is a little hampered , and the narration is just there to make the film a little more smooth , but there are some truly hilarious scenes in the film . my favourite scene is ' rip the lid ' a little spin off that Burgundy does to get one over Veronica . the scenes between the news-crew are not as good as the original ( as expected ) and there are some parts from the original put into the film , but if you found the original just plain surreal and like this sort of comedy , you could do a lot worse . just make sure you realise that it isn't put together very good , so don't expect a film making master class . it does stay classy though . .
so long and thanks for all the fish . . . . .	Arthur Dent is a British everyman . When he finally meets his perfect woman he balks at her request to go some place and she is then stolen away from him by a man claiming to have his own spaceship arrives at the party . Arthur next finds that his home is to be demolished for a bypass . He thinks it is only his house , but later realises , with the help of Ford Prefect , that his galactic home , Earth , is going to be destroyed as well . Ford and Arthur then catch a ride on a spaceship and are Arthur finds himself on the adventure of a lifetime . He also finds the woman stolen away from him and the man who pilfered her . If Earth can be restored will Arthur want to ease back into his boring life ? the big screen version of the classic sitcom finally hits the big screen over twenty years after first aired , and the results are a little mixed . the first act with Fry narrating is exhilarating and the initial set up and introductions of the characters are really well laid out and fun and exciting . but once Earth is destroyed and they adventure in to the universe , the film falters as it tries to cram the whole of the series into one slimline version , so the story sadly gets puts aside for in jokes and nods to the original series , and a stunningly bad turn from Sam Rockwell as the president of the galaxy . the subplot featuring malkovich is a waste of time , but the film makes up for it with great performances from Freeman and def and some great effects , and it's sense of eccentricity . there is fun to be had whilst watching the movie , but if you are not a fan of the series or the books , you may be disappointed .
operation stupid is officially over . . .	After his father's death , Kale Brecht becomes sullen , withdrawn , and troubled - - so much so that he finds himself under a court-ordered sentence of house arrest after a run in with the law . His mother , Julie , works night and day to support herself and her son , only to be met with indifference and lethargy . The walls of his house begin to close in on Kale . He becomes a voyeur as his interests turn outside the windows of his suburban home towards those of his neighbours , one of which Kale begins to suspect is a serial killer . But , are his suspicions merely the product of cabin fever and his overactive imagination ? a teen riff on Hitchcocks Rear Window , the movie shows again what a great leading man lebeouf will mature into , and what a great supporting actor Morse is . don't go into the film expecting some big twist toward the end . the trailer basically says everything there is you'll need to know , but there is some great fun to be had . the idea of being under house arrest is freaky enough , but then the potential murderer knowing that you are spying on him , thats something . the film is aimed more at the teen market , but this could have been done with an adult in the lead ( i know it was with James Stewart , but it's not ' offically ' a remake ) . the set pieces are tense and aside from a very dodgy soundtrack , this is a very watchable movie , with good support and narration . but the fact that we know who the killer is , adds to the struggle of the main character , and makes the movie a little more satisfying .
i sing what i see . . . . .	A beautiful , wealthy young party girl drops out of Radcliffe in 1965 and heads to New York to become Holly Golightly . When she meets a hungry young artist named Andy Warhol , he promises to make her the star she always wanted to be . And like a super nova she explodes on the New York scene only to find herself slowly lose grip on reality . . . although the film is inaccurate about Warhol and Sedgewicks relationship and each others part of her downfall , you cannot deny that the camera-work is beautiful and the soundtrack marvellous . Miller is good as Sedgewick the poor little rich girl , but is outshone by Pearce as Warhol , who is just simply amazing ( coming only second to Bowie in basquiat ) . the mise en scene is predictably mesmerising and supporting characters differ from interesting to shallow , just like some of the wannabes you may have met in the sixties . but the film is slightly let down by Christensen who is blatantly plays Bob Dylan and makes the film hold back it's steady narrative , in the hands of a director such as Todd Haynes and used a more reliable source , this would have been a triumph . but what we get is just a psychedelic movie , with a predictable , but enjoyable story . would make a great companion piece with ' Velvet Goldmine '
coffee and twinkies . . .	After years of experimentation , brilliant but arrogant scientist Sebastian Caine has discovered a way to make matter invisible . Determined to achieve the ultimate breakthrough , Caine pushes his team to move to the next phase - using himself as the subject . The test is a success , but when the process can't be reversed and Caine seems doomed to future without flesh , he begins to show some unexpected side effects of his extraordinary condition . . let's just get one thing straight , in no way is this film meant to be serious at all . it's a film about an invisible psycho , who can do virtually anything he wants in the nude , without having the embarrassment of being cold in front of people . it's an all out special effects movie , an event movie aimed at adults who just want spectacle , with the added bonus of a good cast . the script isn't very good , and it has very sleazy moments , but coming from the director of ' Showgirls ' and ' Basic Instinct ' what would you expect . the effects are amazing , even nearly nine years down the line , they do not fail to impress , even on blu-ray . Bacon plays the titular role well , and the final third is exciting enough to let you forgive the massive plot-holes in the first two acts . it's not a classic , and it could be analysed and ridicules by a lot of people , but at the end of the day , it's a film about an invisible man . . . what would you expect ?
it was blocking my sun . . . .	" The Condemned " tells the story of Joe Conrad , who is awaiting the death penalty in a corrupt Central American prison . He is " purchased " by a wealthy television producer and taken to a desolate island where he must fight to the death against nine other condemned killers from all corners of the world , with freedom going to the sole survivor . . . . another riff on the big brother life that most most of the population are gripped by in the summer , this is obviously heavily influenced by films such as Battle Royale , The Running Man , No escape , and in some instances surviving the game . the story is pure and simple and the action does remind me of the early nineties action films that starred Lundgren , Seagal and Van Damme , which isn't a bad thing at all . Austen proves that he can act on screen as well as he does in the ring , but unfortunately pushed to the back burner by an amazingly over the top Vinnie Jone . now he isn't the best actor in the world , but this sort of role suits him down to a tee . ex-SAS with a cockney accent and every other word a profane one , he chews to scenery with glee . the moral questions and topical issues about the films content do slow down the proceedings a little , because the majority of the demographic wanting to see this , just want to see a down and dirty action pic , which it does to an extent , deliver . worth watching .
i'm too busy to ignore you . . .	After years of no contact with his Uncle Henry , London banker and bond trader Max Skinner learns that Henry has died intestate , so Max inherits a château and vineyard in Provence . Max spent part of his childhood there , learning maxims and how to win and lose , and honing his killer instinct ( at chess , which serves him well in finance ) . Max goes to France intent on selling the property . He spends a few days there , getting the property ready to show . Memories , a beautiful woman , and a young American who says she's Henry's illegitimate daughter interrupt his plans . . . a good year is a very slow involving , almost black comedy which you wouldn't really associate either Scott or Crowe in a project like this . but like the wondrous cinematography , the film has its charm and is consistently quirky throughout . Crowe is almost convincing as the typical Englishman , but the overuse of traditional English ' swear words ' does drag you a little bit toward the end . but Scott does treat us to some amazing cinematography and shows the skill in his cinematic eye . probably worth seeing on the big screen more than on DVD due to the locations . but the film is well worth watching , even though it's a long way from both Scott's and Crowe's ' vintage ' movies .
27 stitches is ' so what ' . . . .	Mark J . Sheridan was in New York working for his agency to try to find out what the Chinese intelligence is planning . But , out of defending himself , he killed 2 Agents trying to find a mole in the agency . So , he flees to escape from his agency who suspects him of cold blooded murder and espionage . While suffering a car accident in Chicago , Sheridan was arrested and escorted on a prison transport via airplane . Sheridan's plane crashes along the way to prison . When , police do not find Sheridan after the crash , They call upon Chicago's famed U . S . Marshal Samuel Gerard and his team of other Marshals to find and catch him . But , they will soon realise that they will be a part of the mole hunt and Sheridan's own investigation . . . not a sequel to the fugitive , more of a remake , but with the set pieces being changed a little . instead of the train wreck , we have a plane crash , instead of the jump off a dam , we have the swinging on to a moving train . you get the idea . Lee Jones is great again as Gerard and his winning of the Oscar is probably the only reason that this film was made , but it's it's great to see him and his team working again . Snipes is Snipes and Downey Jr . is as good as ever , and some of the script is very witty , thanks to the banter from the titular crew . it's not the best action film out there , but it's one of the better ones released in the late nineties .
Ringo lam , helps van damme ! !	Alain has discovered he has a brother who has just been killed in a bizarre moped accident / hit . the twin was being chased by the shady government officials who were aware of him having a list that implicated them to the Russian mob . on investigating his brothers death , Alain gets mistaken for his brother and enters a cat and mouse game between him , the Russian mafia and the shady government officials . director Ringo Lam took van damme on a bizarre left field journey for his western directorial debut . vandammes two previous films before this were the quest and sudden death , both decent movies in their own right , but it gave the audience what they expected to see , the star fighting and flexing his muscles ( from Brussels ) . there is fighting in this movie , but for once it is pivotal for the movie as , Alain has no chance of escape without the fight . predictably , there is the token hulking bad guy with no dialogue who shows up at crucial parts of the film so van damme can kick some butt so the audience can remember that this is a van damme movie . up until this point , this was probably van dammes most ' serious ' movie , no one liners , no stupid incidental music and no flashy editing . there are a few low points though . Henstridge is just used for eye candy and is useless , the taxi driver ( ala Mel Gibson in conspiracy theory ) is out of place , and there are a few blatant continuity errors . surprisingly , this flopped at the box office , but as i have commented above , this is left field for van damme .
i don't shop here . . . .	A gang of neo-fascist thugs , led by the self-proclaimed ' Night Slasher ' , are breaking into people's homes & cars , then killing them at random . When of of these thugs holds up a food store & takes hostages , Lt . Marian Cobretti - an intense , take-no-prisoners cop , is brought onto the scene to end the hostage-taking . Ranting bizarrely about a ' New World ' , the man levels a sawed-off shotgun at Cobretti , who hits him with a knife , then guns him down when the man refuses to put down his weapon . Later that night , another murder occurs , attributed to the Night Slasher - and the next day , another one . This one is witnessed by a young woman , Ingrid Knutsen . She drives away before the thugs can kill her , but it isn't long before some creepy-looking people start making attempts on her life - and Cobretti's . Cobretti plans to move the only witness to the blood spree upstate , but with inside information , the thugs follow them . And a battle for survival rages between Cobretti and the thugs . . . after rocky IV and Rambo II , it appeared that Stallone could touch any material and turn it into gold . this is a typical eighties actioner , with the main main wearing tight denim jeans , cool shades , chewing on a match and eating minuscule slices of pizza after putting his newspaper in the BBQ . very violent and very scary in places , what makes this movie such fun to watch is one Brian Thompson , who looks quite uncannily like Lundgren and Schwarzennegar , so makes a good adversary for Stallone . car chases ensue , one liners are spat out , and there is a terrific shootout between Stallone and at least 936 villains on motorbikes , who Stallone guns down with no problem . made 10 years later as ' fair game ' with Billy Baldwin and acting magnet Cindy Crawford ( both movies are based on the same novel ) , this could have been ' Beverly hills cop ' if Stallone had made that instead of ' Rhinestone ' . but this was made in the Reagan eras of the eighties , so anything goes and it does , and it is a fantastical film , almost science fiction in some parts , and the final act is played out in some factory straight out of ' T2 ' . not the best film on the planet , but a great one to accompany a six pack with .
she was always in the middle , but never between us . . . .	The Black Dahlia is set in 1940s Los Angeles . Two cops , Bucky Bleichert and his partner , Lee Blanchard , investigate the death of Elizabeth Short , a young woman found brutally murdered . Bucky soon realises that his girlfriend had ties to the deceased , and soon after that , he begins uncovering corruption and conspiracy within the police department . . . . . a great comeback from De Palma , who hasn't made a film this mysterious and interesting since probably ' body double ' . what do expect from De Palma ? great camera-work is all here and sometimes it ' s like watching living art . it is truly some of the best camera-work and cinematography seen in the last year . really dedicating it to a 1940s noir feel gives it the edge , all shadows , and femme fatales , with some superb narration from Hartnett . the cast are very good , especially Kirshner , who is haunting as Elizabeth short . whenever she is on screen , she oozes personality and desperation . a great story , although i have never read the source material , this will please De Palma fans , but maybe confuse the popcorn munchers . so much effort has been put into this production that it needs to be viewed at least twice . a great noir movie
he just made the international sign of the doughnut . . . .	President James Dale of the United States and his right-hand man , Jerry Ross discover that an army of Martian UFOs are hovering around the Earth , and everyone has a different response . Some , like Texan alcohol dealer Art Land and slimy nesman Jason Black , just want to make a profit out of it . Others , such as TV hostess Nathalie Lake , Land's spiritualist wife Barbara , and the Southern - like Norris family , are excited , and some , like Dale's wife , Marsha , and daughter , Taffy , don't care . Richie Norris is extremely intelligent but is only respected by his insane grandmother , while his older brother Billy is favoured for joining the army . General Decker doesn't trust the Martians and insist they fight , but General Casey is more optimistic . The Martians appear to come in peace but suddenly begin to use their super-powerful and technologically advanced weapons to wipe out the population and great structures . Soon , they attack Las Vegas , where the Norrises are living , where former heavyweight champion Byron Williams is visiting , where an obnoxious lawyer is gambling , and where Tom Jones is performing in concerts . . . this film is unfairly overlooked in my opinion , probably due to the fact that it was released so soon after independence day , so audiences probably had their fill of alien movies for a while . but this movie has a wicked sense of humour and has one of the best casts a movie has seen in a while . Burton has made a stupendous movie , which could be classed as anarchic or genius , depending what mood your in , but it's never dull , and can be disturbing at times ( tom Jones acting ? ) if you have not seen this movie , please do , it's funny , eccentric and most of all chaotic , much more memorable than independence day . .
you're siamese queers . . . .	On their first day of high school , two boys , Ryan and Wade , are embarrassed by the fact that they happen to wear the same shirt . Wade sticks up for a smaller fellow geek , Emit Oosterhaus , who is being shoved into a locker by bullies Filkins and Ronnie . As a result the violent bullies Filkins and Ronnie terrorises all three at every chance they get . The trio complain to the principal , but their concerns fall upon deaf ears . Filkins is furious that the boys have squealed on him , and even chases them with a car , apparently to murder them . Wade suggests to his friends that they pool their money together to hire a bodyguard who can protect them . They place an ad on the Internet , and select Drillbit Taylor out of several candidates , mainly because he is the cheapest . Taylor pretends to be a martial arts master and mercenary , but in reality he is just a homeless beggar who sleeps under a picnic table , showers on a public beach , and eats out of a dumpster . His real intention of becoming their bodyguard is to rob them and get enough money to go to Canada and start living there . . . wasn't really looking forward to watching this , as from the trailers it wasn't looking like your typical Wilson comedy . and he soesn't fit the role very well . in fact at times he looks downright uncomfortable , but it's just a small glitch , thanks to the amazing performances from the three young lads , who give the movie it's heart and soul . we've all known kids like this and wanted to take the micky out of them , but this shows them and the audience that the name calling doesn't really bother them , or the fact that the school are laughing at them , it's the fact that the main bully is a complete psycho . it is funny at times and also melancholy too , but it never gets to be laugh out loud funny or never really kicks off until the third act . it's schmaltzy in places too , which won't go down well for some . but worth watching .
she thought she was on candid camera . . .	Örn's daughter is dead because of a rare genetic disease . By this time Erlendur has to find Holdeberg's killer . He has to find out what happened 30 years ago and to connect it with his case and he has another problem . . . His relationships with his daughter . . despite the subject content about rape , and in a subliminal way , child pornography , this cold , very moody film , has some excellent dark humour , that keeps the depressing moments at bay . the film is shot very bleakly , and the viewer does actually feel the cold during some of the scenes , but the narrative is strong throughout , and the plot never gets convoluted . the cast are fantastic , and heaven knows why it took nearly two years to get an official release in england . at points , one feels that there is no connection between the sub-plots but in the end , all the ties are crossed and we are treated to a great thriller , with some bleak scenery and even bleaker characters . recommended
i didn't hire her for her scream . .	This stylish Brian DePalma thriller plays off the theme of the unsuspecting witness who discovers a crime and is thereby put in grave danger , but with a novel twist . Jack is a sound-man who works on " Grade-B " horror movies . Late one evening , he is " sampling " sounds for use on his movies , when he hears something unexpected through his sound equipment and records it . Curiosity gets the better of him when the media become involved , and he begins to unravel the pieces of a nefarious conspiracy . As he struggles to survive against his shadowy enemies and expose the truth , he doesn't know who he can trust . . . DePalma scores another hit with this visually amazing movie that involves the connotations of sound as one of the main points of the film . if it wasn't for the sound or the usual amazing camera-work from De Palma , this would be just you average thriller . As the cast ( apart from Lithgow ) really don't put their all into the movie , and the story can sometimes be your average conspiracy thriller that can be found on any cable channel nowadays . but there is something very tense about the visuals and the sound that hold the audience captivated for the very first act of the film . not one of De Palmas best films , but for a visual and aural experience , check this out .
you look like Robin Williams ' knuckle . . .	Slobby Ben and up and coming career girl Alison meet at a bar , and end up having a one night stand . Eight weeks later , Ben is shocked when Alison meets him and reveals that she is pregnant . Despite having little in common , the two decide that they have to at least try to make some kind of relationship work for the baby's sake . but little hitches keep preventing the couple from finding and telling their true feelings about each over . . . like the 40 year old virgin and this months superbad , knocked up succeeds in its comedy by adding a very human and real element to the proceedings . Ben is a very real everyday guy who gets with , what some people would class as someone ' untouchable ' . he got the girl of his dreams pregnant and this is what makes the story so good and the comedy element so brilliant . but don't expect the humour to come thick and fat like some of the reviews say . this is more of the 21st century ' when harry met sally ' rather than the comedy advertised , another case of great marketing . but it still is a very good film . there are some hilarious lines , typical from Apatow , who uses the same play on words between the male friends like he did in the 40 year old virgin . with quite a touching ( if slightly jaw dropping ) final act , the film is the perfect date movie , and if you are watching this with someone you have been with for a while , don't be surprised if they are not a little broody after seeing this . Apatow has ' concieved ' another great feel-good movie .
ain't nobody king of the street ! !	Two Arkansas firemen , Vince and Don , get hold of a map that leads to a cache of stolen gold in an abandoned factory in East St . Louis . What they don't know is that the factory is in the turf of a local gang , who come by to execute one of their enemies . Vince sees the shooting , the gang spots Vince , and extended mayhem ensues . As Vince and Don try to escape , gang leader King James argues with his subordinate Savon about how to get rid of the trespassers . worth watching if only because ice cube and the other ice steal the film from everybody else . the story is simple , but i think Hill has tried to make it more accessible for the hip hop generation . the action is noisy and some of the set pieces are quite exciting , but i had a sense of deja vu , seeing this after ' judgment night ' . the cast all seem to be having fun , and relish their lines , with a few plot holes remaining , this is nothing but a 90 minute romp . worth seeing for the original use of profanity .
van dammes foray into the big time . .	this is it . a van damme film with a proper story and lo and behold twice the van damage ! ! OK most cynics will say ' it's just another poor martial arts film ' , but i have two things to say . 1 bolo is in it and he is a bad mo fo in this2 van damme fights himself in this and for 1991 that is some achievement ! ! chad and alex wagner are reunited after 25 years of being apart following the brutal murder of there parents . one grows up on the right side of the law and the other the wrong side . you can tell this because the ' bad ' van damme has slicked back hair and smokes . there are some clichés in this film , guns that never run out of bullets and slo mo round house kicks . but isn't that what van damme is famous for ? ? a fun film to watch and the last twenty minutes are excellent . my favourite part of the movie is near the beginning with the Cockney guy who shows van damme on of his ' special kicks ' ! ! !
is this still part of the game ? . . .	Allegra Geller , the leading game designer in the world , is testing her new virtual reality game , eXistenZ with a focus group . As they begin , she is attacked by a fanatic assassin employing a bizarre organic gun . She flees with a young marketing trainee , Ted Piko , who is suddenly assigned as her bodyguard . Unfortunately , her pod , an organic gaming device that contains the only copy of the eXistenZ game program , is damaged . To inspect it , she talks Ted into accepting a gameport in his own body so he can play the game with her . The events leading up to this , and the resulting game lead the pair on a strange adventure where reality and their actions are impossible to determine from either their own or the game's perspective . . . probably Cronenbergs most accessible movie after ' a history of violence ' , the film is immensely erotic , full of phallic symbolism throughout . the story does leave a lot to be desired , and at sometimes the subsidence does have the element of ' what the ? ' but you cannot deny Cronenebergs effort for exploitation and his desire for violence . a good film about sexual perversion , but nothing else
no ones driving that mother ! ! . . . .	Mike , a young teenage boy who has just lost his parents , is afraid to lose his brother . This fear causes him to follow his brother to a funeral , where Mike witnesses the Tall Man lift a coffin on his own . Mike decides to investigate and discovers a horrible world where the Tall Man , along with his flying spheres , shrink the to half their normal size and reanimate them as slaves . It is then up to Mike , his brother , and Reggie the ice cream man to stop the Tall man . . . one of the most bizarre films that i have seen in along time , Phantasm is one film made of dreams , nightmare and possibly drug fuelled hallucinations . nothing is what it seems in the movie , whether it be jump shocks , dreams or nightmares , nothing will prepare you for what you will see . the story is very strange indeed and the script is unfortunately rather cheesy , but the films saving grace are the stunning set pieces the editing , cinematography and of course the tall man . Scrimm gives us plenty of menace as the tall man , who appears out of nowhere at times and can give good chase . one standout scene foe me is hust after the sphere has killed a Hench man , we see the tall man copy Mikes footsteps and give chase , very closely . not the best film in the world , but a very bizarre one that never gets boring , but does become mind-boggling . great visuals though .
the good , they die young . . . . .	Burt Reynolds stars as Gator McClusky , a convict who has just found out that his little brother has been killed by a sheriff because he didn't agree with his world views . released early to spy on moonshiners , Gator will stop at nothing to avenge his brother . . this is by far , one of the best Burt Reynolds movies out there . full of his personality and charm that made him so likable in the late seventies and the early eighties , the film is a mixture of ' deliverance ' with a little bit of ' smokey and the bandit ' thrown in for good measure . for a revenge flick , the plot is very interesting , and the characters are given meat to their story . the action scenes are handled well , but this is Reynolds movie , and he command the movie whenever he is in the scene . with great support and a great soundtrack , this really is a hidden gem .
i maybe blew up their bar . . . .	Doug Madsen is in crisis , bored with his middle-class life and missing his reckless youth when he was known as the Golden Biker . aspirant writer Bobby Davis feels pressed by his wife and hates his job . shy geek computer analyst Dudley Frank is unsuccessful with women . wealthy Woody Stevens is married with a top-model . Together , the four middle-aged friends in their motorcycles self-call the " Wild Hogs " . When Woody loses his wife and is completely broken , he invites his friends to take a road trip to the Pacific , in a quest for freedom . After many incidents , they stop for a beer in a bar owned by the dangerous biker gang " Del Fuegos " . Their tough leader Jack steals Dudley's motorcycle , and Woody decides to recover the bike back . Woody cuts the fuel pipes of the bikes and provokes an accident , exploding their bar , but he does not tell the truth to his friends . When they stop in the small town of Madrid without gas , Dudley falls in love for the waitress and owner of the local bar Maggie . However , the " Del Fuegos " traps them in the town and the " Wild Hogs " have to take a stand . wild hogs is basically City Slickers 3 , with a decidedly bigger cast , budget , explosion , and special guest cameo at the climax . it's trashy , it's badly made and relies a lot on Macy falling off his bikes for laughs , but there is something about this film that is good . the four leads have great chemistry together , and don't ' hog ' all the best lines or try to upstage one another , this is just a good family comedy , with an easy story about people yearning for their younger days , just like most people do . there are no stand out moments and the film has predictable jokes ( some of which are unfunny ) , but it's good to see the likes of Travolta not taking themselves too seriously and enjoying themselves for once . Liotta is good too in his by the book bad guy role ( but to be fair , he's good in almost anything he's in ) . so not to be taken seriously at all , and be prepared for some very embarrassing moments , but be surprised to find a light hearted comedy that isn't as bad as what the critics say .
bang , bang ! ! . . . .	The incredible true story of how an orphaned Jamaican baby , adopted by an elderly white couple and brought up in an all white area of London , became one of the most feared and respected men in Britain . Cass grew up in a time before political correctness and was forced to endure racist bullying on a daily basis , until one day when the years of pent up anger came out in a violent burst . Cass found through violence the respect he never had and became addicted to the buzz of fighting . His way of life finally caught up with him when an attempted assassination on his life , saw him shot three times at point blank range . His inner strength somehow managed to keep him alive but he was left with a dilemma ; whether to seek vengeance as the street had taught him , or renounce his violent past . another real life story about a football hooligan , always goes down well with a certain demographic who like these sort of movies . it's not a bad thing though and the performances hold the story together . some of the usual suspects are here though , Tammer Hassan for one , you will find him in hundreds of these films playing the same role , but he does it well so he's a welcome addition . it tells the story of his life well , never glamorising his life or his acts , and it's quite depressing in some scenes , but this is the eighties , and times were not good for the working class Brit . it's not the best film made , but a film about a football hooligan is never going to please a lot of people , but compared to films such as ' rise of the foot soldier ' and ' essex boys ' , it does stand above the crowd . plus frank Bruno's in it . .
the scrotal zone . . . .	Simon Pegg plays Dennis a chunky , clueless guy , who leaves his pregnant fiancée on their wedding day only to discover - - 5 years later - - that she is his one true love . But in order to win back her heart , he looks to finish his first marathon while making her realise her new man is the wrong guy for her . for all you Pegg fans out there , this is still a very good movie , but please be aware that this isn't anywhere as good as his collaborations with Edgar Wright / Nick Frost . Pegg does have the appeal of a leading man , and his chemistry with McDermott is fantastic , but the film does rely heavily on pratfalling and jokes about ' rashes ' . the story is good and is very fast moving , with some great cameos , particularly David Walliams and Floella Benjamin . it's all predictable stuff and Azaria is really the only weak link in the film , you are practically guessing from the moment you meet him , when he will show his nasty side . but there are laughs to be had and the cake shop scene is truly hilarious , and Schwimmer shows signs of becoming a decent director . well worth a trip .
hope they can keep me alive . . .	Matt Dillon and Kelly Lynch play a heroin-driven Bonnie and Clyde , knocking over drugstores in the Pacific Northwest . Ultimately , they must dispose of the body of one of their crew , sneaking it out from a motel where a sheriffs ' convention is being held . a very well made but ultimately disturbing drama about paranoia , superstition and of course , drug usage . Dillon is in probably his best role to date as bob , the dope fiend whose habit is making him paranoid and un trusting . but the film owes a heavy debt to Rumble fish , especially the connotations of time slowly ticking away evident in the film . the film becomes quite ironic toward the finale but Van Sants glorious camera-work and direction and genius turn of including one William S . Burroughs in a part is a joy to watch . a very difficult film to watch at times , but nevertheless an entertaining ride , and some of the visuals do actually make you feel that you are under the influence . a very trippy experimental movie , with great narration from Dillon
i want some white chocolate . . . .	Seven teenagers retreat to a country house for the weekend to make their epic , an impossibly ambitious Celtic fantasy . As the making of the video drifts from playful hilarity to argument , frustrated ambition and accusation , intimate details seep into the script and the gap between fact and fiction closes , foreshadowing later events . When the group decides to lift the mood with an Acid-inspired initiation , secret dreams and fears are revealed , and pent-up emotions released , with all their youthful intensity and passion . . . . influenced heavily by 1986s ' ' Gothic ' , this film resorts to taking acid and letting people lose their inhibitions . the film is very clever in some scenes and the camera work is eerily Gothic . the characters are not particularly interesting , but one thing that sticks in the back of my head throughout is the philosophy of the characters and the fine line between being under the influence of narcotics and the paranormal . Newton and McCormack are good , but the best part for me is the guy who actually thinks he has a sixth sense . does he ? or is he constantly under the influence throughout , that he is seeing things that he wants to see , that he dreads , but is such a pessimist , he cannot help but see what would make his heart break . quite a difficult film to watch , but a rewarding movie never the less .
how can you shoot a guy taking a dump ?	Tom Ludlow , a veteran LAPD Detective , works in a Special Vice Squad Unit in Los Angeles . Ludlow has been suffering from depression since his wife died . On top of that , his former partner , Detective Terrance Washington is murdered by two gang members . Ludlow goes on a wild and reckless quest through the mean streets of Los Angeles to track them down and get justice for Washington . Captain Jack Wander is Ludlow's supervisor who must keep him from going over the edge and out of the cross-hairs of Internal Affairs Captain James Biggs . . . even though the film is really predictable on an unbelievable scale , there is a lot to like from this little thriller . it's great to see Reeves play against type in an actually good movie , and can come away saying he was quite convincing in parts . of course he still has that whoa ! factor in some scenes , but the scenes he shares with Whitaker and an Impressive Laurie , are the best things about this movie . it's not original in the slightest and it heavily references Serpico , and you can see clearly that Ayer has studied his own Training day and other cop thrillers such as Narc , Dark Blue and even LA confidential to some extent . but there isn't a weak link in the film and the impressive narrative makes the film very entertaining , despite the fact that you know where the film is going from the very first act . but for this is Reeves movie , he is really good as the tortured cop and really convinces as a quite nasty piece of work . if you are looking for a high calibre cop thriller , you may be disappointed , as it's just too predictable , but for a night in when you have nothing else to do .
i'm not sure god knows this place exists . . . . .	in the sequel to last years remake , we have more or less of the same . this time around we have a bunch of soldiers captained by their colonel to go and help some people in ' sector 16 ' . on finding that nearly all of the latter have been brutally killed , they start to plan their way off the treacherous hills of the title . the only problem is , they are not alone , as one by one they are slowly picked off by the mutants living in the mines . . . the problems with sequels is that they never live up to the promise that the original had . the former , directed very well by Aja , had lots going for it . but this was going to have problems from the start . a sequel to the remake of the original which had a very bad sequel to start with ( if you will ) , you could see the punters being out off straightaway . but then if you have seen the trailers , visited the web-site and seen the original remake , you know what to expect . a slim running time is always a benefit for films like this , and this one heads us straight into the action , with the new recruits being sent to sector 16 , you can almost tell which ones will still be breathing come the end credits . you have the foul mouthed ' sarge ' , the fat soldier , the one who thinks he's Rambo and the one who is always looking at videos of her son on her phone . not good things to be or do when you face a bunch of gore hungry mutants . but considering the first film , and the advent of ' hostel ' and ' turistas ' the film isn't as gory as one would expect . in places yes , it is very sick and bloodthirsty , but you would expect the film makers to up the ante on violence and story , to pull the crowds back in . resembling ' the descent ' more than the original , the film can be sometimes claustrophobic and the first act has a very ' dry ' feel to it , you can almost feel dehydrated watching it . the cast are fine in their roles and the make up effects are as good as expected , but the editing isn't up to much and the soundtrack plays the same old ' build up to a fright ' scene . but there are worse films out there than this and if you like horror and are a fan of the original remake , then see it . it's just what you would expect .
wanna play with me now ?	This is the story of an isolated Alaskan town that is plunged into darkness for a month each year when the sun sinks below the horizon . As the last rays of light fade , the town is attacked by a bloodthirsty gang of vampires bent on an uninterrupted orgy of destruction . Only the small town's husband-and-wife Sheriff team stand between the survivors and certain destruction . . . with the source material coming from a great graphic novel , my expectations of the movie were very high . i was not disappointed with the visceral set pieces and the mood the film exhumed throughout , but i was a little disappointed with the ending . if you could imagine a hybrid of Bigelows ' Near Dark ' and Carpenters ' Assault on Precinct 13 ' , then this pretty much sums up the premise of this horror . the thing is with these vampires , they don't get killed by garlic , they don't wait for you to invite you in their house , and they don't have to worry about sunlight , because as the title suggests , they have a free pass for the month . there are some very claustrophobic sets and the performances by one and all stand out , and it could be one of the best vampire movies made this decade . there is plenty of gore , plenty of scares and plenty to think about when you have left the cinema . recommended
you slaaaag , and other profanity . . .	Rise of the Footsoldier follows the inexorable rise of Carlton Leach from one of the most feared generals of the football terraces to becoming a member of a notorious gang of criminals who rampaged their way through London and Essex in the late eighties and early nineties . It is three decades of his life following him from football hooliganism , through to his burgeoning career as a bouncer , his involvement in the criminal aspects of the early ' rave ' scene and subsequently to his rise to power as one of the most feared and respected criminals in the country . The story concludes with three members of his firm being brutally murdered in the infamous shot-gun slaying at Rettenden . the reviews were awful and the film had a limited release in cinemas , but there was something about this movie that i just had to see . if are a fan of the ' movies ' by Nick Love , then you will love this slice of gangster Brit cinema . it is extremely violent and i think it's trying to break the world record for the most swear words in a movie , but it's interesting and the characters are all two dimensional hooligans , who are always ' having some ' . but the main problem about the film is that the protagonist Carlton , is sidestepped toward the end of the second act in favour of Fairbrass and Murray ( two eastenders veterans ) . it's funny to watch though , and that is what makes the film a reasonable watch , it's trying very hard to be like Alan Clarkes ' the Firm ' and then goes straight for the guy Ritchie approach for the final act . but at least it's a damn sight better than ' Essex Boys ' and a slew of British releases over the past few years . the film still leaves some questions unanswered , and those in the ' know ' will find nothing refreshing in this film , other than the inventiveness of a pizza slicer . if you like films with lots of violence , music that points out the year that the film is set , swearing and Reece Dinsdale with a pony tail , then you could do far worse than this . but if you don't , you won't . not a bad film , but leaving the main character out of the frame in the last act is a silly mistake .
i was making a sandwich . . . .	the unluckiest man in the world is back on screen , and this time , he is taking his little step daughter with him , after failing to come back from an unconvincing cardiac arrest , following a lethal cocaine overdose . this obviously irks Bronson , so he starts to look for the bad guys , but this time he has an accomplice , in the guise of a shadowy figure , who gives Kersey directions and weapons , to seek justice . including exploding wine bottles , massive rifles and even cheesier one liners , but a great leather jacket . what amazes me about Kersey is that he doesn't stop , even though he has lost so many close relatives , he still finds the time to go to work , kill the bad guys and even comfort his grieving wife ? yes the film is silly , and the plot nonsensical , but you cannot deny the enjoyment of watching a lethargic old man , kick bearded drug barons asses , whilst still being able yo carry an almighty weapon and run , run , run . the film gets sillier as it draws to its conclusion , but it is still watchable throughout , and for an effort from cannon , is pure eighties cheese . it doesn't do the original any favours , but it's best to ignore the fact that this has any older relatives , and treat it as a stand alone film . fits into the ' so bad it's good ' cliché ' easily .
i've killed a sow with my car . . .	Anderson is a man whose fiancée ' dies straight after he proposes to her . a year goes past and he still has not got over her and has made himself virtually a recluse . then one day while he is having breakfast in a diner , he sees Katie across the crowded diner , and when she comes over to him , he just proposes to her on the spot and she accepts , despite being proposed to the night before . ignore all the media hype and the advertising , this isn't another American Pie cast off despite the trailer or the ad campaign , yes it has gross out moments ( what comedy doesn't ) , but they are few and far between and are genuinely funny when they happen . the bottom line of this film is trying to show us that love at first sight is a reality and you can find your soul mate without trying hard at all . Biggs and Fischer make a fantastic couple on screen , and have some great chemistry together . but with films like this , it's the supporting cast who get all the big laughs , especially Andersons highly sexed parents , who are really funny and not overused in this film , they probably have no more than five scenes on screen . Pantoliano is good in his role , but i feel it's a role that did not need to be in a film like this , but he's fun never the less . it's light hearted and very romantic , showing that Hollywood can still make comedies without the use of human excrement .
stop cussing , and go home . . .	2035 , and the community now has the help of robots . These robots have three laws integrated into their system . One , they cannot harm a human being or , through inaction , allow a human being to come to harm . Two , they must do whatever they're told by a human being as long as such orders don't conflict with law one . Three , they have to defend themselves as long as such defence doesn't conflict with laws one or two . One day , the writer of the three laws , Alfred Lanning , apparently jumps out of the tenth-floor window of U . S . Robotics . The majority of the Chicago Police Department believe that he committed suicide , but Detective Del Spooner , who hates robots , thinks he was murdered , and the number one suspect is a Nestor Class-5 robot who calls himself Sonny . However , if it was Sonny , then that means he would've had to have broken the three laws . With the help of Dr . Susan Calvin , Spooner must now discover the truth before it's too late . . one of the better blockbusters starring Smith , this one actually has an interesting story , and some unbelievable set pieces . but with films such as Minority Report and Children of Men , its the attention to detail that gives the film a little bit more than your average summer blockbuster . Smith does make good movies , but they are usually no brainers ( with the exception of films such as Ali and Six degrees of Separation ) and its refreshing to see him play a character that has demons rather than a typical action hero who just spouts out one liners every now and again . Proyas directs with flair , but lacks the original stark imagery shown in his previous works ' The Crow ' and ' Dark City ' . but the special effects are some of the best seen on the big screen and Sonny is almost as believable as del Spooner . a good sci-fi movie with obvious ploy holes , but it's good to see Smith play his tough guy role with a little difference .
drink , Anne Drink ! ! ! ! . . . .	Alex is a vampire who has been alone for many a century . he yearns for his lost love Virginia and often reminisces about her . when a young girl by the name of Anne begins to work at the library where Alex reads , he cannot help but notice the stark resemblance to her and Virginia . they become friends , but Alex cannot resist hi urges and kills during the London nighttime and it soon makes the news . as their friendship progresses , a shady character called Edgar comes into the spotlight and reveals some startling truths to Anne about Alex . . . . a typical nineties movie , this is all style over substance , yet it holds the viewers attention for it's running time . the story is basically a small take on Stokers classic . Vampire walks the earth pining for his lost love , and then someone who looks like her comes into the proceedings . the cast are fine , especially the three leads , and the story is very easy to follow , but what makes this stand out from other vampire movies is it's stark visuals and haunting soundtrack . sometimes the movie is somewhat depressing , and makes you feel bad to watch it , but you cannot take your eyes off the screen . if you are into films like blade and John Carpenters Vampires , then stay away from this , you will hate it . but if you like the legend of Dracula and are interested in ' arthouse ' movies , then this is for you .
mouths closed , and ears open . . .	Wealthy businessman Ross Webster discovers the hidden talents of Gus Gorman , a mischievous computer genius . Ross decides to abuse his talents , in a way to help Webster with his plans for economic control . When the man of steel interferes , something must be done about him . When Gus ' synthetic Kryptonite fails to kill Superman , it turns him in an evil incarnation of his former self . The tar-laced Kryptonite pits man against himself , setting up the Clark vs . Superman battle . . . . this is the point of the original series when it turned itself into a parody , but not that it ' s a bad thing . the opening sequence is hilarious with the blind man and the man drowning , but watching movies like ' the donner cut ' kinds of makes this film a little too parodical . but the standout scene in this is the second act when Reeve turns bad . Reeve makes an amazing transformation , as we were all used by now to seeing him as the all-American nice guy who would do anything for anyone . but him as ' bad superman ' darker costume and all , has to be up there with the ' zod battle ' in II , to be a standout sequence in the series . but really that is really all that is good about the film . the plot is basically a rip-off of a James bond film , and it feels as if the movie was made a Richard Pryor vehicle ( even though he is funny in this movie ) . the final act featuring the ' super-computer ' is absurd and the robot , beggars belief . but then this is the world of Superman , and anything can happen . even a fourth can be made !
do him , he's yours . . . . .	In 1997 , before the visit of the pope to Rio de Janeiro , Captain Nascimento from BOPE ( Special Police Operation Battalion ) is assigned to eliminate the risks of the drug dealers in a dangerous slum nearby where the pope intends to be lodged . Captain Nascimento is trying to find a man to replace him because his wife is pregnant and he intends to quit the command and become a trainer of the new recruits . Meanwhile , the two idealistic friends Neto and Matias join the Military Police force expecting to become honest policemen and fight the criminals . However , they see only corruption , lack of competence and stupid bureaucracy in the Military Police , and after a serious incident in the Morro da Babilônia , they decide to join the BOPE . The lives of Capitain Nascimento , Neto and Matias are entwined along the next months , first in the tough training period and then in action against drug dealers . Nascimento believes that Neto could be his substitute , but his impulsive attitudes jeopardises his choice . Later , the intelligent Matias seems to be the correct choice , but he needs to prove that he has heart . . . . . although the film starts off very slow , this rashomon / serpico ' based on fact story ' is very harsh and very gritty to watch . the camera-work takes you right into the middle of the action as we trawl through the slums of Rio . if there was ever one film that would put you off visiting Brazil , this is the one . although this isn't the triumph that ' city of god ' was , it's a bleaker , darker view of both sides of the law . in this world , no one is safe and you can feel the tension on screen . a great story , with a cracking script and some wonderful performances ' elite squad ' can be very difficult to watch with it's complex flashbacks and narrative , but it delivers it's story with a bang .
i wanna play a game . . . .	Jigsaw has disappeared . Now aided by his new apprentice Amanda , the puppet-master behind the cruel , intricate games that have terrified a community and baffled police has once again eluded capture and vanished . While city detectives scramble to locate him , Dr . Lynn Denlon is unaware that she is about to become the latest pawn on his vicious chessboard . One night , after finishing a shift at her hospital , Lynn is kidnapped by the deranged Amanda and taken to an abandoned warehouse where she meets Jigsaw , who's now bedridden and on the verge of death . Lynn is told that she must keep the madman alive for as long as it takes Jeff , another of his victims , to complete a game of his own . Racing against the ticking clock of Jigsaw's own heartbeat , Lynn and Jeff struggle to make it through each of their vicious tests , unaware that Jigsaw and Amanda have a much bigger plan for both of them . . . after the average second instalment ( basically a rip off of ' house of nine ' ) i wasn't expecting much from this third movies as it had been released too soon since the previous . how surprised i was to find an enjoyable thriller with such a brilliant twist at the end . yes the film is very explicit and the torture scenes are very inventive , but we all expect this now from jigsaw . the only problem with this , is that there is not much character development put into the writing . it's a case of set up and execution . but the cast do well with the material given and it can be very effective at times . recommended
won't you play with us ?	Clementine is finishing her day of teaching the local kids French . On her way home she spots an abandoned vehicle beside the road . She continues on unaware of what happened to its occupants , a mother and her teenage daughter , the night before . Not that it matters , as tonight , along with her writer beau Lucas , she'll find out first hand . They're awakened during the night by strange phone calls and the TV downstairs being turned onbut this is only beginning of their night of terror as the phone lines go dead , the power goes out and their car goes missing , as they're stalked and set upon by the unknown assailants trying to get to them . . . . supposedly inspired by true events , this film suffers from a rating overload on the DVD cover . i counted seven Absolutely amazing reviews from trusted media and decided to give it a go . despite the film and the set up being really good and inspired , the film just isn't scary for me . the two leads do their best to look scared and concerned , and the directors do a good job of keeping the assailants under wraps until the very end . at the short running time , the film never lets up though and keeps the viewer entertained throughout , but unless you are watching this in the middle of nowhere alone , it isn't scary . one of the main reasons is because , the scares are quite predictable , if you have seen plenty of horror films ( not that this could be classed as horror though ) . a good thriller with a good ending , but advertising have put the film in the wrong category
a two bagger . . . .	Tank is put to the ultimate friendship test when his best friend Dustin hires him to take his ex-girlfriend Alexis on a lousy date just to show her how great her former boyfriend is . When Alexis finds Tank more fascinating she decides that she wants Tank , and wants to take him to a wedding instead of Dustin . Dustin tries to become more like Tank in an attempt to get Alexis back . In the meantime , Tank is trying to make Alexis like Dustin again , but Dustin is trying to mess up the wedding and ruin Tank's and Alexis's relationship at the same time . . . i cannot believe how many people have been negative about this movie . sure , it's not the greatest thing to be released , but the thing is , i actually think Dane Cook is quite funny , in a sarcastic bitter sort of way , and even though he is not well known in the UK , his comedies make me laugh and add a bit of sunshine to my day . it's basically the anti-Hitch movie , the plot is thin and predictable and it includes some corny scenes , but the principal cast make the film watchable and sometimes , endearing . kudos to Baldwin though , who steals the film from everyone , and i couldn't help but notice how much Hudson looks like her mum these days . throw away stuff , but enjoyable all the same .
the voices sound the same	robin williams stars in this movie , supposedly inspired by true events that occurred around 1991 . williams plays a night DJ , who befriends a fourteen year old boy after reading a novel , inspired by the boys life whilst being abused . the boy is sick , according to his guardian , and regularly attends hospital . when being involved with one of the conversations between Gabriel and Pete and also Donna , Gabriels boyfriend Jess comments on how alike pete and donna sound . it then dawns on gabriel that nobody has ever seen Pete , they have all just spoken to him on the phone . Gabriel travels to where Donna lives and trys to see Pete for himself . . on the DVD cover this film is stated as the new sixth sense , which i feel is very unfair , as there is no super-natural element to the film , and the only hing this film has in commen with the sixth sense , is the fact that toni collette is in it . this film deals more with the subject of mental health , and how far people will go to keeping a lie , and using it to gain friends and influence people . Williams is again excellent in a very serious role , but the character was written very tame . Gabriel never really stands up for himself throughoyut the movie and runs off at inappropriate moments ( such as when he is in the hospital ) , but i feel that this is to add to the tension . the film is very short and could have done with being at least another twenty minutes long , to cover some more of the supporting characters but it tells the story satisfactory and doesn't rely on a screeching soundtrack and cheap scares . all in all a pretty decent thriiler , that will be misunderstood due to the stupid comparison to the sixth sense .
it's thriller ! . . . .	After total humiliation at her thirteenth birthday party , Jenna Rink wants to just hide until she's thirty . Thanks to some wishing dust , Jenna's prayer has been answered . With a knockout body , a dream apartment , a fabulous wardrobe , an athlete boyfriend , a dream job , and superstar friends , this can't be a better life . Unfortunately , Jenna realises that this is not what she wanted . The only one that she needs is her childhood best friend , Matt , a boy that she thought destroyed her party . But when she finds him , he's a grown up , and not the same person that she knew . . . . a blatant rehash of big , this film is the girls own version , and even though i hate myself for saying it , i loved every minute of the thing . Garner is perfect in her role , all innocent , and even robot like coming to terms with her wish coming true . it's all predictable stuff , but it's such a happy film you can't helped but be sucked into the narrative of it all . it has a great soundtrack , great support and a soppy ending that will put a smile on most peoples faces . a guilty pleasure . for sure .
do you hear that expression being kissed by god ?	finally after what seems like eons ago , Berry gives a great performance alongside Del Toro in this very disturbing , but at the same time comforting movie . Del Toro acts Berry off the screen in what has to be one of his best performances to date , and the narration runs smoothly , even though we are treated to flashbacks almost every ten minutes . Duchovny puts in a career best performance as the deceased and dealing with the fact that his death was sudden and his best friend is a heroin addict , adds to Berrys brave performance . unfairly treated by critics , this film raises a lot of important issues , and although not all of them are answered , this is a very good , if sometimes very hard to watch movie .
daddy says her name is ' whoops ! ! ' . . .	After their wedding , newspaper writers John and Jennifer Grogan move to Florida . In an attempt to stall Jennifer's " biological clock " , John gives her a puppy . While the puppy Marley grows into a 100 pound dog , he loses none of his puppy energy or rambunctiousness . Meanwhile , Marley gains no self-discipline . Marley's antics give John rich material for his newspaper column . As the Grogans mature and have children of their own , Marley continues to test everyone's patience by acting like the world's most impulsive dog . . . . if you know what to expect from this film , like all the tabloid reviewers say , take some tissues . it's a saccharine sweet comedy , certainly not for diabetics , but it has something a little more than other ' dog ' movies have , it's plot follows the the family and their trials and tribulations more than the dogs aberrant behaviour . Wilson puts in a very restraint performance and Aniston is rather good for someone out of Friends , and this shows that she still is the most successful out of the Sitcoms stars . it's not laugh out loud funny , and it's not trying to force feed you life lessons , it's just a fun film to watch , and showing you that the grass isn't always greener , when you think that person has everything ( see Wilsons friend , who uses his child to pull women ) . a great date movie .
a sitting duck . . . .	New York cop John McClane is in the wrong place at the wrong time - this time he's waiting for his wife's plane to arrive at Washington's Dulles Airport when he uncovers a plot to sabotage the airport's landing system . The criminals wish to free a drug baron being extradited to America for trial by holding the airport to ransom until they all safely escape on another plane . However , if they'd known that Holly McClane was on a flight home to the very airport they were hijacking , they would have picked another day . . . . the second in the die hard movies has all the elements that made the first film work so well . a perilous situation , the jobsworth cop who won't help the hero , Al Powell , the wife in danger , and of course John McClane and a barrel of one liners . the only thing that this movie is missing is a decent villain . okay , Stuart , is ruthless and can give McClane a run for his money , but after the fantastic turn by Rickman in the original , Stuart doesn't hold a candle to him . but the set pieces are there , and there are some really standout moments in the film . the snow-ski chasethe final fight on the wing of the planeMcClane ejecting himself from an exploding plane . but it just all feels a little bit empty . Willis again is amazing as McClane all jokes and guns blazing , and is supported well by Atherton , Bedelia , Amos , Nero , Franz , and of course the mighty Atherton returns as Thornburg , who adds a little light relief . it is also fun to spot the up and coming stars such as Patrick , Leguizamo and Meaney among others . the direction is a little lame and considering that it was helmed by Harlin , it's easy to understand . but it's still a great movie and a great entry into the franchise . well worth seeing .
step away from the bicycle . . . . .	Edward Malus gets a letter from his ex-girlfriend stating that her daughter is missing in the island of summersilse . Malus is currently on medication and receiving counselling , following a tragic accident in which he failed to rescue a young girl and her mother from a burning car , and keeps having recurring flashbacks and dreams about the incident . travelling to the island , Malus is shocked to find to dwellers on the island living under the spell of sister summersisle and her beliefs . nobody wants to help him in his cause and only Willow , Malus ' ex seems bothered about the girls disappearance . he struggles to keep his sanity whilst on the island , coming up against a brick wall every time he has a break through on the whereabouts of the missing girl . but the reason , unbeknown to him , why he is on the island , is far more sinister than what he could ever imagine . . . . in this remake of the classic original , Cage plays Edward Malus ( obviously a reference to the original star , Woodward ) , a man who has a lot of problems , but a great jacket . this movie had failure written all over it from the start . i remember cringing at the trailer , hearing Cage shouting out ' oh god ! ' made me want to curl up and die . but i was intrigued , intrigued to see how bad this movie actually is . and yes , it is very bad , but has a lot of charm to it . the script is awful and sometimes laughable , and this has to be Cages ' worst film yet ( think Raines from gone in sixty seconds with Goodspeed from the rock , and you're almost there . not a good combination for a horror ) . he spends most of the time looking puzzled and confused . there are several laugh out loud moments . . . . all involving Cage . . . threatening to shoot a woman if she doesn't get off a bike . running around in a bear outfitpunching a woman for no good reasonkicking a woman against a wallevery time he uses the word ' murder'and calling a class of schoolgirls a ' bunch of liars'but this is why it is so enjoyable . if you have seen the original , you know what to expect . but with the original , it had the eerie quality of Christianity versus paganism , with the electric performance of Christopher Lee . in this version it's basically , Women are better than men , so there . but the running time does go quick and there are some changes to the original , but nothing that will trouble it . the rest of the cast are as poor as cage , and director LaBute does the old ' jump shock tactics ' now and again , and even a dream within a dream sequence . when watching this , you can tell by the look on Cages face that he has made a big mistake in signing up for this , and you start to wonder if this is the man who was in such gems as ' leaving las Vegas ' face / off ' and ' rasing Arizona ' . a bad film on all accounts , but no where as near as bad as what the critics have said .
whats it all about ?	two extremely clever British men in a game of trickery and deceit . Andrew Wyke , an ageing famous author who lives alone in a high-tech mansion , after his wife Maggie has left him for a younger man . and Milo Tindle , an aspiring actor , equipped with charm and wit , who demonstrates both qualities once again . When Wyke invite Tindle to his mansion , Tindle seeks to convince the former into letting his wife go by signing the divorce paper . However , Wyke seems far more interested in playing mind games with his wife's new lover , and lures him into a series of actions he thoroughly planned in seeking revenge on his unfaithful spouse . . Branagh has taken a noughties spin on the 1970's classic and made almost a complete balls up of it . yes the film is very taught with just the two stars in the film , but it soon becomes tiresome in the second half of the film , and the random homosexual undertones toward the end just do no not seem to fit right . Caine is great as Wyke and makes the character his own , instead of pinching Oliviers act . as for Law , at first he is very good , but becomes to camp and hammy toward the end , and would somebody please tell the make up artist , it's too bloody obvious who the cop is ! ! worth watching , but not a patch on the original , but what a fantastic set , which is a character in its own right .
schools out . . . .	The despicable Ramon Cota has murdered an innocent mother and child and is exporting illegal drugs into the USA . When Colonel Scott McCoy and his sworn partner attempt to bring him to court , their efforts are all in vain , as he is let off virtually Scott free . Unable to contain his rage , Scott's buddy furiously lashes out at him in court , to Cota's anger . He exacts the same ritual on his wife and child as he did on the previous mother and kid . Out on a personal mission of vengeance , the buddy finds himself mercilessly killed at Cota's hands . When an arsenal of soldiers attempt to go in and bring Cota and his army down , they are taken hostage , surely to be executed soon . McCoy leads a brigade of skydiving commandos in , along with himself , to rescue the hostages and exact violent revenge upon Cota . . . probably the last high profile movie that Norris was in , this has everything a Norris fan could wish for . Angry NorrisSarcastic NorrisCheeky NorrisRambo NorrisBilly Drago chews up scenery probably as much as his hair needs grease throughout . you can tell he is a dodgy character , not because he has a gas chamber in his lounge , not because he murders people without remorse , it's because he drinks juice from a wine glass , pure evil . the henchmen are also the most evil creations known to man , see their wardrobe and their Mullets . . . . shudder . it's pure drivel all the way through , but it's well made and has some bizarre characters , the bizarre verging on psychopathic American general who laughs every time he gets the okay to infiltrate Colombia , and of course Norris , who even though has lost his best friend and is on his own , still manages to keep one expression on his face throughout the film , teach a bad guy a lesson in the most distasteful bedroom ever , and have a chat with a snake whilst climbing up a mountain . on a more serious note , this does owe a lot to Rambo 2 and commando , but it somehow works and keeps the viewer entertained throughout . if your a Norris fan , it's a must .
woosah . . .	Mike Lowrey and Marcus Burnett , who are part of the Miami PD's Tactical Narcotics Team ( TNT ) , still don't always get along , and now they're keeping secrets from each other . Mike's secret is that he's been seeing Marcus ' sister , Sydney " Syd " Burnett , a reported paper pusher for the DEA's New York office . Marcus's secret is that he has asked for a transfer , because he wants to spend more time with his family , and less time with Mike . That's all set aside when their boss , Captain Howard , assigns them to stop the flow of record amounts of ecstasy into the city . This puts Mike and Marcus on the trail of the most dangerous enemy that they have ever faced . . . overblown , over the top , and Way too long , Michael Bay , has made aballsy sequel to 1995s summer hit . the thing is though its still really enjoyable to watch and one cannot deny the chemistry between Lawrence and Smith . Bruckheimer knows how to to do set pieces , and in this movie they are stupendous , expensive but wonderful to watch . the story itself isn't up to much , but if you're going to see this , you know what just to expect . Bay could make the worst city in the world look polished and although the film is about twenty minutes too long , and very racially charged in parts , there's no denying the entertainment value in this . well worth watching .
i just killed your brother . . . .	Robert Rath ( Sylvester Stallone ) is a seasoned hit-man who just wants out of the business with no back talk . But , as things go , it ain't so easy . A younger , peppier assassin named Bain ( Antonio Banderas ) is having a field day trying to kill said older assassin . Rath teams up with a computer hacker named Electra ( Julianne Moore ) to defeat the obsessed Bain . . . a Richard Donner film with a difference , it takes itself very seriously at times , and it is a really good thriller as a result of this . Stallone is good as the lead but isn't given much new to do , and Moore doesn't quite fit her role , but Banderas makes the movie his by playing Bain way over the top . he is an absolutely cheesy villain , but fits into the film well . the story is okay but nothing new , and the gunfights are given a breath of fresh air , as the majority of them are using silencers . the set pieces are pure Silver trademarks , but toned down as their are only two major explosions in the film to talk of . the final gunfight is exhilarating , but this is more of a drama than an action movie , thats probably why it tanked at the box office . well worth seeing .
The warrior uses whatever is closest to hand . . . . . .	Sean Kane is forced to resign from the San Francisco Police Department's Narcotics Division when he goes berserk after his partner is murdered . He decides to fight alone and follows a trail of drug traffickers into unexpected high places . . . right important things out of the way first . Norris has no facial hair in this movie , but he does have a dog called Mort who trys to mount him when ever Norris has Flashbacks . the film is your basic revenge flick about an average cop who has thrown his badge and gun in , but has built his own house , owns a sports car and a speedboat . he also has a comedy sidekick in the form of Mako who criticises Norris ' martial arts and lack of facial expression . there also features a great end of level boss too in professor Tou Tanaka , who has a stumpy foot , but the ability to hang human beings on coat hooks . no real exciting plot points , the usual corrupt cops , rich bad guys and the hero foiling their every move . if you are a Norris fan , then this is a must , because it does deliver some great action and is quit gritty in places . stupid dumb fun .
you're ' Be-Awesome ' . . . . . . .	Bolt , an American White Shepherd , has lived his whole life on the set of his action TV show , where he believes he has superpowers . When separated from the studio by accident , he meets a female alley cat named Mittens and a hamster named Rhino . Along the way , he learns that he doesn't have superpowers and that the show is not real . . . a great idea for a movie , which is made very well , and for once fun for all the family as it features a lovable dog , good voice work from all those concerned , and some very exciting moments in the film , particularly the opener . never got to see this in 3-D though , but i don't think it would really add anything new to the film , and 2-D is excellent , as is the animation . it's not laugh out loud funny , and the whole affair is pretty predictable , but it's a fun flick , without many life lessons thrown at your face , and not too much of a sickly sweet ending . worth watching
you are the pathfinder . . . .	the film tells the story about Ghost , a child who was found by the original Pathfinder . years later , his village is attacked by his original families clan , and he takes a stand ( sound familiar ? ) . so begins a quest in torrential weather and conditions , which takes Ghosts abilities to the limits , and also Nispels . . . well i was having flashbacks when watching this movie , more or less the 13th warrior , highlander , and the sword and the sorcerer . but who can hate a film that has more than it's fair share of decapitations and limb lopping in the first act ? Urban doesn't do much in this film but grunt and say the odd line , but what we want is battles , and the battles do come thick , but not necessarily fast . Nispael has done a good job of the cinematography and layout of the movie , but the story is sorrily predictable and full of clichés . there are a few standout sequences ( the sled scene is hilarious ) and the battles are decidedly gory , but the whole thing makes you feel a little empty . nowhere near as bad as what it has been made out to be , but there is room for improvement . but with a 26 million budget , it does impress .
oh Danny boy , Danny Danny Danny boy . . .	Danny and Wheeler are two salesmen who trash a company truck on an energy drink-fuelled bender . Upon their arrest , the court gives them a choice : do hard time or spend 150 hours with a mentor-ship program . After one day with the kids , however , jail doesn't look half bad . Once the centre's ex-con director gives them an ultimatum , Danny and Wheeler are forced to tailor their brand of immature wisdom to their charges , Augie and Ronnie . And if they can just make it through probation without getting thrown in jail , the world's worst role models will prove that , sometimes , it takes a village idiot to raise a child . . . the premise of the film isn't exactly the most inviting one i've seen in a while , but down to the two leads and great support , what could have been a quite dodgy comedy , turns out to be sometimes a really funny slice of entertainment . it's not going to be remembered in years to come , and won't do much for the stars CV's , but at times , the plain silliness of it all just makes it more endearing . it's predictable , without being too in your face and it's dirty without being gross out . it has the right amount of ' sweet bits ' to not make it schmaltzy , so all in all it's not a bad movie .
door or window , it's your choice .	Jonathan Hemlock is a college professor , but has a shady past as a hired assassin . the hits were known as ' sanctions ' and Hemlock is forced to come out of retirement due to a missing microfilm . his friend was killed carrying the microfilm and shady boss ' dragon ' promises Hemlock a lot of money and papers that will prove that he owns his paintings . the hit needs to be done during the climbing of the north face of the Eiger , a climb that hemlock has failed twice . but with training from his friend and a lot of Eastwood staring , he may just do it . but there is a rat in the mixture and hemlock is unsure of what to do . a rare underrated film from director / star Eastwod . this has all the elements of classic Eastwood , jazz music , great camera shots , but at the end of the day Eastwood has giving himself all the best lines and all of the action and girls . think of a cross between bond and Indiana Jones and you have Hemlocks character . the story is very good , but sometimes the narrative veers of on a tangent and can leave the viewer a little confused . the training is great and is a standout in the movie and Eastwood and Kennedy are like old friends playing their roles . a great film with some very bizarre characters and one of Eastwood's most overlooked movies .
this is his legacy . . . .	Somehow immune , Neville is now the last human survivor in what is left of New York City and maybe the world . For three years , Neville has faithfully sent out daily radio messages , desperate to find any other survivors who might be out there . But he is not alone . Mutant victims of the plague - - The Infected - - lurk in the shadows . . . watching Neville's every move . . . waiting for him to make a fatal mistake . Perhaps mankind's last , best hope , Neville is driven by only one remaining mission : to find a way to reverse the effects of the virus using his own immune blood . But he knows he is outnumbered . . . and quickly running out of time . . . in a way , Smith reprises his role as Del Spooner from I , Robot , but thats not a criticism of smith , he plays the straight role very good , and when your the main focus of the film for 90 % of the time it does raise the pluses for the movie . those of you looking for an all out si-fi actioner or film with wisecracks , will be sorely disappointed , this is a very tense and sometimes very emotional film to watch , with an eerie sense of the melancholy throughout . in some scenes , what Smith does in this film what he would do in the ordinary world , he would be committed , but here , he seems perfectly normal . the film is very dark at times , and can be quite scary , but the budget is well spent as the sets are fantastic and give the earth one of the best dystopian feels since maybe Blade Runner . the film keeps us interesting because the narrative does not follow the story , so we find out what happened before in different moments in the film . it's a refreshing feeling to see a big budget film , that deals with emotions and more importantly story , rather than concentrating on spectacle .
when he died , a part of me died . . . .	Heavyweight boxing champion Rocky Balboa accompanies Apollo Creed , who will be in a match against Ivan Drago , a Russian boxer who has been scientifically trained , using high tech equipment . When Drago kills Apollo in the match , Rocky blames himself for Apollo's death , and promises to get revenge on Drago in the ring , in the name of Apollo and the United States . Against the wishes of his wife Adrian , Rocky is off to the USSR to take on Drago , and hires Apollo's former manager Duke to help him prepare for the fight . While Drago enhances his amazing punching power using high-tech equipment , Rocky toughens up under the guidance of Duke in a compound in the frozen Soviet countryside , with his mind set on destroying Drago . . . . in the fourth of the spectacular series , Srallone aims for the MTV generation , and Ronald Reagan . having already scored a hit earlier in the year with Rambo : First Blood part II , Stallone returns to the screen with his most famous incarnation . Probably the most insane entry into the series , Rocky IV still does not fail to get the blood pumping and the adrenaline rushing . yes , it is silly and patriotic , but you cannot help but cheer for the Italian stallion . all the main characters have some kind of speech , be it Duke , Paulie , Adrian , Drago or Rocky , somebody has something prolific to say . but that is what makes this film work . the montage ( fans are treated to a double one this time ) Rockys ' friend being killed propaganda . ( c'mon east meets west ? if i can change etc ? ) even rocky grows a beard . the film is endlessly quotable and calls for repeat viewings . the story is simple and easy to follow , and Stallone does a good job of directing his vanity project . by no means a classic movie , not one of the best in the series , but probably the most fun entry in the series . a great guilty pleasure .
you have the right to remain dead . . . .	For 400 years , Japan has been home to a secret criminal organisation dedicated to its own supremacy in the underworld . Ruled by an ancient , arcane code of honour , the deadly Yakuza have been among the most feared members of society . Even today , they are immediately recognisable by the stunningly ornate tattoos that cover their bodies , telling the terrifying story of their stature and career in a dark order that knows no mercy . Now the Yakuza are coming to Los Angeles . But in America , they're going to meet their match . Two cops are on their trail . One's an American raised in Japan . He's got the mind and spirit of a samurai , and the body of a human fighting machine . The other's a Japanese-American raised in California's San Fernando Valley . He's into malls , pizza and MTV . But he can disarm five gunmen with his bare feet . One's a warrior . One's a wise-ass . But together they've got what it takes to remove some tattoos from Little Tokyo . this film is silly in so many ways . it has some of the worst lines ever , ' that time i heard you coming ' springs to mind . the set pieces are silly , eg . when Lundgren hust gets loads of weapons and starts throwing them at hench man is ridiculous . but it's the true epitome of early nineties action . it's a fast paced movie ( at just over 70 minutes , it should be ) , and it's just so much fun to watch . i can imagine that lots of people would turn their noses up at something like this , but why ? it's not trying to be anything it's not , it's just a plain silly action movie , with a great performance from Lee , the usual performance from Lundgren , and some great fashion mistakes . an essential guilty pleasure for anyone who likes this sort of movie .
don't ever turn your back on me again . . . .	The year is 2022 , prison systems from all over the world are now run by private corporations and have become business . After being sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his commanding officer who ordered him to wipe out innocent people . Convicted soldier John Robbins is dumped on the prison island Absolom ( after he refused to execute his cell-mate and assaulted the Warden ) . On Absolom , convicts are put there to either survive or die . Robbins finds the prison island is inhabited by two camps , The Outsiders , tribes of savage prisoners led by the evil Walter Merrick and The Insiders , a community of prisoners living in a fortified village " The Compound " led by The Father . Robbins finds escape from Absolom is impossible , surveillance satellites monitor Absolom and gunships prevent all convicts from escaping from the prison island and The Warden has secretly put a spy on Absolom . Caught up in a feud between the two camps , Robbins is determined to escape from the prison island and finds it is his ultimate challenge as nobody has ever escaped and he agrees to help The Insiders defend " The Compound " from The Outsiders . i cannot believe how many times this film has been copied even though a few of them are better ( Battle Royale for instance ) , but this is still a fun movie to watch and Liotta , Wilson and Henrikson all put in good performances despite a run of the mill script and sometimes way over the top scenarios . basically an over the top violent Lord of the Flies , ' no escape ' offers nothing new , but delivers some exciting set pieces , good performances and a great villain in Merrick . the ending and most of the film are predictable , but you could do a lot worse with 110 minutes than watching this action packed guilty pleasure . .
i am not a scab . . . . .	When a young woman rejects her current overweight suitor in a restaurant , he unexpectedly places a curse on her . The film then moves on to her sisters . One is a happily married woman with a psychiatrist husband and three kids . Unfortunately the husband develops an unnatural fascination for his 11 year old son's male classmates , fantasises about mass killing in a park , and masturbates to teen magazines . One of his patients has an unrequited fascination for the third sister . Meanwhile the apparently stable 40 year marriage of the sister's parents suddenly unravels when he decides he has had enough and wants to live a hermit's life in Florida . Like movies such as ' Magnolia ' an ' Shortcuts ' all the stories intertwine and come into the one at the end . . . . . with a title like ' Happiness ' it is very ironic that the viewer has such a n uncomfortable , almost disgusting feeling in their stomach by the final third of the movie . but this is how powerful and compelling the movie is . Solondz has taken the actors and gave them some of the best characters they will probably ever play . even the minor characters are given a wealth of kookiness about them and you want to know more about them come the endthe story is gripping and there are some cringe worthy , funny , sad and riling moments in the film that just command a rewind on the DVD , just to make sure that you did actually hear what they just said . we can show great sympathy for the majority of the characters , because from the other characters points of views , their lives appear to be perfect and vice versa , and each of the characters appeal to another character and so on . there is a multitude of sub-plots in the film that keeps the viewer hooked right until the final reel . a great movie , that wouldn't be for everybody's palette , is a very powerful and enjoyable piece of work .
he's on the dole , he's a weirdo , and i just felt sorry for him .	this is a great film about friendship , and the struggles of being an adolescent . Meadows found a great talent when he discovered Paddy Considine an actor who's filmography is flawless . set in the midlands , this is a gritty movie with lots of comedy thrown in . it shows the struggle of being unemployed , trying to stand up ' to the man ' , and also showing the audience that ' home is where the heart is . shocking and funny in equal parts , this is one film that will make you laugh , cringe and cheer and it will stay for you long after the credit's roll
pleasant valley : population 2001 . . . . .	Three college slackers , Anderson Lee , Cory Jones and Nelson Elliot , plan a good time away from their college by heading out to Daytona Beach for Spring Break . But along they way , they get detoured into the small , off-the-map , town of Pleasant Valley , Georgia , where they , along with three drifters , Joey , Kat and Ricky , and biker Malcolm and his girlfriend Leah , are welcomed as guests of honour by the cheerful but sinister-looking Mayor Buckman for the annual Pleasant Valley Guts and Glory Festival . Unknown to the eight unsuspecting Northerners , Mayor Buckman and the residents have more in store where they plan to use the festival as a blood ritual by separating the guests and killing them off one-by-one in ultra-gory fashion . . . . . from the opening montage of the civil war mixed with partying , we know that we are in Eli Roth territory , and it will be great fun from here on in . there isn't really much else to say about the plot , but it's great fun trying to guess which ones will die next . with references to films such as the Texas chainsaw massacre and deliverance , the film is very tongue in cheek , but of still very high quality for a DVD release . the cast are good looking , but throwaway , but it's Englunds performance that is worth the rental alone , he hasn't been this maniacal since his Krueger days . if you like your horrors funny , with lots of sex and violence , then this is for you , if not , why the hell are you reading this ?
i'm boiling a roast . . . . . .	Lieutenant Frank Drebin is of Police Squad , a division of the Los Angeles Police Department . Frank returns home to L . A from a vacation in Beirut , when his partner and best friend , Detective Nordberg is gunned down in a undercover operation , Frank's investigation into Nordberg's attempted murder leads Frank to become suspicious of well-respected businessman Vincent Ludwig . Drebin discovers Vincent Ludwigs plans to brainwash a baseball player with mind control device , and assassinate Queen Elizabeth who is visiting L . A . on her American tour . endlessly watchable and never ever getting less funny nearly twenty years on , the naked gun was one of the last spoof films to actually very funny with a joke ratio with more hits than misses . Nielsen found a new career as playing the bumbling idiot , as his C . V shows after 1988 , but he is truly marvellous at playing dead pan while delivering some truly genius one liners . the story is silly , but who cares when a film is this funny , if you have not seen this film before , please see it and realise how once Hollywood was funny , before releasing trite such as date movie and Epic Movie .
some of the crowd are on the pitch . . . .	this excellent comedy drama , sees the everyday life of one Jewish boy , turned upside down , when he finds out that his barmitzvah will take place on the same day as the 1966 world cup final . irked by this , he does all he can physically do to will England to lose . but thats not all his problems . for a start , people start dropping out from the barmitzvah , due to the final , and his poor neurotic dad is having a string of bad luck , firstly , he loses his business to a more successful source , he is becoming more unwell due to his brothers buisnes , and to top it all off , has lost all his savings because of a house fire . . another overlooked gem from the UK gets released under the radar . even with the calibre from Carter , Serafanowicz , Marsen and Tate , this still was cruelly ignored on it's initial release . what we get is a very black comedy about peoples misfortune and wishes they want but cannot reach . . the backdrop to the 1966 world cup just adds to the emphasis of gaining the ultimate dream . how many people want England to win the world cup , and keep referring to the 1966 final ? funny and downbeat in equal measures , the film is owned by usually bit part player Marsen , and this movie shows the chap will go places far . well supported by the rest of the cast and footage from the world cup , this will have people yearning for the good old days whilst watching stock footage of football , and realising how many changes were made , when the story kicks in . the story is fantastic and the conclusion uplifting . well worth watching .
the Kirby silver surfer is the only real silver surfer . . . Sir	Russian rebels have taken over one of the ICBM bases in the USSR . Alarmed by the prospect of a rebel strike , the U . S . sends the U . S . S . Alabama , a nuclear ballistic submarine , to watch over the base and retaliate in case they launch . While on patrol , the submarine is attacked and the radio systems are knocked out . An emergency message received during the battle is only partially recovered . Captain Ramsey believes it to be the order to launch on the rebels , while XO Hunter wants to wait for a confirmation message . The conflict escalates into mutiny as Ramsey and Hunter fight for control of the Alabama's nuclear missiles . for once we get a Simpson / Bruckheimer production , that isn't just about lighting and explosions and making people look good . what we get is a very tense albeit Scott stylish thriller , which grips you right from the very second act and doesn't let go from there . Washington and Hackman are excellent as adversaries , and the film really shines and grips whenever they share screen time . also , watching this film twelve years after its initial release , we also have a who's who of Hollywood . from Ryan Phillipe playing his part of staring into a fish tank , to Steve Zahn spending his time whipping someone with a towel , you may spend a lot of the time saying to yourself ' hey , isn't that ? ' . the script sparkles and you can tell where Tarantino polished up a few rusty parts . all in all a great thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat , but is predictable never the less .
you the fella lookin ' for his wife ?	Jeff and Amy Taylor are moving to California and must drive across the country . When they find themselves stranded in the middle of a desert with hardly anyone or anything around , their trip comes to a sudden halt . Amy had taken a ride with a friendly trucker to a small diner to call for help , but after a long time , Jeff becomes worried . He finds that no one in the diner has seen or heard from his wife . When he finds the trucker who gave Amy the ride , the trucker swears he has never seen her . Now Jeff must attempt to find his wife , who has been kidnapped and is being held for ransom . . a thriller that is part ' the hitcher ' and part ' duel ' , what makes Breakdown such an enthralling movie , is that the premise seems so real and could happen to anybody , anywhere . but the film wouldn't be what it is , if it wasn't for the great performances from Walsh and Russell , and the eerie cinematography . the last ten minutes does let the film down a little though , when it goes into Terminator overdrive and everything starts to go bang ! ! ( maybe Mostow was preparing for ' rise of the machines ' ? ) . but for the most part the film is tense and scary , you cannot help but put yourself in Russells shoes and feel what he would be feeling , anger , Paranoia and the thought of losing his wife , just for being different . will make you think about long road journeys in the future . very good .
Clowns get hit with pies . . . .	Dave Spritz , is a man with a great job , a weather man who gets told what to say , for a huge amount of money every year . the only problem is his personal life isn't the best in the world . he gets fast food thrown at him on more or less a daily basis . he son is just out of rehab , and the local paedophile has his eyes on him . his wife is getting re-married . his youngest daughter smokes , is over weight , and has a problem with the tightness of her clothing . his dad has just been diagnosed with lymphoma . and to top it all off , he has just been offered a job in new york that will pay him over four times as much as what he is earning now . but why is he so reluctant to leave ? . . . . . . . a very different film from the director of Pirates of the Caribbean , this has most of the cast , especially Cage and Caine , keeping a low profile and not stealing the film from everybody else . and when these two share the screen , it is worth every penny . if this film was compared to an activity , it would be compared to a Sunday drive in the country . relaxing , slow yet enjoyable . the film does run at a very slow pace and nothing much really happens , and for a comedy , the laughs come very few and far between , but then this is a very dark comedy and Verbinski keeps the slapstick to a bare minimum , but the profanity extremely high . the story is fantastic and the narrative is sensational , but the best thing about the film is the camera work which adds a little bit more beauty to the overall product . sublime in places and subliminal in others , this is a love it or hate it movie , i prefer to be in the latter camp . great stuff
Frank Lucas don't run away from anybody , baby . . . .	Nobody used to notice Frank Lucas , the quiet driver to one of the inner city's leading black crime bosses . But when his boss suddenly dies , Frank exploits the opening in the power structure to build his own empire and create his own version of the American Dream . Through ingenuity and a strict business ethic , he comes to rule the inner-city drug trade , flooding the streets with a purer product at a better price . Lucas outplays all of the leading crime syndicates and becomes not only one of the city's mainline corrupter's , but part of its circle of legit civic superstars . Richie Roberts is an outcast cop close enough to the streets to feel a shift of control in the drug underworld . Roberts believes someone is climbing the rungs above the known Mafia families and starts to suspect that a black power player has come from nowhere to dominate the scene . Both Lucas and Roberts share a rigorous ethical code that sets them apart from their own colleagues , making them lone figures on opposite sides of the law . The destinies of these two men will become intertwined as they approach a confrontation where only one of them can come out on topfirst of all this is a great film , the cinematography editing and direction is all flawless . Washington and Crowe are at the top of their game . but as always the media has hyped up this film so much for such a long time , that it was inevitable that i would leave the film feeling a little disappointed . reading such quotes as the best gangster film and this years departed , had me hoping for something more , and what i got was a great story about police corruption and another story about Lucas , a gangster who wouldn't think twice about shooting somebody in the head and returning to his lunch and then being the best family man a person could ever wish for . Scott overdoes it a little with the sound track , and the seventies kitsch , and under-uses Gooding Jr . and Assante in their roles . but all in all it is a great story , with some haunting scenes and some great set pieces , and the final frame of Lucas leaving Prison into a whole new era , looking very vulnerable . not as fantastic as it has been made out to be , but at least it's better than virtuosity .
i'm giving the guided tour . . . . .	Frank Leone is nearing the end of his prison term for a relatively minor crime . Just before he is paroled , however , Warden Drumgoole takes charge . Drumgoole was assigned to a hell-hole prison after his administration was publicly humiliated by Leone , and has now arrived on the scene to ensure that Leone never sees the light of day . . . . . after his action overload of the eighties , Stallone goes for a dark thriller in this excellent movie . he is great as the lead and Sutherland gives a very ruthless performance as the warden . the film style is gritty , the soundtrack by Conti is remarkable , and the story goes along nicely . the only other thing that could have gave this movie a little more gravitas , was to include more time for the back story between Leone and the warden . Sonny Landham is really here to play the token bad guy and isn't really in it for long , but if you like films like an innocent man or in hell , then you will enjoy this movie .
not easy to watch . . .	another British horror movie this year that really does pull no punches . the basic premise . . children start to become ill , go pale with dark circles around the eyes and start to off the yuppie types we all so love to hate when we see them in the street . who is to blame ? well let's blame the sassy teenage girl / jail bait for the uncle who was the bloke from the car advert ( sssssshakespeare ) because she is a little different to the others and has a tattoo . it's very difficult to explain what this film is really all about . is it about abortion and not wanting to harm your child ? even though having one is technically harming your child ? or is it the fact that your own child turning on you is probably the scariest thing imaginable , because how could you defend yourself ? you couldn't there your kids ! ! this is the dilemma that the ' grown-ups ' have to face in this movie , and it is wince inducing . while watching this i found myself saying ' oh sht ' out loud three times and ' ooh you fcker ' at least four . it's taut , well written and the acting is superb from the titular cast . it's harsh in parts , believe me , but well worth watching .
he met his waterloo . . . . . .	After Bond helps Russian officer Georgi Koskov make a daring defection to the West , the intelligence community is shocked when Koskov is abducted from his remote hiding place . Bond leaps into action , following a trail that leads to the gorgeous Kara , who plays Bond as easily as she plays her Stradivari cello . As they unravel a complex weapons scheme with global implications , they are forced into hair-raising chases , a riveting jailbreak and an epic battle in the Afghanistan desert with tanks , air planes and a legion of freedom fighters on horseback . . . . Dalton's first outing as Bond is nowhere near as good as his swansong , but it's still quite riveting in places , and Dalton just has about enough charm to carry Bond into the late eighties . the main problem with Dalton is that he is competing with over fifteen years worth of tongue in cheek Bond due to Moore , so some critics / audiences may not have related to a tougher meaner bond . but the story is as over the top as usual and Bond has some great gadgets , but the villains are not very memorable , and Kara seems to be sleepwalking through her performance . the final act is exciting and there some good henchman , especially the KGB agent who uses explosive milk bottles and a Walkman as a strangulation device . for a Bond movie it does exactly what it says on the tin , but is ultimately forgettable in the end .
my own brother , a sht sucking vampire . . . .	Financial troubles force a recent divorcée and her teenage sons Mike and Sam to settle down with her father in the California town of Santa Carla . At first , Sam laughs off rumours he hears about vampires who inhabit the small town . But after Mike meets a beautiful girl at the local amusement park , he begins to exhibit the classic signs of vampires . Fearing for his own safety , Sam recruits two young vampire hunters to save his brother by finding and destroying the head vampire . . . . this is one of those films that will always br remembered as the epitome of eighties cheese . Mullets , great rock ballads , wacky fashions , Mullets and the two Coreys . the story is great , and is directed with a certain flair by the once great Schumacher , and there is even a little bit of genius in the camera-work . but the film isn't particularly scary , and watching it again after all these years , the effects and some of the performances are not up to scratch . Sutherland isn't in it as much as he should have been , and he is probably one of the reasons why this is such a memorable film , David is one of the coolest vampires ever seen on screen . it's very camp in some scenes and is even given a little bit of comic relief in the form of ' grandpa ' . there has been talks of a sequel to this for years , but leave it , it would ruin the spirit of the film , if you haven't seen it , but heard all the rave reviews of this , just remember , it's very nostalgic for a lot of people and is cheese not to be taken seriously . but its great fun never the less
keep your arms and legs in the vehicle at all times . . . .	Whilst crossing a ledge , 4000 feet above the earth , Gabe's friend's equipment fails to work and she slips out of his hand , falling to the ground . Almost a year later , Gabe is asked to go back to the same mountain range and rescue a group of ' stranded ' people . The only catch is that these so called ' stranded ' people are in fact looking for three boxes filled with $100 , 000 , 000 and they need mountain ranger to lead them to them . . . . . after his foray into ' comedy ' , Stallone was in desperate need of a hit . on the back of ' Die Hard ' , Harlin was the man for the job . what we get here , is Harlins best movie to date , and one of the best comeback movies for a star , until Travolta in 1994 with ' Pulp Fiction ' . now we all can mock Stallone for his choice of roll , but nobody can deny that the man can deliver the goods . and this is one cool movie . yes . it is ' die hard on a mountain ' , but the story , narration , cinematography , and set pieces are second to none . Lithgow and his bunch of cronies are the best bad guys on screen since Grubers ' clan , Lithgows ' accent does prove , the English make the best bad guys . the script is corny at times , but all is forgiven for the amazing stunt work that is put in for the movie . at nearly two hours long , the film speeds past it's running time , as it is so much fun to watch , and the bad guys are so annoying , that you cannot help but give a wry smile when Stallone offs them . with great support from Leon , Turner , Rooker and even Fairbrass , ' Cliffhanger was a return to form for Stallone , and the most fun film he has been in since ' Rocky IV ' . recommended for Stallone fans everywhere
you were right not to trust me . . .	Val Resnick and Porter , two small time crooks , hit a Chinese gang together and manage to get $140 , 000 . But Resnick needs $130 , 000 alone to buy himself back into his syndication . So , Val turns on Porter together with Porter's wife Lynn , who kills him with two shots in the back . But Porter survives and half a year later , he is back , seeking his share of $70 , 000 . When he finally finds Val , Porter quickly learns that he has to go much further up the ladder in order to get his money from the guys who have it : The syndication . Working alone can't be realised any more , so Porter teams up with old flame and previous boss Rosie , a very exclusive prostitute . Together , they now start playing the teams against each other . . . the bleaching of the film and the central performances ( especially the narration from Gibson ) give this movie a very nnoir-ish tinge to it . even though Porter is nothing but a common thief , and a murderer , you can't help but like him because hey1 , it's Mel Gibson , and he always plays the good guy . he puts in a good performance , but i feel that if it wasn't such a likable ( at the time , at least ) actor , the film would have been more gritty and darker . but the film has to be Gibsons most adult film to date , and there is great support from the rest of the cast , especially Henry who chews scenery whenever he is on-screen , and unfortunately leaves the film early on . narration is good , and for a movie that had almost 30 % of re-shoots , the story runs seamlessly and smooth . it get's a little too clever for it's own good toward the end , but this is still a very cool film and one of Gibsons best performances .
come to Freddy . . . . . .	Freddy Krueger , known as the Springwood Slasher , murdered several children with a glove outfitted with straight razor blades attached to the fingers . When a foolish decision by a judge sets him free , Krueger is burned alive in the boiler room where he worked by an angry mob of the parents whose children he terrorised & murdered . Years after his death , the children whose parents were responsible for Krueger's death , including Nancy Thompson , daughter of the police officer who arrested Krueger , are experiencing terrifying nightmares involving a burned man wearing a glove with razor blades on the fingers . The ghost of Freddy Krueger is haunting their dreams , and when Nancy's best friend Tina dies in her sleep violently during a dream confrontation with Krueger , Nancy realises she must find a way to stop the evil psychopath's reign of terror , or never sleep again . . . one of the most famous horror movies from the eighties , gave us probably the most iconic horror villain this side of Jason Voorhees , but the film has aged very badly , but the still shocks and manages to stay with you after . Craven has crafted a marvellous horror , with a good cast and a terrific story . This was when Freddy was genuinely scary , Before he went all pantomime and spouted out one liners and cheesy poses . best watched with the lights off , but if you are used to the more gore inspired horrors of today , you may be disappointed . but most of todays horror wouldn't exist without this movie and Craven . watch this and forget about parts 2 , 4 , and 5 .
snot licking donkey fart . . . .	Jack Murphy is a tough , antisocial cop . Things are not good for him right now ; he just killed the brother of a mobster , and is now marked for death . His wife left him and is now an exotic dancer , and is trying to get her to come back to him and when she shuns him , he drowns his sorrows in the bottle . And if that isn't enough , it seems like someone is stalking him but before going after him , this person wants to torment him first . And what this person does is kill his wife and frame him . Murphy is arrested and is handcuffed to a young street kid , whom he arrested earlier . They escape and Murphy tries to find out who did this to him . . . at the height of the cannon group releases , this one one of the belters that was released in the late eighties . Bronson plays a man who is an alcoholic , think nothing of shooting a man with a mullet and then swigging some Jackie Dee . Bronson is wanted by the mob and wanted by some random woman who likes to lift weights in front of her parole officer . which in the cannon world means car-azy . . . but Bronson doesn't care , he can fly a helicopter and land it on a barn roof and say something funny , but always keeping his shirt tucked in . but the star of the show must be the his sidekick who has to state the most funniest one liners in the world . but all in all , it's a cannon movie , so you can't doubt the b-movie quality . recommended
are you still a fascist ? . . .	My Beautiful Laundrette is set within the Asian community in London , during the Thatcher years , and displays those values , of money but ' anybody can make it . ' Omar gains the running of his Uncle Nasser's laundrette . He is helped by his friend Johnny who is an outsider , white but not entirely accepted by either the white or Asian Londoners . . . full of memorable characters and a sparkling script , my beautiful launderette is one of the seminal anti-thatcher films there is out there . relying heavily on the racial and homosexual elements to the film , they took a big risk when making this slap bang in the middle of the eighties when the problem of mis-understanding was rife . the cast are fantastic , and the script sparkles with wit and intelligence . it's quite a hard film to watch at times , because the audience knows that something unsettling is always an undercurrent theme of the movie . the sets are suitably dirty , apart from the ' powders ' launderette , which i feel that was done intentionally to show that people can make a chance in life , whatever creed , colour or sexual orientation . a very different movie .
i used my hands . . . .	In 1896 Lt . Col . John Paterson was sent to East Africa to build a railway bridge . He had a deadline to meet but was confident he and his large workforce of Africans and Indians can get the job done in time . John's was a man of his word and got things done - which he demonstrated on his first day by killing a lion that had been pestering the workforce . This earned John respect , but it didn't last very long because a few weeks later 2 new lions began visiting and they're man-eaters . The film is based on a true story and during the construction of the bridge , the lions would enter the workers camp to kill . Believing them not to be real lions , the locals name them ' The Ghost ' and ' The Darkness ' . After losing dozens of workers to the lions , the railroad company brought in Remington , an American ' great white hunter ' , to kill them , but even his reputation for being the best could not prevent yet more carnage . . . an absolute overlooked treasure , that is very taut and thrilling all the way through . if you can accept Kilmers oirish brogue , and the fact that Douglas is hardly in the film , then this is just a great film . it's intense , the set pieces and the cinematography add a haunting feel to the movie , and even if the special effects are now a little dodgy , it's still quite scary in a ' Jaws ' kind of way , whenever you see the lions tails bobbing above the grass . Kilmer was at the top of his game when he made this ( forgetting a film with the words island and Dr . in the title ) , and Douglas ' extended cameo isn't bad , it's basically a grizzled version of his character from ' Romancing the Stone ' . if you haven't seen this movie , check it out , it's exciting enough to keep you glued throughout , and the last line spoken in the film is quite haunting too . if you can take the fact that it's based on fact with a huge pinch of salt , it's a great high concept movie .
what are you looking for ?	fictional account of the events leading up to the assassination of Robert Kennedy , we are placed in a hotel setting , focusing on the views from very different people , upper and working class , retired and the workaholics , the faithful and the infidels . seeing as this is from the star of Freejack and has his ex-wife star as his on screen wife , Estevez has made a clever , if sometimes pointless movie which observes the class system , peoples fidelity and the stress one person can cause people in different ways . with one of the best ensemble cast set to screen , Estevez has gotten good performances from everyone involve . the only problem is that the fim feels a tad too short as some of the characters could have been expanded and delved into their psyche . some of the characters are prominent and are vital to the narration , such a Hopkins , Stone and Macy . but again we have the other end of the spectrum where the characters add nothing to the film . such as Kutcher , Fishburne and ironically Estevez . but still the film is very involving at times and the second act is fantastic . a little too patriotic for me at times , this is another case of Life imitating art . Bobby will always be overshadowed by JFK
i was going to shoot myself . . . .	after reading all the reviews for this from your typical media press releases , this sounded like another Brit gangster film ala Lock Stock and snatch . but ignore all the reviews , this is a tense drama that is so claustrophobic and taut , it could almost be a stage play . Mackintosh plays a well to do business man who wants to buy a gun from Ashley Walters , who probably gives his best performance to date . the story is shrouded in mystery until the second act , and plays like the good the bad and the ugly in some scenes . Serkis does the Villain , a psychotic ? Irish gangster called hoodwink , who obviously has anger management issues when he finds out that his gun has been stolen . the film manages to show the story from the point of the different classes , and they tell their sobering stories at regular intervals . London has been shot in a refreshing light and does not feature the landmarks that are shown in other London based films , giving it an edge . the performances from the three leads keep the movie going at a fast pace , and some of the camera-work gives it a retro feel in some scenes ( for instance the money from the threes viewpoint is some really great camera-work , and almost makes it look like a Mexican stand off ) . this is a solid drama and a British film that deserves to be seen , rather than given ' the Gangster movie title ' it doesn't deserve . well worth a viewing
have you ever found a place where god would have felt at home . . .	1327 : after a mysterious death in a Benedictine Abbey , the monks are convinced that the apocalypse is coming . With the Abbey to play host to a council on the Franciscan's Order's belief that the Church should rid itself of wealth , William of Baskerville , a respected Franciscan monk , is asked to assist in determining the cause of the untimely death . more deaths occur as the investigation draws closer to uncovering the secret the Abbey wants hidden , and there is finally no stopping the Holy Inquisition from taking an active hand in the process . William and his young novice must race against time to prove the innocence of the unjustly accused and avoid the wrath of Holy Inquisitor Bernardo Gui . . . the first thing that strikes you about this beautiful film is the ambiance that surrounds the whole movie . it makes you feel haunted by it's fantastic editing and cinematography , and is matched by it's beautiful script and narration . Connery is excellent as the lead role , his part bordering on tongue in cheek at times , but it really works . but a movie that needs to be paid a lot of attention to , as sometimes the beauty of the labyrinths and the decor can overwhelm the actual film .
van dammes last stand . . . . . . . .	this was the first DVD i ever bought it cost me £35 , the equivalent of around $60 . was it worth it . . . . . every penny . the story is amazing , never will there be a story like this again . a . . . film . . . about . . . exploding . . . jeans . . . with van damme . . . rob schneider . . . directed by hark tsui . the camera angles are wild and crazy and camera work never seen before . the only low point is that van damme does look ill in this film . . . possibly due to an alleged habit he had around that time . . . . i hope it wasn't truevan damme and schneider bounce off each other flawlessly and paul sorvino is good but should have been used more . form the opening ten minutes , this never lets up . there is an insane amount of action in this and it is more stylised and borderline artistic . yes artistic ! ! this was van dammes last proper good film and i hope he makes something like this again soon , before he gets too old . the man is 46 now , don't do a seagal and waste yourself , you deserve better than straight to DVD . you should be making films like timecop and sudden death .
see ya later , bandage breath . . .	Young kids form a club that is devoted to monsters , but soon get more than they bargained for when Count Dracula adjourns to Earth , accompanied by Frankenstein's Monster , the Wolfman , the Mummy , and the Gillman . The uglies are in search of a powerful amulet that will grant them power to rule the world . Our heroes - the Monster Squad are the only ones daring to stand in their way . . . . for high concept ideas this has to be up there with the best , and written by the king of high concept , Shane Black . the film has sadly dated over the twenty years it has been out , but the fun is still there . like a more grown up version of the goonies , this has grown into a cult favourite , and it's easy to see why . where else would you find a movie with Universals greatest movie monsters coming back to life to rule the present day ( Van Helsing doesn't count it just wasn't any fun . ) and only a gang of kids able to save the day with the assistance of a scary German guy ? this beats the live action Scooby Doo movie by nearly fifteen years and is twice as much fun . but the film still does have its flaws though . the films special effects are not that special even for 1987 , and the editing is awful , and some times they do use the same footage more than once in the film . but as with the Goonies , this film will have it's fans forever and will remain a firm favourite with a lot of the demographic out there . they sure don't make films like this anymore . so much fun it's ' scary ' ! ! !
you know how i know your gay ? . . . .	40-year-old Andy Stitzer has done quite a few things in his life . He's got a cushy job stamping invoices at an electronics superstore , a nice apartment with a proud collection of action figures and comic books , good friends , a nice attitude . But there's just one little thing he hasn't quite gotten around to doing yet - - something most people have done by his age . Done a lot . Andy's never , ever , ever had sex - - not even by accident . So is that such a big deal ? Well , for Andy's buds at the store , it sure is . Although they think he's a bit of an oddball , there's certainly a planet full of stranger ( and homelier ) guys who've at least had one go at having a go . They consider it their duty to help Andy out of his dire situation and go to great lengths to help him . But nothing proves effective enough to lure their friend out of lifelong chastity until he meets Trish ( Catherine Keener ) , a 40-year-old mother of three . Andy's friends are psyched by the possibility that " it " may finally happen . . . until they hear that Andy and Trish have begun their relationship based on a mutual no-sex policy . . . even though this film has laugh out loud moments and is really disgusting in places , it's a really sentimental pure romantic comedy when it all boils down . Carrell is absolutely wonderful in the titular role and is ably supported by some of the funniest supporting characters put into a comedy . set piece after set piece becomes more cringe worthy , because you have to empathise with Carrell , because he's such a nice guy , and deserves to get laid . the narrative throughout the film is smooth and never gets too vulgar or sickly sweet , so it stays on the right wavelength for both sexes . could have done without the musical number at the end though . . . tragic .
i'm not wonder woman you know . . . .	At Sky High , the student body throw flames with their footballs , study Villainy with their Chemistry and are divided into Heroes and Sidekicks instead of jocks and geeks . It's an out-of-this-world yet completely recognisable place where cool gadgetry , rampant bravery and awe-inspiring magical skills mix it up with parental battles , peer pressure and dating trouble - - with explosively fun results . This year's class features some of the best , brightest and most powerfully gifted super-teens ever assembled . And then there's Will Stronghold . When you're the son of the world's most legendary super heroes , The Commander and Jetstream , people expect you to live up to the family name The problem is that Will is starting with no superpowers of his own and , worst of all , instead of joining the ranks of the Hero class , he finds himself relegated to being a Sidekick . Now he must somehow survive his freshman year while dealing with an overbearing gym coach , a bully with super speed and a dangerous rebel with a grudge ( and the ability to shoot fire from his hands ) - - not to mention the usual angst , parental expectations and girl problems that accompany teenage life . But when an evil villain threatens his family , friends and the very sanctity of Sky High , Will must use his newfound superpowers to save the day and prove himself a Hero worthy of the family tradition . . . i really wasn't expecting much from this film , it wasn't massive at the box office , the reviews were average at best , and the thought of Kurt Russell in a padded suit was enough to put anyone off their nachos . but i was delighted at this fast paced , often very funny , and clever , typical high school movie with the superhero twist . the young cast are all great , and it was nice to see Russelll with tongue firmly in cheek throughout the whole movie . and for once it wasn't as predictable as what i thought . there are some great supporting roles , and the special effects are really good too . it's a family movie that caters for everybody , it has the high school movie element , and the superhero curve , and at just over 90 minutes , is fast enough to keep anyone from becoming bored of this little gem . recommended
trust me dad , you're not happy . . . .	Will Hayes , a 30-something Manhattan dad is in the midst of a divorce when his 10 year old daughter , Maya , starts to question him about his life before marriage . Maya wants to know absolutely everything about how her parents met and fell in love . Will's story begins in 1992 , as a young , starry-eyed aspiring politician who moves to New York from Wisconsin in order to work on the Clinton campaign . For Maya , Will relives his past as a idealistic young man learning the ins and outs of big city politics , and recounts the history of his romantic relationships with three very different women . On the campaign , Will's best buddy is Russell McCormack . They not only have similar political aspirations , they share the same type of girl problems , too . Will hopelessly attempts a " PG " version of his story for his daughter ad changes the names so Maya has to guess who he finally married . Is her mother Will's college sweetheart , the dependable girl next-door Emily ? Is she his longtime best friend and confidante , he apolitical April ? Or is she the free-spirited but ambitious journalist ? As Maya puts together the pieces of her dad's romantic puzzle , she begins to understand that love is not so simple or easy . And as Will tells her his tale , Maya helps him to understand that it's definitely never too late to go back . . . and maybe even possible to find a happy ending . . an absolute charming movie from the upstart . the situation that Will is put in at the beginning , harks a little that this could be a potential gross out comedy , but we have is something that Richard Curtis could have easily written , directed and made millions if it was set in London . Reynolds does semi-serious wonderfully and the narrative throughout captivates the audience and keeps them guessing until the end . at times the film is as subtle as a sledge hammer , but it pulls the heart strings by showing what a great relationship Will has with Maya . this is the bond that holds the film together . with a great supporting cast ( especially Fisher ) , this is a wonderful , but overlooked movie . a great movie to watch when your feeling low .
it's clobberin ' time . . . . .	When an experimental space voyage goes awry , four people are changed by cosmic rays . Reed Richards , inventor and leader of the group gains the ability to stretch his body , and takes the name , Mr . Fantastic . His girlfriend , Sue Storm , gains the ability to turn invisible and create force fields , calling herself the Invisible Woman . Her younger brother Johnny Storm gains the ability to control fire , including covering his own body with flame , becoming the Human Torch . Pilot Ben Grimm is turned into a super-strong rock creature calling himself Thing . Together , they use their unique powers to explore the strange aspects of the world , and to foil the evil plans of Doctor Doom . . . . . the first comic book movie not to take itself so seriously in a long time , ' ff4 ' proves to be one of the better ones of the past few years . in not taking itself seriously , it can afford to be a little silly and a little bit camp . the four leads are good , but split up into two segments . Gruffand and Alba share most of their scenes together and have amicable chemistry . on the other hand , Chilkis and Evans share most of their scenes together but have fantastic chemistry , always trying to get one up-manship on each other , they are the perfect foil to the seriousness of the the other two leads . MacMahon is great as Doom and shows great quality in playing the bad guy ( for once a bad guy who is more attractive than the lead , something very refreshing ) . the story is very simple , and makes it easier for family viewing . the sets are very bright and are perfect for the ' summer blockbuster ' title . set pieces are handled well and come thick and fast in the movies slim running time . having not read the source material though , it is hard to compare the faithfulness to the comic book , but the titular characters have enough of their own screen time to develop their own sub-plots . some are sad , others are fun , but all are interesting . a great family movie , with something for everyone to enjoy .
from here on , everything i eat is gonna be - free . . .	Heavy Rainfall causes a Indiana river to swell and flood the town . All inhabitants are forced by public services to leave instantly . Tom and his uncle Charlie work for a money transport firm and their assignment is to evacuate all cash from the banks along the flooding river . Tom and Charlie's Truck gets stuck in the flooded road . This is the moment , Jim , an elderly thief , and his gang have been waiting for . In an attempt to get the money from the truck , Charlie gets shot and Tom swims off to save the cash bags . While trying to hide , he meets Karen , who resisted to leave the old church she has been restoring for eight months . She thinks he is a looter , and calls the cops to bring him in . But as the Sheriff finds out about that much cash in a situation like this , he radios his old pal Hank , up at the dam . . . hard rain or ' die hard in the water ' is a very easy to watch action thriller starring the reliable Freeman and the sometimes reliable Slater and Quaid . Slater is basically playing his Riley Hale character in ' broken arrow ' but he was endearing in that , so there's no problem . the story is simple and the narrative is strong , but what puts this above other action movies is the neat twist in the final act . the septa are great and the lighting is atmospheric , which adds to the movie . if you like action thrillers and have not seen this then check it out . don't leave it to hang out and dry . . .
i'm always around . goodnight Lois .	Superman returns to earth after five years of looking for remains of his plane , which was destroyed several years ago . he once again returns , the same way he arrived when he was younger and is nursed back to health by his ' Mother ' . returning to metropolis , he finds that a lot of things have changed , primarily the way some people have started to resent superman for leaving in the first place . another ghost from Supermans past returns as well , in the form of Lex Luther . Lex is again intent on becoming a ' god ' and growing his own land from the crystals he took from Supermans hideaway . will superman save the day ? Singer has achieved something very special with this film , a film that has been hyped up for many years . every movie fan knows that this movie has been on the cards for over fourteen years and has been passed around from director to director , so Singer had a large weight to bear on his shoulders when making this . he has executed it with relative ease and has made the series a little more urgent for our times . in some scenes , it is almost referencing peoples fear post and maybe that was the relevance of Lois Lanes Pulitzer prize winning piece ' why the world doesn't need Superman anymore ' . maybe the answer is . . after all the tragedy we have been through in the last five years , we have realised we cannot depend on people , so we have to stand together and fight for ourselves . it is also evident that if the viewer has recently seen ' United 93 ' , there is something quite eerily similar about the ending of that move and Superman Lowering the plane onto the baseball field . the story is good with a few minor quibbles , the scene where Superman ' returns ' is too short and you can almost tell where scenes were taken away . narrative is good and easily followed . CGI is very impressive , although you can tell the difference between the CG Superman and the real thing . but it does not hinder the film one bit . all the cast are great especially Routh , and who in my opinion makes Superman his own , and not copy Reeves in any way . Spacey is clearly having a ball as Luthor , but Singer does not let him steal the show the way Nicholson did in Batman . there is also a little dig at Batman in the film . once Superman has begun fighting crime , there is a news cast in the background , and one of the cities he has been spotted in was Gotham , which made me smile . there are some great moments in the film too . obviously the scene with Superman saving the plane from crashing into the baseball fieldthe scene where Luthor demonstrates the power of the crystals , on his ' toy town ' . it is quite disturbing when it has it's own little earthquake . and finally the scene where Superman has lost his power . when he is getting hit and kicked , it is quite gritty and dark , and Superman does get punished in this . all in all a great film , marred by a stupid twist and for being twenty minutes too long ( believe me the last twenty minutes are absurd ) . but it's nice to have Superman back on the big screen , and well done to Singer for a job well done .
lucky tie , lucky guy . . .	Three-times MVP baseball player Bobby Rayburn joins San Fransisco Giants , and obsessive fan , whose profession is selling hunting knives , Gil Renard is excited over that . But Rayburn plays the worst season of his career and Renard tries to do everything to help him , but goes too far . . this has to be one of the best ideas for a film starring De Niro , who is always good at playing people with personal issues , but the flashy editing and loud music thanks to Scott , take the edge off Gil a little . but ignoring that , we have an interesting insight in what it would be like to be obsessed with something or someone so much , you would do anything to bring them back in the limelight . De Niro is on fire as the titular character and has anger management problems , especially with his clients and estranged wife , he doesn't realise that this is affecting his son , for instance when he gets aggressive at the opening day , he's just a kid who wants everything to go right for his one true love . Snipes is also good as Rayburn , but becomes more of a caricature of himself later on in the film . but this is one of my guilty pleasures and i could watch it all the time , thanks to De Niros delusional character and Scotts great ( if sometimes annoying directing ) really worth seeing .
are you wearing make-up ? . . . . .	An ageing Hollywood star , Joe Scott , lives a life of narcissistic hedonism , observed by his laconic personal assistant , Ophelia . The death of his childhood best friend , Boots , takes our protagonist , and the movie , into an extended flashback to a sea-side town in 1970's Britain . Hollywood star Joe is now a teenage boy in a tentative relationship with a school-girl called Ruth . Further , his mother's friend , Evelyn , is attempting to seduce him . Engulfed by guilt at the unintended , tragic consequences of his subterfuge , he leaves home . The movie then switches back to contemporary Hollywood . Joe confronts his fear and returns to England for a difficult meeting with Ruth , who had gone on to marry Boots and has been a left a poor widow . . . . . another great movie overlooked in cinemas when released , this is Craigs pet project , and he has sacrificed a lot of screen time , to make a really interesting movie about life growing up and the mistakes that you make when you are young and impressionable . the cinematography is delightful , and during the first act , it shows Craig with everything , but the house he lives in is somewhat desolate , indicating that he has a big hole in his life that is missing something . the flashbacks are reminiscent to Todd Haynes movie ' Velvet Goldmine ' , in the fact that the young friends are finding their ' sexual feet ' , and the music has a very sexual feel to it too . sometimes the film feels heavily cut , and it would have been beneficial to the film if we learnt more about Joe and Boots friendship , but this is just a minor gripe . the performances are flawless , and although Craig sounds a little too much like Simon Cowell , he is self deprecating enough not to make this a vanity project .
this ain't flour ! . . . . .	Anna Mae always had a special voice . Soon after arriving in St . Louis to live with the mother who had walked out when she was small , the now teenage Anna soon attracts the attention of pop group leader Ike Turner . She becomes the band's singer , his wife , and mother to his children - not all hers . In love with Ike and determined not to leave in the way her mother had , she finds herself the target of increasing violence from her unstable husband who can't see who is making the band such a success . . . . the performances from the two leads , easily take this movie from the soap opera drama it veers towards in certain parts of the film . Bassett has Turners mannerisms and charisma down to a tee , and while it is very difficult to watch in some scenes , you cannot help but wonder why she left the academy empty handed when she was nominated . how true the story is leaves a lot to be desired , but one cannot deny the power of the story , and the narration , gives it that little dark edge , when the sugary overtones threaten to pop up . Fishbourne is excellently unlikeable as Ike Turner , his temper always overshadowing his decidedly limp frame . the music is fantastic and plays a huge part in the films success . it doesn't matter if your not a huge fan of the singer , the story is interesting enough to hold anybodies attention for two hours .
i hope there's a good movie on this flight . . . . .	Terrorists take over a 747 bound from Athens to Washington D . C . , supposedly to effect the release of their leader . Intelligence expert David Grant suspects another reason and convinces the military that the ' plane should not be allowed to enter U . S . airspace . An assault mission is devised , using a specially equipped ' plane designed for mid-air crew transfers , and Grant finds himself aboard the 747 with a team of military anti-terrorists who have to defuse a bomb and overpower the terrorists . . . . . . a little hybrid of the disaster movies of the seventies and the die-hard sub-genre , the movie works really well because of the element of surprise , some great work by the cast and producer silver , and most of all , there is a lot of humour ( ? unintentional ) throughout the movie . Russells situation is very reminiscent of that of Cages in the rock , however , Russell is more willing in this situation , as he doesn't know the impending danger until it is right in his face . and also the movie made the very brave decision of killing off one of the main characters and one of the biggest action stars ( at the time ) before the real tension kicks in . after getting rid of the reliable person in the crew , the tension gets even higher once the crew have boarded the plane . with great support from Berry , Leguizamo , Baker , and Platt , the film really works also because the script crackles ( with clichés of course ) and the cast really have a chemistry about them . but there are minor flaws . when the plane is coming into land , it's obvious that the plane is a model ( ok the film is eleven years old , but c'mon Silver produced this ) and when the alarms keep going off for Russell , it is really laugh out loud funny . a great movie though , pure popcorn fun , but i doubt it would get made in this day and age .
catches on quick , doesn't she ?	The year is 2013 and Snake Plissken is back from Escape From New York . An earthquake has separated Los Angeles from the mainland . In the New Moral America , all citizens not conforming to the new laws ( no smoking , no red meat , no Muslims in South Dakota ) are deported to L . A . , now a penal colony . The President's daughter has stolen a doomsday device and has fled to L . A . It's up to Snake Plissken to find the President's daughter and retrieve the doomsday device before its too late . . if you get a funny sense of deja ' vu whilst watching this , it isn't just you . Carpenter has taken a lot of the material from the first movie and ' homaged ' it in to the movie . even from the upstart we have the ' call me Snake line . as the movie progresses we see a few more references from the first movie . he gets a time limit on his life to get the mission done . the vehicle that he uses to get to the island is destroyed . the girl he briefly meets is killed . he has to play a game to survive . but all these are minor things because Carpenter has made a very retro sci-fi film and stays relatively faithful to the original . Russell again puts in a great performance as Snake , and oozes col whenever he is on screen . ably supported by Keach , Buscemi , Golino and Robertson , Escape from L . A isn't for everyone and may even frustrate fans of the original . but Carpenter directs , Russell stars and it follows on from the first movie , so things could have been worse , hell , Issac Hayes is even in it . there are some funny moments too , especially when we meet Bruce Campbells hilarious surgeon General of Beverly Hills , and Peter Fondas Easy Rider-esquire ' surfer dude'the set pieces are fun and the special effects are passable , and the story is simple enough to follow . in a year that saw bloated blockbusters ( ID4 , Mission Impossible , Twister ) , this felt fresh and new when going to see , instead of all the patriotism we were fed with the others , we had an anti-hero who dared to stick his middle finger up to the fictional President . hell of an ending too .
we're talking to the wrong guy . . .	In a small town in California , chief of police Jeff Talley is facing relationship problems with his teenage daughter . One year earlier , he was the prime police negotiator in Los Angeles , but after an unsuccessful negotiation , he gave-up his position and decided to move with his family to a calmer life . When three punks invade the house of Walter Smith , a wealthy accountant , and jeopardise his family , holding them hostage , Jeff's family is abducted by powerful criminals to force him to retrieve a DVD with bank accountings ' information kept in Walter's office . . . cruelly overlooked at the box-office , Willis is on top form in this very dark thriller . taking his age into consideration , Willis restrains his role and doesn't come over all invincible , his character is very human and vulnerable throughout the movie . the main premise is very simple , bur well executed . and it just goes to show how easy it is for teenagers to take things one step too far . Foster is way too convincing as Mars , and his role in this proves he is one actor to keep an eye on . he barely utters aline in the first half of the movie , but his eyes do all the talking , and he is the sole reason the tension keeps the level it does throughout . Willis can do this sort of stuff with his eyes shut and really does a good job as the haunted officer whose worst nightmare comes true . Siri does a fantastic job with the sets and the camera-work , the cinematography is hauntingly beautiful during the house siege set piece . the ending is predictable , yet satisfying . one of the better thrillers to be released in 2005 , plus a strong contender for the best opening credits ever . a good movie from start to finish . it's such a shame that Pollack doesn't do a lot during the movie .
i could eat a horse between two mattresses . . . .	Slice-of-life look at a sweet working-class couple in London , Shirley and Cyril , his mother , who's ageing quickly and becoming forgetful , mum's ghastly upper-middle-class neighbours , and Cyril's pretentious sister and philandering husband . Shirley wants a baby , but Cyril , who reads Marx and wants the world to be perfect , is reluctant . Cyril's mum locks herself out and must ask her snooty neighbours for help . Then Cyril's sister Valerie stages a surprise party for mum's 70th birthday , a disaster from start to finish . Shirley holds things together , and she and Cyril may put aside her Dutch cap after all . . . a great movie showing just how different classes live , and proving that sometimes money can't but you happiness . as always , it's the working class couple who get prevalence in the movie , Cyril and Shirley , living happily with their dead end jobs between St . Pancras and Kings Cross . it goes again to prove that they have the most love for their mother , whilst Valerie , Ctrils sister , is only interested in image and knows the cost of everything but the value of nothing . a good example is when she has the party for her mother , not thinking that she would prefer a cup of tea to a glass of champagne . then we have the snobs who live next door to Cyrils mother . these where the kind of people that other people who were trying to make an image wanted to be ' yuppies ' they were called . these people have the money and the lavish lifestyle , but unfortunately no tact , and Leigh shows them in several scenes at the beginning being very rude , but this is how they were bought up to treat people , who had ' no money ' . another look at working class life from the fantastic Leigh , sometimes depressing , always funny . well worth seeing .
emotion is dangerous . . . . .	The story of a group of friends in turn of the century New York , from their early days as street hoods to their rise in the world of organised crime . As their crime empire expands , they have to deal with many problems , including their own differing opinions on how to run their business , the local Godfather , and the psychotic Mad Dog . one of those movies that you saw when you were all but a teenager and when watched for the first time in over ten years , you realise , it's not that good , but you still hold a little place in your heart for it . basically a ' young guns ' movie for the teenagers who loved ' goodfellas ' , Mobsters is hilariously miscast , but beautifully shot and although it appears very botched , a lot of love has been put into the project . the slow motion scenes with the tommy guns are laugh out loud , as are the vox-popped poker scenes and newspaper articles with the long scenes with the big band playing a score in the background . seasoned vets such as Abraham and Quinn , seeing the big ' Ker-ching ! ' in their eyes , and seeing young saplings such as Slater and Dempsey giving it the big one is pure cringeworthy . but in 1992 it wasn't . it was the epitome of cool . it was the film makers trying to get the youngsters to understand the prohibition and ' mobs ' . it was for people who were not allowed to see ' Bugsy ' or ' Goodfellas ' , so there parents would see that Slater was in this and think ' ok , he's a good role model , let them see this ' . it's all pure guilty pleasure , hokum of the highest order , but i was one of those teenagers .
i'll come back for you .	Chris Treborn is a child who is suffering with blackouts and memory loss . this happened to his father and his grandfather . the strange thing is though , that whenever Chris has a blackout , something terrible has happened that has affected one of his friends . flash forward and Chris is now twenty and has not had a blackout for seven years . but one evening he passes out again and starts to recall events that happened whilst his previous blackouts were happening . he goes back to his hometown to try and find out what happened only to find things and friends are different . he regains contact with Kayleigh , his sort of childhood sweetheart and reminds her of one of his blackouts . distressed by this , she leaves Chris in tears and later on Chris finds out that she has committed suicide . but what Chris doesn't know is that the journals he has been keeping since he was seven can unlock a way to change everyones lives . very reluctant to see this , following Ashton Kutchers ' previous cinematic duds . but i have missed one of the most cleverest science fiction films to be released in a long while . the film isn't very comfortable viewing as there are a lot of disturbing images on show and the special effects are very effective too as they disturb the viewer . essentially what we have here is a hybrid of Donnie darko , an adult back to the future , with a very heavy Ray Bradbury influence . it is all cleverly done and minor plot holes aside everything about the movie is well crafted . the cast are very good at what they are doing and the production crew seem to have put a lot of effort into the casts appearances at different times during the movie . Kutcher makes an adequate lead and is good in his role , but the supporting cast and events of the film are really the stars on show here . well worth watching but as i said , contains some very upsetting images and i must advise anybody who has a new born baby , please steer clear of this movie for a while . i made that mistake ! ! ! a clever viewing experience , with a strong story and very accessible narrative .
playing lesbian is hard . .	No-name actors are making a low-budget period drama called " Home for Purim , " when an anonymous post on the Internet suggests that one performance is Oscar-worthy . Then , two more cast members get Oscar-related press : buzz in " Variety " and appearances on TV prompt the studio executives to insist on changes in the script in anticipation of a blockbuster . Jump ahead a few months to the days before Oscar nominees are announced : just the possibility of a nomination has changed the actors ' lives . Agents , publicists , make-up artists , local celebrity reporters , and other bit players round out the backstage ensemble . . a brilliant satirical look on what happens behind the scenes of a movie that receives a little bit of a buzz somewhere and then the whole thing goes ' global ' . their are some hilarious characters and they all have a sense of falsity about them in some sort . the script sparkles and the final third is both hilarious yet a little bit sad . well worth seeing if you like the Hollywood scene
i want an effing costume . . . .	Fate deals young orphan Matt Murdock a strange hand when he is doused with hazardous waste . The accident leaves Matt blind but also gives him a heightened " radar sense " that allows him to " see " far better than any man . Years later Murdock has grown into a man and becomes a respected criminal attorney . But after he's done his " day job " Matt takes on a secret identity as " The Man Without Fear , " Daredevil , the masked avenger that patrols the neighbourhood of Hell's Kitchen and New York City to combat the injustice that he cannot tackle in the courtroom . . . it is true about the directors cut adding new depth to the film , with a sub-plot involving a murder which leads straight to the king-pin , with a little more footage and dialogue for all those concerned . the film is considerably better than ' ghost rider ' as the viewers get to know the characters a lot better and we are able to show empathy for Murdock , as due to his high sensitivity , he cannot get away from the vigilante . for a marvel film , it is very dark ( even the punisher had light moments ) and does have some disturbing moments , but the colourful charachetrs more than make up for the location that is hells kitchen . Affleck is good in his role , although he looks a little stupid in his costume , but is ably supported by Garner and Duncan . but Farrell steals the rug from under them as the neurotic Bullseye , who brings much needed comic relief to the film . the story is more accessible than the theatrical version and appears a lot more ' grittier ' so if you haven't seen the movie , the best way is to start here and enjoy , and then see the theatrical version to see hoe they ' messed ' up slightly . a superhero film , that for once can do without a sequel
don't confuse luck with skill . . . .	John Lee is a hit-man who works for Chinese crime lord , Terence Wei . It seems that John is obligated to Mr . Wei and so far has done everything he was told to do . Now Mr . Wei wants John to get revenge on a police detective who killed his son . John was about to carry out the job but for some reason can't do it . When Mr . Wei hears of this , he sends for some replacements . John now has to return to China to help his mother and sister whom Mr . Wei will now target because of his disobedience , but first he needs a passport . He needs find someone who can give him a passport who is not beholden to Mr . Wei . He is told of Meg Coburn , a small time documents forger . John goes to see her and was in the process of making his passport when some Wei's people come in shooting . While John gets away , Meg is caught by the police but is released by the cop whom Mr . Wei has a beef with . John goes to her and still needing a passport , forces to go with him . Mr . Wei's people finds them and was about to take care of them but John managed to escape . So now the two of them are not only hunted by Mr . Wei but also the police . . . take this film for what it is , an all out action fest , that doesn't care for logic or plot lines , and you will be dazzled by the balletic gun-play and fireworks that are on display , in the thin running time . the basic plot is , the assassin won't kill the cops kid , so his boss wants rid of him , thats it . the set pieces are great and even though some will dismiss this as Woo-lite , there's a lot of fun to be had . Sorvino is also great in her role , and brings a little glam to the whole proceeding . just leave your brains at the door .
a burning ring of fire . . . . .	most biography films can be long and ruin the effect of the final movie . one that springs to mind is Ali , which was good but way , too long for me . mangold does not waste time with Cash ' childhood and show what a tortured person he may have been when he was younger , and all the better for it . what the film shows is Cash ' rise to stardom , his struggle with drugs and alcohol , and his relationship with friend / wife June Carter . There are the predictable scenes , for instance the conflict between him and his father , which is never fully reconciled , his troubles with his first wife , and his cheatin ' ways before he finally settled down with June . Phoenix IS cash , and boy does he have fun with his role ( my only niggle with phoenix is , the man cannot sing . ) Witherspoon is good as June , but it's not an Oscar worthy performance , she does interact well with Phoenix , and there is some stunning chemistry between the two which makes the film a little more realistic . for me the ' star of the show ' goes to Robert Patrick as Cash ' father . He may not have a lot of screen time , but he does steal every scene he is in , and makes him a rel monster , but at the same time you have to sympathise with this man , because of all that he has been through . it's easier to sympathise with the father than Cash himself as Cash ' own struggles were self inflicted . all in all great performances , editing and of course music and direction really worth checking out .
you found a pie ? . . . . .	A team-building weekend in the mountains of Eastern Europe goes horribly wrong for the sales division of the multi-national weapons company Palisade Defense when they become the victims of a group of crazed killers who will stop at nothing to see them dead . . . . . at first they think they are in the right lodge after the driver refuses to drive down a road . things seem to be going OK with the group , but then they find traps galore and the the real endurance starts . . . a very well made comedy thriller , with a great cast , Severence makes no attempt to be serious at all and its all the better for it . ripping off several other movies such as , Hostel , Deliverence , Hard Target , Predator and First Blood , the films real gem is Dyer who makes an endearing hero , but unlike any other one seen before . he spends half the time in film under the influence of drugs and then the other half injured . there are some stand out moments . the pie incident . given someone ecstasy as analgesia and the final third of the film which is very blood thirsty but very exciting . unfairly compared to ' shaun of the dead ' , this is not even a horror movie , yes there are some frights and some gore , but this is primarily a comedy then a thriller . well worth watching .
the interrupting cow . . . .	Dan Dunne is a history teacher in an inner-city school deep in the heart of Brooklyn . He eschews the provided curriculum in favour of off-the-cuff , but deeply heartfelt lectures about the importance of understanding history , rather than just memorising it . He is torn between his desire to change the world and his increasingly desperate realisation that he can't , at least not in the grand , awe-inspiring ways that he envisioned as an eager , idealistic college student . In his classroom , which is populated almost entirely by black and Hispanic students , Dan lectures about how the world is structured into opposing forces . His unorthodox approach inspires them during class , but interestingly enough we don't see its effects outside the classroom . The film focuses on Dan and his relationship with Drey , a 13-year-old student of his who catches him in the bathroom smoking crack after school one day . Drey understands Dan's frustrations with life ; she is the child of an overworked single mother whom she barely sees , and spending so much time on her own has made her self-reliant , but also hard on the edges . an amazing turn from Gosling makes this a must see movie . some of the plot and narrative may confuse , but it's down to way people want to change the world but cannot . Gosling realises that he is just an everyman and this is probably why he is dependent upon drugs , and takes Drey under his wing , as he can see the potential in her and doesn't want her to go down his route . the film is sobering and at sometimes quite funny , but it will stay with you long afterwards , thanks to Goslings haunting performance
Blumpkins . . . . .	The morning they return from their White Castle road trip , Harold and Kumar decide to go to Amsterdam because Harold doesn't want to wait ten days to see Maria again . On the plane , Kumar lights up his new bong , the air marshals think it's a bomb , and Harold and Kumar are arrested as terrorists and sent to Guantanamo Bay . Ordered to fellate a guard , they manage to escape , make their way to Florida , and head for Texas to find Kumar's ex-girlfriend's fiancé , the well-connected Colton , and get him to intercede with Washington on their behalf . Kumar still has a thing for Vanessa , the feds are in hot pursuit , and the legal weed of Amsterdam seems a long way away . . . . this film has so many things wrong with it , it is just so wrong . but that is what makes it so right . it's disgusting , it's racist , it pokes fun at terrorism and at the government , this is a movie that doesn't give a hoot about the world , but remains strangely patriotic throughout , and it's a damn funny comedy too . it's genius that it continues almost straight after the white castle incident and every set piece just gets stupider and funnier than the last . if you didn't like the first one , you won't like this , so there . this is inane , immature film-making at it's best , and i loved every minute of it .
we should have gone to the beach . . .	John Cena is called John in this film , for maybe two reasons . one , maybe he is too stupid to answer to any other name or two , maybe it's a little nod to the ' John Rambos and the John matrix's ' of our time . if this film is anything other than completely over the top , it's a learning curve for being a Marine . you can jump unbelievably high into the air and then perform a perfect dive whilst a building explodes behind you . you can survive being blasted backward several times through windows and get up and run , run , run . you can hang on the side of a truck , get hit by several buildings , get up and run , run , run . and the African-Americans in the movie have massive chips on their shoulder , exclaiming every couple of minutes ' why does it have to be the black man ? ' the story ( what there is of it ) is about a diamond heist and John being in the wrong place at the wrong time , thus , his wife is kidnapped , and he goes all , Commando in the jungle equipped with nothing but a tight t-shirt and the most exaggerated bowie knife ever ( phallic references inserted here ) . the whole thing is absolutely over the top , with a silly script , daft unbelievable set pieces with very bad acting and an extremely hammy Robert Patrick , but you cannot help but love the movie . it's short , never get's boring and is very colourful . if you are a fan of the eighties over the top action movies ( think Invasion USA , Commando , Cobra ) then this is definitely for you . plus for all Matt Damon fans , Cena looks how Damon would , if he were a lot more buff .
i brought you into this world . . . . and i can take you out of it !	Merrick has come up with a plan , to clone people so that they can expand their life expectancy . . . at a price , five million dollars . the sponsors believe that the clones survive without ever learning life , but Merrick has found out that their organs will not survive if their brains are not functioning . Lincoln six echo and Jordan two delta are residents of the island , the latter has won the daily lottery to go to the island , and the former has discovered suspicious going ons inside the colony . they both escape and then the film turns into full expected Micheal Bay results . obviously the film ends predictably , but it's the way that the film is executed that makes it such a great film . Macgregor and Johansson have great chemistry and both shine , whilst Bean proves again after Goldeneye and patriot games , he is in the Alan Rickman league of villains . unduly ignored at movie theatres , this is an adrenalin rush of the highest order . OK , cloning is not an original concept , but again the narrative and the story run so smooth that it is not hard to enjoy . although the set pieces are not original , ripping off ( or homaging ? ) films such as : bad boys2 tomorrow never dies lethal weapon 4 and of course Logan's run and the sixth day . a pure unadulterated summer blockbuster , this is one movie well worth checking out . . . . it will not disappoint .
sir , we have to act strong . . . .	in a very slim running time for a film like this , we get several different takes on the day in questions act , and in a rashomon style way , the story has several narratives , but holds them well together . the only problem is while watching this movie , i had three things going through my mindwhy does it remind me so much of ' clear and present danger ' ? if this was made fourteen years ago , Harrison Ford would have definitely been in itand finally , has this film beaten the ' 24 ' movie to the big screen . all the cast are fantastic in their respective roles , especially Quaid who plays the secret service agent , with a natural mental health disorder after a similar episode ( it makes the film more interesting anyway ! ) but due to the film being barely ninety minutes long , we haven't got time to ponder the previous story , we are just taken back to the beginning , and although there are a few plot twists , the film never gets complicated . the final third is action packed and well edited and the script is very smooth . where the hell was Jack Bauer ?
i see you , you see me . . . .	FBI agent Jake Malloy just can't nail a serial killer who's been targeting cops . The killer has already killed nine cops . Not only does the killer despise policemen , but he also has a grudge against Malloy for pursuing him during a string of prostitute murders four years ago . The killer finally decides to hit Malloy where it hurts , killing one of Malloy's friends on the force , and brutally killing Malloy's fiancée Mary . The grief sends Malloy off the deep end and causes him to become alcoholic , forcing Malloy's colleague to sign Malloy up at a remote detox clinic in a snow-covered part of Wyoming . The clinic specialises in rehabilitating alcoholic cops . But the killer murders another patient and assumes the patient's identity at the clinic . While Malloy participates in group therapy sessions , the killer starts killing the patients . Among the endangered patients are Jaworski , Slater , Noah , Conner , and a dozen others , one of whom must be the killer . One by one , the patients start falling prey to the killer and , starting with the facility's director , Doc , the killer starts targeting the staff as well . . . loads of red herrings haunt this movie but that is just the start of this ' Thing ' lite thriller . after the bomb that was ' Get Carter ' , Stallone comes back with a thriller that has a really claustrophobic feeling to it . OK , it can be predictable at times and sees some really corny acting , but after the run that Stallone had , it is good to see him star in something that has a little originality to it . the plot is simple and references ' Se7en ' and other thrillers like this , but the execution of this makes it stand out from other thrillers . easy to watch and with very good editing , D-Tox is a great overlooked thriller that should be seen to be believed . one of Stallones last great movies .
wait two years . . . .	i wasn't really keen on seeing this following the reviews in various publications , but this is one of those films that really is unfairly treated . i think a lot of people were expecting the same banter from Reeves and Bullock as they did in speed , but in fact they only share two scenes together in the whole movie . it's basically a sci-fi romance based on a Korean motion picture . the two leads live two years apart and start to send each other letters and slowly fall in love . although i cannot express how much i en = joyed this movie ( even though i am not keen on romance ) , the film is very predictable in some places and some scenes should have been taken out to avoid the ' red herring ' situation . the leads chemistry by voice over and connotations is fantastic , even though Reeves still has a little ' whoa ' factor from his Matrix days . Bullock also is good in her role and you do empathise with her character from time to time , as she is relying on Reeves not meeting anyone or anything happening to him , during the two year time gap . on a par with ' the bridges of Madison county ' this is one of those love stories that can be enjoyed by all .
i thought you were going fishing . . . . .	an ageing USCG rescue swimmer's team is killed in a horrific rescue mission . Immediately prior to this terrible event , his wife also announced that she cannot take anymore . His first love is always the rescue mission . This leaves him an emotional wreck . His commander gives him a choice - quit or take a position as an instructor at the USCG training facility in Louisiana . Reluctantly he takes the position . Moving into the school , he immediately increases the 18 week curriculum that routinely fails half of the people that attend . Here he meets a young man with unlimited potential , but with some secret that seems to hold him back as a team player . i wasn't expecting too much from this film , as Costner isn't as high profile as he used to be , and Davis hasn't directed a good film for over 13 years . but this mix of top gun at sea an an officer and a gentleman without the shouting , is a really goo interesting drama . Costner puts in a remarkable performance as the harsh , but not too harsh ( it's Robin Hood for crying out loud ! ) senior captain , who won't any crap off of anybody , apart from Kutcher , as obviously he can see a little bit of himself twenty years ago in his personality . although the film is very predictable and ticks all of this sub-genres boxes , it is very gripping and very well made enough for you to care about the characters . no one will be surprised at the ending , but there are a few laughs along the way and the film is probably Kutchers best performance to date . a good movie .
you're heading for the freezer . . . .	Chein is a city boy who moves with his cousins to work at a ice factory . He does this with a family promise never to get involved in any fight . However , when members of his family begin disappearing after meeting the management of the factor , the resulting mystery and pressures forces him to break that vow and take on the villainy of the Big Boss . Lee once again rules the martial art movie world , with this very serious and very violent movie about dope smuggling and family loss . with Films like way of the dragon , and even fist of fury , there was a little element of fun and humour to be had , but while this film does steer toward this in the first few scenes , it really does surprise the viewer with the brutality that this film contains . no character is really safe in this film , and characters you expect to survive in the film , meet very grisly ends . the fight scenes are stuff of legend again , as Lee proves yet again , why he was hailed as the screens greatest martial artist . the fight scenes are long and brutal , and given one silly effect ( think of someone being kicked through a wall and leaving their outline ) pretty realistic . the blood isn't very realistic , and the soundtrack does reminisce euro-porn every now and again , but this is classic good guy versus bad guy stuff , and if you are expecting something different , refer back to the title of the film .
no good deed goes unpunished . . . .	Las Vegas showroom magician Cris Johnson has a secret which torments him : he can see two minutes into the future . Sick of the examinations he underwent as a child and the interest of the government and medical establishment in his power , he lies low under an assumed name in Vegas , performing cheap tricks and living off small-time gambling " winnings . " But when a terrorist group threatens to detonate a nuclear device in Los Angeles , government agent Callie Ferris must use all her wiles to capture Cris and convince him to help her stop the cataclysm . but all the while Cris is more concerned about Liz , a woman who has come up in his future , a lot longer than any other future he has seen . . . . i fthis film had been released exactly ten years ago , it would have been one of the biggest movies of 1997 , after all , Cage made two cracking films that year with Face / off and Con air . fast forward ten years to the present , and it feels that the film could not have been released at a more critical time or cage . Ghostrider was barely released two months ago , and lets not forget that its only been seven months since the wicker man graced our screens . so i wasn't expecting much from this movie , and what i got was a film tha seemed very rushed , although the editing was good , there were plenty of continuity errors and the special effects were not very special . but on the positive side , it's very exciting and has a great performance from Cage , who just puts in enough swagger and puppy dog looks to make you care about his character ( despite the Tom Hanks hair ) . at times the narration can be confusing , we can't really tell when we are looking into the future or the present , and there really is no rationale as to why the bomb was going to be detonated , or why he got to see Liz so far back before he met her . but these are just some of the plot holes in this movie and do not really hinder it too much . fans of Phillip K . Dick will no doubt balk at the movie ( especially after a scanner darkly ) , but if you are a fan of Cage and want some improvement on wicker man and ghost-rider , it's right here . a great sci-fi action film , and nothing more . can't wait to see what Cage does ' next '
there will be no questions . . . .	Joe Frady is a determined reporter who often needs to defend his work from colleagues . After the assassination of a prominent U . S . senator , Frady begins to notice that reporters present during the assassination are dying mysteriously . After getting more involved in the case , Frady begins to realise that the assassination was part of a conspiracy somehow involving the Parallax Corporation , an enigmatic training institute . He then decides to enroll for the Parallax training himself to discover the truth . . . a really creepy thriller from beginning to end , the parallax view works really well as for the most part of the film we are in the dark just as Frady is throughout . Beatty is excellent in his role and brings that little bit of extra atar power to make the proceedings more interesting . the cinematography is excellent and give the film a cold un-nervy feel , especially in the final act . the same cannot be said for the editing , as sometimes it really is bad and can make watching the film a little on the difficult side . Pakula directs the film well and keeps the tension cranked up , but it's a shame that Fradys character wasn't a little more expanded and light could have been shed on his past . but this is a great conspiracy theory thriller and with haunting set pieces and a shocking ending , really worth checking out
people die all the time . . .	Bertram Pincus is a man whose people skills leave much to be desired . When Pincus dies unexpectedly , but is miraculously revived after seven minutes , he wakes up to discover that he now has the annoying ability to see ghosts . Even worse , they all want something from him , particularly Frank Herlihy who pesters him into breaking up the impending marriage of his widow Gwen . That puts Pincus squarely in the middle of a triangle with spirited result . what is essentially a comic version of the sixth sense , gives Gervais his first big Hollywood role . if you are a fan of him in Extras , or his stand up persona , then you will lap this up , because he is essentially this character in this movie . the story is done , but it has been tried and tested many times before , and can be quite predictable at times . but it's light-hearted and fun , and Gervais gets to bring some of his dry wit to the big screen . don't expect a laugh riot , it's not an out and out comedy , but it does have it's moments . imagine Oda Mae Brown from Ghost having her own movie ( the what the ghosts make Gervais look strange have comparisons ) with more laughs and your halfway there . the ending could have been a little less sickly sweet though .
any other business ?	to all you snobs out there that rate this film badly , why do you bother / you claim to watch films such as rashomon and citizen Kane , do not rate them but feel that you have to award this one star because of your hatred for van damme . this is one of the most successful video game tie ins ever and compared to recent fare such as doom and silent hill , this was actually fun animated and a lot more enjoyable than the said two . we all know the story . van damme plays guile who is at war with bison played by an outstanding Raul Julia ( rip ) . Steven desouzas script crackles with good dialogue , and though the direction leaves a lot to be desired , this was great . everyone seems to be having a ball , and to get people such as callow , minogue , Julia and studi , it can't be all bad can it . some funny moments in the film . . . . van damme with the knife thinking that bison's army have surrendered due to him . Simon callows cameo bison's maniacal look throughout ( constipation ? ) studi as sagat ( miscast but still great ) and van damme just swaggering about knowing that he is making a truly cool movie . watch it again all you people who voted it one and enjoy the pleasure of pure popcorn entertainment . ' bison , your off the air ! ! '
i sit and watch the power station	Tracy Flick is the most driven student at Carver High , who just happens to be having an affair with one of her teachers . Another teacher , Mr . McAllister , is having an affair with his wife's best friend . Student Elections are under way , when Mr . McAllister persuades football jock Paul to run against Flick for his own pleasure . Flick , of course , is mortified that Paul is even trying to compete . Tammy , Paul's lesbian sister who got dumped by her girlfriend to go with Paul , decides that running against her brother is the best revenge . Who will win the election this year . . . in a genius turn of casting , we get Ferris Bueller as the most neurotic teacher the screen has seen in a long time , and it was strange to see Broderick in this kind of role , but his performance of his character and the ordeal he goes through during the film , brings a funny yet bitter poignancy to the whole proceedings . Witherspoon is pretty much against type as her role as Flick , another neurotic student who has secrets that both her and Broderick know about , thus bringing a bitter feud between the two leads . the story is pretty much your average high school movie , but with the adult element thrown in , it has the edge on other high school flicks . Klein is the only weak link in this movie , and his performance just goes to show where his career is today . but the film is funny and there are characters that we can all relate to with there feelings ( jealousy of other people , and hierarchy / superiority ) . and plus we all know someone like Flick , someone who gets what they want no matter what they do , and always end up smelling of roses . a film that will make you laugh , but make you a little angry at the same time .
you stole my elephant ! ! !	Tony Jaa plays a mild mannered Thai , who lives on land with elephants who he classes as his equal . when the elephants get stolen at an elephant inspection , this makes Tony mad . Tony goes to Sydney where he learns that the elephants are being used as food to be served in an illegal restaurant where the customers eat endangered species . with this and a corrupt cop subplot involving the Aussie fuzz , Tony is really mad . the story isn't up to much , but when the fighting is this spectacular , the story ( rightly so ) tales a back seat to the amazing style that Jaa has incorporated for this movie . the man can truly fight and he suffers for his art . one of the most extraordinary set pieces is the one take fight scene when Jaa is proceeding up a four story flight of stairs , the choreography is immaculate and Jaa proves himself to be the best martial arts star the world has seen since the advent of Bruce lee . he takes hits and gets injured , but as the film progresses the action becomes even more breathtaking and jaw dropping with each set piece . by the end of the movie you will not really care for his cause , you will just be counting the number of times Jaa breaks an adversary's bone . one of the most fantastic and gob smacking martial arts movies of the last thirty years . see it now .
cigarettes in space ? . . . .	Tobacco industry lobbyist Nick Naylor has a seemingly impossible task : promoting cigarette smoking in a time when the health hazards of the activity have become too plain to ignore . Nick , however , revels in his job , using argument and twisted logic to place , as often as not , his clients in the positions of either altruistic do-gooders or victims . Nick's son Joey needs to understand and respect his dad's philosophy , and Nick works hard to respond to that need without compromising his lack of values . When a beautiful news reporter betrays Nick's sexually-achieved trust , his world seems in danger of collapsing . But there's always one more coffin nail in Nick's pack . . . a crackling script of Mamet size genius is what makes this movie work so well , that and the lovable characters in this film . every part is played brilliantly by all involved , and Ivan Reitman must have grounded his son for making a movie that beats any of his hands down since 1984 . the situations that Naylor gets himself out of are miraculous and some of the explanations / excuses he makes are worth writing down , as they are seethingly poisonous . endlessly quotable and very topical , this is a hot potato of a movie , that doesn't preach or make any promises . it's great too that not one cigarette is smoked throughout the entire movie .
chilling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	i don't know why i love this movie so much , maybe because that when you stand at a tube station on your own your instantly reminded of that scene from an American werewolf in London and are very scared . maybe its because that the tube is a good setting for a horror movie and its taken a long time for somebody to realise this > maybe its because franka potente is a babe maybe its because after seeing the movie i took my wife on the tube and ran off and left her on her own ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ( i think it was the latter ! ) the movie works because none of the characters are very likable ( heroin addicts , ex convicts and potential rapists to name a few , even potentes character at the beginning is an unlikeable character . the most sympathetic character is the actual creep itself a cross between john merrick and freddy kreuger , the monster is the most human thing in the movie which is ironic in itself . with some genuine frights from the beginning and some very gruesome effects this film is best watched when you are in London and are just about to make a tube journey . destined for cult status , this will be playing in the prince charles theatre alongside rocky horror and the sound of music in ten years time !
i'm gay , and he's a new yorker . . .	In LA , while escaping from the police after an unsuccessful robbery , the small time thief Harry Lockhart is accidentally submitted to an audition for a role of detective in a movie , and invited to a party . He meets a private eye Gay Perry , who suggests him to participate of an investigation to develop his character . He also meets the gorgeous aspirant actress Harmony Faith Lane , and finds that she was a friend of his childhood for whom he had a crush . Harry and Perry get involved in an intricate murder case with many leads . With the support of Harmony , they find the sordid truth of the case . . . . . the directorial debut of Shane Black ( the one with the glasses in Predator ) comes one of the most sharpest and humorous screenplays of the decade . as usual Downey Jr . and Kilmer are on fire , and they add the depth needed for such an intricate plot . Black has out done himself with this , and while watching this , it reminds you of the creations such as Lethal Weapon and the last boy scoutbut action fans beware , this isn't an all out action fest , it's a very talky movie , with some very detailed script and a plot that demands to be followed .
she'll have hers to go . . . .	Wilbur is a young scot who is adamant about suicide , he tries everything from self harm , to taking pills , but is always saved by his brother Harbour at the critical point . when he is thrown out of his flat because of ' misuse with gas ' , he moves in with Harbour and together start to make the book business left to them by their father , try and get some profit . meanwhile , Harbour falls in love and marries one of the customers , Alice and her and her daughter move in with him and Wilbur . soon they all bond and Wilbur and Alice become close . this all leads to a dramatic third act . from the upstart , this movie appears to be a very bleak drama , but we are soon treated to a lot of very funny black comedy , especially about such a taboo subject as suicide . there are really no ' normal characters in this movie apart from Harbour , who probably is the most human character in this movie , with all his unconditional love toward Wilbur , and doing anything for the titular character . all the other characters , including Wilbur are very odd and have several ticks . supporting characters such as Horst and Moira add a little sparkle to the sometimes depressing and light up the screen when they are present . the story is very interesting and full of Epiphanies and the narrative although sometimes convoluted , runs very smoothly throughout . its a shame then that halfway between the second act , two of the main characters do something that makes you care less about them and focus your interest on other characters . the final act takes a very dark turn and the humour evident in the first two acts , is missing from this . the film really shows a lot of irony in the final scenes and you wouldn't expect the film to end this way , considering how light the beginning made of the subject matter , but i'm sure that this was the film makers intention . very similar to ' the league of gentlemen ' in some parts , this film is a very macabre and sobering experience , but not difficult to watch . recommended
say hello to the Mrs for me . . . .	Dale Murphy is hosting and producing his own reality T . V show called " The Ultimate Survivalist : The Apocalypse " , with six contestants led by Nina Papas , who'll be thrown together for six days in a simulated post-apocalyptic wasteland , and the winner will walk away with $100 , 000 . Located in a remote part of West Virginia , the contestants discover that what they are really fighting for is their survival - against a family of hideously deformed inbred cannibals who plan to ruthlessly butcher them all . . . Who will survive ? i know the first movie didn't do that well at the box office , and the idea of a sequel made me chuckle a little , but this is one really fun horror movie , and is way above most of the ' gore - nography ' movies released on the big screen . it's not down to the acting , that does suck big time . when your biggest name in the film and best performance comes courtesy of Henry Rollins , your not expecting awards anytime soon . the story is goo , a kind of hybrid to ' the condemned and survivor with the big brother edge ' , but what makes this film so enjoyable is the fast pace of it , and the deaths , which while not very shocking , are amazing to watch and are quite funny . the make up effects are outstanding and as with funny bits there are quite queasy buts as well . and also it's not your typical ' guess which one dies next ' scenario , you are genuinely surprised who gets killed in some instances . i don't why i liked this film so much , but i did , it was a ballsy , over the top horror , which wore it's B-movie credentials on its sleeve . if you like films like this , you will love it .
i told you i'd find you . . . .	Liam Neeson stars as tough ex-special agent of some sort , who is as lethal with his bare hands as he is with blunt objects , torture and guns . he has the extra tough name of Bryan , and he loves his daughter dearly . as always , he lives on his own , is estranged from his wife who is now married to a wealthier man , and sits in his apartment in the dark whilst wearing dark clothes . then after his daughter goes on holiday in France , she is barely there five minutes when she kidnapped by traffickers of young girls who are drugged up and sold to the highest bidder . infuriated by this , Bryan gets his best Jason Bourne spy kit and coat and attitude and heads for some Parisian fisticuffs . . . . this film could have starred any number of d-list action stars and gone straight to DVD and done reasonable business , but producer Besson took a risk and cast Neeson , who is not best known for all out action vehicles and came out with a quite respectable and sometimes relentless film , which is short , straight to the point and has neeson in a quite vicious role . the story is simple as is the narrative , girl gets kidnapped , dad is an ex-agent who is angry , and has secret friends who can help him . the action is brutal from we have come to expect from a Besson production , and if you don't take the film too serious and forgive it's slightly discriminative undertones , you will be store for a surprisingly adrenaline packed 90 minutes . a good popcorn flick .
don't feed him the generic stuff . . . .	The patriarch of an eccentric Brooklyn family claims to once have been a great novelist , but he has settled into a teaching job . When his wife discovers a writing talent of her own , jealousy divides the family , leaving two teenage sons to forge new relationships with their parents . Linney's character begins dating her younger son's tennis coach . Meanwhile , Daniels ' character has an affair with the student his older son is pursuing . . . . the first thing that strikes me about this movie is the word play and hoe it evolves the script and the characters . Daniels ahas never been better and neither has Linney , but the one thing that makes the movie laugh out loud is the profanity . it amazingly brings father and son closer , and the jealousy sub-plot is so immature that is a work of genius . are the parents the immature bunch of the family , or vice-versa . the script was so electric , that at sometimes i thought i was watching a Mamet screenplay . really recommended
a nut less monkey could have done your job . . .	As with Hot Fuzz last year , this is a satire on action films , and when egos collide whilst making a movie . borrowing heavily from the three amigos , tropic thunder puts five actors in a real war scenario without them knowing , and hilarity ensues . what i loved about this film , is that it wasn't scared to go for the r-rated profane route , which a lot of films tend to do these days . part of the fun of the film is the profanity and the violence , and one feels that the film would not be as good as it is if it was aimed at a more family orientated demographic . the film does suffer during the second act a little , and loses it's aim for about twenty minutes , but when the film is in the hands of Downey Jr . or a certain Hollywood A-list star , the film shines . Kudos to Stiller for not wanting to have the best lines or the best part , and he does tend to step back and let the other stars take full rein of the script . Downey Jr . really chews scenery when he is on screen , and some of the lines he spurts out are so funny , you just cannot help but laugh whenever he utters a syllable . the same can't be said for Jack Black though . his role is thankless , and he is given very little to do apart from his usual schtick of screaming and being quite annoying . the rest of the cast are great in their limited roles and really put their all in the film . it is funny , really funny , but it's not the best film that Stiller has made . it's not as surreal as Zoolander or as daft as Dodgeball , but it does really hit home when the jokes work . well worth taking a trip to the cinema for .
sometimes , birth and death go together . . . .	The mysterious and charismatic Russian-born Nikolai Luzhin is a driver for one of London's most notorious organised crime families of Eastern European origin . The family itself is part of the Vory V Zakone criminal brotherhood . Headed by Semyon , whose courtly charm as the welcoming proprietor of the plush Trans - Siberian restaurant impeccably masks a cold and brutal core , the family's fortunes are tested by Semyon's volatile son and enforcer , Kirill , who is more tightly bound to Nikolai than to his own father . But Nikolai's carefully maintained existence is jarred once he crosses paths at Christmas time with Anna , a midwife at a North London hospital . Anna is deeply affected by the desperate situation of a young teenager who dies while giving birth to a baby . Anna resolves to try to trace the baby's lineage and relatives . The girl's personal diary also survives her ; it is written in Russian , and Anna seeks answers in it . Anna's mother does not discourage her , but Anna's Russian-born uncle Stepan urges caution . He is right to do so ; by delving into the diary , Anna has accidentally unleashed the full fury of the Vory . . . with Cronenberg making the film in its entirety in London , he has shaped London as a cold dark and brutal place to live in . as over films have attempted and failed to do so , Cronenberg captures the seedy more dangerous side of the capital convincingly . Mortensen again plays a chilling role in his second collaboration with Cronenberg and is almost upstaged by Cassel as he displays his token psycho role with glee . again the film is very violent almost bordering on unwatchable at times , because Cronenberg has a knack of lingering on the scene just long enough for it to make an impression on the viewer . a very dark drama , some may find it offensive ans un PC , but this is real life and really happens , Cronnebergs just telling a story . worth watching for the performances alone .
you keep talking , i'm gonna take your head off . . . .	Vincent Majestyk just wants to grow his watermelons and live in peace on his farm . But the local mob boss has different ideas . When his workers are threatened Mr . Majestyk decides to lend them a hand but then the wraith of the mob is turned onto Mr . Majestyk himself , The poor mobsters don't stand a chance . arrested for assaulting one of them , Majestyk encounters a hit-man , who he kidnaps when the mob try to release him . he trys to cut a deal with the police , so he can carry on farming his melons , but the hit-man escapes and will stop at nothing to exact revenge on Majestyk . . . . from the initial opening , this is classic Bronsan . all macho and sexist , all he is interested is getting his crop of melons done on time so he can earn some money . even when the mob are after him , he just seems to be interested in his melons . but this is where Brnson acts . he is just so cool in his role , that he can shrug off the threats from the mob and the police , in order to live his life . the plot is very straight forward and the script is amusing at times , it's just a shame that the bad guys are just so annoying . you know that Bronson could just slap all of them with one swing , yet they still persist after him . the final third of the film is where the action comes thick and fast , Bronsons siege on the house is amazing and so is the car chase leading up to this . By far one of Bronsons best roles and referenced in other movies ( true romance ) . if you have never seen a Bronson film before , best to start off with this one . excellent .
cctv	Jackie works as a cctv operator . Each day she watches over a small part of the world , protecting the people living their lives under her gaze . One day a man appears on her monitor , a man she thought she would never see again , a man she never wanted to see again . Now she has no choice , she is compelled to confront him . . . this film had me guessing the main protagonists vendetta against the man from the very beginning . in fact the majority of the film is so cloak and dagger , you wonder just what Jackie has gone through prior to the films opening . she seems lonely , and outcast , like she has done something wrong to her family , or was she abused ? then one day at work she sees the image of a man that begins to make her obsessed about him . for no reason , she starts to follow him and become more and more involved with his friends and his surroundings , when she does finally meet him and talk to him , she runs and goes back to the comfort of her cctv safety . the story takes a very macabre turn , and the film feels very claustrophobic at times due to the camera work and the use of the cctv . grittily filmed and sort of depressing , red road keeps the film very simple , but always has an unnerving feel to it . the cast are all very good in their respective roles , but this isn't for everyone , showing the true power that big brother has on society today . .
you're mad . . .	Joe has planned a postcard-perfect afternoon in the English countryside with his partner , Claire . But as Joe and Claire prepare to open a bottle of champagne , their idyll comes to an abrupt end . A hot air balloon drifts into the field . Joe and three other men rush to secure the basket . Just as they secure the balloon , the wind rushes into the field , and at once the rescuers are airborne . Joe manages to drop to the ground , as do most of his companions , but one man is lifted skywards . As Joe , Claire and the other rescuers watch this strangely beautiful sight , they see the man fall to his death . Recalling the day's events at dinner with his friends Robin and Rachel , Joe reveals the impact the accident has had on his battered psyche . Ironically the balloon eventually lands safely , the boy unscathed . But fate has far more unpleasant things in store for Joe . Going to retrieve the body of the fallen man with fellow rescuer Jed Parry , for example , turns out to be a very bad move . Jed feels an instant connection with Joe - - one that , as the weeks go by , becomes ever more intense . . . a film indicating that love can affect people in different ways , whether it be platonic , obsessive or parental , it affects the human psyche and emotion , eventually ruling the way you think and react to situations . the film is shot beautifully , especially the dream-like opening which the film is centres around . the cast are fantastic in their respective roles , and Ifans is creepy , but i couldn't help but show empathy for him . the soundtrack can be a little distracting at times as it is a little too dramatic , but it is a hidden gem from 2004 , and a very surreal experience about how tragedy can affect people in different ways
now thats gangsta . . . .	some silly silly gangsters have gone and murdered Seagals son . i mean in the law of averages , this is probably the worst thing someone can do in the history of man , who would want to mess with Seagal , when he spends the majority of the film in a long coat and even when we first meet him , he is skulking in the back ground in his shades and black suit . so he decides to take vengeance ( obviously ) against the people who killed his son . . . but in reality , this is a great return to form from Seagal , after the diabolical Attack Force and the average Flight of fury , this is the Seagal we remember from almost sixteen years ago when he was starring in top form in films such as out for justice and marked for death . he's not in shape for the film , which is a little bit of a shame , but it appears he has taken a lot of the fans advice , and decided to put more fighting scenes in , a rare performance which features no voice coverage , and a decidedly dodgy car chase . if this was to be compared to any of his other movies , it would be an out for justice / hard to kill lite thriller , with some good support from an extremely over the top Eddie Griffin and a cool cameo from Trejo . if you have been disappointed by Seagals movie for the past five or so years ( like me ) it is great to see someone who was once classed as a legend in the action genre finally recognising his game and the potential he has . heres hoping it's not just a one off .
is the stud here ?	In psychedelic swinging 60s style , the dreaded thief ( and killer ) Diabolik wreaks havoc on a generic European country for his own financial gain and amusement . He shares an extravagant underground lair ( and a giant bed of money ) with his curvaceous , superficial girlfriend . . . who uses her awesome powers of wig-wearing to help Diabolik kill innocent people and steal billions from the government . Nonetheless , Diabolik is the " hero " of the film because he must face off against bumbling cops and revenge-seeking mafiosos . . . any film that features exhilaration gas and anti exhilaration pills . interrogation at 30 , 000 feet and a fantastical lair and recurring soundtrack , is going to be a camp trippy experience . from the offset , Phillip Law smoulders on to the screen all camp yet quirk , this is the film that Austen Powers so wanted to be , but failed . Phillip Law became an pop icon of the sixties with this and Barberella , but here is where he is the legend . the film features some bad foreground and background projection , but brilliant Jaguars , sassy co-stars , and some of the most bizarre sets ever committed to film . heaven knows why it has such a bad reputation . it is camp and plays it very tongue in cheek , and the henchman are just there . the script is weak and nothing special , but there is just ' something ' about this film , that demands repeat viewings . as trippy as Barberella , Diabolik , is not just a movie , its an experience .
did you have fun last night ? . . . . . .	a high school comedy with a difference , the leads are not good looking bronze gods ala ' every other teen comedy that has been released , this is a real comedy with everyday teens with everyday troubles , and what makes this comedy work so well is that it has been written from obvious experience , and the viewer can relate to certain parts of the film ( eg . worrying about the first time , will he / she like me ? ) the story is simple , the geekiest guy on the planet gets fake ID the same time his friends are invited to a party by the girls of their dreams , the girls ask them to buy the alcohol for the party , plain and simple narration . but the story is way beyond this , with the predicaments the trio get themselves into , the set pieces are very funny and very , very crude , believe me if you were offended by American Pie , stay well clear of this , there is a lot of profanity , and it might even make you think twice about bumpin ' and grinding with a random female ( my favourite part of the film ) . the film usurps other movies in the same sub-genre because it has a humanistic edge to it , we actually empathise with the characters as they are so real , these are the type of people who sat next to us in class , their different from the kids we saw in Clueless , Mean Girls and even American Pie , thats what makes the film so refreshing and laugh out loud funny . . . you care for the characters . the writers can make you laugh out loud one minute , and give you a lump in the throat the next , the characters are well written and by the time the movie is over , you realise the film wasn't about a quest to get laid or get some alcohol , it's about three normal guys getting ready to face the world apart from each other , and having to come to terms with responsibility , thats probably why the two cops have that monologue at the end , they were where the main characters are in the film , and their chance went begging . a great comedy , stupid , yet clever and a very poignant ending .
my momma took one . .	this is van dammes second greatest movie . how he must have felt to be in woos first western movie . this does not touch the killer or hard boiled for sheer spectacle but it comes close . van damme plays chance a guy who cannot get work so he helps a young girl find out what happened to he estranged father . basically this movie is about the struggle of the working class and upper class . working class people are being offered obscene amounts of money so they can be hunted for sport . this shows the desperate times some people go through during their lives . this movie contains some great characters and honourable mentions go to vosloo and henriksen as the chief bad guys . there are elements of fairytale in this movie . van damme playing the prince to yancy butlers damsel in distress , especially on the bridge scene where chance is defying gravity on a motorbike . obviously , being a van damme film their are so many laugh out loud moments and some hilarious lines , and the last thirty minutes of the film are absolutely mental . if you are a fan of van damme and woo then do not miss this . van dammes mullet may challenge the dedicated but then he's a hard ass who was brought up in the bayou . two funny moments in the movie1 van damme knocking out a rattle snake . 2 van damme with a pigeon on his shoulder and then winking at it ! ! ! great film great set pieces and one of his best .
he used to be a big shot . . . .	After the WWI Armistice Lloyd Hart goes back to practice law , former saloon keeper George Hally turns to bootlegging , and out-of-work Eddie Bartlett becomes a cab driver . Eddie builds a fleet of cabs through delivery of bootleg liquor and hires Lloyd as his lawyer . George becomes Eddie's partner and the rackets flourish until love and rivalry interfere . a great story of rags to riches and then back to rags as Cagney puts in a great performance as Bartlett , a man who lets passion and rivalry get the better of him and cause him his demise . the story is excellent and keeps the film moving at a steady pace , and it's nice to see Bogart not chewing scenery for once and playing against type as the bad guy . but this film depicts the end of Hollywoods interest of the gangster , which is why the ending is so poignant . but a great movie nevertheless .
welcome to Wayne's world	Phillip Sauvage is a desert storm veteran who keeps having flashbacks of war torn ' eyerack ' every time he hears loud music , fireworks or on a shooting range . Wayne Barclay is ex heavy weight champion of the world , who has invested a lot of his money into buildings and other business deals . a big time rapper who Barclay helped put away is released for good behaviour and is intent on getting revenge on Barclay . Sauvage is put in charge of his security and starts to fall for Barclay's sister , which could lead Barclay and Sauvage ( or Phil to his friends ) having a punch up . after the average , but watchable second in command , Van damme returns on top form in a film , that is very cheaply made , poorly acted and with a very horrible soundtrack . but then again this a the world of Van Damme , and as i have said before in previous reviews , i will watch anything with him in . the story is amiable and easy to understand , with very subtle references to movies such as ' in the line of fire ' and ' the bodyguard ' . with Van Damme movies there are always a few minor niggles , such as characters are very under developed , but at least the back story between Barclay and Tyrell is explained . van Damme does get his legs kicking again , and few scenes do get your adrenaline pumping . Lettich has done it again for Van Damme , mercifully keeping his dialogue to a minimum and keeping the action at a steady pace . if Van Dammes keep getting as good as this , he may reach the heights he did 13 years ago with classics such as ' timecop ' and ' sudden death ' . a must for Van damme fans .
now you got the edge on him . . . .	safe in their picturesque château behind the front lines , the french general staff passes down a direct order to colonel Dax : take the ant hill at any cost . a suicide mission , the attack is doomed to failure . covering up their fatal blunder , the generals order the arrest of three innocent soldiers . charging them with cowardice and mutiny . Dax , a lawyer in civilian life , rises to the mens defence , but soon realises that unless he can prove that the generals were to blame , nothing will save his soldiers from the firing squad . . . a film that dehumanises war , Kubricks daring film is a very tense viewing experience and has one of the most melancholy endings ever seen in a movie . the movie shows the fact that wars are meant to be won , and that the soldiers that participate , do not matter , in fact they can even be sacrificed to save face of superiors . a fantastic performance from Douglas ( the apology scene show just what a great actor he is ) and flawless direction from Kubrick , give you one of the best anti-war movies made .
skadoosh ! ! ! !	Unexpectedly chosen to fulfil an ancient prophecy , Po's dreams become reality when he joins the world of Kung Fu and studies alongside his idols , the legendary Furious Five - - Tigress , Crane , Mantis , Viper and Monkey - - under the leadership of their guru , Master Shifu . But before they know it , the vengeful and treacherous snow leopard Tai Lung is headed their way , and it's up to Po to defend everyone from the oncoming threat . Can he turn his dreams of becoming a Kung Fu master into reality ? Po puts his heart - and his girth - into the task , and the unlikely hero ultimately finds that his greatest weaknesses turn out to be his greatest strengths . . . this is an all around great family movie , with all the traditional elements that make a family movie work . it has a great lovable hero in the form of Po , who is just so innocent and at the same time hilarious . it's pretty predictable stuff , you can see the film and it's ending from the very upstart , but it's fun to take the journey . the animation is fantastic , and even the fight scenes are awe-inspiring . the voice work is pretty good , and for once Black is quite endearing , rather than an annoyance ( but thats a personal opinion . i watched this with my daughter and we both loved it . great fun for ninety minutes , but with the same old predictable message , try and live your dream . . .
take off your bra if you like . .	Six friends - Cindy Campbell , Bobby Prinze , Buffy Gilmore , Greg Phillipe , Ray Wilkins , and Brenda Meeks - are being stalked by a serial killer . A serial killer that is after them because of an accident that they caused last Halloween . A serial killer that seems to have come out of every other scary movie . The body count has already started with Drew Decker , the local town slut , and it's starting to build up . The friends are going to have to escape from both the killer's clutches and annoying news reporter Gail Hailstorm if they plan on living to the sequel . . . there's not much to say really about this film , it's a funny riff on the ironic return of the slasher flick , thanks to Wes Craven , but it was released in time as the genre was getting a little stale , thanks to the repetitiveness of I Still Know , and Urban Legend . it's really close to the knuckle and very up to date , which ironically makes it look very dated now . the only thing that puts that annoys me about this movie , is that this is the only movie to blame for the slew of spoof movies that have been released since 2000 .
drop that duck ! ! . . . . .	Ray Tango is a Los Angeles narcotics cop who dresses in fancy suits , wears wire-rim glasses , and talks to his stockbroker more than he talks to his mother . Gabriel Cash is a Los Angeles narcotics cop who has long , dishevelled hair , and dresses in worn-out sweatshirts . Even though they are rivals , Tango and Cash are the two best narcs in LA , which infuriates drug kingpin Yves Perret . Perret wants Tango and Cash out of the way , so Perret frames them for the murder of an undercover FBI agent . Perret plans to have Tango and Cash killed in prison in order to avoid risking all-out war with the LAPD . But Tango and Cash accept a plea bargain that will give them 18 months in a minimum - security prison , then Perret arranges for their destination to be diverted to a maximum - security prison where Perret's minions proceed to torture Tango and Cash . Tango and Cash are forced to work together in a spectacular escape from the prison . After the escape , Tango and Cash set out to prove their innocence . . . . after the failures of ' Lock Up ' and ' Rambo III ' , Stallone was in need of a hit . he scores ten fold with this stupendous action movie which can be compared ( unfairly ) to the ' Lethal Weapon ' franchise . the story is simple and really holds nothing to any other action movie from this era , but it's the execution that matters and by god , does this film deliver . Russell and Stallone have great chemistry together and mock several of their past movies ( big trouble in little china and first blood spring to mind ) . the bad guys are your usual array of the bizarre , featuring an amazing performance from Palance , who really is recapping his role from ' Batman ' . the scene with the two mice is hilarious and he is one of the campest villains in the movie world . but then again he has Brion James as the British ( or is he Austrailian ? ) henchman who just sleazes his way onto the screen whenever possible . an endlessly quotable movie with some over the top action sequences , which knows that it has it's tongue firmly in it's cheek .
he's deaf , it's my fault . . .	October 3 , 1993 nearly 100 U . S . Army Rangers , commanded by Capt . Mike Steele , were dropped by helicopter deep into the capital city of Mogadishu to capture two top lieutenants of a Somali warlord which lead to a large and drawn-out firefight between the Rangers and hundreds of Somali gunmen . it led to the destruction of two U . S . Black Hawk helicopters in Mogadishu , and the heroic efforts by various Rangers to get to them , centering on Sgt . Eversmann , commanding one Ranger unit named Chalk Four , leading Rangers to the first black hawk crash site , to Warrant Officer Durant who was only survivor of the second black hawk crash site and whom was capturedCol . McKnight leads a rescue convoy for the Rangers only to get lost within the hostile city , to Sgt . Sanderson desperately trying to get to the first crash site , to Staff Sgt . Yurek who leads two fellow Rangers , Nelson and Twombly to meet with up their squad , Chalk Four , at the first crash site , to many others involved who where either killed or survived . . . Scott throws you right into the action , and never lets up until the final credits roll . he has assembled an eclectic cast of stars to be in this really visceral movie , which is very close to the knuckle and very exciting throughout . all the cast get their fair share of screen time , and not just josh hrtnett , who is top billed . some of the casting is stereo-typed , you get the ranger looking at the picture of his wife , the one who's first assignment it is and the rest . but Scott and Bruckheimer keep it well paced throughout and give a very accurate , unflinching account of what happened . highly recommended . . .
curtain down . . . . .	Harron directs this wonderful to look at biopic of the titular character , played with enthusiasm by Mol . her as Paige is played as an innocent , not knowing what she was doing at the time was classed as illegal , and her notoriety for all the wrong reasons . the film shows Paige as a god fearing woman , and we see her mention faith a few times , when asked by her drama teacher what gave her the motivation to look scared , she simply replies ' what would Jesus do if he knew about my sins ' . the use of the camera-work is good , using black and white when in New York and the old fashioned Technicolour when shooting the Miami scenes . Harron has done a great job of making the viewer see Paige from different points of view . on one hand she is childlike , not knowing the sense of danger and thinking that what ever she is doing is fun or a game . but on the other hand , if someone in todays climate acted like Paige , accepting dates from strangers or asking strangers to take them out , along with photography , the Bettie Paige of today , would be right at the other end of the spectrum . with excellent support and a great script , this is on film worth watching
this forest has eyes , i swear it . . .	After escaping from a Dungeon after being captured by the Turks during the crusades , Robin , son of Lord Locksley and a warrior , Azeem return to England only to find Robin's father has been murdered by the corrupt Sheriff of Nottingham and has taken over his Father's lands . Unable to be helped by Maid Marian , Robin vows to avenge his father and flees to the Forest of Sherwood , home to a band of outlaws who have been banished from their villages by the Sheriff of Nottingham . Combining the forces of the outlaws , Robin and his men set out on a crusade against the Sheriff of Nottingham and his henchman's bid to take over the throne of England's rightful ruler King Richard . . . . having watched both the theatrical and extended version , the extended version is longer , much longer , but there are more important plot lines in this version and the film feels a lot more satisfying and the characters ( especially Mortiana and the Sheriff ) are given much more depth . yes , it's not historically accurate and the accents leave a lot to be desired , but apart from Terminator 2 and maybe Hudson Hawk , what other film was this much fun at the movies in 1991 ? Costner does a good job as Robin and the film is different to the other numerous Robin Hood movies out there , but the film would be nothing if it wasn't for Rickman . his performance is pure pantomime and shows just how a good character actor can hold a film . would the film be as memorable if it were not for Rickman ? he has all the best lines and chews scenery whenever he is on screen , but sadly the film does feel a little redundant when he isn't on screen . but Reynolds has made a wonderful action adventure in the traditional style , full of wonderful costumes and sets and some very exciting pieces . even thought the film has aged , it is still a fun family film , that makes a lot of the recent blockbusters seem a little hollow and empty . the film was made when Costner was more or less at the top of his game , before Freeman did Shawshank , and when Rickman was known as being the best villain in the best action film ever ( in my opinion ) . plus the film has a great surprising cameo at the end , which at the time of the films release was fantastic , as it wasn't leaked because the internet wasn't around then . forget your history lessons and just enjoy a good old fashioned English adventure , albeit with American accents .
this is bungee wedgie	from the makers of the TV series , comes the big screen feature to show more inane stunts and pranks that will make you laugh , or vomit . how do you sum up a film like Jackass ? you can't is the short answer . it's a love or hate relationship with this feature . it received some dire reviews when it was released and also caused controversy . why ? it's basically a 90 minute home video of people making complete idiots of themselves to get a laugh . OK people will say , but impressionable kids will copy the stunts . but fair play to Knoxville and co the do give fair warning about the content , and decent parents would not let their kids watch this . anyway , this is hilarious , there are some hilarious and ingenious stunts and some downright stupid ones , but you cannot help but love these guys and what they do . they have become household names and very rich for being beaten up , tightrope walking over alligators and so on and so on . sit back with some mates and some booze and just enjoy . harmful fun
doves are anything but holy . . . .	A woman named Grace retires with her two children to a mansion on Jersey , towards the end of the Second World War , where she's waiting for her husband to come back from battle . The children have a disease which means they cannot be touched by direct sunlight without being hurt in some way . They will live alone there with oppressive , strange and almost religious rules , until she needs to hire a group of servants for them . Their arrival will accidentally begin to break the rules with unexpected consequences . . a very eerie movie , which suffers from the fact that after the first viewing , it will lose much of it's tension and mythos , due to the fantastic twist at the end . Kidman is fantastic in her role as the troubled mother , as are the two child actors , who are as sinister as the house itself . not relying heavily on jump scares or incidental music , the house and the surroundings are the most scary element of the film . there are some particularly tense and uneasy moments , especially when the husband returns from the war . it's hard to describe , without giving too much away , but Eccleston is fantastic in his small role , and after he leaves , the film becomes even more uneasy . the editing , cinematography and lighting is top notch and the narrative never loses it's grip throughout . but the ending is what the film is all about , it's quite difficult to spot , but is forfilling nevertheless . an excellent thriller , that reminds one of the old fashioned horror movies .
soldiers deserve soldiers sir . . . .	In a futuristic society , some people are selected at birth to become soldiers , and trained in such a manner that they become inhuman killing machines . One of the most successful and older of these soldiers is pitted against a new breed of soldiers , and after the confrontation is believed to be dead . His body is left behind in a semi-abandoned colonial planet , where everything is peaceful , and he is taught about the other aspects of life . But eventually he has to fight the new breed of soldiers again , this time to defend his new home . . . one of the biggest budgeted movies ever to be released released straight to video in the UK , Soldier isn't half as bad as what the critics make it out to be . some of the acting is decidedly dodgy , and Russell does look a little out of place as the buffed up Todd , but this is a film directed by Anderson , so what else would you expect . it resembles Universal soldier more than anything , Russel plays the Van damme character and begins to learn there is more to life than killing . then there's a big fight at the end in the rain obviously to make it more visceral , but overall it's a cracking action sci-fi , and ignore the fact that some people say this is a ' side-quel ' to Blade runner . it's a totally different film forgettable but enjoyable .
i married Rambo . . . . . .	Harry Tasker leads a double life . At work he is a government agent with a license to do just about anything , while at home he pretends to be a dull computer salesman . He is on the trail of stolen nuclear weapons that are in the hands of fanatic terrorists when something more important comes up . Harry finds his wife is seeing another man because she needs some adventure in her life . Harry decides to give it to her , juggling pursuit of terrorists on one hand and an adventure for his wife on the other while showing he can Tango all at once . . . . . . after ' last action hero ' flopped due to the behemoth that was ' jurassic park ' , Arnie needed a big big hit . a hit the size of ' T2 ' proportions . this was it . this is the last great film that Arnie made . this was when he was still at the top of his game . basically a rip off of the Bond franchise , but with a huge budget and a huge star and a huge director , this had a lot going for it . when it was released in the late summer of 1994 , i was blown away by the grand scale of everything . nothing was left out in this spy thriller . the effects were amazing , the kill count was great but predictable , but most of all the story was fantastic . going back to what Cameron knows best , he primarily puts Taskers family struggles ahead of the global problems and this makes the film all the more interesting . this is Schwarzeneggers best role since ' the terminator ' and he is having a ball doing it . but he has great support from Curtis , Arnold , Malik and Heston . the narrative is great and although the running time is quite long long , it flys by . one of the greatest films that Schwarzzenegger has ever made and one of the best blockbusters out there . featuring some great set pieces . . . the seven mile bridge chasethe horse back chasethe toilet shoot outand the opening scene . a must for any action fan .
i'm every little girl you ever looked at . . . .	Jeff is a paedophile who surfs the net looking for young girls to chat to . he meets Hayley on the net and arranges a meeting with her . they meet and find out they have a lot in common . they go back to Jeffs house and start to drink and tease each other . but Hayley has a dark vendetta and after her warning ' you should never have a drink what somebody else has mixed ' , Jeff wakes up from his drug induced coma , and the nightmare really begins for him . Hayley believes that Jeff has done this before and possibly abused and murdered a teenage girl . so she starts to exact revenge on Jeff by doing the most unthinkable things a fourteen year old girl could do . but then again , paedophiles do the most unthinkable things imaginable , so poetic justice there for you . from the start , the movie has a very unsettling ambiance to it . there is nothing much of a soundtrack , and that adds to the tension . the two leads are fantastic and credit to Ellen Paige for dealing with such a difficult character with ease . the most unsettling thing about this movie is that about halfway through , you do start ( reluctantly ) to feel a little sympathy for Jeff . and you also start to feel a little hatred toward Hayley , as she is very sadistic toward Jeff . but put yourself in Hayleys shoes . how would you react to a paedophile , when you were in a room and there was no way that anyone would hear what you were doing ? the dialogue is excellent as is the cinematography , which gives a little eeriness to the proceedings . there were a few scenes i had to skip through as they were a little bit too disturbing , but overall the film is very gripping and disturbing , and deals with the subject matter very well . a film that will question your morals and make you think a little bit about the world around you . very disturbing viewing , the director mirrors the ' ear cutting ' scene in reservoir dogs , meaning that the violent deed is done off the screen so the viewer is not subject to the incident , which makes it all the more powerful .
my mom's money ! ! !	this film is really simple and easy to watch . the basic premise : an autistic girl , watches a lot of martial art movies , and lives next to a Thai-boxing school , and develops great reflexes due to her heightened sense of sound . her mother and father cannot be together , because they are from rival gangs or something like that , and when her mother becomes ill , her and her surrogate cousin must find a way to pay for her treatment , then they discover a book full of people who owe her mother money . they asked politely and get laughed away , then the films and the Thai-boxing watching starts to pay off . thats the film , they ask for money , they have a fight , the fights get more extreme , as the film goes on . imagine game of death , the tower scene , and your there , but this is the movie version , and it works . the fight scenes are not the best , but the film is surprisingly touching and the relationship between mother and daughter at the beginning really sets the mood for the film . it's funny in places , exciting in others and carries the story well . some of the fight scenes are inventive , but the final set piece is brutal and very well choreographed . a movie well worth seeing .
i've always wanted to take a slow boat from China . . . .	Scaramanga , a hit man who is known as " the man with the golden gun " , because of the golden gun he carries and the gold bullets he uses on his targets . Bond receives a message supposedly from Scaramanga saying that Bond is his next target . So M decides to relieve Bond of his duties till the danger has been neutralised . But Bond feeling that the mission he was on is of the utmost urgency decides to go and find Scaramanga himself . . . . . the second of Moores outings as the secret agent , incorporates more humour and a lighter story which introduces more fantasy than factuality ( flying planes , solar powered guns etc ) , and this was a new beginning for the bond franchise after the seriousness of Connery and Lazenby , not criticising their movies as they are fantastic , but this is the more tongue in cheek bond of the seventies . Moore again wonderful as the agent , and is greatly supported by Lee , Ekland , Villechaize and James ( reprising his role from Live and let die ) . as usual there are fantastic locations , amusing gadgets and set pieces , amazing stunts ( especially the bridge scene ) and of course the sets which have to be some of the best seen in a Bond film ( Scaramangas island is visually stunning ) . all in all a great Bond movie ( if not one of the best ) but a lot better than some of the later Bonds . a very bright and humour filled entry into the series .
that question sucks , your Honour . . .	Alan Johnson has everything he needs to get through life : a good job , a beautiful and loving wife , and their wonderful children . Yet he feels isolated because he finds having a hard-working job and managing a family too much to handle and has no one to talk to about it . Charlie Fineman , on the other hand , doesn't have a job or a family . He used to have both until he lost his family on the fateful day of , and the grief he felt caused him to quit his job and isolate himself from everyone around him . As it turns out , Alan and Charlie were roommates in college , and a chance encounter one night rekindles the friendship they shared . But when Charlie's problems become too much to deal with , Alan is determined to help Charlie come out of his emotional abyss . . . after getting over the fact that Sandler looks suspiciously like Bob Dylan , i found a very involving , funny and yet somehow emotionally touching story about two men who are going through very different problems , but help each other overcome some of their problems . Sander does a good job in making his character believable , even though some of the plots turning points are a little over confident ( eg . the cop would have shot sandlers character , i have no doubt about it ) , but in the directors eyes , this is a pivotal part of the film . but the story is well written and the narrative is put on screen very well , i haven't seen a film in a long while that would make me laugh one minute , and then make me shed a tear the next ( yes this does sound clichéd , but the film does pull the necessary strings ) . the court room scene is intense and is given a little bit of class with Sutherland being the the judge . forget the goofy comedies that Sandler makes , they are from a different actor , this is Sandler the serious , and he proves that he can do drama as well as comedy , and really shuts his critics up . but it's a shame that he may not be taken seriously , because this is a very sad and sympathetic character study , about somebody who has been through a traumatic experience . well worth watching .
if you hang up , i will kill you . . . .	Stu Shepard is a fast talking New York City publicist who gets out of trouble and lies with his clever charm , connections , and charisma . Stu's greatest lie is to his wife Kelly , who he is cheating on with his girlfriend , Pam . Upon answering a call in a phone booth in belief it is Pam , Stu is on the line with a dangerous yet intelligent psychopath with a sniper rifle . When realising it is not a joke , Stu is placed in a powerful mind game of wits and corruption . The New York City Police eventually arrive thereafter and demand Stu comes out of the phone booth , but how can he when if he hangs up or leaves the booth he will die ? at only eighty minutes long , this is a fast paced thriller that is well made as it is high concept . obviously the majority of the film is set in the titular location , and thus makes the film very claustrophobic and tense throughout . the camera work is exceptional and the integrated shots ( ala 24 ) add gravitas . Farrell does well in his role , making a sympathetic character out of someone highly unlikeable , but the credit for the film has to go to Sutherland , who uses only his voice to the majority of the film , but makes a terrifying adversary to Stu , and is fantastic in his role . any longer than the running time , then the film would have started to become tiresome , but for the length of the film , it works just right , even though some of the events are a little over the top . but a very well written and directed drama
bad people read newspapers too . . .	International con artist Laure Ash helps pull off a diamond robbery in Cannes during the annual film festival . She double-crosses her partners-in-crime and makes off with the diamonds to Paris where she accidentally assumes the identity of a distraught woman who commits suicide and then leaves the country . Seven years later , Laure ( now called Lily Watts ) re-surfaces as the wife of the new American ambassador to France where a certain Nicolas Barto , a Spanish photographer , takes her picture which sets the stage for a motion of events as the evil Laure resorts to low , underhanded means to protect her former identity by emotionally and financially destroying Nicolas while evading her former partners-in-crime still looking for her to reclaim the stolen diamonds . . . with this movie , after the debacle that was mission to mars and in many ways snake eyes , De Palma has made a movie that reminds you of dressed to kill and Body Double . the main thing that holds attention here is mise en scene and the stunning camera-work that Depalma was sorely lacking from his last projects . here we have all the vertigo inducing set pieces , long tracking shots , and a fantastic opening , which may have faults with the emergency lighting omission , but it's still fun . Stamos is okay in her role but is a very unlikeable character , hence the title , but this is explained in the opening credits with the movie she is watching . the film has its fair share of plot twists and red herrings , and Banderas is used to good effect in his supporting role . i am still a little undecided on the conclusion of the film , whether it is genius or way over the top , but if you like old school De Palma ala the movies i have mentioned above , this is for you .
i didn't say ' when ' . . . . .	A man escapes from a prison with his partner who he does not like . After escaping , they kidnap a little boy . It is not a simple kidnapping story as people expect with violence and blood . This man , as he describes himself , is not a good guy , but not the worst either . the boy , living with his mom and two sisters , follows their families religion , which forbids him from celebrating Halloween , celebrating Christmas , participating in parties , and pretty much any fun common for children of his age . The man gives the boy opportunities to play the games that he wants to , tells him what is wrong and what is right , and asks him to be independent and make his own choices . . . for a film directed by and starring Eastwood , he takes a back seat and lets Costner do all the driving . this is the first movie that flopped big time for Costner , but it's difficult to see why . the story and narrative are top notch , and the film is almost on Par with anything that Eastwood has directed . Costner brings empathy to his character , but can turn at any time , reminding the audience that he is still a criminal . His relationship with Buzz is the heart of the movie , showing right from wrong and basically explaining to him which is the right road to travel . Eastwood , even in laid back form is great when he is on screen and has good chemistry with Dern , and all in all this is a really good overlooked drama . well worth seeing
i just want her to leave me alone . . . . .	When a carer goes missing , Karen is offered the chance to look after an elderly woman in her house . the woman doesn't speak and stares into thin air . Karen starts to hear strange noises around the house and discovers a little boy in the closet upstairs . the rest of the family have not been seen for a while and Karen becomes more and more Concerned , especially when she sees an apparition looking at her . Karen is admitted to hospital for shock , and when she is discharged she decides to do some research into the history of the house and reveals some shocking findings . a tragedy hit the house a few years before and now the house holds a curse , which means that anyone who enters the house will eventually succumb to the curse . . . . a great tense horror from start to finish , although sometimes the narrative can become confusing , as the film jumps from the past tense to the present to explain the history . but being another pg-13 horror , this is worth watching purely for the scares , and even i have to admit they are pretty effective . it doesn't matter even if you have seen the original ju-on as this doesn't tarnish it , it merely compliments it . Geller is good in her role but looks a little bored at times and the rest of the cast are fine in their roles . obviously this will be compared to the ring , but i think that this just pips it at the post . a very uneasy viewing experience , one of the best horrors of 2004
this book will change how people write	this film isn't really a biography of Truman Capote as i was expecting , it is more of the story of how much of a struggle it was for him to finish his book ' in cold blood ' and the effect it had on his life and relationships . the film is also about Capote's bonding with perry smith , one of the killers of the clutter family . the bonding at first is a staunch one , Capote nurturing perry when he goes on hunger strike and making him feel a little more human . yet toward the end , when perry attempts at appeals and asking for help from Capote fall on dead ears , their relationship turns somewhat more sinister , as it is revealed that if the killers are granted a reprieve , then Capote's book would be pointless , so he wants them dead right ? the film asks a lot of questions to the viewer and none more so than the character of Capote . was he an understated genius who did really care for these killers and did feel bad when they finally were executed , or was Capote a self obsessed alcoholic who was just attention seeking all the time . the latter makes more sense to me . at the party scenes we see Capote at the centre of attention always with drink in hand acting camp and scene stealing . on visiting smith , Capote blatantly lies to him about the title of his book and of how much had been written . it's easy to dismiss someones life on a film about them , thats how good futtermans script is . it gives the viewer the power to decide on what type of person Capote was , you don't really feel for the killers as you are just trying to understand what sort of a man Capote was . Seymour Hoffman is outstanding as Capote and deserved his Oscar outright . narrative is amazing and cinematography leaves you feeling uncomfortable and uneasy . they have also made the colours to be more stark , leaving you feeling cold and isolated . this is not an easy film to watch . consider the scene where smith is ' confessing ' to Capote about the crime . when we see the flashback to the shootings , the editing is flawless and the payoff line to that scene is heart wrenching . all in all a great piece about the making of a book , and a nice change from the usual biopics we see , this one at least doesn't give the subject a glow others usually do .
have you ever tried to pick up your teeth with broken fingers ?	Fergus is a volunteer with the I . R . A . when he takes British soldier Jody , he forms a friendship with him up until the point where he is told that he is the one that has to shoot him . Fergus is cut up about this , as he has learnt a lot about Jody and starts to question his morals . from the initial kidnap , Jody knows that there is no chance that he will come out alive , so he asks Fergus to take care of his girlfriend Dil . from the very bleak opening segment of the film , the audience is unsettled , due to this being such a political and taboo subject . how are we supposed to show empathy for someone who volunteers to cause disruption for a cause ? the film is very gritty and is filmed with a sense of coldness and dread , but Jordan handles the subject matter well and he uses his cast to full effect . Rea and Richardson particularly impress , with great support from Broadbent and Dunbar . the soundtrack is superb , but the real standout is Davidson , who deservedly won an Oscar nomination for his role . unlike films like seven and the sixth sense , the twist in the film really does shock and will stay with you long after the film has finished . but it's not just about ' that ' twist . it's about protection and what you would do for someone you care for . regardless of gender , sexuality , ethnicity , etc . you would do anything for someone you care about , and that is the main point of this film . one of the best British films of the nineties , this has only gained cult status in the last five years . standout scenes involve the initial hijack of Jody , and the ' Stockholm Syndrome ' both Fergus and Jody experience . and there is some great use of mise en scene , in particular , near the end of the movie where we see Fergus and just behind in him in obscurity a picture of Jody , hinting that their friendship is always in the back of his mind . their are minor plot flaws , but don't let that hinder you . but for the sake of anyone who hasn't seen this , don't give away the secret ! !
you only stay warm for so long . . .	New York , November 1988 : A new breed of narcotics has swept the great city , bringing with it a ferocious crime wave more terrifying than any in recent memory . Outmanned and out gunned by the new criminal order , the police find themselves burying one of their own at the rate of two a month . An all-out war rages , threatening to engulf guilty and innocent alike . Bobby Green is caught in the crossfire . Manager of a Russian nightclub owned by his mentor Marat Buzhayev , and frequented by gangsters , Bobby keeps his distance , not wanting to get involved . Despite his hedonistic , amoral lifestyle , he is committed to his girlfriend Amada and has ambitions to open another club in Manhattan for Buzhayev . Bobby has a secret , however , which he guards closely . His brother is a Police Captain , who has followed in the footsteps of their father , legendary Deputy Chief Bert Grusinsky . Bobby's already strained relationship with his father and brother is tested when Bert warns his son that this is a war , and he's going to have to choose a side . from the upstart , you can really tell that phoenix will steal the show from everybody else . whenever he is on screen , the film crackles with electricity and reminds me a little of Carlito Brigante , trying to be straight but getting involved with both sides of the law due to commitments . Wahlberg is also impressive , but one cannot help but think he is reprising his role from the departed , but with less profanity . the final third is fairly predictable but nevertheless a satisfying experience .
i love an early morning ride . . . .	007 returns from the USSR with a new computer chip ; one that is invulnerable to the magnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion . The chip is being manufactured by Zorin Industries , headed up by a sociopath businessman named Max Zorin who is planning to corner the world microchip market by using explosives to cause an earthquake in the San Andreas fault that will wipe out Silicon Valley - and the millions who live and work there ! Bond must face not only Zorin himself , but the equally twisted May Day and Scarpine , another one of Zorin's henchmen . Assisted by San Francisco City employee Stacy , Bond goes after the would-be computer magnate in a series of frightening confrontations - including fire in the SF City Hall , a wild chase through the city with Stacy at the wheel of a fire department ladder truck , and finally in a hand-to-hand fight atop San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge . . . okay it's not the best Bond film ever made , but it's a damn sight better than Brosnans efforts ( Goldeneye aside ) and it's probably the campest of the Roger Moore Legacy . yes he is too old for the role , but he just about manages to pull it off , thanks to his trademark wit , and some great support from a marvellous walken and an over top Grace Jones as Mayday . the opening montage is quite exciting , although the special effects are a bit dated now , but it all adds to the fun of the movie . For some reason Moore screams like an old man about four times in the movie ( see the bit where he is hanging from the blimp and gets his knackers hit by the aerial , prime example ) , and to add to this Walken Laughs at the doctor just as he is about to die , which pretty much sums up the whole movie . still , it features the best bond song ever , great locations and some hilarious action . the plot as always is covered in about a minute in the Ministers office , and after that , just sit back and enjoy some ridiculous Bond fun . as i said before , not the best , but every Bond fan should have a little bit of love for this entry .
power without guilt , love without doubt . . .	After publishing executive Will Randall is bitten by a wolf , his life begins to change . First his mood changes , and his sense of hearing and smell go into overdrive . Will has become a werewolf and he has an appetite for human blood . His newly found friend , Laura Alden wants to help , but she doesn't know what Will is yet . If Will's new problem wasn't enough to keep him occupied he must also contend with Stewart Swinton who is out to get his job . . . along with the Joker , if there was one role that Nicholson could do in his sleep , was to play a Wolf . luckily though in this movie , he puts in a good performance , thanks to good support from the stellar cast , great editing , and a fantastic score by Morricone . instead of going for camp , as one would expect from a ' horror ' movie , this plays it straight all the way through , and almost romanticises the myth of the Werewolf . instead of Making Wills transformation and hunting as the wolf painful to watch , we are treated to what you may call an almost balletic showcase of wills new found powers , thanks to the gift of slow motion , and the aforementioned score . Pfeiffer has never been so ' erotic ' in a role , and she oozes sexuality from every pore , even if there is limited chemistry between her and Nicholson . it does sometimes slow down in places , but the final third is impressive , with much thanks To Spader , who does frighten during his transformation , as he does seem very comfortable playing ' wolf ' . so it's not a full on horror , even though it has elements . what we have here is a very romantic story , disguised as something else . or a Wolf in sheep's clothing . well worth watching for Nicholson .
i am your number one fan . . .	Novelist Paul Sheldon crashes his car on a snowy Colorado road . He is found by Annie Wilkes , the " number one fan " of Paul's heroine Misery Chastaine . Annie is also somewhat unstable , and Paul finds himself crippled , drugged and at her mercy . probably one of the best King adaptations in a long time , and probably the best since 1990 ( shawshank excluded ) . it's unbelievable how many actors turned down the role of Paul Sheldon , the Vulnerable writer , being held by the ' nurse ' Wilkes . caan is great as Sheldon , really trying to calm the situations whenever Wilkes becomes a little ' disturbed ' he portrays Sheldons fear and disgust to great effect and it's surprising that he wasn't considered for any awards at the time . but the film Does belong to Bates , whose portrayal of Wilkes is very disturbing . at first she appears to be the sweetest person you could hope for , but just a little thing can set her into an almighty rage , and Reiner uses the camera to good effect , always making Wilkes appear superior to Sheldon . the screenplay too , is magic , with little lines that make thee hairs on your neck stand on end , and think ' did she really just say that ' . and of course the film will always be remembered for the hobbling scene . with a film that is basically set in a house with two characters , there is a lot of tension throughout , but it has to be one of the best thrillers of the nineties , with a never bettered performance from Bates . but it does lose a mark for the ' is she dead ? ' problem that most films suffered with in that part of the decade . but for King fans , a must see
my mother hits harder than that ! . . . . . .	Boxer Rocky Balboa enjoys the wealth he has as world-champion . He only fights against easy opponents . Then he is challenged by the arrogant Clubber Lang . Rocky accepts the challenge to prove once more that there is only one world-champion . But Lang wins and becomes the new champion . Nobody believes in Rocky anymore , except one man : former world-champion Appolo Creed . Creed tries to the stimulate his fighting spirit and get Rocky back in top-form . . . in the third instalment of the popular series , Rocky has become a sort of a sham , fighting easy opponents and avoiding Lang . he is enjoying his wealth and being a good Husband and father . Lang is like a mirror image of Rocly from the first movie , apart from more arrogance . After Rocky loses his title , he loses another dear thing in his life , Mickey . this is truly heartbreaking stuff for a Rocky fan , as Mickey is the person who gave him that ' million to one shot ' . Apollo still believes in Rocky and wants to help him regain the title , but is this so he can settle a debt with Rocky ? or just ensure that somebody arrogant doesn't hold the title . after the first two classics , the series takes a turn into a more family orientated movie . is this a showcase for Mr T ? or just an excuse for another successful sequel ? who cares when the movie has this much heart in it . Stallone is great as usual in his titular role , although he has a little bit more arrogance in this than in any other of the series , but this maybe a ploy so that he does lose the first bout . the story is great , the set pieces are fantastic and the final third will send shivers down your spine . not to everybody's taste , but then who doesn't love Rocky ? go for it ! ! !
let off some steam Bennett ! ! !	John Matrix is a retired commando who is living in the hills with his daughter , Jenny . Matrix used to run a special forces unit , and unbeknown to him his old war comrades are being slaughtered one by one . the killers come after Matrix , but he stands his ground and defends his home . but in the proceedings , they kidnap Jenny to make him kill the president of Valverde . Matrix agrees but on the plane , he makes a dramatic escape and with the help of Cindy , he has eleven hours to rescue Jenny and stop the bad guys from contacting Arius , who is holding Jenny hostage . alongside the terminator and predator , this has to be the quintessential Schwarzeneeggar vehicle . he is a no holds barred superhuman , who will stop at nothing to rescue what he loves . he is an obvious parody of Rambo and this movie is more comic book and tongue in cheek than the said movie . Arnold is fine in his role , he just needs to look mean and kick some butt , and he does with style . story is thrown out of the window in favour of explosions and body count . it's a simple story , and one that has been recycled many times since . Vernon Wells is hilarious as Bennett , and has to be the most campest villain ever seen in an action movie , with his beer gut , chain mail vest and knee high boots , it's obvious from the start who will win the final duel . but films like this are not made for the critics , they are made for the public who love a good hero movie . as the old adage goes , they don't make films like these anymore as studios tend to make action movies like these more accessible for teenagers , so a lot of the violence is thrown out of the window in favour of fast editing and shaky camera work . do yourself a favour , if you don't own this already , buy the region 1 version as all others are edited for violence . great escapism .
your'e like a dog without teeth .	John Hatcher has just returned from Colombia , where his partner was killed in the line of duty by a drug dealer who has since been taken down . As a result of his partner's death , John has decided to retire , but his retirement may not be permanent . On the next day , after reuniting with his sister Melissa , John gets into a shootout against a Jamaican drug kingpin known as Screwface , taking down some of Screwface's men . John brings himself out of retirement when Screwface retaliates by attempting to kill Melissa and Tracy . After the shooting , John is reunited with two old friends - a local high school football coach named Max , and a Jamaican Chicago cop named Charles . John and Max set out to hunt Screwface down , only to discover that Screwface has gone back to Jamaica . John and Max take Charles with them to Jamaica for an all out war against Screwface and his drug empire . . . in Seagals third movie , he is already showing signs of what is the best part of his career . after this , he really only made four other movies that made an impact at the box office . the film is very good and topical , as we get seagal fighting against maybe his best adversary , Screwface , played colourfully by Basil Wallace . we know that screwface is the baddest of the bunch because he can wear really camp jumpers without anybody laughing at him . Seagal really shows what he can do in the films set pieces , and they are decidedly graphic and will satisfy those who love martial arts . the story is simple and easy to follow , but th editing lets the side down a little . not as good as his warner Bros . movies of the same eras , Marked for death is still a good action movie with a great star .
without evil , we would never recognise good	Kyle LeBlanc is an American working overseas in Russia . When he hears his wife being attacked over the phone , Kyle rushes home to find that he's too late . The man who killed his wife is found not guilty on lack of evidence . So Kyle takes the law into his own hands , and kills the man to avenge his wife's death . He is sentenced to life in prison without parole . The Russian prison he is sent to is tough , and the warden amuses himself by putting on fights where he fills his pockets with money by betting on the fights . Kyle begins to break and go crazy , so he is forced into these fights because the warden knows he is a sure thing . Kyle's cell-mate 451 begins to make him think what he fighting for . . . with this movie , Van Damme took a very different rout to his previous films , which some deemed a huge risk . out where his trademark fighting moves , splits and one liners . he doesn't say much in the movie , in fact 50 % of his dialogue is in the first 10 minutes of the movie . this is more of a drama film for Van Damme , and the risk paid off well . it is predictable in places , the inmates of the prison are typical of other movies in the genre , the gangs , the rapist , the young inmate that is bullied , the guy that can get you anything , and so on . their characters are not developed much , but this is a minor quibble for such a good movie . their are references to Christ , but in my opinion , Van Damme is reborn as an ' anti-chridt . the time he spends in the ' hole ' , more or less a waste unit , he spends his time attempting suicide , having visions , training himself , and finally growing a comedy beard . the fight seems are very gritty indeed , no showmanship here , no cuts for multiple viewings from different angles of the same punch , just raw street fighting . the plot is simple and very accessible , editing is fine , and Van Dammes performance , could be one of his best . a great movie all in all , a step up from derailed , and one of his better entries from his direct to DVD catalogue .
you said you saw her die . . . .	The film starts six months after the Rage virus has spread throughout the city of London . The United States Army has restored order and is repopulating the quarantined city , when a carrier of the Rage virus enters London and unknowingly re-ignites the spread of the deadly infection , wreaking havoc on the entire population . . . . this movie has a pre-credits sequence just like the previous movie , Featuring a cowardly Carlyle leaving his Wife to the wraith of the zombies . right away the makers put us in the middle of the action and then give us a prologue about what has happened . in a genius move , they have swooped in the US army to help quarantine the survivors in Canary Wharf to keep the virus at bay . but obviously things don't go too well , and in no time we are treated to claustrophobic situations , thanking him upstairs that this hasn't happened while you are watching it . the film is so effective and realistic , that you know in the back of your head that if this happened , you would stand no chance . the set pieces are glorious and really never give up from the moment the army shout ' code red ' . the performances are all good especially from the 2 two young actors . they are forced to go through some things no one could experience in their worst nightmares . London is used to great effect again , and although not as stark as the first movie ( seeing it before doesn't help this movie ) and the lighting throughout the film , gives it a depressive gloomy feel . but there is nothing political about this film , it's just a great jump out your seat thriller , with great frights , great performances , and a clever narrative . but they should have finished it a minute earlier .
good luck with the nipple rubbing . . .	Little Nicky is " daddy's little girl " in Hell . He's the son of Satan , who got the job from HIS father , Lucifer . Satan wants to retire , but none of his sons are good enough for the job . There's Cassius , who's big and strong , but lacks the ' goodness ' to make the job real . There's Adrian , who while really hot ( no pun intended ) and smart , has no goodness at all . Then there's Nicky who , while having good , lacks any evil whatsoever . He needs to release it to save his dad . Cassius and Adrain leave Hell , thereby freezing the wall of fire that lets the damned souls into Hell . Since no souls can come in now , Satan starts to die . It's up to Little Nicky to go and get his brothers , putting them into a flask and bringing them back to Hell at the exact same time to save Satan from decomposition . If Nicky ' dies ' on Earth , he will be able to get through the frozen wall and back up to Earth . The catch is that he has only a week , and that Adrian and Cassius are MUCH more powerful than he is . . . . whoever came up with the idea for this movie , really deserves a big slap on the back for writing one of the most bizarre comedies released in a long time . the plot is just an excuse for Sandler to play it a little straight for once and concentrate on observational gags and references from his other movies . it's like a Happy Madison love in . it's stupid , immature and one ' hell ' of a funny movie . i can understand why not many people like this movie , because there is no real flow to the film , it feels more like a sketch show , rather than a feature . but any movie that has Hitler dressed up as a maid and having a pineapple shoved up his ass , is a winner in my book . Maybe Cruise should have tried that in Valkyrie . . .
we always knew you were a whoopsie . . . .	Vaughns second film as a director is so different from Layer Cake , and owes a lot to terry Gilliam and in respects Reiners ' The Princess Bride'the story surrounds a young boys quest to win the heart of a girl in his village . he promises her to find the star that has fallen whilst they are sharing a bottle of wine . he goes off on his quest but in the mean time , a trio of witches need the star to regain their youth and their looks . also somewhere in this wild quest , two princes need the same star to recover a piece of jewellery which will crown them king . . . like most fantasy movies , the film has a lot of wonderful characters ( maybe too many ) but it takes a while to get going . Charlie Cox is well cast as Tristan and he and Danes have ' sparkling ' chemistry . but the film doesn't really get going until we meet De Niros Camp pirate , but this is when the fun really starts . the first hour is all about the build up of the story and the introduction of the characters and this is where its downfall is , because there are so many characters , it makes this first hour become quite tedious , like watching the end of ' the return of the king ' in reverse . but after that we are treated to a spectacle that can easily rival a lot of the sumer blockbusters easily with visual Panache and screenplay . the film is solely about finding your true love , and this has to be one of the best fantasy films made since the lord of the rings trilogy . not that childish for adults , but maybe a little too dark for the little ones . but its all feelgood fun come the end .
if i press any harder , it's gonna break !	in the same vein of the first movie , a boxer with problems is framed for trying to smuggle drugs out of Russia . the fact of the matter is , he is set up by the ' Mob ' so he can fight some bloke whose speaks with a great Russian accent , prays before he fights , and has a trainer who looks a little like a fat Paul Giammati . so a deal comes into the film , if he fights this guy , he will walk away from Jail , with a hefty wad of cash . but obviously things don't go according to plan and things start to get difficult for the Iceman . . . . in a world of Scorcese , Fellini , Ttuffaut and Lynch , its nice once in a while to watch a pure unadulterated stupidly entertaining movie that wants nothing from the viewer but just for them to enjoy the fights and the implausible plot . this kind of film has not been made in a long time , it reminds me of Bloodsport in some ways and kickboxer in others , the fights are brutal and balletic in some crazy way , and the supporting characters are just your stereotypical movie filler . all the boxes for prison / action movie have been ticked . the friendly room matethe opponent who can break apparatus with a single blowthe knowledgeable old man who lives in the basementthe angry flashback before the final roundand the ' Spartacus ' scene . it's all pure fluff , but the film is short and exciting and sometimes quite amusing . plus we get the most hilarious editing toward the end .
my grandfather informs me that is not possible . . . .	A young Jewish American flies to the Ukraine in search of his grandfather's past . He has a photograph and the name of a village . He hires the Odessa Heritage Tours , made up of a gruff old man and his English-speaking grandson . The three , plus grandfather's deranged dog , travel in an old car from Odessa into Ukraine's heart . Jonathan , the American , is a collector , putting things he finds into small plastic bags , so he will remember . Alex , the interpreter , is an archetypal wild and crazy guy . Alex asks the old man , " Was there anti-Semitism in the Ukraine before the war ? " Will they find the village ? The past illuminates everything . this great movie changes it's genre several times throughout the move , without ever missing the point . the first ten minutes is laugh out lous movie , the second act , is a fine road move , and the third , a melancholy story about the holocaust . all the leads are great , especially Wood who is very restraint in his role and leaves the dialogue to his two tour guides . the last act will leave you with a lump in your throat , but make you feel warm inside . a real hidden treat .
you said it soldier . . . . . . . . . . .	Union officer Kirby Yorke is in charge of an outpost on the Rio Grande in which he is in charge of training of new recruits one of which is his son whom he hasn't seen in 15 years . He whips him into shape to take on the Apaches but not before his mother shows up to take him out of there . The decision to leave is left up to Trooper Yorke who decides to stay and fight . Through it all Kirby and Kathleen though separated for years fall back into love and decide that it's time to give it another try . But Yorke faces his toughest battle when his unorthodox plan to outwit the elusive Apaches leads to possible court - martial . Locked in a bloody Indian war , he must fight to redeem his honour and save the love and lives of his broken family . . . another classic film from Ford and Wayne , though why this was made because execs thought ' the quiet man ' would be a failure is beyond me . the chemistry between Wayne and O'Hara is immense , but her length in the film doesn't really garner her worthy of second top billing next to Wayne . as usual Wayne's prowess is evident on screen , and he delivers a belter of a performance , using body language as one of his main attributes to make Kirby seem like the ' ultimate soldier ' . the family background and narrative is outstanding , as are the set pieces , and it finishes in a good old fashioned way . another Ford classic , that should be seen .
gotcha suckas ! . . . .	When grasping director Bobby Bowfinger finally finds the ' perfect ' script , a cheesy sci-fi story called " Chubby Rain " , he decides to put everything on the line and give it a shot . . . gathering together an ambitious young Ohio actress , a melodramatic stage actress and a laid back male hopeful . Armed with a handful of illegal immigrants for a crew , a tiny budget , and equipment stolen from a nearby studio , Bowfinger lacks just one thing . . . Hollywood's hottest action star , Kit Ramsey . Refusing to give up when Kit doesn't take the part , Bowfinger and his crew do whatever it takes to complete the flick - secretly filming Kit without his permission and using his nerdy look-alike brother to fill in for remaining scenes . . . . in an ironic twist in cinema heaven , what we have here is probably Martin's best film of the nineties . it's highly original , and all of the performances are excellent . and some of the lines are so stupid that you cannot help but laugh at them eg . ' Tom Crise didn't know he was in that vampire film until two years after it was released ' . Murphy puts in a great performance of the Ramsey twins , and brings a little bit more to the film than it would have been with out him in it . but this is martins film all the way , he has written a great story with a very positive narrative , and any film that contains a film within a film called fake purse ninjas , it has to be seen .
i'll show you a rockslide !	Everything seems to be going great for the Fantastic Four . Reed and Sue are finally getting married , and things couldn't seem better . However , when the mysterious Silver Surfer crashes things , they learn that they will have to deal with an old foe , and the powerful planet eating Galactus . in a summer so far of very long and slightly disappointing sequels , this is a breath of fresh air , as not only is it a surprisingly good movie , it's a marked improvement on the original . the benefits of this movie is that it doesn't take itself serious in the slightest . it's a fun movie , and the first fun movie of the summer , and as a bonus , it nowhere near reaches the three hour mark , unlike some other movies . the film takes us straight into the action , where we learn that earth is in danger , and only the fantastic four can save us . Gruffudd and Alba let the side down a bit as they appear to have no chemistry , and are both a little wooden , so thank heavens for Chiklis and Evans , as they make the film that little more camper with their love hate relationship . Dr Doom returns , but it's little more than a cameo , and a pointless one at thatagain the effects are very good , and carry the film a little further , but the star of the show is obviously the silver surfer . he has to be the most mystical and bohemian like marvel character ever , and it was a big risk putting him on the screen , but it's paid off , and the surfer looks fantastic . so all in all , an exciting fun family movie , which dazzles with effects and tells a simple story , thats all , it won't win any awards , but it will sure entertain the masses .
Chad forgives you , i don't . . . . . . .	having a break from all his usual action movies has done the boy good , as this has to be one of the finest Van Damme films to be released in a while . i had my reservations knowing that Fellows was directing this , following the average ' Second In Command ' , but Fellows appears to have learnt from his mistakes , and in return has made a solid thriller , which while it may not appeal to all , is a great thriller . Van Damme plays against type as Stowe , a dirty cop , heroin addict and adulterer whose luck is running out . after being shot and left for dead , he is comatose for seven months , only to wake up a new man , realising that he has been giving a second chance at life . Van Damme does his best with material he is given , and comes so close to the medium known as acting , but he is well supported by the rest of the cast . the story runs along smoothly , and camera-work is very gritty , and improves the actual storyline . there may be a few plot holes , but it doesn't spoil the flow of narrative and characters are given their fair share of story . if you are expecting bloodsport or kick-boxer , you will be disappointed . but if you are a true Van Damme film , you know where the film was going in the first place , and be pleasantly surprised with the results .
there's a storm coming Harry . . .	As another year begins for Harry , at Hogwarts school of Witchcraft and Wizardry so does the never-ending articles stating that he and Dumbledore are insane . As the ministry starts to invent new and malicious lies about Harry's account on Voldemort's return , Hogwarts begins to change for the worse as the ministry sends in their cure for all the insanity , Professor Dolores Jane Umbridge . As she begins to inflict her rules and regulations on the students at Hogwarts they begin to find that with her as their teacher , they'll never be ready for the outside world . So Harry along with his friends decides to take things into their own hands and begin to learn magic the real way . As Harry starts having visions of terrible events happening with the Ministries very walls he decides to take action , leading himself and his friends into battle , ultimately teaching them what friendship , loyalty and sacrifice really means . . . having never read any of the books and relying on the films purely for narration , i have no opinion on characters that are missing and that are added . what my opinion is though is that the film is a very enjoyable fifth year at hogwarts , and Harry and the films are progressively getting maturer and darker as the years go by . Radcliffe as always is the centre of attention , but this time it seems that fellow cast members such as Grint and Watson have less screen time in order for the Potter / Voldemort plot line to span out . maybe in the book , they have more to do . Staunton is very impressive as the spanner in the works and brings some sinister comic relief to the film . other players such as Rickman , Smith , Coltrane , Gleeson , Thewlis , and Thompson are sidelined to just barely more than cameos and the film just needs them to be in it . the main concern of the film though is the under use of Oldman as Black , as he was one of the main connections between him and Voldemort , and his demise unfortunately holds no emotional impact , as probably the book did . but the final twenty or so minutes is enthralling and the set piece reminds one of the lobby sequence in the Matrix , and the battle between Yoda and dooku in episode 2 ( set up , not references ) . but Feinnes steals the show as the on who cannot be named , and is truly menacing for the few minutes he has on screen . for a Potter movie this has to be one of the best , and very dark , especially toward the end . worth seeing . . .
Taha left us a package .	District 13 is a ghetto in Paris where it is lawless and the streets are ran by the thugs and a kingpin known as Taha . for no reason at all , Leito has a suitcase full of drugs that belong to Taha , and he and his henchman want it back . instead of giving it back though , Leito empties it down the bath tub , and escapes the henchmen using the medium of parkou , which is frankly , amazing . in fury , Taha kidnaps his sister , Loaa , and just when he thinks he has the upper hand , Leito is double crossed by the cops . meanwhile , the tall twin out of ' kiss of the dragon ' plays a cop who is undercover as a right hand man for a big time criminal and arrests him . whilst holding his own from his henchman using the medium of martial arts . when a nuclear weapon falls into the hands of Taha , the pair team up to find the bomb before it explodes and find lola . this movie is just one long excuse to show off parkour fused with martial arts in a sort of ' run lola run ' meets ' escape from new york ' hybrid . and boy , is this film fun . Besson really lets rip with the stupendous plot , just like he did with ' taxi , ' kiss of the dragon ' and ' the transporter ' . if you are fans of the above mentioned film then you know what just to expect . great narrative , fast pacing and a great slender running time . there are few problems , the soundtrack repeats itself when some of the more intense action scenes are shown , and the bad guys are very stereotypical for this kind of movie . but this is an action film film that is very simplistic , very well done and most important of all , very exciting .
what are you trying to do ? show off to your friends ?	Aging gunslinger , Jimmy Ringo , rides into a strange town where he's immediately recognised . As kids gather at the saloon windows to glimpse the killer and townsfolk gossip about his exploits , the town marshal tries to keep the peace . He wants Ringo out of town , but Ringo asks for a few hours ' grace to see his sweetheart , whom he hasn't seen in more than eight years , and their son , whom he's never seen . Meanwhile , three angry cowboys are on his trail and the town's young hothead is scheming to see just how fast Jimmy is . Ringo wants to be left alone , to live with his family , maybe on a small ranch away from his reputation . But can he escape that reputation and find peace ? an excellent performance from Peck , almost so laid back that he is actually laying down , brings much needed gravitas to this underrated western . the film revolves around Ringo , and so it should , as he nearly has connection with everybody involved . he is a man who has been mistaken for some kind of monster , which we see when Ringo himself speaks to a group of women about himself , them not knowing his true identity . although the ending is a little predictable , Peck leaves us with a vicious venom filled speech before his exit , and thats what makes the film so effortlessly cool . well worth watching .
very large , but not crazy . . .	The beautiful princess Giselle is banished by an evil queen from her magical , musical animated land and finds herself in the gritty reality of the streets of modern-day Manhattan . Shocked by this strange new environment that doesn't operate on a " happily ever after " basis , Giselle is now adrift in a chaotic world badly in need of enchantment . But when Giselle begins to fall in love with a charmingly flawed divorce lawyer who has come to her aid - even though she is already promised to a perfect fairy tale prince back home - she has to wonder : Can a storybook view of romance survive in the real world ? a promising twist on the fifties and sixties Disney classics such as Cinderella are all referenced in this great holiday movie . though the film is obviously aimed at little girls , there is much fun to be had here as you find in a pantomime . the charming Prince the Wicked step-mother the aboves sidekick and the sometimes goofy maid . all the movie is played for laughs and though the musical numbers are sometimes verging on the sickly sweet side , the films heart is in the right place . the story is quite predictable the minute Dempsey meets Giselle , but the fun really starts when more people from the animated world come to Manhatten . referencing a lot of the old Disney films and even Favreaus Elf in some places , this makes a refreshing change to all the Narnia and LOTR movies we expect this time of year . destined to become a well loved Christmas movie
so can we go to Ibiza ? . .	Kevin and Perry are two 15-year-old boys whose desperation to lose their virginity is so great that it inspires a sort of awe . In the rare moments when they're not thinking about girls , Kevin dreams of being a singer , and Perry has ambitions toward becoming a dance music DJ . When Kevin and Perry manage to stop a bank robbery , they're given a sizable cash reward , and they decide to go on a holiday in Ibiza , which is supposedly populated with thousands of beautiful women willing to sleep with anyone . However , after the boys pack plenty of sunscreen and condoms , Kevin's parents announce that they're tagging along . Undeterred , Kevin and Perry make the trip and meet superstar DJ Eyeball Paul , who may or may not listen to their demo tape . The boys also encounter Gemma and Candice , two scruffy teenage girls who are nearly as eager as Kevin and Perry to get horizontal . . . you really have to be British to appreciate this movie , i'm sure that our American Friends will find a lot of the humour very conservative and very different to what they come to expect from the demographic this film is aiming at ( think American Pie compared to this ) , but thats no Offence to the USA . there are Cameos from British TV stars that are funny , and the whole film wreaks of a good carry on movie . Enfield and Burke are Hilarious as the titular pair , and the film makers have got the Ibiza scene down to a tee . also the film has possibly one of the best sound-tracks around if you are into dance music , and one cannot help but think that the timing of this films release helped it's success . not all of the jokes work though , and it can borderline on the gross out a bit too much , but other than that it's a fine British comedy , and one that can be watched again and again . .
i want him without a scratch ! ! !	nearly two years after total recall , Geoff Murphy decided that he could do it better . obviously nobody apart from Verhoevan ( and Scott ) could create a visceral , heart wrenching vision of the future . what Murphy goes for in the end is all out action , wasting none of his budget on talent and script , he puts it all into the effects and the set pieces . this is a bad film , but it falls into the category of ' so bad its good ' . Jagger is having a whale of a time playing Vacendek , a bounty hunter who is after the titular character ( estevez ) . Estevez is basically playing his role from young guns , and is too , clearly enjoying himself . after watching it a few time , there are continuity problems , characters that seem to know Furlong , but with no proper explanation , and some ludicrous twists . but this all adds to the fun . by no means a classic of the sci-fi genre and will never be a well remembered film , but for sheer spectacle and Jagger and Hopkins being more camp than a row of tents , this is a guilty pleasure of the highest order .
Pandora's box . . . .	Paul walker in decent film shocker ! ! ! from the beginning this film plays like a fairy tale of sort's . with all the ' wicked ' stepfather and walker as the negative ' wolf in sheep's clothing ' this was relentless from beginning to end . the film sometimes does play like a farce , which is centred around a gun , which should have been disposed of , but fall's into the hand of the young boy Oleg , who's fate lies in the ' Pandora's box ' he has in his hand . Oleg then goes back to his house and after verbally abusing john Wayne , shoots his ' wicked ' stepfather ( played by Karol Roden ) . after Oleg thinks his nightmare is over , walkers has only just begun , having to chase the whereabouts of the gun overnight . this is where the film goes from fairytale to farce . you could almost add a laugh track to walkers near misses as the closer he gets to the gun , the further away it gets from him ( to put it in a cliché ' ) . with it's dark and dingy backdrops and use of surreal colour and effects , it's hard not to like this movie . it is excessively violent , but then again most fairy tales are violent , if you read between the lines . standout parts of the movie include the final showdown at the ice hockey rink ( with it's use of vibrant neon colours and gratuitous violence ) , and a sub-plot involving paedophiles ( think of Hansel and Gretal's gingerbread house and you're almost there ) while not part of the main narrative , keep the story running at a good pace . overall a great little movie , which hopefully should keep walker away from the fast and the furious ' and into the blues ' which he usually makes . special mention also to Cameron bright , proving that life can go on after ' godsend ' , he is someone definitely to look out for
hit the barrels . . . . .	if you are a fan of mullets and retro video games , and watching ( in my opinion ) some very funny looking people , dedicating their lives to Nintendo , then this is for you . the story goes right back to 1982 when some guy with a great mullet , got the highest score on Donkey Kong and then kept the record for years , until some other guy called Steve bought his own machine and played it day and night until he beat the score . it's hilarious and quite scary in equal measures ( the scene where Steve is ignoring his young child in Favour of Kong is pretty pathetic ) and goes to show how obsession and competition can be found in the most strangest places . hell , there's even a referee with his own set of rules . it is silly but it's watchable and the people involved in the film are endlessly entertaining , not knowing that they are making themselves look like complete idiots on screen . but it's a documentary about fun and entertainment , a refreshing change from documentaries showing the bleak side of life
his fish ? . . .	Although living a comfortable life in Salon-de-Provence , a charming town in the South of France , Julie has been feeling depressed for a while . To please her , Philippe Abrams , a post office administrator , her husband , tries to obtain a transfer to a seaside town , on the French Riviera , at any cost . The trouble is that he is caught red-handed while trying to scam an inspector . Philippe is immediately banished to the distant unheard of town of Bergues , in the Far North of France . Leaving his child and wife behind , the crucified man leaves for his frightening destination , a dreadfully cold place inhabited by hard-drinking , unemployed rednecks , speaking an incomprehensible dialect called Ch'ti . Philippe soon realises that all these ideas were nothing but prejudices and that Bergues is not synonymous with hell . . . another little gem that is a really sweet if predictable affair . about your typical north and south divide . the film is very clichéd , but soon becomes very endearing thanks to the two main performances of the cast , who have great chemistry and really build a believable friendship together . it's not laugh out loud funny , but it will give you a big smile on your face and make you feel good about life after seeing it . well worth watching . .
better dead and cool , than alive and uncool . . . . .	The biker Harley and his Cowboy friend Marlboro learn that an old friend of them will lose his bar , because a bank wants to build a new complex there and demands 2 . 5 million dollars for a new contract in advance . Harley and Marlboro decide to help him by robbing the corrupt bank . Unfortunately they target the wrong safety transport and get hold of an amount of a new synthetic drug . Now they are targeted both by criminal bankers and killers of the drug mob . . . since it's release in 1991 , i was desperate to see this ' futuristic sci-fi actioner ' ( i mean it's set in 1996 ) movie . i remember the reviews in Empire and film review ' ' , but the trailer had some good moments , and this was the era for action movies . having finally seen it today , i wasn't disappointed in the slightest . yes the story and script stink , yes it is clichéd and not politically correct , but what do you expect from a film that is called ' Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man ' and even made Rourke confess he did this for ' monetary reasons ' . this is tack of the highest order , but it sure is a joy to watch and mock . we know these two are tough guys , because 1 . they wear the same clothes more or less through out the film 2 . they talk rubbish while playing pool , and then fight . 3 . one's called Harley and rides a Harley . 4 . one's called Marlboro , has Marboros in his mouth but doesn't smoke 5 . every woman that appears in the film wants to sleep with them within five seconds of seeing them . then there are the bad guys . we know these are bad because . 1 . a skinny Tom Sizemore is in charge . 2 . A fat unfamous Baldwin brother is the lead henchman 3 . the henchmen walk like Terminators 4 . wear gay black jackets 5 . one of the henchman is the bloke off ' the running man ' who had to ' SCORE SOME STEROIDS ' . but all of this never matters because the ending features a helicopter and laugh out loud moments . this what the late eighties / early nineties was all about , action movies that treated women as a derogatory minority , had slightly homosexual overtones ( see the end with Johnson in chaps and Rourke saying ' wanna come with me ? ' ) and made little or no sense whatsoever . they don't make films like this anymore . . . . . they CAN'T make films like this anymore . if you want to spend 90 minutes watching people get shot , punched , thrown out of windows etc , then this is for you , if you are expecting an epic of Kurosawa or Fellini proportions steer clear . a great fun flick .
the road warrior , thats the last we saw of him . . . . .	Roaming the highways of post-apocalyptic Australia , years after he avenged his wife and son and his partner who were murdered by the motorcycle gang led by the evil Toecutter , Burnt out former Australian policeman Max Rockatansky , now known as " The Road Warrior " searches for sources of fuel . He stumbles upon a gasoline refinery home to a community of survivors who are struggling for survival and finds the community is being terrorised by a band of brutal motorcyclists led by The Humangus and his finest warrior , Wez , who bid to loot all the gasoline from the refinery for themselves . The community hires Max , as Max agrees to help the community transport the gasoline across the highway and fight for freedom , as they are pursued by the Humangus and his warriors . with his limited dialogue , Gibson uses his screen presence to give us one of his finest roles . as ' the road warrior ' , Gibson oozes attitude from every pore , and his mission is a selfish one , until he needs help from somebody . the film is basically saying that in a post-apocalyptic future , it's more of a case of everyman for himself , rather than the stick together strategy that both rival gangs have . the car chases are both unique and visceral and nearly three decades on , still feel fresh and vibrant compared to todays CGI fuelled movie business . a good road movie
what if the cops can't handle this jack ? . . . .	Paul Kersey is an architect , a peaceful man . But when his wife and daughter are attacked in their apartment , his world changes . His wife is killed and his daughter is in catatonic state . His boss decides that Paul needs to get out of New York so he sends him to Arizona to meet with a client . While there the client , a gun enthusiast , gets Paul interested in guns and even gives him one . When Paul returns , he brings the gun with him when he goes out and when a mugger tries to hit him Paul shoots and kills him . After that he goes on killing spree . The police of course are investigating it , but the public feels thankful that someone out there is taking a stand . . . . . having no read the original novel , i had nothing to compare the movie to apart from the first sequel , and with a director such as Micheal Winner , i wasn't hoping for big things despite it's cult status . the first thing you do after watching this film is show great empathy toward Kersey , as any warm-bloodied male would do the same thing in his shoes . it's quite bitter in some places , especially the scene where kersey asks the Doctor how his wife is , relieved at hearing his daughter is OK , the Doctor gives him the bad news . the story is great and the settings are genius , showing New York in a different light to other movies set in the city . the writing is not the best but it fits the movie well . the editing could be a little bit more slick and it was a little annoying that Kersey ' got over ' things quickly . but the film does raise a questions or two . why would Kersey just randomly go out and kill these people , is he intentionally looking for this , or is it just a power trip knowing that he is carrying a gun ? why is he not arrested at the end ? surely he has committed murder and must be tried like any one else , or maybe the mayor realises that he has bought crime to a new low and is making him look good . i also think that Kersey not finding the killers of his wife was a good move yo make , because even if he did find and kill them , would he feel that justice had been served ? a great ending also , almost the same as something like the hulk . well worth seeing
death and taxes . . .	Joe Black and Bill Parrish enter into a most unusual gentleman's agreement . Wealthy media tycoon William Parrish leads a charmed existence until Death comes calling with an extraordinary proposition - he'll delay Bill's imminent demise in exchange for a tour of life . Innocent , enigmatic and often hilarious , Joe disrupts Bill's world of privilege and corporate intrigue . But when he falls for Bill's beautiful daughter , Joe threatens to change the rules . Now Bill must fight not for his future , but for those he loves . . anybody thinking that Brad Pitt as death in the remake of ' death takes a holiday ' would be right to give a big gulp at the prospect . not only does Pitt bring an almost innocent performance in his role , he is endlessly watchable in this bittersweet tale . ably supported by Hopkins and a career best performance from Forlani , the film does drag in several places and their is a pointless but poignant sub-plot involving Pitt and an amazing island accent . Even at it's epic running time , the film never really ails , with Hopkins becoming stronger in character as he ever reaches nearer to his date with destiny . sloppy for some , but for those who like a good old fashioned romantic drama , this is a lot better than some of the slop Hollywood is dishing out now .
everybody could shoot . . . .	Set in 1882 in the Old West territory of New Mexico , Appaloosa revolves around city marshal Virgil Cole and his deputy and partner Everett Hitch , who have made their reputation as peacekeepers in the lawless towns springing up in the untamed land . In the small mining community of Appaloosa , a ruthless , powerful rancher named Randall Bragg has allowed his band of outlaws to run roughshod over the town . After the cold-blooded murder of Appaloosa's city marshal , Cole and Hitch are hired to bring the murderer to justice . While establishing new authority with equal parts grit and guns , Cole and Hitch meet provocative newcomer Allison French , whose unconventional ways threaten to undermine their progress and to destroy the two lawmen's decade-old partnership . . . even though it's a western , this is a very modern movie with some great cinematography and great performances from the two leads . for once Irons Doesn't ham it up as the villain and compliments the move very well . the weak part is Zellwegger , who just doesn't seem to fit in the film at all . having never read the source material that this is based on , i cannot comment on how faithful the adaptation is , but i've read that it pretty much is . it's funny in places , especially when people mispronounce words , and it's a highly overlooked movie , which deserves to be seen . it's not going to revive the western , but it's a good movie nevertheless .
we prepared for everything , but not for this . . .	In the aftermath of the World Trade Center disaster , hope is still alive . Refusing to bow down to terrorism , rescuers and family of the victims press forward . Their mission of rescue and recovery is driven by the faith that under each piece of rubble , a co-worker , a friend a family member may be found . This is the true story of John McLoughlin and William J . Jimeno , two of the last survivors extracted from Ground Zero and the rescuers who never gave up . . . when Hollywood first heard that Oliver stone was to make a movie about the events of , they must have nearly had a heart attack , what with him and his conspiracy theories . but what Stone delivers here is not a story about the conspiracies ( the word terrorist is not even used in the film ) , but it is a story about love , friendship , courage , and the ability of a city to come together after such a tragedy . the cast are fantastic and all put in great performances and by reading about the history of the movie , all put in a lot of time and effort into this project . the sets are stunning and there are some very intense scenes , but cage ( who is usually a very animated actor ) is very constraint and handles the character well . obviously this film will be upsetting for some people ( the initial collapse of the building really is shocking ) and could offend others , but this is Stone at his most constrained and shows great respect for the event . recommended
why don't you just go haunt a house .	with a film with so much sentiment and saccharine sweetness , this does have some very dark undertones . Carl is one of the silver screen villain greats . OK , he doesn't ham it up like rickman does in prince of thieves or die hard , he plays it with effortless coolness , and he plays it great . but Is Carl plying this coolness to effect because he thinks that he has no threat after Sam is murdered , or is it because he is such a calculating villain , he doesn't care about anyone but himself . His best friend is killed because of his dealings with shady people and he tries to cop off with his wife . why Goldwyn did not get acclaim for his role like Moore and Goldberg , is beyond belief . he is the Patrick Bateman of the romance genre . Goldberg supplies the comic relief , and she has Great chemistry with Swayze . they are both able to bounce off each others dialogue , that compared to them being on screen , the rest of the film fades in comparison . story is good , though the narrative can sometimes go off on a tangent , but i feel that Zucker was not really concerned about the plot . he seems to be more interested in pulling the heart strings with the soundtrack and incidents between Sam and Molly . their relationship seems so perfect at the beginning , that the audience cannot help but sympathise with Molly after the tragedy , but Moore does become grating half way through the film . but this is a great film at the end . for a love story this has all the ticks in the right boxes , and quite undeserved of the sleeper hit tag it was given in 1990 . so snuggle up with your loved one and believe again and again . just don't get scared when Willie or Carl get dragged down to hell .
pole smoking fashion victim . . .	Since his parents had been killed by vampires in front of his eyes , Jack Crow lives for revenge . As a grown-up , he is a fanatic vampire-hunter who works with a good team in a professional manner . One night , after the successful deletion of a nest , the master vampire Valek successfully deletes his team and the party hookers . As Valek knew Jack's name , Jack knows that the vampires are up to something big . Together with his only living colleague Tony Montoya , Katrina , a hooker who will turn into a vampire soon , and newly assigned unexperienced greenhorn priest Father Adam Guiteau he sets out to find the black cross first . If they fail , vampires can walk in the sun from then on . . . for a late 90's John Carpenter movie , this has to be one of the best out there . Vampires may not be the best vampire film going , but Carpenter still knows how to direct a good set piece and shock ( and even scare ) the audience . the massacre at the hotel is very unsettling and is one of the best set pieces of the movie , and James Woods looks like he's having a ball making this movie . it's not an award winning film by no means , but it's something different , in a time of ironic horror films being unleashed on the public , and it features one of Carpenters best anti-heroes since Snake Plisskin . nowhere near as good as his earlier stuff , but Carpenter can still make a good movie when he wants to .
no flying in the house . . .	Barry B . Benson , a bee who has just graduated from college , is disillusioned at his lone career choice : making honey . On a special trip outside the hive , Barry's life is saved by Vanessa , a florist in New York City . As their relationship blossoms , he discovers humans actually eat honey , and subsequently decides to sue us . . . i didn't have high expectations for this film , ever since Seinfeld pulled that stunt at the Cannes festival . it seemed a little desperate of him trying to promote the movie . i thought it would be a rotten movie and a massive flop . how wrong i was . after the turgid Shrek the Third , dreamworks have made a really funny film that actually works , has some amazing animation and effects , and with some good voice talent ( even if Zellwegger does sound like Lorraine Bracco in Goodfellas ) . it works for the kids and it works for the adults too . the court case is absolutely hilarious , especially the cameos of Sting and Ray Liotta really sending themselves up ( the newspaper article saying that Liottas plans for unlawful entry 2 has been shelved had me crying ) . but its stuff like this that you may miss on the first viewing , you really need to see the film twice to get the sight gags and get more of the one-liners to appreciate it . as for Seinfeld , obviously as he put a hand into the writing , he gets all the best jokes , but is really endearing as the lead and actually makes the movie . not as good as ratatouille , but one of dreamworks best animated films to date .
i'm giving the orders from now on . . .	Luc Devreux and Andrew Scott are US soldiers who kill each other in Vietnam when Devreux interferes with Scott's slaughter of a friendly village . Listed as MIA , they are actually flash-frozen and shipped to a top-secret facility where a team of scientists led by Colonel Perry turn the two , along with other select specimens , into super-soldiers known as " UniSols . " While helping foil a terrorist takeover of the giant McKinley Dam , Devreux starts having flashbacks to his former life , and makes a break from his colleagues . The increasingly human Devreux teams up with TV reporter Veronica Roberts , while they are chased across much of the Midwest by Scott , and also by Perry and the police , who capture them long enough for Scott to find them . After a chase , thinking that they killed Scott in a truck crash , Veronica takes Devreux home to his parents in Louisiana , only to have Scott catch up with them for a brutal confrontation . . probably Van Dammes most famous film ever to hit the big screen thanks to the presence of Lundgren . to us action fans this could be compared to the Pacino / De Niro team up of ' heat ' three years later . the story is great and highly original ( although comparisons to the terminator are there ) and the action is more or less non-stop through the slim running time , Van Damme plays himself as usual , but this time a little more tongue in cheek , but is supported greatly by Lundgren . he is clearly having a ball playing the bad guy and commands every scene that he is in . all the set pieces are very well edited and entertaining and the rest of the support is amiable . it would have been good to get a bit more back story on the unisol programme , but i fear that this would have hindered the movies pace . a cracking action / sci-fi , showing Van Dammes and Lundgrens once strong star statusare we having fun yet ? ?
my name is mine . . . . . .	Noah Arkwright , a successful , hard living and indulgent independent British film director , finally decides to try and defeat the many addictions that are destroying him , his career and the people who care for him . But Mother Nature has other tests of strength and character in store for him . everybody knows someone like Noah Arkwright , someone who tries to live live to the full , but ultimately is feeling empty throughout their life when they are on there own . shallow people , who begin to realise that life isn't all about the party until it is too late . i don't know whether it was Howitts intentions , but this film makes you feel like you are suffering a hangover / comedown whilst watching this . it's a raw film , and something that is really hard to watch in some scenes , and some that are laugh out loud funny in others . it has subliminal scenes that are stomach churning in a sense , but this never deters away from the story or the narrative . it's clever how they continue from a scene from what was shown earlier , only to be seamlessly put into the film at a later point . there are also great performances from Pertwee , Burrows and an excellent cameo from Conti as the ignorant consultant . some could say that this is a vanity project for Howitt , if it is , he's put down all his cards and made a very raw emotional film . hard to watch , difficult to miss .
I volunteer . . . . . Capa . . . . . . . .	The Sun is being destroyed from inside out by a type of highly stable form of matter that renders nuclear fusion impossible , by turning common matter on its own kind . The only hope is to send a team of astronauts to detonate a massive , highly energetic bomb , able to destroy this strange matter and restore Sun's natural state . . . . knowing that this film cost only 40 million to make , keeps the audience in awe knowing what a good job a good director can do with a shoe string budget . just where does Hollywood out all there money ? every single frame is deserved of being hung in the Tate , as it is one of the most eye catching things you may see on screen this year . the story is well planned and for the most part of the film , it is really well paced , well acted and well thought out . it just suffers from what most other sci-fi film suffer with ( not including 2001 or star wars ) , that is the problem with the ending . it becomes too clever for it's own good in the last ten minutes or so . a lot of people will obviously compare this to event horizon , but the film is a lot more deeper meaning to it than that . the film has almost a mystic quality to it , the sun being the most powerful thing in the universe and becoming weak , must have given some of the crew aboard Icarus I and II a superiority complex , knowing that they were going to help it . the film is almost zen like in its showing and connection with colour . Red : this to some people could indicate power , whenever we see the sun in all it's glory we are cast into it's hypnotic glare , and Boyle almost makes it sinister . Green : whenever we see the colour green , it could appear to be a calming influence , albeit with sinister undertones , like when they hear the stress beacon for Icarus I , the communications are showered in green ambiance . and the monotone colours : reality , when they are all conferring , or when Capa is with the payload , we see the reality of what they have to doe , knowing they probably will not survive the mission . Boyle has done an excellent job with the story , cast and the actual film and makes good use of subliminal imagery and claustrophobia . it's just a shame that the movie turns into a little bit of a monster mash up at the end . still , well worth seeing for the stark imagery .
granny pants . . . .	af6ter being filmed in her pants and is a hit on the internet , the titular duo decide that the only way to pay bills and keep their head above water is in the world of porn . what ensues is a sometimes amazing comedy with some excellent performances from all those concerned . but this goes a lot deeper than your average smith comedy ( and there is nothing average about them , this bottom of the line , despite the gross moments and the abundant use of profanity and nudity , is a quite sweet love story , that the protagonists do not know exist , until filming begins the story is great and the first act is laugh out loud funny , literally . the second and third act let the film down slightly , but it never really runs out of stean , thanks to Rogen and Banks . the support are great too with some amazing cameos , and the homage to Star Wars , really is up there with the years funniest moments . it's not for everyone , it could easily offend , but underneath all the anarchy , a sweet film is to be found
i guess they pushed him too far . . . .	A few years after the incident in Gremlins , Billy and Kate have moved to New York where they work for media mogul Daniel Clamp . Meanwhile , Gizmo's former owner has just died and he's been captured for the genetics part of the Clamp building . A little while later , a certain someone gets wet , creates a new Gremlin species , and learns to finally fight back after years of abuse . And while Gizmo and the surviving humans fight back , the Gremlins and their evil leader , the Brain Gremlin , are planning to escape when it gets dark . And if they do , New York will experience a new Hell . . . . after the very dark ' Gremlins ' Dante has gone for a more colourful ' Looney tunes ' inspired sequel for this 1990 adventure . all the ingredients that made the first movie such a hit are all here and present . Gizmo is as cute as ever and so is Phoebe Cates , but what makes this such a stand alone movie , is the different hybrids of Gremlin and each of them has their own individual character which must have taken a lot of work to do , instead of making them look the same . another thing that Dante has put into the mix , is the endless movie references scattered throughout the picture . references include . Rambo : first blood part II Batman Marathon Man Invasion of the body snatchers Tarantula ! and endless references to the first movie which Dante has put in as a little nod . the woman complaining about the picture to the cinema Usher Leonard Maltin finally getting his after he ripped apart the original . another great thing that Dante has done , is bring the movie into the 4th dimension by making believe that the film stopped halfway through and that the Gremlins really got into the cinema . the soundtrack is as good as ever , and the story , though not as good as the original , still holds up to a lot of the pap that came out around the sames time . an excellent sequel , though not very well received on its initial release , needs several viewings to appreciate the amount of work that was put into it . great fun .
i'm gonna break my foot in your ass . . . .	John Hancock is an unhappy and reluctant superhero who is living in his own world . For some unknown reason , Hancock is depressed and has started drinking very heavily . He has saved many lives in Los Angeles over the years , but in doing so , he has no regards for damaging buildings , trains , roads , cars , or anything that gets in his way of getting the job done . The last time he captured several criminals , it cost the city $9 million to fix the damages . The public has had enough of Hancock , and they want him to stop or go to another city . Then one day , Hancock saves the life of Ray Embrey from being run over by a train . Ray is a public relations executive who now can go home to his wife and child , because Hancock was there . Ray owes Hancock his life , and he makes it his mission to change his superhero's image and have the public cheering him . Ray's wife , Mary , believes Hancock cannot be fixed , and she doesn't want Ray to be hurt . Another Summer , another Will Smith Event Movie . but unlike any other summer release this year , this film make syou actually dislike the titular character for the majority of the movie . it's very refreshing to see Smith in a role what we wouldn't normally associate with the man . he usually plays clean cut , heroic , all American guys who are living the dream . in this he's a lowlife , with a dirty mouth , twenty years ago , Eddie Murphy would have been perfect , but Smith makes the film thanks to his performance . story-wise , it isn't much , it's simple and Berg keeps the thin plot going , with some good set pieces and impressive effects . it works well until the last 15 minutes when get the obligatory sweet ending , and the ' Empire Strikes Back ' twist . it is laugh out loud in places and it is a highly original summer movie , well worth seeing
do you hate being dead ?	Steven seagal . you have to hand it to him , whether you like him or not , he can make good movies . as Casey ryback , he does ' die hard ' on a boat . as the old adage goes , what goes around comes around , and it really does for strannix . hacked off at the government he once worked for , strannix decides to hold the Missouri and the USA ' under siege . unless the government pay his ransom , he will kill the ships crew and let missiles loose on the states . but strannix didn't realise that the cook is an ex ' navy seal ' who knows all sorts of weapons and tactics . but this sounds like straight to video fodder . maybe if it was made ten years later , it would have gone straight to DVD . but what makes this film so good is the smooth editing , narrative and plenty of action . it is rarely boring and although at the beginning of the film , we all know what the outcome will be , we cannot but cheer for ryback and his motley crew , Seagal cannot act for a toffee , but when you have screen presence like him , who cares . a cult classic by any standards , with great support from Jones and busey . the only one to let the side down is eleniak , who does nothing but pout and whine through the entire movie . aside from that classic post bar viewing .
Mr . Poo ! ! , you die too ! !	as Lenny Henry did try and fail in 1991 with the transition to move to Hollywood with the dire ' true identity ' , one of Englands other great funny men , Rik Mayall , tried his hand at the Hollywood game , and again , the film failed , but this is overall a much more interesting and endearing movie , than it first appears . Mayall plays the titular character , who reappears to the one and only Phoebe Cates , after she experiences a lot of trauma in her life in just one day . her mother takes her home , and soon after , Fred appears to her , as she has been de-moralised , de-humanised and in someways de-skilled from her normal day to day life . Fred is an escape clause to get her away from the problems that she is facing , someone who understands her completely , and yet not at all , someone who causes destruction and trauma where ever he materialises , but someone who will always be there for her , no mater what . the film is lot more deeper than what the trailer and the posters suggest , this is a film about the inevitable task of facing adulthood , and maybe in some people . losing the inner child inside of you , which maybe Cate's character had done prior to the films opening . the film is basically telling you not to forget your inner child , and it is okay to ' let yourself go ' once in a while , and not let the pressures of everyday life bring you down . Mayall suits the character down to a tee , and Cats is good in he role . but the film isn't laugh out loud funny , as it was sixteen years ago , but it still brings a smile to my face whenever i watch it . the film though is quite touching at the end , showing that Fred really did care for Cates character , even though he got her into trouble . a great film , that sadly didn't make it big for Rik , but is still worthy of watching every now and again . ignore the negativity and enjoy the immaturity of it all .
does your hair change colour when you sweat ? ?	before xxx there was this , the campiest movie this side of rocky horror . where do you start to comment on a movie like this ? the premise is fantastic , van damme is supposedly left for dead and arrives at the colony , a place where other agents from the world bask together in the sun before helping the earth overcome another villain . bond anyone ? van damme is having none of this when he knows his beloved wife is in danger from Stavros ( mickey Rourke , not a Spanish waiter ) , so he sees how long he can hold his breath for while he burns a cigarette . making a daredevil escape , he gains help from dennis rodman who is like bonds ' q ' ( the q should stand for queer in this movie as rodman is odd ) assisting him with gadgets and one liners about basketball . another twist to the film is that belloq from raiders of the lost ark is tracking van damme to dispose of him . seriously though this is stupendous fun and van damme knows this is a self deprecating role , and is clearly loving every minute of it . rodman is woefully miscast and should have never been allowed near the script and Rourke looks just old but he wear nice sneakers . it is quite serious in places and that gravitas to the action , which is some of the best van damme has ever done . some of the special effects are dodgy , but i believe this is intentional . this is the movie equivalent of sunny d , good but very colourful and bad for you if you have too much . splendid
protecting people and their property . . . .	Set in an contemporary alternative world where the Confederate States of America managed to win the American Civil War , a British film documentary examines the history of this nation . Beginning with its conquest of the northern states , the film covers the history of this state where racial enslavement became triumphant and the nation carried sinister designs of conquest . Interspersed throughout are various TV commercials of products of a virulent racist nature as well as public service announcements promoting this tyranny . Only at the end do you learn that there is less wholly imagined material in the film than you might suspect . . . a very topical satire of what ' could have been ' . now living in the U . K . a lot of this went over my head , but i did get the jist of the docudrama and found a lot of it very amusing , and a lot of it leaving me very gobsmacked . there must be some people out there who agree with the fiction of what was shown on the screen . i for one am glad of the world we live in now , and love the fact that , whatever colour or culture we are , we are all as one . this would make a great companion piece to whit mans burden .
it's wolverines goofy cousin . . . . .	Michael Newman seems to have a perfect life - a beautiful wife , two small children , and a job with great potential . But as his jerky boss passes Michael up for promotion after promotion , Michael becomes fed up , and wishes he could find a way to just , oh , skip through the hard parts in life . He gets exactly that - and much , much more - when he stumbles upon the Beyond section of a Bed , Bath , and Beyond in search of a universal remote . But as it turns out , the remote controls , well , the entire universe ! At first this seems a blessing , but as the remote begins to program itself Michael finds his life skipping by , sometimes a few months , sometimes years . Will he be able to get his life back before its entirely gone ? . . this contains the same elements of an Adam Sandler movie , crude gags and funny one liners , but this movie has a little heart to it . yes it has been compared to Bruce almighty , and there are comparisons to do with the powers that Micheal has been given , and the trials and retributions he faces when using the control . it's just at times this movie is very , very depressing and takes a different step halfway through . the cast are great and the usual cast Sandler like are here . Winkler , Schneider etc are all here and all provide great performances and laughs for all the family . but Sandler has struck gold again with this movie . while it has been compared to ' Bruce almighty ' , after seeing this . i would compare it more with ' it's a wonderful life ' or ' scrooged ' . if this movie was set at Christmas it probably would have made double the gross , because it is that sort of feel good comedy . at first to feel what it would be like to have a control like Micheals , seems like a lot of fun , but when you see the repercussions , it is quite a sobering thought . the message of the film is simple , don't put anything ahead of your family , and yes it is a predictable meaning of a film , but these films work don't they ?
the bloodsport guy got hooked . . . .	Between his tax problems and his legal battle with his wife for the custody of his daughter , these are hard times for the action movie star who finds that even Steven Seagal has pinched a role from him ! In JCVD , Jean-Claude Van Damme returns to the country of his birth to seek the peace and tranquillity he can no longer enjoy in the United States . . . part Dog Day Afternoon , part Mad City , and part Mockumentary , this is Van Damme as we have never seen in before , he is a self deprecating wreck in this film , showing his selfish side and his human side in what can best be described as his best performance ( and movie ) since he was on the big screen . the premise is simple , he's in a custody battle with his daughter , he needs to get some cash urgently and the cops mistake him for holding up the post office , while inside it's a whole different story . from seeing this , it's as if he has listened to his fans and realised that in the past few years he has made a few mistakes and that he has an ongoing battle with Seagal as the king of direct to DVD action films . his performance ( for him ) is amazing and the one take opening scene and his one on one to the camera just shows that he still has it . it's funny in places and quite sad in others , but at the end of it , you may start to show a little empathy for the man . a great movie , just don't let John Woo see it .
please dismount the bannister . . . .	While Ben Gates is presenting new information about John Wilkes Booth and the 18 pages missing from Booth's diary , one man stands up and presents a missing page of John Wilkes Booth's diary . Thomas Gates , Ben's great-grandfather , is mentioned in the page . It shows that Ben's great - grandfather could have been involved with Abraham Lincoln's murder . When doing more research , the conspiracy takes Ben , Abigail , and Riley to Buckingham Palace . It takes them to a book in the White House and they even steal a page from the book . But in order to see more from the book , their choice is either get elected president or kidnap the President of the United States . Which do they choose ? The conspiracy then crosses to Mount Rushmore and they even mention the JFK conspiracy . Can Ben clear his family's name ? Or will his family be linked to the murder of Abraham Lincoln ? Another fun filled romp from the collaborators Bruckheimer and Disney . if you enjoyed the first instalment , you are going to love this second part of this brilliant franchise . yes it's the poor mans Indiana Jones , and no ones denying that , and next to them three movies , this is the pits . but for two hours , the action never lets up , we are treated to location after location ( always including a famous landmark in case someone in the audience gets a bit lost ) and plot hole after plot hole . the story is absurd and cliché ' is being very polite to this movie , but then it's a brainless family friendly romp in the vein of adventure , in a year when we have had a lot of let downs on the blockbuster front , this is the one movie that had no one interested and yet surpasses my expectations . it's great to see that all the cast have returned , and there are a couple of welcome faces in the form of Mirren and Harris . there will be no surprises and there are some laugh out loud moments , courtesy of Gates partner Riley , but what did surprise about this film is that it does concentrate on the nuclear family and their relationships . really worth going to see .
it ain't miller time man . . . . . .	Jack Mosley , a burnt-out detective , is assigned the unenviable task of transporting a fast - talking convict from jail to a courthouse 16 blocks away . However , along the way he learns that the man is supposed to testify against Mosley's colleagues , and the entire NYPD wants him dead . Mosley must choose between loyalty to his colleagues and protecting the witness , and never has such a short distance seemed so long . . . a welcome return to form for both director Donner and star Willis . it has the same ideas as the badham vehicle ' nick of time ' , but the premise is executed on a much grander scale . Willis fits the role as the against type alcoholic cop , a sort of older Mr . Maclane , and plays him with a very quiet appeal , keeping the one liners to a bare minimum , and also the action to a bare minimum , which is also a change for Donner . the tension does build though when , along with the characters , that it is imperative they get to the court within the alloted time , or else all they have been fighting for , will be lost . the narration runs smoothly and the story is very good , although toward the end , they rely heavily on the Easwood movie ' The gauntlet ' . Def is the only weak point of the movie as his character really starts to grate , but he is kind of endearing . Morse puts in an almost career best performance as the main villain and really plays it cool throughout , so once he finally explodes , it really adds depth to his character . a really good movie that plays better on DVD than at the movies , action fans will not be disappointed .
without hope , life is not worth living . . .	Using flashbacks from a statement recorded late in life and archival footage for atmosphere , this film traces Harvey Milk's career from his 40th birthday to his death . He leaves the closet and New York , opens a camera shop that becomes the salon for San Francisco's growing gay community , and organises gays ' purchasing power to build political alliances . He runs for office with lover Scott Smith as his campaign manager . Victory finally comes on the same day Dan White wins in the city's conservative district . The rest of the film sketches Milk's relationship with White and the 1978 fight against a statewide initiative to bar gays and their supporters from public school jobs . . . This is Penns film all the way . his portrayal of Milk is astounding and he excels himself in every way possible as an actor . Van Sant has set the mood right for the the era and has himself an excellent cast , all the performances here are flawless and bring a little more to the film . it's a very heavily political movie , and it does show the struggles that Milks career had on his friends and loved ones , but somehow he always rose above all of the struggles and kept coming back for more , never backing down . Brolin gain shows he has breathed a second life into his acting career and is terrifying as Dan White , and he steals the final ten minutes of the film from Penn , with his facial gestures , calm and collective all the way throughout . editing is great as is the score by Elfman , which gives the film a more dramatic edge . if like myself you had never heard of Harvey Milk , i urge you to see this , because this is a story about a man who had something actually important to say , and spoke for a lot of people who were too afraid too . remarkable .
be careful . you're a man who makes people afraid , and thats dangerous . .	a stranger comes out of the mist and enters the town of Lago . an unfriendly town , with afraid people . the stranger walks into a saloon for a drink and gets heckled by some thugs . the stranger makes his way to the barber for a bath and a shave . the thugs return for some more heckling , and the stranger shoots all three stone cold dead , and everyone witnessed it . the next day , the local sheriff begs the stranger to stay and help protect its town , from some villains who are getting released from prison . in return for his help , the stranger can help himself to anything in the town he wants and no one can bat an eyelid . the stranger helps to train the townsfolk in how to defend themselves when the villains return and the town form a bond with the stranger . but the stranger isn't all he makes himself out to be . . . . form the beginning of the movie , there is an eerie sense of dread underlying the movie . with scarecly a soundtrack apart from the beginning the end and a little in the middle act , the silence of the film makes it more claustrophobic than the town that it is set . Eastwood directs himself in this fantastic film with some hidden subplots and some effortless cool from the legendary director / star . the films story is simple and the narrative is easy to follow , but the most intriguing thing about the whole movie is the whole devil / spirit concept that has been discussed in the 33 years it has been released . is the stranger really the dead spirit of the marshall that was being whipped to death in the flashback , coming to ' help the townsfolk who all watched him get killed , by tearing their town apart and answering ti his every call . or is the stranger the devil himself riding through purgatory ( lago ) and dishing out orders to all his victims . there really is no answer to this , but it is a fantastic movie , and it just goes to show that even after all these years and it being only Eastwoods third time in the directors chair , he still knows how to get an audience talking . not a very well known eastwood film , but certainly one of his better ones .
there's a ghost in my house . . . .	Norman Spencer , a university research scientist , is growing more and more concerned about his wife , Claire , a retired concert cellist who a year ago was involved in a serious accident , and who has just sent off her daughter Caitlin to college . Now , Claire reports hearing voices and witnessing eerie occurrences in and around their lakeside Vermont home , including seeing the face of a young woman reflected in water . An increasingly frightened Claire thinks the phenomena have something to do with the couple living next door , especially since the wife has disappeared without apparent explanation . At her husband's urging , Claire starts to see a therapist ; she tells him she thinks the house is being haunted by a ghost . His advice ? Try to make contact . Enlisting the help of her best friend , Jody , and a Ouija board , Claire seeks to find out the truth . . . the film Zemeckis made while Hanks was losing weight , is much better , and solid story than Castaway and is easily one of the best thrillers of 2000 . relying heavily on Hitchcock , the director has made a spooky , un-nerving psychological horror , which actually does scare , and for once , it's adult orientated without trying to be clever ( ala ' Scream ) or using internet hype ( the Blair witch ) . the success is in the story and the performances from the two leads , especially Ford who puts in an utterly convincing as a man with a secret . Pfeiffer is also very good and the pair have great chemistry together , but the main reason to see this movie is for the stunning camera work and subtle CGI scares that you may miss the first time around . it's not in your face scary , and Zemeckis proves that even though he uses CGI , he doesn't use it over the top and destroy the films . the final act is pure Hitchcock , right down to the score , and the film is slightly let down by a seemingly rushed ending , but for a film that was made because Hanks needed to lose a few pounds , it's certainly not ' lightweight ' material . a great solid thriller .
we're going cow spanking . . . .	In Oregon , when bully George Tooney beats his schoolmate Sam Merric , his older brother Rocky Merric schemes a prank with his two also teenager friends Clyde and Marty seeking revenge . They invite George , Sam and his girlfriend Millie to a boat trip along the river , with the intention of humiliating George and get even . However , Millie convinces Sam to call off the plan and the boys accept in spite of the reluctant Marty . When they decide to play " truth or dare " in the middle of the river , the truth about the prank is disclosed to George and he offends the boys mostly the traumatised Marty , leading the group to an accident with tragic consequences . . . at first , it seems like a good idea That George gets his just desserts , with what the film makers connote George to be , a bully plain and simple . but after he is invited to the mock birthday party , empathy is shown for the boy , as he is just doing this because he has a learning difficulty and is lonely . so before the rest of the group see the ' real ' George , we feel sorry for the ' bully ' . in the middle of the second act , the film takes a different turn . Marty himself is being bullied by his elder brother so decides to exact his wrath on George , even when the others are reluctant . so the story becomes , Bully becomes victim , victim becomes bully , the tables are turned for both George and Marty , which is a genius turn from the film makers . the characters are well thought out and are all the type of typical people you would meet at that age , normal kids you would meet on the street , if you will . the story is good and enjoyable to follow , and the cast are fantastic , it just loses it's edge in the last fifteen , but otherwise , a fantastic movie
stolen boy . . . . . . .	inspired by the criminal , Jesse James Hollywood , Alpha Dog , is a cracking tale about a gang of youths who think it's hip to listen to hip hop , talk like their of a different culture , and walk like they have stones in their shoes . all together , the gang think that they are the best of the best , ' tight ' and all that other silly lingo they say , but alone and threatened they are like little children , lost in a world of adults and drugs , knowing what they are doing is wrong and will get worse the longer that they are doing it . the worst thing is though , and as a viewer , irked the hell out of me , was that the gang were all scared of Truelove . if they knew how timid and cowardly he really was , then maybe the young boy would have lived , maybe if his brother had left Truelove alone , maybe the boy would have lived . maybe , but the fact of the matter is the boy is still dead , and what Cassavetes does is turn the movie , from a rites of passage film for the kidnapped , into a melancholy affair for the kidnappers , in one fell swoop . the story is good and the acting very good ( even Timberlake is good in his role ) , and the camera-work gives the film a raw urban feel to it , putting you right there with the situations . with great support from an outstanding Bruce Willis , to Sharon stone in a fat suit , Alpha dog will please those fans of ' Boyz n the hood ' and ' Menace II society ' . the only weak links to the film were Ben Foster , who was ridiculously over the top , and while watching the movie , knowing the fact that most people in England , not knowing the story of Jesse James Hollywood , seeing it just because Timberlake is in it , and not getting the film . a harrowing drama .
i think he got the point . . . . .	In a bold and deadly scheme , the evil SPECTRE organisation hijacks a NATO plane and seizes two atomic warheads , each capable of killing millions of innocent people . As the world is held hostage by the threat of a nuclear nightmare , Bond jumps into action , racing against the clock as the trail leads him to tropical Nassau . There he meets Emilio Largo , a high-ranking agent of SPECTRE , and the stunning Domino , with whom he shares an irresistible attraction . The confrontation builds to an epic battle on the ocean floor , as Bond and his allies fight to avert a catastrophe of immense proportions . . . probably best remembered for the marvellous underwater battle at the end of the movie , Thunderball is an exceptional film , but if you started your Bond Journey with the likes of Moore , you may find this entry a little too serious to really enjoy it . this isn't a criticism though , as the film has an excellent story , beautiful locations , wonderful editing , and one of the best Bond performances from Connery . the opening scene is enjoyable and quite memorable , it just sags a touch in the middle , and seeing sharks after a while does become a little tiring . it's probably Connerys fourth best Bond , after Goldfinger , FRWL , and YOLT , but walks over Brosnans outings . Largo is a good villain and the Bond girls have a lot more to do this time around , and the whole thing has aged well . just a little more humour would have made the quite lengthy duration easier to watch , but thats down to me Starting with Moore .
not the best in LA anymore . . . .	Corporate billionaire Edward Cole and working class mechanic Carter Chambers have nothing in common except for their terminal illnesses . While sharing a hospital room together , they decide to leave it and do all the things they have ever wanted to do before they die according to their bucket list . In the process , both of them heal each other , become unlikely friends , and ultimately find the joy in life . after a string of misfires , Reiner returns on top form , in what is mostly a funny story and sometimes heartbreaking drama about two terminally ill men who live separate completely different lives , who end up becoming good friends , thanks to the evil that is cancer . the film shows us that life can go on despite whatever it serves us , and Nicholson and Freeman give good performances , nowhere near their best , but these two just doing average make other actors look lame . admittedly after the first half of the movie , the film does lose it's pace a little , but Reiner knows when to pull the heartstrings , especially when the ' kiss the most beautiful girl in the world ' category is forfilled on the titular list . Freeman does his obligatory narration ( is this written somewhere in his contract ) and as always , his voice brings a lump to the throat just hearing him . but the film is very lighthearted and gentle , despite the subject matter , and there are some great performances from the cast . well worth seeing before you ' kick the bucket '
sometimes bad things happen to good people . . .	After attending the funeral of her grandmother in Dallas , the Lux Atlantic Hotel manager Lisa is waiting for a flight to Miami . Due to the bad weather and consequent flight delay , she meets in the airport bar Jack Rippner , who is also in the waiting list . They sit together in the plane , and Jack reveals that he wants Lisa to change the room in Lux of an important American politician to facilitate a terrorist attempt against him . Otherwise , Lisa's father will be killed by a hit man . Lisa has to decide what to do with the menacing man at her side . . . still quite a shocking film from Craven although , this could not be classed as a horror until the final act . very claustrophobic at times , the majority of the movie is set between MUrphy and McAdams and their seats . the persecutor and the persecuee . with films involving flights , we have the stereotypical support , the teen jocks , the old woman and the impatient man . but this time they all play pivotal parts in the fate of the lead . back home with Cox , it is like a scene from Craven's ' scream ' series . sitting a ; lone at home alone , unaware of his impending fate . after an amazing two acts , Craven decides to go back into old territory with ' Ripner ' going all ' ghostface ' around the house , with makeshift trachy in situ ! . a good film , with a great story and cast , but instantly forgettable .
Close 13 . . . .	family man Wade Porter is living the American Dream with his girlfriend Laura and their son Michael : they have a nice house , he has just raised a loan to make his company grow and they are going to get married . However their dream becomes a nightmare when Wade unintentionally kills a burglar that had broken into their house in the middle of the night on his lawn . He is sent to trial and accepts a deal proposed by the prosecutor , being sentenced to three years in prison . During the transportation , there is an incident in the bus and Wade is framed and sent to the maximum security wing under the command of the corrupt Lieutenant Jackson . His cell-mate John Smith that was sentenced to life revenging the death of his family befriends Wade and gives helpful advices and hope to Wade to return to his family . . what a really good movie this is ! i honestly was not expecting much while reading the credits ' And Val Kilmer ' it doesn't really get your pulse pumping ( no offence Val ) but i was surprised at the excellent writing , performances from Kilmer , Dorff and Perrin . . . that bloke from Matrix reloaded , and the taut running time , that made this film gripping and exciting , until the very end . it never gets boring and there are some great lines of dialogue spoken by Kilmer , who is the baddest of the bad , because he wears glasses , has a beard , and gets visited by Sam Shepard a lot . the ending is a little predictable but the best performance comes from perrinaeu ( really don't know how to spell his name ) who is sadistic , and genuinely nasty throughout , watching the prisoners in glee as they beat the crap out of each other , and then being nice as pie to his colleagues out of work . all in all if you see this in the rental store and are in two minds , trust me , it's worth the risk .
both of our futures depend on this . . . .	This picks up where the last one left off ; with Doc Brown and Marty going into the future to help Marty's future offspring . They discover that while in the future , Marty's nemesis , Biff Tannen got the sports book that Marty bought so that he could know the results of sports events and make a fortune , but Doc Brown foiled his plans , but Tannen who overheard their conversation , got the book and the time machine and went back into the past and gave the book to himself , who has not only amassed a fortune but also extremely powerful . So Doc and Marty have to go back to when Biff got the book and get it away from him . And it seems that it was in 1955 on the night of the dance that Biff got the book . So not only must they get the book but they must also avoid the other versions of themselves . . . oh my god , it would help to have a degree to understand this movie , but beneath the layers of story , sub-plots and going backwards and forwards in time , this film does work , and in my opinion it ranks as the best of the series . the special effects are not so special now , but the ideas of the hover boards and the flying cars are sound as are other little subtle things such as the eighties café ' and clothing lines . but the story is the main thing about this film . you really need to watch the movie from beginning to end to really understand what is going on and watch it twice more to confirm this . for a family film , it doesn't really matter for young children about the story , as they will be in awe of the special effect , future designs and seeing Fox and Wilson in multiple roles . but this is still one hell of a movie and by the end of it all of the loose ends are ( nearly ) tied up and Zemeckis has great fun in doing this . repeating set pieces from the original in different time zones and also re-creating footage from the first movie . a major feat in its time , BTTF part 2 has stacks of story and an easy narrative to follow with plenty of red herrings thrown into the mixture . it's just a shame that the cliffhanger developed into such a lacklustre sequel . inspired viewing
Chuck Norris with a BB gun . . . . . .	Bungling secret agent Maxwell Smart , also known as Agent 86 for CONTROL , is on a mission to battle the forces of their evil crime nemesis known as KAOS with his more-competent partner Agent 99 , ( whose real name is never revealed ) at his side . When the headquarters of U . S . spy agency Control is attacked and the identities of its agents compromised , the Chief has no choice but to promote his ever-eager analyst Maxwell Smart , who has always dreams of working in the field alongside stalwart superstar Agent 23 . Smart will do whatever it takes to thwart the latest plot for world domination by KAOS . . After the debacle that was Evan Almighty , carrell returns to form , in this funny , often laugh out loud comedy , that is based on a series that i have never had the pleasure to view . Carrell is the reason to watch this , his dead pan humour really fits his character well , and the chemistry between him and Hathaway is perfect if intentionally awkward . the supporting cast also have some of the biggest laughs too , especially Arkin as the chief , who has some great lines and some fabulous physical comedy . there are references aplenty , from the likes of Bond , Die Hard and a predictable homage to Entrapment , which , even though you see what will happen from a mile off , still offers plenty of laughs . even The Rock puts on a good show in this comedy . it may be a little too violent for the young ones , and the presence of Terence Stamp is a bit ywnsome ( why shadow his face , when he has one of the most recognisable voices in cinema ) but these are only minor gripes for this comedy . plus the inclusion of two great cameos from Murray and Caan , this is a fast paced action filled comedy , that really lives up to the trailer .
freeze , mother bithes ! ! ! !	Marcus Burnett is a hen-pecked family man . Mike Lowry is a foot-loose and fancy free ladies ' man . Both are Miami policemen , and both have 72 hours to reclaim a consignment of drugs stolen from under their station's nose . To complicate matters , in order to get the assistance of the sole witness to a murder , they have to pretend to be each other . . a return to form for Simpson and Bruckheimer , and they have spared no expense on the set pieces and explosions that scatter this forgettable but likable action comedy . yes it whiffs lethal weapon , but this film is purely aimed at generation X . the film now is just your by the numbers action film . but you cannot deny the chemistry between the two leads . they get on like a house on fire in the film , and make the film a whole lot bearable . Bays directing techniques are not the best in one of his first directorial efforts , as sometimes the editing and music make the film very difficult to appreciate , and lets not forget this was one of the last films Lawrence starred in before he became inevitably boring . Smith is excellent as Lowry and has a ball with the script , but kudos must go to Simpson and Bruckheimer to bring one of the liveliest and fun movies of 1995 . an unoriginal buddy cop film , but it's fun , and thats what matters in the summer blockbuster market
reach in the back seat and hand me that crowd pleaser . . .	The Law Enforcement Technology Advancement Centre ( LETAC ) has developed SID version 6 . 7 : a Sadistic , Intelligent , and Dangerous virtual reality entity which is synthesised from the personalities of more than 150 serial killers . LETAC would like to train police officers by putting them in VR with SID , but they must prove the concept by using prisoners as test subjects . One such prisoner is ex-cop Parker Barnes . When SID manages to inject his personality into a nano-machine android , it appears that Barnes might be the only one who can stop him . . . . Washington did this because his kid wanted to do it , and Crowe was new to Hollywood , so all is forgiven for this forgettable yarn . the premise is simple , a vr killer comes in to the real world and only Washington can capture him . the performances are fine apart from Lynch who just doesn't seem to care that she has to do some work . Wasington and Crowe are great together and it's good to know that they are working again with ' american gangsters ' . but it's not to say that the film isn't cheesy , it is and it happens bucket loads . Crowe is extremely camp in this movie and resembles Nicholson in Batman as his portrayal of SID , and the ending is a little poor , your supposed to keep the audience in suspense , not the characters . but all in all a great movie .
last night i dreamt you were dead . . . . .	Perfume is set in the colourful backdrop of 18th century France centering on the life of an unfortunate boy , Jean Baptiste , born in the slums of a Paris fish market . Left for dead amongst rotting fish guts , he inhales the plethora of scents around him . He is rescued by some passers by and is subsequently placed in an orphanage . He is an odd child and a social outcast . Possibly as a result of his traumatic birth , he is blessed with outstanding olfactory senses : from early childhood he displays an uncanny ability for discerning the individual smells of everything around him . The twists and turns of his early life are one continuous tragic story . His quest is to learn the art of perfume making and , once taught , Jean Baptise desires to make the ultimate perfume . His skilfully crafted perfumes have the ability to provoke unexpected reactions in both the wearer and the recipient . During his apprenticeship , he discovers he has no personal smell and is initially devastated . On his journey to create olfactory perfection , he seeks alternative ingredients to his perfumes and , in doing so , leaves a grisly trail . . . as with ' Run Lola Run ' Twyker once again proves his visual flair for editing and cinematography , the opening and closing scenes are mesmerising and you really fell as if you are part of the crowd . the story is a very dark affair , and sometimes the narrative is rather confusing , but having never read the source material it didn't surprise me . the sets are sumptuous , the script almost flawless and there are some mesmerising performances especially from Hoffman and Rickman . a story about finding yourself by aide of sacrificing another , it is worth seeing .
Dry land is not just our destination , it is our destiny !	In the future , the Earth is engulfed with water when the polar ice caps melts , leaving the lands and civilisation beneath the sea . In " Waterworld " drifters sail across the waters of the world on their man-made ships , trading for supplies and salvaging what is left of civilisation , communities of survivors lives in towns called " Atolls " and a force of evil pirates " The Smokers " travel across Waterworld in search of a mythical island called " Dryland " . Arriving at a Atoll , a mysterious drifter without a name called The Mariner is sentenced to death when the community discover he is a mutant . When the Atoll is attacked by The Smokers led by their evil leader Deacon , a woman named Helen and her adopted daughter Enola bribes The Mariner to take them to Dryland , believing The Mariner has been there . But the Mariner , Helen and Enola are pursued by Deacon and the Smokers , when The Mariner learns the tattoo on Enola's back is in reality a map that will lead them to Dryland . . . also known as ' Fishtar ' and ' Kevins Gate ' , Waterworld is one of those movies that people love to hate without seeing the finishing product . problems were abound on the production with sets sinking and other problems , but the finished result is a marvellous production , made in the grand style with some stunning cinematography and astonishing set pieces . those of you thinking this is a vanity project for Costner are way off target ( see the postman for vanity ) , of course he gets to look good and and indestructible during the film , he is a mutant and his journey is to help a little girl . he is the hero so he needs to look good ( so does this mean that all of Schwarzeneggers films are vanity projects ? ) . Hopper steals the movie though as the Deacon and has all the best lines and after ' Speed ' is the second greatest screen villain after Alan Rickman . if there ever was a problem with the budget , it doesn't show on screen , it was one of the most exciting and satisfying summer movies of 1995 , and although it has delusions of grandeur in some places , it really is fun to watch .
appearances can be . . . . deceptive	Osbourne Cox is a CIA analyst who quits his job at the agency after being demoted ostensibly because of his drinking problem . He then decides to write a memoir about his life in the CIA . His wife , Katie Cox , wants to divorce Osbourne and , at the counsel of her divorce lawyer , she copies many of his personal and financial files off his computer and onto an optical disc . Katie's lover is Treasury agent Harry Pfarrer . The disc eventually finds its way to Hardbodies , a workout gym . An employee of the gym , Chad Feldheimer obtains the disc from the gym's custodian and ascertains that it contains classified government information . Along with his fellow employee Linda Litzke , he intends to use the disk to blackmail Osbourne - Linda needs the money to pay for cosmetic surgery . They call up Cox in the middle of the night , but he is not receptive . When blackmailing him fails , Linda decides to take the information to the Russian embassy . At the embassy , she hands the disk over to the Russians , promising that she will give more information afterwards . . . . the first thing you notice after watching this movie , is the physical performances the cast give . Clooney and Pitt are amazing , gurning their way through such a delicious script and story . the films not for every taste , and the comedy is as dark as dark can be . it can be a very paranoid piece at times , and there are some truly shocking moments , but in the end , the Coens have made another great movie . the majority of the characters are very bitter people indeed , and when the film ends , you can't help but chuckle to yourself and wonder whether the Coens left the film like that intentionally . Simmons , Jenkins and Pitt particularly stand out in this and the repeated lines hark back to O ' Brother Where Art Thou ? funny , but some might not actually find it ' that ' funny ' . Brad Pitts smiling face in the closet will haunt me for a while though . . . .
the medicine cabinet is now the Brundle museum of natural history .	Seth Brundle is a scientist who has been working hard to make the dream of teleportation a reality for several years . he has been doing this alone , by getting fellow scientist's / technician's to build parts of the teleportation system unaware of what the parts are for . up until now , Brundle has been only able to teleport inanimate objects , as the computer that gathers the information does not understand the complexity of living tissue . Brundle starts to teach the computer about the complexities of living tissue and successfully teleports a baboon . along his journey he meets Veronica , a journalist who is interested with Brundles work and starts a relationship of sorts with him and starts to log his work progress , and form a bond with him that maybe Brundle hasn't had for a long time . Brundle wants to be the first human guinea pig in the teleportation device , but is aware that the test results for the baboon will not be available for another few weeks , so he waits . one evening in drunken state of jealousy he decides he cannot wait and successfully teleports himself form one pod to another . what Brundle didn't know is that a fly was sharing a pod with him and now their genes have started to fuse together . at first Brundle is a lot more athletic and erotically charged , but as the weeks progress he starts to undergo a body image alteration and becomes more and more paranoid about what he can become and who else he can make ' feel great ' . as psychological horrors go , the fly is one of the best in the last twenty years . Cronenberg has really hit pay-dirt with Goldblum , who portrays Brundle as a likable person and somebody you care for . at times in the movie when Brundle is changing , he does seem the most human character in the narrative . Brundle appears to be the only character who has any passion for anything really . we could argue that Veronica has passion , but at he beginning of the movie , she doesn't seen overly excited about Brundles invention . the story itself concerns itself on the characters , their emotions , and what they sometimes strive for . eg Brundle , for the perfect being after the teleportation , he becomes more obsessed with finding somebody who will join him . Borans obsession with Veronica , somebody who he is deeply in love with , and becomes obsessed with Brundle after Veronica becomes involved . all in all at the end of the movie , most of the main characters are defeated by the circumstances that they find themselves in and their obsessions . this film is also about obsession and how obsession can affect ones life and ultimately render them as loners , which Brundle is at the beginning and conclusion of the movie . all in all a great exploration about one's concepts of humanity and the infinite fight between mind and body ( as mentioned above already ) . a very emotional film too , not only are all main characters damaged physically , they are all emotionally damaged through their experiences and learning . one of the best scenes in the film is where Brundle is begging Veronica not to destroy the baby and not ' to kill him ' . a career best turn from Goldblum and some ground breaking effects , this is easily Cronenbergs most audience friendly movie to date .
forgive her , and forgive yourself . . .	Daniel Craig returns as Bond , in this , what could be classed as the first Bond sequel proper . continuing more or less straight from where Royale concluded , we are thrown into the action by a very nauseating ( although not very exciting ) pre-credits car chase . there the mysterious Mr . White is questioned , and from there , Bond goes from Country to country , trying to find out answers to some very deep questions . . . who is Greene , why is he slightly like Tony Blair ? , what is Quantum ? why is there a hotel in the middle of the desert ? and so on . the main problem with the movie is , that none of these questions are really answered , but this in my opinion is a very good thing . . . it leaves things wide open for Bond 23 . They say there is a lack of humour into this entry , but i found myself chuckling at some scenes , and in this movie , it appears that Bond has become closer to M , than in previous outings ( for instance , the dogfight sequence has Bond refer to her like his mother ) . the action is frenetic and at times amazing , just like it should be in a Bond movie , but it is true that many of the set pieces do hark to a certain amnesiac spy trilogy , but is that really a bad thing ? Arnold again proves he has got what it takes to score a Bond movie , and really excels during the opera sequence , which could be in fact , the best thing in the movie . Craig is again fantastic as the super spy , very cold blooded , yet at times showing great empathy . the film also references other Bond movies , easily Goldfinger , The Spy Who Loved Me ( the flick of the hand when dangling a villain from a ledge ) . the cinematography is amazing and looks great , and the support is too fantastic . it's not the Bond movie i was expecting , in fact it's very different to a Bond movie . but the thing is , is that leaves you wanting more , it wants you to learn more about ' Quantum ' , which is a clever move by Forster and Haggis . hopefully Bond 23 will tie up all the loose ends . otherwise a great entry into the series . just don't expect Casino Royale . . .
the last stand ? naaaaah ! ! ! !	first there was the original x-men movie . OK so this was to tell the story of the x-men . which to be frank was pretty boring . and had the worst line in cinema history ( the line what storm says to toad just before hi demise . something like ' you know what happens to a toad when it is struck by lightning ? . . the same as everything else ' ! ! ! then x-men united came out which was better but with spider man being released the year before , just didn't really cut the mustard . BUT . . . when these films are viewed together , they make great viewing , the characters are very in depth and intense and you actually sympathise with these ' mutants ' . now to the last stand . maybe the best of the three , but the best for pure spectacle . Ratner has directed this , when i heard he was to be the helmer , i did have reservations , as this is the guy who really made Chris tucker a big big star . what ratner has done has made a film for the public and fanboys alike . it's not advisable to watch this as a standalone feature as you will be lost in the plot , and the host of characters that are involved . then there are the characters . a lot of the characters are pushed back or disposed of quite quickly to involve the four main characters . namely , wolverine , phoenix / jean grey , magneto and storm ( even though i do not believe that storm is integral to the plot , maybe she should have been killed at the lake instead of cyclops ) . then there are the characters who are pushed aside . really the only one who this happens to is rogue , who was really a vital part to the last 2 movies , here she is shown to be a believer of the cure and that is really all she does in the movie . then there is mystique , again someone who was vital ( and fun ) in the previous two , again pushed aside for no reason at all and unfortunately wasted in the movie . these are pushed aside for the new characters . the main addition here is of the beast , a secretary for the mutants who has brains as well as brawn . Kelsey grammar is tremendous in this role and it shows he has been watching old episodes of Frasier to prepare him for the role . but in true comic book style , he does kick butt toward the end . i feel that angel was wasted as he was in a prologue at the beginning but alas we never see a lot of action from him and poor Ben foster only has a handful of lines . juggernaut is the only mutant that lets the brotherhood down . Vinnie Jones should stick to playing typecast gangsters than appearing in films like this . for the film itself , the story is good if not solid , the script is funny and fast moving , and there are some nasty surprises along the way for those who are not in the know . the special effects are groundbreaking too . OK everyone will be raving on about the golden gate bridge scene , which is impressive , but for me , it's right at the beginning where the fx team have made magneto and Xavier appear twenty years younger . amazing . this film may not be to everyones taste , and there will be fanboys who will moan at the style , but if like me you like comic books , but are not obsessed and are not really bothered by minor changes to characters , then you will be in for a treat . this is really the first hit of the summer in an otherwise really season of letdown movies . just one little gripe about the movie . after the moving of golden gate bridge , it suddenly becomes night time for no reason , which does really stand out ( i think this was intentional though to make the action more intense ) . and stay after the credits , there is little treat there for fans
these guys killed my dog . . . .	a neat little thriller directed by Fuqua , and coming back to form after average movies such as King Arthur and tears of the Sun . Wahlberg plays tortured sniper Bob Lee Swagger ( we know he is tortured , because he lives in the hills , only has a beer fetching dog for company , and is desperate need of investing in a razor ) . when approached by some government types to help them prevent presidential assassination , Swagger reluctantly accepts and joins forces with Murtaug . . . . . Col . Johnson to help stop the attempt . when the mission goes awry , and the archbishop of Africa is killed instead , Swagger becomes prime suspect in the murder , and goes on the run with no help apart from a rookie FBI agent , and his dead partners wife . . . . Wahlberg phones in his performance in this film but elevates it from above average to immensely enjoyable . he is well made for the role and really makes Swaggers ' character and situation believable . whilst watching it though i was continuously comparing it to 1997s ' most wanted ' and the Jason Bourne movies . the shady government thing has been done to death , and this really covers no new ground , but it can't be helped to enjoy such a movie . the camera work is slick , soundtrack suitable for this movie , editing very sharp and directed with flair and style by Fuqua . by the trailers and the reviews , you could easily work out what happens at the end , but if you want to see this sort of film , you're expecting some sort of Revelation , ala ; the sixth sense . what you do expect is an exciting , interesting character driven action thriller , just what we get here .
you are a TOY ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !	Woody has it all . He is practically the leader in Andy's toy room , Bo Peep has the hots for him , and most importantly , he is Andy's favourite toy . But when the clocks strike Andy's birthday , a new toy arrives . Buzz Lightyear , a space cadet who thinks he is a space ranger , ( not a toy in a room ) instantly wins over Andy , thus becoming Andy's new treasure . But when Woody is accused of knocking Buzz out of the window , he must go into the world and find Buzz , with many delays . . . this is the quintessential all cgi movie . watched now , you can see the flaws in the animation , but this can be forgiven foe such a dynamic story . the story is about position and hierarchy and losing that position in the rat race . you have to feel sympathy for Wody when Buzz becomes the new kid on the block . we have all had that feeling when someone trys to budge in on your position , be it a new guy / girl on the block , or your child boasting about how great their friends parent is . a great family film with some great acting from Hanks and Allen . one to watch on Christmas eve with your child just before you send them to bed . classic cinema
Bolivian marching powder . . . .	A young kid from Kansas moves to New York to work on a magazine . He gets caught up in the world of drink and drugs , and starts a steady decline . The only hope is the cousin of one of his drinking partners , can she pull him through it ? after his family outings of teen wolf , back to the future and the secret of my success , it was time for Fox to take his turn at the adult audience . basically this film is a downspiral journey for the users of cocaine in the excessive eighties . all is present here . shoulder pads , checkbizarre suits , checkgreat music , checkthe plot is very hard to follow , with sub-plots involving a comatose baby , mothers dying and a failed marriage . but this film has a passage of rites , do not take cocaine as it will make you paranoid ! ! ! Fox is great as Jamie , putting in an effortless performance as a man whose life is going from bad to worse . it's a shame though that Sutherland and Cates are limited to minor roles as they are very good with the material that they are given . the New York photography is marvellous and makes the city look very melancholy in some scenes . but there are some unintentional laugh out loud moments and some very bizarre situations . was there really any need for Jamie to run away from his brother ? the catwalk piece is very cringworthy , but for a drama , it scores very high , and can be very depressing in some areas of the movie . but the soundtrack and cinematography is a marvel and is worth seeing .
this corn is an angel . . .	Dan Burns is a single father who dedicates his life to his children , but one day he meets Marie at a bookstore . They get to know each other , but then Dan finds out that Marie is actually dating his brother , Mitch . . the problem is is that the title definitely reflects Dans problems . in his day to day life he is giving people advice , from his agony column in a newspaper , and when he goes to his family for thanks giving , he is always asked advice . but Dan never asks for help , instead , he just shuts himself out and tries to cure the populations problem . this is why the reviewer instantly felt empathy for Dan , as his ' real life ' is nothing but a fragile shell , and the one person he meets and can open up is heart to is already taken . the film is marvellous , with great performances from everyone , and for us Brits , just goes to show how Dane Cook will be a name to look out for very soon . but it's nice to see Carrell in a role thats a little off beat from his recent frat pack comedies . Dan is one one of the most vulnerable characters that has been seen on screen for a long time , and from some beautiful mise en scene and connotations , the doors are always slammed in his face . its predictable stuff , but the writing and narrative is so well done , you can forgive the outcome . a really feel good movie , very underrated
when you have an itch , scratch it . . . .	A fictionalised account of personal bravery and comradeship in the early days of the Viet Nam war . The story follows the experiences of Lt . Dieter Dengler whose plane was shot down over Laos and taken prisoner by the North Vietnamese . In a story that should not be classified as either pro or anti war , it explores the tragedies of war for all involved . . . once again this movie shows what a great method actor Bale is becoming . one minute he can star in a massive Hollywood blockbuster , and the next he stars in a little gem like this . but it's hard te realise that this film has been directed by Herzog , he seems to have tamed a bit since his stints with Klinski , but the film still has a visual impact that is second to none , especially the pre credit sequence showing a plane dropping bombs in Vietnam . for a man who is in so much bother , Bale is quite placid in his role , or is it the fact that he is becoming quite delusional toward the end . with excellent support from Zahn and Northam who are both quite restraint in this move , it's more of a fantasy than a POW drama as we really believe that Bale will succeed as we can't help but enter his own little world . well worth seeing .
brace yourself , i think your about to witness a murder . . .	After an explosion on a ferry kills over 500 people including a large group of party-going sailors , an ATF agent investigates the crime . An FBI agent also joins the investigation . Impressed with the ATF agent's skills , the FBI agent invites him to join a new team that has a new program that uses satellite technology to look backwards in time for 4 - days to try to capture the terrorist . Meanwhile a young woman who was burned washes up on shore , meant to look like part of of the explosion , the body arrives at its location too soon , which leads the agents to believe her death is related to the explosion . As they use the new technology to study the woman , the ATF agent determines that this is not satellite imagery , but some reality in the past . when Carlin distracts the girl by using a laser pen , he decides that the girl doesn't have to die at all . . . . reading some of the message boards on this thread , you would be lead to believe that this is some sort of Terminator rip-off . don't be fooled into thinking this . if this film references anything , you could compare it to the 1998 thriller ' enemy of the state ' and Even , just a little bit of 1994's ' timecop ' thrown in for good measure . the main problem with this amazing film is the plot . yes there is one there and it is delicious , but look too deep into the film , and you will find some gaping holes in the plot and end up on the boards here asking questions and ending up arguing . just remember this is from the peole who bought you , enemy of the state , potc , the fan , man on fire and the rock . plus it has the advantage of two stellar cast members in Washington and Kilmer . for a Bruckheimer film , the action is very minimal , but the scenes with the ' snow white ' machine are pure fun and great sci-fi . if Washington hadn't signed on to do this , then i fear that this would have been another low budget forgettable affair , but we all know with Washington , he can do no wrong . the final act beggars belief , but the story does come together like a jigsaw . sinister scenes from before turn out to be just simple innocent coincidences , and it does get your brain matter working . all in all highly recommended .
get off my plane ! !	The President of the United States is on a journey home after making a speech in Moscow . But on the journey , Russian hi-jakers take over the plane , disguising themselves as newspaper reporters . They want the President to ring Moscow and release General Redek . But they think that the President has escaped in the pod . But the president is really still on board air force One attempting to regain control of the plane and to rescue his wife and daughter . . . . in a genius turn of casting , Harrison Ford is the President , and i cannot think of a better actor to play him in a ' die hard ' type sub-genre flick . ably supported by a scene chewing Oldman ( who has a quite realistic Russian accent , apart from the cockney ' shaat ahhp ' to the first lady ) and Close , who appears to be relishing her lines with the utmost of glee . 1997 had to be the year for action movies , what with this , Face / off , and Con air . the set pieces are extraordinary and way over the top , but at nearly 2 hours long , it keeps the film at a steady pace . patriotism is rife throughout ( what else would you expect ? ) , and there are a little too many ' speeches ' , but this doesn't really hinder the plot . also , the sound and editing is expertly done , keeping the audience on the edge of their seat . Harrison Fords last greatest role . it's even better knowing that this was originally intended for Kevin Costner , and he suggested Ford . here's hoping the best for Indy IV
hop in my mouth , if you want to live . . .	Marlin loses his son , Nemo after he ventures into the open sea , despite his fathers constant warnings about many of the Ocean's dangers , is abducted by a boat , and netted up and sent to a dentist's office in Sydney . Marlin ventures off to try and retrieve Nemo and meets a fish named Dory , a blue tang suffering from short-term memory loss . The companions travel a great distance , encountering various dangerous sea creatures such as sharks , angelfish and jellyfishes , in order to rescue Nemo from the dentist's office , which is situated by the Sydney Harbor . While the two are doing this , Nemo and the other sea animals in the dentist's fish tank plot a way to returning to Sydney Harbor to live their lives free again . . . . not really a fan of Disney or Pixar , i put the DVD in my player with great reluctance . what a surprised , expecting the normal saccharine slush i find in family viewing , i find a fantastic comedy , with very sympathetic characters , great set-pieces and very clever movie references ( scarface , the shining , psycho and the birds to name a few ) . but what stood out for me the most was the attention to detail with the ocean and the way the sea life moved around . the detail hypnotises you into enjoyment and some of the scenes almost become psychedelic with their beauty ( the jelly fish sequence is one of theses ) . the voice work is very good , and for once their wasn't no cultural references to animals and no ethnicity was used to capture a creatures likeness . all of the cast were great and if you want a movie that will entertain , excite and humour you , then this is the movie for you . it even gave me a lump in mt throat come the end . it's just a shame that i never saw this at the cinema , because i could imagine that the spectacle was even more enjoyable on a big screen . a fantastic story , with great narrative , and characters and goals that you really care about .
never betray your Khan . . . .	an epic story of a young Genghis Khan and how events in his early life lead him to become a legendary conqueror . The 9-year-old Temüjin is taken on a trip by his father to select a girl as his future wife . He meets Börte , who says she would like to be chosen , which he does . He promises to return after five years to marry her . Temüjin's father is poisoned on the trip , and dies . As a boy Temüjin passes through starvation , humiliations and even slavery , but later with the help of Börte he overcomes all of his childhood hardships to become one of the greatest conquerors the world has ever known . . . this is the film that Alexander , Troy , and Kingdom of Heaven wanted and should have been . instead of relying on pure spectacle for the audience , this movie dares to delve into the psyche of Khan , and what motivated him to be the man the history books depicted . he's not a vicious person , he just sticks by his rules , and that makes him fair . his only vex is to get his loved one back , which he dedicates his life too . so strangely enough , Ghengis Khan is depicted as a very cool and calm individual . the battles though are phenomenal , barely using cgi , they are very close to the knuckle , and as realistic as one would expect , despite the lack of budget this film had compared to the other aforementioned movies . it goes along a a beautiful pace , and the cinematography is beautiful , even more so on blu-ray . narration is good , and holds the viewer captivated , rather than having them waiting for the next battle . excellent film-making .
very dark . . . . . . . . . very good ! !	right , just want to get this out of the way , cruises character is definitely gay . he's a forklift driver ( village people ) , won't let anyone go in his room ( whats under the bed ? ) . his name rhymes with gay ( ray ) . and just what does he do to ogilvy when he shuts the door behind him . also he is so camp . he has a hissy fit when he has human dust over him , gets scared by a little lightning and comments on how is ex-wife pregnant look suits her . what straight person would say that to some one who was carrying some one else's baby ? any way , straight from the opening scene hearing morgan freeman speak i knew i was going to enjoy this . the hairs on the back of my neck stood on end . that was the scariest part of the movie . the reason i believe it is so dark is that spielberg has left nowhere for man to hide . most people on viewing this would have conversations such as where would you hide . but spielberg has already answered this , there is nowhere . if you hide in a cellar you get attacked by dodgy looking men . spielberg gives ray and his family no time to rest . see the scene when they have just escaped from the ferry . there is also one scene that reminded me of 28 days later when ray has his car taken from him . a very scary , topical and in one instance the dialogue is hilarious , look out for the Europa line . and some of the best fx i have seen
i will be your slave forever . . .	Grown angry about the fact that she must watch over her little brother Toby , Sarah wishes the child to the goblins . They translate this careless statement into action : The Goblin-King Jareth announces that soon Toby will mutate into a goblin . There is only one hope : Sarah has to find the way to Jareth's castle - through a dangerous labyrinth - where she will find strange creatures and even stranger situations . . . . . deemed as a flop on it's initial release , the film unfortunately hasn't aged well on the special effects , music and clothing side of it . but this only adds to the movies charm . the story is almost of Gilliam genius and you can feel the pythonesque values in the Terry Jones scripted parts of the movie . Hensons puppets are amazing creations and work so well and as for Bowie , he makes the film . the other choices to play the goblin-king were Jackson and Sting , i don't think that they could have pulled off the part as well as Bowie . he isn't the best actor in the world , but with the songs and the Ziggy Stardust-esquire poses and make up , he immortalises him . the film can sometimes have a little bit of an innuendo theme going on between the two leads , but this only adds to the film and makes it all the more interesting . with some great set pieces and imagery ( check out props and scenery that appear to be like Bowie throughout the movie , beating Fight Club by thirteen years ) , this has to be one of the most adult accessible fantasy children films out there . a great summer movie .
i thought you didn't care . . . .	Noted surgeon Richard Kimble is wrongfully accused , tried and convicted for the brutal murder of his wife . A failed escape attempt by other prisoners gives Kimble his opportunity to escape execution . The only option and purpose he has left is to discover who really murdered his wife and clear his name . On his trail is persistent US Marshal Samuel Gerard who slowly comes to believe that the original case might not be as clear cut as was first believed . a great year for tommy lee Jones and director Andrew Davis was 1993 . first up was the excellent action adventure ' under siege ' and then this , one of the best movie adaptations of a TV movie ever . Harrison Ford is excellent as the titular character and plays his part with great emotion and intensity . but the film is stolen from him by Jones who deservedly won best supporting actor for his role . any time he is on the screen , the film brightens up and the dark undertones are cleared due to his dead pan delivery of the lines . the set pieces are very memorable , particular the train wreck sequence and the dam jump , which is probably what the film will best be remembered for . the final third is intense and brings the film to a whole , but it's a shame that the film was a little bit tainted due to US Marshalls , but is still one hell of a film , and one of Fords best movies of the nineties
they called me Mr . Glass . . . . .	David Dunn's marriage is crumbling , and he's thinking of moving to New York . Then when he's coming home from a job interview , his train derails and he is the only survivor . More than that , he doesn't have a scratch on him . David is contacted by Elijah Price , who runs a comic book art gallery and suffers from a genetic condition that makes his bones very easy to break . Elijah has been a comic book fan all his life , and has developed a theory that they are what remains of an ancient system of storytelling , and the superheroes they are about are based on real people . Elijah believes David may be one of these people . He has hardly ever been injured or sick , and he has tremendous strength , plus an uncanny ability to tell if someone is about to or has done something bad . David doesn't know what to think about the theory , or Elijah himself . However , events soon conspire to convince him he may be a superhero after all . what shayalaman has done with the comic book movie is given it a terrific spin , so the film does actually seem plausible . it's a film that really makes you think and talk about people being at each end of the spectrum completely plausible , and this is what makes it one of his most interesting films . of course it's not got the terrific twist ending of the sixth sense or the humour of signs , but after you have seen the former film , it loses it's grasp a little , because you know the outcome . this film is probably the one film he has made that will make you appreciate more , because David is finding out more about himself ( and his relationship with his son ) as the film progresses . so yes , to look at the film it's a superhero movie , but it's also a deep meaningful tale about family and trying your hardest to keep everything together . Elijah's mother did it through the medium of comic books , and Elijah gives a kind of gift to David and his son as they now have something to relate to . all the connotations of the superhero are here , the main character with the same initials , wearing the same colour throughout , with supposedly superhuman strength , but with a weakness . and then you have the arch villain , with the larger than life eyes and head , leading the eccentric / maniacal life . the cast are superb , and this has to be one of Willis's finest moments . really worth watching .
i'm really just a simple , boring person .	Fin is a man who has just inherited a train station , following his friends death . he moves there and decides to live there with just his thoughts and love of trains to keep him company . along the way he meets Joe , who is looking after his fathers ' snack van and he also meets Olivia , who nearly knock's him down , twice . what happens from then is an unusual close friendship with very few words and very different personalities . this film signifies just how large the planet can seem when you are lonely . it also signifies that , whatever you are going through , you don't have to go through it alone , there is always someone out there who will listen to you , or just talk about a different subject . at first , it seems that Fin is quite an unlikeable person , who is not very sociable , but being i dwarf , i suppose it would be hard for him to make friends as he maybe would be apprehensive about new people and how they would react to him . that's just my opinion and i do not mean to offend . Joe and Olivia are also two very lonely people , but for different reasons . Joe has to work all day by himself and Olivia has split up from her husband and has recently lost a son . so these three people become friends of sorts , but rarely socialise and barely speak to one another . when they are together , it can become quite cringe-worthy for the viewer as one wants to be part of their group and bond with them . there are some great performances in this film especially from Dinklage and Clarkson . the story is highly original , and for a film where nothing happens much , you can barely take your eyes off the screen thanks to the cinematography and tight narrative .
harrowing . . . . important .	the aliens the characters mention are them themselves . this film carries a very hard subject matter and does not make for comfortable viewing . do not watch this if you are in a low mood or just want something to watch , this is not a film like that . it touches subjects such as paedophilia and homosexuality and makes them worse than ' normal ' people think of . the subject is very alien to ' normal ' people who feel it too taboo to talk about such subjects . Joseph gorden levitt is sensational in a role which was written for him and he should be a huge star soon . he handles his character well and shows no sign of emotion , as the emotions were taken away from him when he was younger . this movie asks questions such as what would you be like if you had no emotions when you are older . would you be called the freak ? would you be able to handle that ? or would you go off the rail and do something taboo like the characters in this film . araki chose his cast well , all concerned are exceptional and it is great to see billy drago again in a good movie , the most heartbreaking character of all . watch this film and never forget it . some people may think you are alien
that'll wake the neighbours . . . . .	a criminal plot is in place to take down the entire computer and technological structure that supports the economy of the United States ( and the world ) it's up to a decidedly " old school " hero , police detective John McClane , to take down the conspiracy , aided by a young hacker and a lot of wisecracks . . . lots of speculation surrounding this movie . it's been twelve years since the last movie ( with a vengeance ) and this had a lot to live up to , seeing that at the last minute , the studios got cold feet and decided to edit it so a wider audience could see it ( ironic considering the plot ) . but ' Live free or die hard ' ( or Die Hard 4 . 0 as it's called here in Blighty ) does not disappoint in the slightest . when we first see McClane , he is giving his daughter a hard time ( an exact reflection and reference to the argument with John and Holly in the first movie ) and the years have weathered Willis , which got me a little bit worried . 10 minutes later , we are treated to our first set piece , and it never lets up until the final credits ( the final set piece with the Mig outdoes true lies ) . yes , the movie is totally unbelievable , yes the story could be your average direct to DVD movie , but i don't care , Willis is back as McClane , his most famous character , and Willis knows this , so gives the movie his all . this in my opinion is the second best of the four , inferior on many counts to the original , on a par with the third , far superior to Harlins effort in 1990 . the script is laugh out loud funny in places and McClane is given some cracking lines , but he is ably supported by some great characters ( warlock almost steals the show ) and great support by Long , Q , Curtis , and Olyphant . Gabriel mat not be the most memorable baddie of all time but is McClanes most personal adversary . the editing is very poor , and on occasion you can actually see where they cut the profanity out , and yes , it is sacrilege to leave the last word of his famous line muffled by a gunshot , but these are minor quibbles for such a great movie . with lots of references to the original ( agent Johnson , lift shafts and broken glass to name but a few ) Due Hard 4 . 0 is one of the satisfying blockbusters this summer , and could maybe pave the way action movies are made in the future , with less CGI . a triumph
repetition is death . . . .	Walter Paisley , nerdy busboy at a Bohemian café , is jealous of the talent ( and popularity ) of its various artistic regulars . But after accidentally killing his landlady's cat and covering the body in plaster to hide the evidence , he is acclaimed as a brilliant sculptor - but his new-found friends want to see more of his work . Lacking any artistic talent whatsoever , Walter has to resort to similar methods to produce new work , and soon people start mysteriously disappearing . . . at just over an hour long , this is one of the best B-movies out there . Dick Miller is fantastic at the lead , who at first doesn't realise what he did to the cat was wrong , but when he gets recognition , he aspires for bigger things . it's pretty random stuff , but the narrative is good and there are some cunning connotations and hilarious beards in the movie . deserved of it's cult status , the film is one to be seen , one of Cormans finest pieces of work .
Nicky was the Muscle . . . . . .	Sam ' Ace ' Rothstein , a mob-connected casino operator in Las Vegas , attempts a civilised lifestyle with his money-conditional wife , Ginger . Nicky Santoro , a boyhood friend of Ace and now a Made-Man of the Mafia , arrives in town with an ambitious agenda of his own that soon disrupts Ace's life . Before long , Ginger and her long-time leeching lover Lester , along with Nicky's mistakes , start causing problems . . . . . another excellent ( if a little too long ) masterpiece from one of the best directors in the business , with a highly prolific cast , that put in some of there best performances . but one cannot help but compare this to Scorceses other masterpiece of the nineties , Goodfellas . and it's not a fair comparison , but it's only because it's got the slick narration like the former , and Pesci in psychotic mode again . De Niro plays it cooler than cool in his performance , which was his third best of the nineties after Goodfellas and Heat . Stone is excellent as Ace's cheating gold digging wife , and puts in such an incredible performance , you really do feel for Ace as she starts to turn against him . the sets and cinematography are amazing , and like Goodfellas , Scorcese has made such a good move with the soundtrack that it really takes you in the movie . a greatly edited movie , but a little long , but at the same time unmissable
i killed a lot of people in a lot of different ways . . .	Costner plays in one of his most convincing roles as the schizophrenic serial killer / addict titular character , who is caught red handed by Dane Cook . Cook wants to be present at his next murder , but Brooks has home problems , his daughter may or may not be a killer , and also she is sloppy . to prevent his Daughter from being arrested , he must kill someone to cover up her mistakes . . . a very interesting drama that looks deep into the psyche of a murderer and almost makes the audience feel sympathy for him and the problems that he faces . after all it isn't Brooks who wants to kill , it's his alter ego ( played by Hurt ) who has the blood lust . but Hurt plays the character very quietly , as he could have gone all out pantomime and ruined the whole thing . Cook , so poor in ' employee of the month ' shows he has talent in his role as the curious and then finally as the suspect . Moore doe well in her supporting role , but sometimes the material given to her feels a little bit out of place for her , but her character is intricate to Brooks plans . overall it's a fascinating insight to how ' normal ' a schizophrenic murderer can be to the untrained eye , and is one of Costners best performances in the last twenty years . if this was made fifteen years ago , it would have been one of the biggest films of the year , instead we have a great psychological thriller that will become a cult movie .
i've been looking for somebody all my life . . .	L . A . , real time . From her limo , the wealthy Lauren eavesdrops on her lover Rose's tryst with movie producer Alex Green . The assignation takes place in his company's screening room between meetings . Alex's wife walks from therapy to his office , tells him she's leaving him , weeps in a bookstore restroom , and walks home with a cocaine-sniffing actress friend for what may lead to sex . Alex is drinking , wants to quit work and move to Tuscany , laughs at pretentious movie pitches , and puts off Rose when she asks for an audition . A film director sees Rose and decides she's perfect for his next picture ; she takes a screen test . She's ecstatic and calls Lauren : jealousy takes over . . . after seeing the novelty of the four way spit screen on screen , the film becomes a piece of art and the story works very well . This could be Figgis ' best piece of work to date ( still need to see hotel ) but the genius in this is trying to find the editing . i may be wrong , but i never once saw a cut or new scene on either of the four screens . all the performances are tremendous and the film focuses mainly on the loneliness of high powered people who become paranoid and obsessed by the nature of drugs . but time code is a trippy movie indeed , it will take at least two viewings to understand all the connotations , but trust me , it's worth the second visit .
my boat ! ! ! . . . . .	an awe inspiring achievement by director Herzog , Fitzcarraldo is a chronic mystical haunting movie with an impressive maniacal turn from Klaus Kinski . the premise is simple , eccentric entrepreneur Fitzcarraldo wants to build an opera house across the amazon jungle , the man will not let anything stop him achieving his dream , as seen in the opening when he has travelled so far to see a gala performance of an opera . Herzog has made a visually spectacular movie , which admittedly does takes a while to get going , but once we are on the river with the crew , the tension cranks up , even though it shouldn't and we are treated to one of the most bizarre / beautiful scenes ever committed to film , the pulling of the boat up the mountain . this would be impossible to film now , thanks to all the activists who want to save the trees , but watching the cast cut down trees for arts sake , is shocking but at the same time impossible to resist , and when the impossible happens , you are there celebrating with Fitzcarraldo . the camera-work is beautiful and the score suitably haunting to this movie , scenery and locations are used to good effect and the finale is beautiful as outrageous . one of the most bizarre features ever made , but easily Herzogs ' most watchable movie
your home . . . . is here . . .	Nicholas Garrigan , a young semi-idealistic Scottish doctor , comes to Uganda to assist in a rural hospital . Once there , he soon meets up with the new President , Idi Amin , who promise a golden age for the African nation . Garrigan hits it off immediately with the rabid Scotland fan , who soon offers him a senior position in the national health department and becomes one of Amin's closest advisers . However as the years pass , Garrigan cannot help but notice Amin's increasingly erratic behaviour that grows beyond a legitimate fear of assassination into a murderous insanity that is driving Uganda into bloody ruin . Realizing his dire situation with the lunatic leader unwilling to let him go home , Garrigan must make some crucial decisions that could mean his death if the despot finds out . . . if anyone was deserved of an Oscar for a performance , then Whittaker did for this . his portrayal of Amin is sympathetic , yet menacing , and his eyes do most of the work for him . whenever Whittaker is on screen , he commands every line and his co-stars pale in comparison . McAvoy is fantastic as the doctor in a no win situation , firstly admiring Amiin and slowly becoming to fear him as the realisation that the president is psychotic dawns on him . Macdonald has made a magnificent film , putting you in the doctors shoes and making you feel the fear that the doctor is feeling and the ever growing tension is evident throughout the movie . an amazing movie based on amazing source material , this has to be seen .
my safety's Harvard . . . . .	Max is a homely 10th-grade scholarship boy at Rushmore , a private school where he fails classes but constantly organises clubs and plays . He befriends a depressed local factory magnate , Blume , and falls for a recently widowed teacher , Ms . Cross . When a scheme gets him expelled , he tries his Rushmore style at the local high school . He ignores the proffered friendship of a student , Margaret , to pursue the unattainable Ms . Cross . Max discovers Blume also loves her ; he seeks vengeance , Blume retaliates , war ensues , and Max's troubles deepen . Rescue comes from unexpected places , including his sweet father , a barber . Can Max accept a realistic place in the world ? the first thing that is noticeable from the movie is the very off cuff camera-work and Mise en scene , which gives the film a very quirky feel to it . although it's not the best comedy out there it has to be the one that leaves you with the biggest smile on your face . it's just that the film becomes so brilliantly absurd at the end that it's impossible not to marvel at it . Max is a dreamer , and in most of the first and second act , we are living the dreams he is having , hence the weird shots of the camera and the subtle script . one of Andersons finest movies to date , with some great performances from Murray and Schwartzman . a fantastic must see movie which should be viewed by everybody at least once .
Hank wasn't in the picture .	In February , 1945 , one of the fiercest battles of the Pacific theatre of World War II occurs on the tiny island of Iwo Jima . Thousands of Marines attack the stronghold maintained by thousands of Japanese , and the slaughter on both sides is horrific . Early in the battle , an American flag is raised atop the high point , Mount Suribachi , and a photograph of the raising becomes an American cause celebrate . As a powerful inspiration to war-sick Americans , the photo becomes a symbol of the Allied cause . The three surviving flag raisers , Rene Gagnon , John Bradley , and Ira Hayes , are whisked back to civilisation to help raise funds for the war effort . But the accolades for heroism heaped upon the three men are at odds with their own personal realisations that thousands of real heroes lie dead on Iwo Jima , and that their own contributions to the fight are only symbolic and not deserving of the singling out they are experiencing . Each of the three must come to terms with the honours , exploitation , and grief that they face simply for being in a photograph . . . probably Eastwoods most adventurous project to date , this along with Letters from Iwa jima , tells the story from both sides of the war during the flag raising during WWII . what Eastwood has done here , with Spielberg , has made an exceptional motion picture about three soldiers , whom after putting a flag up and appear in photo , become three of the most famous heroes in the USA after the war . the three go on a propaganda tour to promote bonds by showing the flag raising picture , and reenact the flag raising . the three do not realise at first that they are being used as props for propaganda , but soon realise , that even though they fought in the war and see a lot of their friends die , money always comes in front of a hero , which is quite sickening to watch in the movie . the movie has great performances from all involved , and boasts that Eastwood class , although sometimes the battle scenes do ring a little ' Saving Private Ryan ' . but this is a triumph for Eastwood , a real in depth story , with great narration and great story . well worth catching .
Mackey ? he's 150 . . . . .	this movie depicts the 44 disastrous days for Brian Clough as manager of Leeds united . the film flits between 1968 and 1974 several times during the film to flesh out the rivalry between Derby County ( whist Clough was Manager ) and Leeds united ( whilst Don Revie was manager ) . what happens in between is an insightful , laugh out loud and sometimes frustrating piece of cinema , thanks to a wonderful performance from Sheen . never having read the source material , you could forgive one for thinking that this transformation from eager Derby Manager to Ego fuelled Leeds manager was over the matter of a handshake , or lack of . what would have happened if Revie had shook Cloughs hand at the end of the third round cup tie ? would there ever had been an ego in British football as big as Cloughs ? this may or may not be the case . but his quest to get Derby from bottom of the second division to champions of the First division , is gritty , funny and always entertaining . and when the bubble finally bursts and Clough realises that the world doesn't revolve around him and Derby don't need him as much as he needs them , the film takes a melancholy turn . it's great to watch Sheen try and save face as clough during the final interview and having to swallow his pride to long term friend Taylor , but it's the second act where Sheen really fleshes out the character , as seen when he is battling with his demons , alone , with drink . the only weak point in this movie is the lack of the story behind the Leeds players not doing their job for Clough , but thats just a minor gripe . it's a great movie , for football lovers and non-football lovers alike .
delicious ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !	to be honest i was not looking forward to seeing this movie , the trailers were bland and it just did not seem to have burtons magic . i sat down and wow ! from the moment danny elfmans score thundered in to my eardrums i was spellbound . there was nothing i could fault about this movie . depp was flawless as usual and all of the supporting cast were too , magical . i don't know if its just me , but are all the children and wonka metaphors for the seven deadly sins ? there's augustus = gluttony verruca = greed violet = pride mike ( tough one = wrath and was charlie just a little envious of all the other children ? now heres the controversial one . wonka = lust . lust in the mannerism that he lusted after the children's childhoods because he did not have a child hood himself . i know these are deep questions for what is essentially a family film but i truly do think that burton was thinking of this whilst filming . see the movie again and think of this .
it's been emotional . . . . . .	Eddy has been known as a cardsharp since he was young . So he and his three friends Soap , Tom and Bacon all decide to chip in £25 , 000 each to allow him to play in an illegal high - roller game run by one of the local villains , Hatchet Harry . Eddy didn't realise the game was crooked and he ends up owing Harry £500 , 000 with dire threats about losing his fingers one at a time if he doesn't pay within a week . Eddy and his friends discuss various completely illegal schemes to obtain the money and eventually decide to rip-off the gang of thieves next door who themselves are planning to raid a clandestine drug growing operation which keeps all of its money in shoe boxes where they grow the cannabis plants . The scheme is simple enough but the best laid plans of mice and men always seems to go awry as does this one . As extreme chaos breaks loose the violence and associated body count spiral out of control , Eddy and his friends realise that they are out of their depth and desperately try to find a way out before they too find themselves among the casualties . . . . . gleaming with rhyming slang and all the good stuff that is British , Lock Stock . . . is one of the most impressive debuts in a long time . the writing is second to none , the cast fit their roles perfectly and the mise ' en scene is one of the best shown in a low budget movie . the narration flows smoothly even when the plot is a very clever and difficult one to follow , given all the sub-plots that are involved in the film . endlessly quotable and never boring , Ritchies following film never really captured the magic of his debut . an essential piece of British film-making
everything i found out , i want to forget . .	On a stormy night , a young man is pulled out of the Mediterranean Sea by the crew of a fishing boat . Thinking the young man is dead , a curious fisherman with a scalpel finds two bullets in his back and a miniature laser device in his hip . The laser reveals a Swiss bank account number . But our wet hero isn't dead , and soon finds himself in Zurich . In the bank vault the young man discovers his name , Jason Bourne . In addition , he finds a baffling pile of different passports , all with his picture , and a huge pile of cash . In the U . S . Embassy , Jason Bourne discovers his love interest and travel partner , Marie , along with the fact that someone wants to kill him . Armed with a bag of money and mysterious martial arts skills , with Marie by his side , Bourne scours Paris for clues about his identity and past life . . . this movie set new standards for the spy movie genre and with die another day released a few months after this , it's easy to see why so many people bashed that movie . Damon is fabulous as Bourne , a man who has nobody and no memory , but with everybody after him . the direction is good by Liman , but the film does fade in comparison with its follow up , which is arguably more gritty and character defined . but this is the movie that introduces us to Bourne and his problems , so it does start slow but gets better as the film progresses , and some of the set pieces ( including the car chase ) are good and realistic , for an age of cgi enhanced movies . the editing too is good making the film seem a little bit more violent than it actually is ( you never really see Bournes blows hit his adversaries ) . but a great beginning to a great franchise .
we killed a man drew , we shot him in the back ! !	four professionals decide to spend a weekend while water rafting , before the river becomes obsolete , four friends all with different personalities . what should have been a weekend of excitement and male bonding , turns into a nightmare journey for all concerned , with them turning against each other and questioning their morales . John Boorman gives us a well crafted , tau and claustrophobic thriller so welled made that it is like reading the book in screen . performances from the four leads are impeccable with great turns from Voight , Cox , Reynolds and Beatty . narration flows as smoothly as the rapids and there are a few unsettling scenes , especially those concerning the banjo boy . the scene involving the infamous ' duelling banjos ' is quite unnerving as the locals are dancing in some kind of ritual way . scenes where the locals get there comeuppance are never satisfying as one feels that the four man have never experienced paranoia or guilt like this before . these men will have the deaths of two men and concealing the crime on their conscience for the rest of their lives and this leaves the viewer with a bad taste in their mouth . a great movie that will stay with you for a long time
a man's got to know his own limitations . . . .	Labor racketeer Carmine Ricca is acquitted of a multiple murder on a technicality , but after leaving the courthouse amid a sea of reporters and a mob of angry demonstrators , he is driven away - and some time later that day is found shot to death with his driver , lawyer , and a bodyguard . Inspector Harry Callahan and his new partner Earlington " Early " Smith drive by but are asked to leave by Callahan's boss Lt . Neil Briggs , who had Harry and Early transferred out of Homicide to Stakeout because he despises Harry's methods . Another mob figure is gunned down in his pool with a large gathering of guests , but it not until the killing of a known pimp - and after Harry has foiled a plane hijacking and liquor store holdup - that Harry and Early are reassigned to Homicide to head the investigation of these killings . . . . the opening credits to this film only compliment what can be the the best sequel in the franchise . it's not as quotable as the first movie , nor is it that action packed , but it's the most maturest of the five movies , and it has plenty of good character development throughout the movie . it's just a shame that the screenwriters didn't elaborate more on the vigilante killers and what their real motivation was , but Eastwood shines whenever he is on screen , and the plane hi - jacking and store robbery set pieces really stand out in this movie . again Harry has all the best lines , and their are some random characters that Harry has a bit of banter with . it's a great film , making Harry not as ' Dirty as he used to be , but still one tough ass . it's a shame they couldn't get better dummies for the falling out of the balcony scene .
Houston you have a problem . . . .	Due to a shuttle's unfortunate demise in outer space , NASA becomes aware of a doomsday asteroid that is on a collision course with Earth . It seems that the only way to knock it off course is to drill into its surface and detonate a nuclear weapon . But as NASA's under-funded yet resourceful team train the world's best drillers for the job , the social order of the world begins to break down as the information reaches the public and hysteria results . As high-ranking officials play politics with the effort , the drilling team all faces deep personal issues which may jeopardise humanity's last chance . . . forget about the fact the specific science and engineering logics are thrown out of the window , and remember that there is a huge rock heading toward the earth , and only Bruce Willis can save the world . a delusional film on a grand scale , everything about this movie is preposterous , the script is bad , the characters are hollow and stereotypical , but it entertains in droves . the F / X are spectacular , Willis is is usual wisecracking best and is ably supported by Affleck , Tyler , Thornton , and especially Buscemi , who is even more hammy than he was in Con Air . although the film is long , the narration works well and as three act movies go , this is as simple as it gets . with digs at the other summer 98 ' release at the beginning , the film relies heavily on spectacle and little on anything else . this is Micheal bay and jerry bruckheimer after all , who know how to dazzle audiences with slow motion , big bangs , tear jerking soundtrack , and the obligatory hit song . if you like Willis , Bruckheimer or even Bay , you can't deny the fact that the film delivers in droves . not for all tastes ( art house darlings will hate this ) but just a crowd pleaser .
it's a dangerous story for this paper . . . . .	In the run-up to the 1972 elections , Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward covers what seems to be a minor break-in at the Democratic Party National headquarters . He is surprised to find top lawyers already on the defence case , and the discovery of names and addresses of Republican fund organisers on the accused further arouses his suspicions . The editor of the Post is prepared to run with the story and assigns Woodward and Carl Bernstein to it . They find the trail leading higher and higher in the Republican Party , and eventually into the White House itself . . . . whatever peoples opinions on the Watergate ' scandel ' , whether they believe it was a big cover up , or the media got a lot wrong , no one can deny just how powerful and interesting this film really is . Pakula directs this very slickly and brings the tension on the two main protagonists very slowly throughout the duration of the movie . Redford and Hoffman work really well together and are given great support from the rest of the cast . the narration works amazingly well and there is good use of mise en scene and connotations . for example there are a few scenes with the t . v screen in the foreground showing Nixon winning his presidential seat again , with Redford in the background , working on his story , probably referring that Nixon always had the scandal at the back of his mind . Pakula makes good use of light and camera-work whenever we meet the elusive ' deep throat ' , and makes the paranoid tension very high with the images of empty streets and a silent soundtrack . very well produced , well acted and a beautiful screenplay , this is a wondrous movie
nice one guv'nor . . . . . .	Two London brothers are hard-up for cash , and both have girls to look out for too . When rich Uncle Howard comes to town and agrees to help them out , he admits his finances are under investigation , and he asks them to do him a favour and " take care of " an old business relation to keep his trouble under wraps . He says that they're family , and since he always takes care of them , the least they could do is help him out this once , as they're the only ones he can trust . The film follows their struggle with the immorality of this request and how each brother chooses to deal with it . . Allen has almost gone Shakespearian in his new movie , which is one hell of a tragedy , the two leads shine in their respective roles ( Macgregor just usurps Farrell due to his dodgy accent ) , and are supported greatly by cameos from Wilkinson and Davis . it seems from the nuclear family in this movie , that Allen may have researched some of Leigh or Loach's films , as they appear to spring right from their respective movies . it is endlessly watchable and their are a connotations that make you think about the characters ( for instance when Macgregors intended refers to her self as the attractive distraction , this goes in conjunction with her character and story . it's full of clever dialogue that you would expect from Allen and is very similar to Match Point , a great movie , that should not be overlooked
i'll show you what the devil looks like . . .	Even though in the film he's a man of very few words , Jones ' performance is heartbreaking , as we follow him on his quest to find his missing son . it appears that the man has many secrets , having a poor relationship with his wife and never really becomes emotional until the final third . he almost acts like an automaton when he hears about the demise of his son . maybe he cannot believe he has lost two children in battle or the motive of the killing , but the performance is unbearably intense and Jones has delivered an almost flawless performance . with great support from Theron , Sarandon and Patric , the writing is smoothly written , and with a film that could have been deemed very political and anti-war , it comes across a very serene beautiful piece of cinema . worth watching for Jones alone .
just consider me the best cocktail party story you ever met	Danny wright has to go to Mexico to try a win a contract for his job . times have been hard for Danny , three years ago his son died in a bus accident , and his job is slowly becoming a little bit too hard for him . At the same time Julian Noble is in the same hotel as Danny , both there because of their jobs , but heir jobs couldn't be more different . Noble is a hit man . a very lonely hit man . and one night he meets Danny in a bar and they get chatting and go to a bull fight . virtually telling Julian everything about his personal life , but Julian is not returning the pleasure . after a lot of pressure , Julian tells Danny what he does for a living , and obviously Danny is shocked . . . . a great little film that was undeservedly ignored on it's initial theatrical run . Director Shepherd has got a career best performance from Brosnan , a role that gives the finger to Bond . their are little moments and lines in the film that really bite into Bond , and Brosnans character is a cross between Bond and Martin Riggs . this is a man who is the human definition for the ' lonely planet ' books . this is one lonely man who is in desperate need of a friend , and in some scenes you do have a lump in your throat for him . but this can sometimes confuse the viewer . Shouldn't we be feeling empathy for Danny as he is having trouble with his job , and it's just coming up to the anniversary of his son's death ? the audience opt for the lonely alcoholic it man who is going through a breakdown . that is how good Brosnans performance is . an excellent film with real heart and a great story , this is a feel good film of the highest order , with a nasty little dark side to it . trust me .
feed her . . .	tsotsi is the titular character , a very bad person who wouldn't look at you twice when he steals from you . after a bust up with his gang , tsotsi goes it alone and finds a car and steals it after he has shot the owner . unknown to him , there is a newborn baby in the back seat and tstotsi starts to question his worth and his place in society . this film is marvellous . it tugs at the heart strings , showing how peoples lives can change in an instant . if you are a new parent , you can really relate to this film as tsotsi now has responsibility in his life and starts to question ethics . powerful performances and great cinematography round up a very impressive package . disturbing in some parts and sympathetic in others , by the end of the movie you empathise with the titular character , as the story shows how tsotsi became to be . a very good drama with a great story , tough a little too familiar with city of god . highly recommended .
i suggest you shelter in my trench . . . .	In 1914 , World War I , the bloodiest war ever at that time in human history , was well under way . However on Christmas Eve , numerous sections of the Western Front called an informal , and unauthorised , truce where the various front-line soldiers of the conflict peacefully met each other in No Man's Land to share a precious pause in the carnage with a fleeting brotherhood . This film dramatises one such section as the French , British and German sides partake in the unique event , even though they are aware that their superiors will not tolerate its occurrence . . this movie was gripping right from the very start , showing the emotion of the war through the eyes of all involved , thus making the audience non-judgemental and for a while sitting on the proverbial fence during the first two acts . the film really comes to its own though when the ceasefire is declared and silent night is heard through no mans land , it must have been quite scary and yet quite calming for enemies to come as one during this time . throughout the ceasefire thought the director does maintain an air of tension , as you do not know who is going to ' kick off ' or who will give in to the fact that they know that at least on person has killed one of their allies . but this never really happens until one shocking moment , and then the soldiers realise that they must obey orders and do their Job . a real thoughtful drama about one of the most historical days ever in war , a day where the soldiers were just human beings .
good things never last , Mr Denham	Carl Denham needs to finish his movie and has the perfect location ; Skull Island . But he still needs to find a leading lady . This ' soon-to-be-unfortunate ' soul is Ann Darrow . No one knows what they will encounter on this island and why it is so mysterious , but once they reach it , they will soon find out . Living on this hidden island is a giant gorilla and this beast now has Ann is it's grasps . Carl and Ann's new love , Jack Driscoll must travel through the jungle looking for Kong and Ann , whilst avoiding all sorts of creatures and beasts . But Carl has another plan in mind . . a Peter Jackson film by all standards , this had a lot to live up to after the might ' rings ' trilogy , he had a very big hill to climb , following on from a massively successful franchise , re-imagining a hugely iconic screen legend , and trying to convince the audience that a certain 1976 remake never existed . he achieves two of the three , but there was no way that he was going to surpass his trilogy . the film is very good though and is one of the best movies released in 2005 ( and this was a year of very good movies ) . Jackson raises the bar on effects again with Kong , probably the most impressive thing ever seen on screen , and believe me when i say that only seeing this film on the big screen ( or hi-def on a very big screen ) will do Kong justice . there has been painful attention to detail with the effects and they work seamlessly well with the cast . all the cast do really well in their roles , especially Black ( whom i personally do not rate ) who utterly convinces as the slimy Denham , who is thinking of nothing but himself and his pockets throughout the films running time . and what a running time . at nearly three hours , the film does fly by , but during the very long second act , it does seem to drag a little , and the chase set pieces with the dinosaurs does seem a little over stretched , and this is why it doesn't get the full ten . it does take the edge from the excitement for a while . but all in all this is an event film of the highest order , just slightly let down by over indulgence of the set pieces .
if you miss the first time , there are 13 more in the mag	Klein and Vrinks are two detectives who are bitter rivals . once close friends , they both learn that they could win the coveted position of chief of police . a gang of armed robbers have committed seven robberies and they need to be caught before the eighth is committed . they both head up different parts of the police force , and the one who makes the arrest will be given the chief of police position . the competition becomes ruthless between them , crossing the lines of professionalism and morality until there is no difference between them and the villains they chase . problems ensue when Vrinks has been spotted ( unknowingly ) aiding a criminal commit a crime in order for some information on the gang . in turn with this information , Vrinks is given the lead on the arrest , and Klein is told that he must follow Vrinks orders . infuriated by this Klein botches up Vrinks ' takedown ' and in the proceedings Vrinks friend is shot dead . both of them are under fire due to these two mistakes , and their personal and professional life are both at risk . . . Marchals amazing thriller does in some cases bear a resemblance to Manns ' 1995 cop - thriller ' heat ' . he has cast two of Frances ' biggest stars , in the form of Auteil and Depardieu , just as Mann did with casting De Niro and Pacino . But Marchals ' style harks back to the french cop movies of the 50s ' to the 70s ' the film is done in a very monotone style and it is very gritty at times . the actual film stock looks at times that it may have even been bleached as the colours are so weak and leave you feeling cold . there are some flash cuts and slo-mo scenes , but this does not hold up or spoil the narrative . the story is simple and unfortunately , sometimes very predictable as you can more or less guess what is going to happen and who will get the job , the story is pointing toward . the leads are very good and supported well , but Auteil steals the show right from under Depardieus ' nose ( no pun intended ) . he shows the emotion that this character goes through , but does have more screen time than Gerard . the final act though is superb and really makes up for the saggy middle , there is a neat twist that really makes the film into the classic territory . but the film does what it says on the tin , and is a homage to all the old french cop movies , and it succeeds in this . a great , if predictable movie .
i'm offering you my body , and you're offering me semantics . . . .	Its just another day for Dante Hicks , until his boss calls him into work at the Quickstop on his day off . With a hockey game at 2 , and his girlfriend still hacking him about going to back to school , Dante begins to get into a bigger frenzy when he learns his ex-girlfriend , Caitlin , is getting married . With his always late accomplice Randall strolling in to work at the video store , Dante is left with no choice but to bend the rules a little with work , customers , and most of all his love life . Can he get away with it all ? . . . . . throughout this hilarious movie , Dante and Randal tackle topics and events both surreal , sublime and most of all stupid . a chewing gum salesman who carries around pictures of cancer riddled lungs , revelations from his present girlfriend ( somewgat nauseating ) a hockey game on the store roof , a knocked over casket , your friendly neighbourhood drug dealer , contract builders working on the death star , and necrophilia . Smiths ' affection for the characters is very touching , although they are all a$$holes at some point of the movie , they are still human and are dealt with empathy . sometimes the affection informs a serious piece of work that doesn't take itself seriously . this is like the anti - ' do the right thing ' , sprawled across one day and based from several peoples point of view , but where Lees film dealt with race , Smiths film could be essentially linked with love , looking for it and losing it . a film which never takes itself seriously , but one that should be taken seriously , an excellent piece of guerrilla film-making with some great characters and an even better story .
it's a gesture dear , not a recipe . . . . .	This film is the story of the spectacular life and violent death of British playwright Joe Orton . In his teens , Orton is befriended by the older , more reserved Kenneth Halliwell , and while the two begin a relationship , it's fairly obvious that it's not all about sex . Orton loves the dangers of bath-houses and liaisons in public restrooms ; Halliwell , not as charming or attractive as Orton , doesn't fare so well in those environs . While both long to become writers , it is Orton who achieves fame - his plays " Loot " and " What The Butler Saw " become huge hits in London of the sixties , and he's even commissioned to write a screenplay for the Beatles . But Orton's success takes him farther from Halliwell , whose response ended both his life and the life of the up-and-coming playwright . . . . . a great movie with some great performances from the two leads , but one has to take the source material with a heavy pinch of salt . the fact is , just having been to an Orton exhibition , it is evident that the diaries that this movie is based upon , were heavily edited by Ramsey , who had typed a new version of Ortons diaries for Lahr , who interprets them through his biography . it's very humbling and ' Ortonesque ' to know whilst watching this that the real truth will probably stay with his family and in the islington flat , where they both expired . but the film oozes class and the film really goes to Molina who shines as the tortured Halliwell , a sort of innocent depressed drama queen , who craves all the attention and credit that Orton is receiving throughout . the film is helped by a fantastic screenplay by Alan Bennett and is laugh out loud funny . all in all a great biography of the Leicester playwright , but one feels it is shining the kind of light on Ortons personality .
you saved me . . . .	Nick is a student with issues who is a little bit cocky , and tries to help his friend out by offering money to someone he owes , Annie . she refuses and a fight starts in the school kitchen . Later that night , Annie steals a lot of jewellery from a store , and after an argument , her boyfriend tells the police what she did . after her arrest Annie blames Nicks best friend for framing her , but he blames Nick , thinking he will be safe as he is going to London . but ironically Nick decides to stay , and feels the wraith of Annie , after a brutal beating and thinking him dead , they hide the body , but Nick is stuck in purgatory and knows that he is still alive . . . . just . only Annie is the key to Nicks survival , but the question is , will she give everything up for the man she thinks framed her ? similarities to Ghost and The sixth sense are rife through this cleverly made thriller , but the film is original and cast very well . it references the sixth sense , purely because of him being in purgatory , so it's not stealing from that film . and it nods towards ghost because Nick is in the same position as Sam Wheat was seventeen years ago . but the characters are well written , and sometimes it is very hard for the viewer to sympathise with , as sometimes Annie can come across a s ruthless , but other times very vulnerable . it's not horror , it's just a fantasy film that really works well . worth seeing .
pop quiz , hot shot . . . .	A man tries to extort money by threatening to kill some people with explosives . And the city was about to give in when rookie cop , Jack Traven stops him . Jack and his partner , Harry find him and corner him but instead of giving up he blows himself up . He is believed to be dead but he actually escapes . He tries again , but this time he has placed bomb on a bus that will exploded if the bus goes below 50 mph . He dares Jack to stop him . Jack tries to stop the bus before the bomb is armed but Jack is too late ; all he can do now is to keep it going . . . . the first time you see this film it is a sheer hold to watch . a great high concept movie , basically ' die hard on a bus ' which doesn't sound the most thrilling of things , but thanks to graham Yost's tight story , and a very chilling performance by Hopper , this movie is what true sleepers are made of . it made a real star out of Reeves and proved one thing about his acting ( he can't ) and also the film made a star out of one Sandra Bullock , but viewing the film on several more occasions it's hard to see why , as her character is so very annoying and , in my opinion should have been offed at the end ( at least we wouldn't have had the silly pointless sequel ) . the film is separated into three great segments , the lift mission , the bus , and finally the subway train , which are all fantastically edited and executes but are slightly marred by uninvolved in between ' talky segments ' . if it's an adrenaline filled couple of hours your after with some very impressive explosions and some brilliant set pieces , this is for you . but just don't expect something you could go back to again and again , and experience the same action .
place your bets . . . . .	Sebastian , a young man , has decided to follow instructions intended for someone else , without knowing where they will take him . Something else he does not know is that Gerard Dorez , a cop on a knife-edge , is tailing him . When he reaches his destination , Sebastian falls into a degenerate , clandestine world of mental chaos behind closed doors in which men gamble on the lives of others men . . . for the first act of this film , it was pretty slow burning , the build up to later events was interesting , but not very involving , but i think this was purposely done by the makers , to give the elements of this film more tension for the audience and to put us in the shoes of the main protagonist . when we are in the actual arena of game-play , it is a cross between the deer hunter and fight club , which this film will always have comparisons to . the film is very well made and tension at times is terrifying . the camera-work and depth of field really puts you with the players and the absence of soundtrack makes the film work better . waiting for the light bulb to come on is one of the most tense things to appear on recent cinema . but for me , the film is very deep and has a more philosophical meaning to it . it's about the power of numbers and the so called destiny each number holds . for the average man on the street , thirteen is considered an unlucky number . but for this film it depends what context you view the film , or what mood you are in when watching it . is the number thirteen lucky because he survives / wins his duel ? or is it unlucky due to the proceeding events ? whatever the meaning of the film it works well on different levels . a great thriller , a drama about the human form and desperation . see it now before the obligatory Hollywood remake .
hey , there's something down there . . . . .	after a tragic accident ( what else ? ) a group of female friends reunite after a year to do some extreme sports . they decide to go down a cave and have some female bonding and fun whilst doing it . when one of the crew gets stuck and the entrance gets blocked by falling rocks , they start to panic , because they have no idea how to get out . panic sets in even more when they discover that they are in the wrong cave and have no guide . they start to search for an exit , but realise that they are not the only ones in the cave . . . . director Marshall has excelled himself since his debut ' dog soldiers ' . where that film played for laughs as well as frights , this goes for all out scares as the group start to drop like flys . using natural lighting adds to the tension as sometimes during the film you can only see torches or ambient light so the majority of the screen is black , so you are just waiting to see what comes out of the shadows . the creatures are a hybrid of Gollum and the creature from ' creep ' and are relentless , but the thing that let me down with them are that they sound a little too much like the ' predator ' . but still the creatures are not the only thing that causes the group despair . secrets of the group come out during the ordeal and again tragedy strikes for the members . but the creatures are the pivotal point of the movie and kudos for Marshall for keeping these away well into the second act . if you are a fan of psychological horror then this is a must . very gory , very scary , and then there is the ending . one of the best endings of a horror . see it now .
i wish you was a wishing well . . . . .	Tom Powers and Matt Doyle are best friends and fellow gangsters , their lives frowned upon by Tom's straight laced brother , Mike , and Matt's straight laced sister , Molly . From their teen-aged years into young adulthood , Tom and Matt have an increasingly lucrative life , bootlegging during the Prohibition era . But Tom in particular becomes more and more brazen in what he is willing to do , and becomes more obstinate and violent against those who either disagree with him or cross him . When one of their colleagues dies in a freak accident , a rival bootlegging faction senses weakness among Tom and Matt's gang , which is led by Paddy Ryan . A gang war ensues , resulting in Paddy suggesting that Tom and Matt lay low . But because of Tom's basic nature , he decides instead to take matters into his own hands . . . . one of the most prolific and awe-inspiring Gangster films ever made ' the public enemy ' is a sinister piece of work , Cagney only besting this thanks to ' white heat ' . his character seems to show empathy sometimes in his role , but like a short fuse , he explodes in a wrath of violence and bullets , but never touching his family . the cast are great , but play second fiddle to Cagney , who just lights the screen whenever he is on it . a perfect template for any gangster film made since ( Gangster , not Mafia ) . i wonder where Pesci got his motivation ? a pure classic
come get some . . . .	Brooklyn cop Gino Felino is about to go outside and play catch with his son Tony when he receives a phone call alerting him that his best friend Bobby Lupo has been shot dead in broad daylight on 18th Avenue , in front of his wife Laurie Lupo and his two kids , by drug kingpin Richie Madano , who has been Gino and Bobby's enemy since childhood . As Gino is hunting Madano down , Gino discovers the motive behind Bobby's murder . This is when Gino's hunt for Madano leads to the showdown of a lifetime . . . . after three great films , Seagal came and added a fourth to his impressive resume ' . as Felino , Seagal shows off his mighty fighting skills coming up against his most psychotic screen adversary ( a great William Forsythe ) . the story is a little lame though ( his partner slept with Richie's girlfriend and this is why bobby was killed ) , but if you read between the lines , this is a film about honour and respect people deserve . we see Gino mixing with the mob , and reminiscing in several scenes about his childhood ( which shows Gino could have chosen the wrong path to go down very easily ) . the set pieces are terrific , especially the bar fight and the butcher shop fight . my only gripe is that some of the editing is very random , and makes the film look like it's turned into a different genre . but still , this is one of seagals best , and a million miles away from some of his direct to DVD stuff he does now . if you are one of the people who wonder why people love seagal , even though he makes pap now , then check this out . you will realise he was one of the best action stars of the late eighties / early nineties .
i am a human being . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	Based on the true story of Joseph Merrick , a 19th-century Englishman afflicted with a disfiguring congenital disease . With the help of kindly Dr . Frederick Treves , Merrick attempts to regain the dignity he lost after years spent as a side-show freak . . . Produced by Mel Brooks and directed by David Lynch ? one would wonder what kind of unpleasentries to expect in a movie based boon the memoirs of Merrick , but what we get is a delicious movie that is heartbreaking and very difficult at times to watch . the central performances by Hurt and Hopkins are remarkable and are among the best they have ever produced on screen , and this has to be Lynchs ' most audience friendly movie to date . the idea to film it in monochrome makes the film more stark and cold , and adds to the effect of being set in the 19th century . the sets and costumes are flawless , and the make-up is staggering . narration and editing are crisp in what has to be one of the finest movies of the eighties .
where is she ? . . . . . .	Michael " Jay " Cochran has just left the Navy after 12 years . He's not quite sure what he's going to do , except that he knows he wants a holiday . He decides to visit Tiburon Mendez , a powerful but shady Mexican businessman who he once flew to Alaska for a hunting trip . Arriving at the Mendez mansion in Mexico , he is immediately surprised by the beauty and youth of Mendez ' wife Miryea . Their attraction to each other is undeniable , but Cochran is aware that Mendez is a powerful , vindictive , and very possessive man who does not tolerate betrayal . . . this the review of the ' directors cut ' which is twenty minutes shorter than Costners vision . but what we have is just not a movie of the titular mode , this is a story of betrayal , lust and quest . it's fair to point out that Quinns character is justified in his actions toward Costner and Stowe , but the film really changes when Costner recovers from a brutal beating . we meet random characters , who are intricate to Costners journey , and make the film well worth watching . this is one of Cstners and Scotts most underrated movies and it's not very easy to see why . Costner is fantastic , as are the rest of the cast , and Scott has calmed down a little with the flashy editing , but makes the viewer feel very arid throughout the movie . although the movie is violent in places it's more of a drama t han action , and the solemn ending makes it more powerful . worth seeing .
the truth is boring . .	Titta Di Girolamo apparently has a regular and tedious life with nothing strange a part from his own name . He lives in a Hotel in Lugano for almost ten years , spending his days waiting for something we don't know . His life is too rigid , too detached following a flat routine . Titta ignores everyone and probably has no emotions at all . one day he decides , breaking all his personal rules , to exchange some words with Sofia , the hotel's barmaid . Incredibly all the situations change , emotions , love , mafia , death come back violently into Titta's life . . . . visually and aurally stunning , the consequences of love is just that , what happens when you break your routine , and when ghosts come to haunt you . forcibly living his life virtually autonomous , the lead has nothing to live for , due to a mistake he made ten years prior to the story . he is almost ghostlike , flitting in and out of peoples lives like they have no importance , but when his younger brother visits him , things start to change for him . people start to notice that he isn't noticing them , and he starts to reveal the other residents facades in rude , demeaning manners . the final third of the film is melancholy , with just enough empathy from the viewer to level out the bitterness . the acting is astonishing , relying on body language rather than an actual script , and the camera-work is some of the best ever committed to celluloid , depicting the impressions of drug use and the cold desolate life that Titto has . the soundtrack too , blasts in and out of the movie , like the people in Tittos life and in some instants , Titto resembles Bessons ' Leon in many ways . a very beautiful film , that could be compared to a piece of art .
you're delicious ironed toast	It's a story of two love affairs . A father's love for his five sons . And one son's love for his father , a love so strong it compels him to live a lie . That son is Zac Beaulieu , born on the 25th of December 1960 , different from all his brothers , but desperate to fit in . During the next 20 years , life takes Zac on a surprising and unexpected journey that ultimately leads him to accept his true nature and , even more importantly , leads his father to love him for who he really is . A mystical fable about a modern-day Christ-like figure , " C . R . A . Z . Y " exudes the beauty , the poetry and the madness of the human spirit in all its contradictions . . . for people who balk at the idea of watching another John Hughes teenage coming of age drama . this film really gets to the nitty gritty quickly and doesn't ponder on sub-plot , being it faith healer , drug dealer or homosexual , the film really deals with the main protagonist and his father and their relationship through the movie . accompanied by great camera work , narration and an absolute diamond soundtrack , C . R . A . Z . Y . is one of the most fascinating movies of the decade and one that can be related to . a must .
you're so sweet , you make sugar taste like salt . . . . .	an experiment more than a movie , ' Grindhouse ' is a bum numbing 3 hour + experience , but if you have the patients , and know that the movies viewed here are purely for pleasure , you will be rewarded . first off , we have Planet terror directed by Rodriguez . this movie is way over the top , with plot , script , and set pieces . a gas has turned most of the townsfolk into rabid zombies and the military are in control . it's basically a siege movie , with lots of guns , over the top explosions , brilliant make up and a cast to die for . it never let's up , it's serious for stupidness sake , and Rodriguez has never made such an all out ballsy movie . Mcgowan is the standout character in this , but is well supported by Bhein , Fahey , Willis and dozens more . the only weak link in this movie is Freddy Rodriguez , as he does not cut it as an action hero , you can almost feel the camera shooting below him to make him look taller , and intentionally , Rodriguez's ' missing reel ' is one of the main plot points of the movie . but if you like ' from dusk till dawn ' and ' the faculty ' , this will be movie heaven for you . there is gore , plenty of gore , and it makes the film even more entertaining . next up is ' Death Proof ' , the strongest part of the two . Russell plays ' Stuntman Mike ' , a psychotic loner , who is reminiscent of John Ryder from ' the Hitcher , with a little bit of Snake Plisskin thrown in . he isn't in it much , but his presence is always felt . the Dialogue is some of the best that Tarantino has ever written . it's witty , trivial and laugh out loud funny . with references to tarantinos previous movies , this is bright yet sadistic , fast moving , but more character based than Planet Terror . i really cannot wait to see the full length version that has previously shown at Cannes . but it's a real shame that it flopped big time in the States as Europe will probably never see / experience the Grindhouse movie at the cinema , which is one of the worst things ever to happen to the movie going public since Battlefield Earth . hopefully , this will not deter the two directors not to carry on with their project , because this is one of the best things to be made on film in this century . with the added bonuses of four really humorous trailers , Grindhouse is a salute to the low budget films of the seventies , that unfortunately a lot of people will never experience . shame really .
i think i'm in a tragedy . . . . . .	Karen Effiel is an author writing her latest novel about an isolated man named Harold Crick . What she doesn't know is that her fictionalised character is real . The real Harold Crick is an IRS agent who has lived a dull existence and one day begins to hear Karen's voice as she narrates what she puts on paper to what Harold has and is doing . Because of this Harold enlists the help of a literary professor to find out what is happening and ends up changing things about his life including beginning a relationship with his IRS client , a government-hating bakery owner named Ana Pascal . Harold , however , finds trouble when he hears that Karen plans to kill him . . . the trailers for this movie , show the Ferrel to be in his manic form again ala ' Talladega nights , but this has to be one of thew most tender , touching movies to be released last year . Ferral is simply wonderful as the central character , who leads his dull life day by day , but his life only changes because of the voice he hears in his head . if he had never began to hear the voices , then he wouldn't be in the predicament he is once the second act begins . with some fantastic camera work and a story that will make you feel warm inside , the mise ' en scene uses two pivotal characters every now and again to make the audience ask , why ? Harold never meets these characters until the pivotal moment , and they are rarely in the film , but all along , they play an important part in the movie . it's like the writers of the film know that the audience like to guess the outcome of films and other medias , and are playing with us when these characters appear on screen . a highly original film with some great support from Thompson , Hoffman and Gyllenhall . well worth your time .
i don't have any big problem . . . . .	François is a middle-aged antique dealer . He has a stylish apartment and a fabulous life , but at a dinner with a group he considers his dearest acquaintances , he is blindsided by the revelation that none of them actually likes him . He's arrogant , self-centred and harsh , and they don't believe he knows the meaning of friendship . His business partner Catherine makes him a bet : if he can produce his best friend , she will let him keep the massive Greek vase he acquired that afternoon on the company tab . If not , it's hers . Having accepted the wager , François naively tears through his address book , trying to shoehorn an increasingly unlikely series of contacts into the all-important role . Moving through Paris , he keeps encountering a trivia-spouting , big-hearted cabbie named Bruno . Bruno's chatty , lowbrow ways grate against François's designer temperament , but he covets the other man's easy way with people . He convinces Bruno to teach him how to make friends and sets about learning the " three S's " - being sociable , smiling and sincere - though they don't come easy . Ultimately , François victory will depend on Bruno's naiveté in playing along , but what's the cost of cheating at friendship ? in terms of films being predictable , this has to be one of the most predictable films out there , but due to the outstanding performances from the leads , this turns into one great feel-good movie . it's funny but not laugh out loud , and francois's attempts to make friends are cringe-worthy but realistic at the same time . but the character of Bruno is what makes the film . his trivia dripping personality is one you instantly fall in love with , and you really feel for him come the final third . it's well written , well acted and directed beautifully . the final act in the film really gave me a lump in the throat , because despite the main character's betrayal , a true friend will always be there for you . a great movie to watch when you are feeling down or feeling good , this will leave you with a big smile on your face . well worth a night in to watch this . . . . with friends of course .
a job ain't nothing ' but work ! ! ! !	Trying to get his act together , a con artist gets a job in a credit card company . He falls in love with a fellow employee , he steals a couple of cards , everything is going great . But soon , the chief of security drags him into the big leagues of criminals . . . one of my all time favourite films when i was a teenager , this film has it all , action , comedy , a great soundtrack and likable characters . watching it now , the jokes feel like sketches , and it does suffer from the ' from dusk til dawn ' syndrome , two parts one genre and the final third quite violent thriller . it's a lively film , one to watch to cheer you up , and Damon wayans really excels in his writing and lead role abilities . it's not for all tastes , it's not your typical movie , but it's fun and still feels fresh fifteen years on . it's quotable , and just good dumb fun . a good date movie .
an elegant suicide is the ultimate work of art . . . . .	After a car accident on a bridge , the psychiatrist Sam Foster assumes the case of the survivor Henry Letham , who apparently torched and car and promises to commit suicide three days later . Sam decides to investigate deeper what happened with Henry , and feels that he is becoming detached from reality with his findings about the case . He asks his girlfriend Lila Culpepper to help himself to stay lucid , while trying to solve the intriguing situation of Henry . . . . from Forster , the brilliant director of Stranger than fiction , brings us a drama , that will only be entertaining and thought provoking after a second sitting . throughout the movie , we have red herrings delivered to us galore , and it keeps us guessing , and there us one point of the film where you think you get it but inevitably , it's leading you up the wrong path . the whole meaning of the film , is one persons view of purgatory and what ' onlookers ' mean to them when the end is near for them . the story is solid and the cast are great , but the best thing about this film is the camera-work and the visuals . i have not seen a film with such stark camera work in a long time , and it really adds to the depth of the story . recommended
great performance	day lewis is one of the most prolific method actors in the world right now . for his role in gangs of new york he trained to be a butcher for the boxer he trained with barry mcguigannow for this movie , he stayed in character allegedly for the whole shoot , much to the dismay of his agent . day lewis plays christy brown , an Irishman who has cerebral palsy and has only the use of his left foot . ( hence the title ) . he is talented at art and uses pictures to express his feelings before he can learn to talk . day lewis is amazing as brown and gives his role a lot of heart , and makes the film very funny too . sometimes laugh out loud funny ( for instance , when brown scores the goal ) . what the film does point out is the ignorance some people have when it comes to the unknown illness . the film sometimes portrays the Irish as god fearing , but i feel this would have been the same if the story was based anywhere . there really isn't a bad performance in this film and if you haven't seen it , do it now .
it's a bit nipply out . . . .	It's Christmas time - Clark decided to invite all the family to have ' the most fun-filled old - fashioned family Christmas ' , which nobody shall ever forget . When the first relatives arrive , Clark soon flees on the roof to rig the lighting . The one thing the loving father wants to surprise the whole family with is the installation of a pool , which he already ordered . Unfortunately , the bonus check Clark expects any minute is overdue - and tempers rise , but not only because of the check . A big event is the arrival of uninvited cousin Eddie with his family in their mobile home , as well as a little sledding afternoon with a new lubricant from Clark's company , or his shifting relationship with the very hip and clean neighbours . Cousin Eddie chooses to top off all presents with his very own special creation , only intending to deliver a real reason to be jolly . . . another Christmas classic , one that is endlessly watchable and funny in all the right places , and one of Chases best performances . it get's the Christmas spirit right down to a tee , and yet still has that little sadistic twinkle in it's eye . another one to watch on the eve of the big day . will have you laughing at Chases rants and prat falls .
i have more peas ! ! !	After a violent storm attacks a town in Maine , an approaching cloud of mist appears the next morning . As the mist quickly envelops the area , a group of people get trapped in a local grocery store - among them , artist David Drayton and his five-year-old son . The people soon discover that within the mist lives numerous species of horrific , unworldly creatures that entered through an inter-dimensional rift , which may or may not have been caused by a nearby military base . As the world around them manifests into a literal hell-on-earth , the horrified citizens try desperately to survive this apocalyptic disaster . . the good thing about this very tense , taut , thriller is that it doesn't focus too much on the beasts that are surrounding the supermarket . what we get is an insight into what people will do to survive , whether or not their belief in faith is justified , or should it be every man for themselves ? the party in the supermarket segregate between the believers ( led by a sinister Marcia gay Harden ) and the people who want to survive ( ultimately led by Jane ) . at eleven minutes in to the film the tension really begins with a lone man running into the supermarket declaring ' they've taken John Lee ! ' and from then on it's panic stations for our various characters . Darabont knows how to write characters and how to shoot set pieces , and while this isn't up there with Shawshank and the Green Mile , it's still one of the best thrillers of the year with some cracking performances and on of the most ironic and depressing endings i have ever seen . highly recommended .
stare at something else . . . .	Frank Perry is an institutionalised convict twelve years into a life sentence without parole . When his estranged daughter falls ill , he is determined he make peace with her before it's too late . He develops an ingenious escape plan , and recruits a dysfunctional band of escapists - misfits with a mutual dislike for one other but united by their desire to escape their hell hole of an existence . Much of the action takes place within the tunnels , sewers and underground rivers of subterranean London . . . . you can take the title for a metaphor of the films protagonist . without giving too much away , is the title the actual game plan , or is it an ideal world for Frank in his mind ? the story is so layered and the narrative does not get spoilt one bit as it goes between the escape and the day to day trials of the inmates as they plan to break out . it's a top notch performance from Cox , who plays Frank silent and brooding , letting body language take control over dialogue . Kudos too to the rest of the cast , who have been very underrated the last few years . Lewis and Mackintosh are very convincing are the eerie brothers who ' control ' the prison , and even though they are not in the film much , they have a deep impact on the whole story . the music is also very effective too , sometimes the score harks back to John Carpenter circa Escape from New York and Assault On Precinct 13 . the ending of the movie is very much a surprise and is not what i expected in the slightest , which only added more of an impact to the overall out come . to sum it up , this is a very little seen film that deserves a broader audience as it is very well made and has some great performances , especially Fiennes , who totally plays against type and will shatter anyones thoughts of him being in romantic comedies . one of the Best British films of last year .
he did what in his cup ? . . .	Lightning McQueen is a young , hotshot rookie race car in the last race of the season . At the end of the race , he finds out he is tied with Chick Hicks and The King . On the way to the tie-breaker race in Los Angeles , California , some hot punk cars get him lost in a little town called Radiator Springs on the old Route 66 road , which has been long forgotten many years ago . Scared to death , he tears up the town's main road and is sentenced to community service by Doc Hudson . During this time , he meets tow truck Mater , and Porsche carrera Sally . All he wants to do is get out of this town and back into the big city , but as the week until the race goes on , the town folk help him discover that life isn't just about trophies , fame , and sponsorships , but a whole lot more . . . . . . . a rites of passage tale , which essentially is a make of 1991's Doc Hollywood , Cars goes along the same path as Doc Hollywood , but along the way , stops for a refill of laughs and excitement . one of Pixars most advanced films to date , the computer animated effects are astonishing , with everything given extensive detail , from the smoke coming out of the exhaust , to the reflection on the cars bumper . Wilson is the perfect choice as Mcqueen , who is never really cocky or dis likable from the start , but the towns people hate him at first anyway ! this could be Wilsons finest role to date . he is supported greatly by Newman , Keaton , Hunt , Larry the cable guy , and of course John Ratzenberger . the film is blessed this time , with a little more adult friendly humour , but a lot more action than previous Pixar outings ( i really do believe that this is aimed more at the masculine audience , but will appeal to all ) . everything turns out fine in the end , with some morals of course and some great references of past Pixar films , this studio keeps improving on their quality ( story and visuals ) of film . a great movie with lovable characters and a story and script which just oozes class . make a ' pit stop ' for this movie ! !
i've got all five senses and slept last night .	a loner at high school , Brenden Frye knows all the angles , but has chosen to stay on the outside . when his former girlfriend , Emily , turns up dead , he is determined to find out the truth and who is responsible . using help from his only real friend , the Brain , Brendan falls head first into the dark and dangerous world of rich girl Laura , hired hand Tug and the mysterious mastermind , the Pin . by gaining acceptance into the Pins ' gang , Brendan will uncover the painful truth about himself , what happened to Emily , and the people he is getting closer . by putting the slang heavy film-noir of the 40's ( the Maltese falcon , key largo ) , and putting them in a high school setting , Brick crosses two genres . in one instance the movie feels postmodern , and in the next instant , the film feels retro to the core . the good thing about this film is that it doesn't get weighed down by all it's film references and nods to the genre it seems to love the most , but almost compliment the genre . characters are almost familiar when watching , the Sam Spade character we see in Brendan , the femme fatale in laura , the heavy in Tug , and so on and so on . for someone who has not seen the noir films of the forties , this could be deemed very difficult to watch , as the plot has many red herrings , and also an almost ' twin peaks ' feel to the whole package . the cast are very goo especially Gorden-Levitt , who excels himself even more than he did in ' mysterious skin ' . Camera work is suitably dreamy and fits in well with the narrative and the soundtrack is great . an amazing piece of independent cinema , that belongs in the same sentence as ' donnie darko ' and ' elephant ' . essential
it's almost brand new , three hundred cartridges . . .	In Morocco , a shepherd buys a powerful rifle for his sons to protect his herd of goats against jackals attack . The younger decides to test the weapon's range of 3 km and shoots an American woman in bus . Her husband is trying the reconciliation of their lives through vacation in Morocco . Due to the incident , in San Diego their Mexican maid travels to Mexico with their children for the marriage of her son . Meanwhile in Tokyo , the police tries to contact the former owner of the rifle , and his daughter that is feeling rejected , and misunderstands the reason of the investigation . an absolutely eye opening feature , which is the final part of the directors trilogy , following ' Amorres Perros ' and ' 21 grams ' . surprisingly , the Pitt and Blanchett segment of the film is very bland , although this has to be one of the best performances that Pitt has ever committed to celluloid , their story is mostly about waiting , panic and in some cases confusion . the most impressive part of the story is set in Tokyo , where a deaf-mute girl is sexually repressed and trying to find anyway to get a man or someone to hold her . her story is heartbreaking , and the scene involving her and the police officer is one of the more memorable parts of the movie , this is where the movie truly shine , with it's bright settings and excellent editing . but the film is enthralling and although the narrative can be sometimes confusing , the film will leave you feeling satisfied , even if a little depressed
my moneys saying your not going anywhere . . . . . .	Two young men are spending a last weekend with their girlfriends before being shipped overseas to the war . At the same time in a small Texas town , the only major business goes out of business forcing the town's inhabitants to move on to greener pastures . One of the men who works in the plant is Thomas Hewitt , a deformed , demented psychopath ( who will become known as Leatherface ) . When Hewitt finds out what is happening , he savagely murders the foreman of the plant . Meanwhile , the two young men and their girlfriends are headed down a lonely highway towards the town when they are involved in an car accident that cripples their vehicle . Soon they encounter the local sheriff , who is not really the sheriff , but the homicidal Charlie Hewitt , the uncle of Leatherface who has murdered the sheriff and taken his job and police car knowing that with the town deserted , no one will notice . Uncle Charlie / Sheriff Hoyt kidnaps three of the teens and takes them to his home where he , Leatherface Hewitt , the senile Uncle Monty , and Charlie's sister , Luda Mae , reside . Charlie wants the developing monster ' Leatherface ' to " refine " his murderous abilities . The one girl , Chrissie , who escaped unnoticed attempts to rescue them with the help of a biker whose girlfriend was killed by ' Sheriff Hoyt ' . What follows is a night of sheer terror at the hands of a family of cannibalistic , inbred psychopaths . . . my only complaint about this great movie , is that there is not enough story to back up the history of leatherface ( basically this explains that he became the monster because he was fired from his job ) . but this doesn't really matter because we have a great performance from Ermey a the psychotic sheriff Hoyt , who makes leatherface look like Kenneth Williams . his story is very interesting and makes the movie worthwhile . the film is very gory , even more gory than the 2003 re-make and includes some very disturbing scenes in the household . the four teens do not do very much apart from getting tortured and screaming blue murder . inevitably , this is not a film for the squeamish , but a very important entry into the series .
i do remember something good . . . .	Pamela Landy is conducting an operation to find a rogue CIA agent but something goes wrong and her investigation leads her to Treadstone , the group whose members included Jason Bourne , she even finds evidence that Bourne is behind what happened to her operation . But in reality Bourne has been trying to put his life as a CIA man behind him and remember his past with help from Marie . But someone tries to kill him but gets Marie instead . So Bourne sets out on his vow to go after them if they came after him . At the same time , Landy is trying to get Bourne . When Landy and Bourne talk on the phone , he reveals that he was nowhere near her operation and she says that no one is after him . So it must mean that someone else is after him and behind what happened to Landy's operation . . . in a sequel that is superior to its predecessor , Damon makes Bourne a much more human character in this chapter of the franchise . if you haven't seen the first instalment , it probably won't make any sense to you because it doesn't really have any back story to the previous outing , just Bourne remembering something different from his past . in this movie Bourne is on his own , he has no one to turn to and he is angry and guilty , so this makes him more of a threat to ' Treadstone ' than he was in previous outing . Greengrass makes a fantastic job of making such a high concept blockbuster , look gritty and cold . the set pieces are great but nothing fancy ( ie no big explosions ) , but he knows how to choreograph a car chase sequence , and we have one of the best car chases we have on screen in a long time . Damon again is great as Bourne , and is ably supported by Allen , Cox and Stiles . but the final minutes of the film indicate that the final part of the trilogy will be something special indeed , and that the character of Bourne is one of the most troubled and tortured souls seen on screen in a long time .
he just drove off the roof . . . .	Bourne once again hits our screens , and Greengrass puts us straight into the action , and doesn't let go of us until the fantastic finale . the story continues straight from the Supremacy , so if you haven't seen the previous two movies , forget it , you will not find this film very interesting as you will be wondering what is going on . there may be little flashbacks of the previous two movies , but do not let that fool you , if you are just seeing the film and relying on this to provide you with a decent back-story , you may as well be Bourne your self , as you will be left in the dark . for the rest of you , this is by far the best of the three movies , and Damon once again provides Bourne with the silent menace we all come to expect now , but this time , he appears more desperate , even a little sloppy , as his quest for the truth about Treadstone / Blackfriar , becomes closer and closer . Greengrass treats us to much of the same action and spectacular set pieces in this , just as he did with the Previous movie , but a lot more tension is added , mainly due to the score and the camera-work , this is more evident during the ' Waterloo ' and ' rooftop ' set pieces which are amazing to watch on the big screen . when the film finally reaches New York , the film fills in the necessary blanks , and we are treated to an amazing story . with great support from Glenn , Considine , Allen and especially Straitharn , the Bourne ultimatum not only gives us one of the best movies of the summer , actually delivering what it promises , it also gives us a clever and genuinely interesting finale of one mans journey to find out just who he is . an event movie of very high calibre .
cheating on your husband makes you a feminist . . .	Sarah's in a loveless marriage , long days with her young daughter at the park and the pool , wanting more . Brad is a househusband , married to a flinty documentary filmmaker . Ronnie is just out of prison - two years for indecent exposure - living with his mother ; Larry is a retired cop , fixated on driving Ronnie away . Sarah and Brad connect , a respite of adult companionship at the pool . Ronnie and Larry have their demons . Brad should be studying for the bar ; Larry misses his job ; Ronnie's mom thinks he needs a girlfriend . Sarah longs to refuse to be trapped in an unhappy life . Where can these tangled paths lead ? as hinted at the book club scene , Sarah does echo ' Madame Bovary ' in some of her scenes , as the woman who is fighting a desperate battle for her freedom , or so she thinks in her own little world . in reality , she could be the other description of Bovary , selfish and just looking out for herself , as hinted in other scenes of the movie . the title doesn't indicate the youngsters in this movie as first supposed , it is indicating how the central characters act in the film , due to missing pieces of their respective childhood . we have brad who wants to be the Jocj several years on because he never got a chance to when he was younger , and his scenes with Sarah indicate the typical high school romance , but obviously without the spouses or the children . we see Sarah watch Brad at a football game and then later on the field , they have plans to run away together , both trying to hide from their self realisation of their ' proper ' lives . then we have Larry , the bully of the story who wants to impress everybody , when he introduces Brad to the football game and the rest of the players later favour Brad for Larry , he starts to be bitter about this , and takes it out on Ronnie , the scapegoat in this story . we see that Larry is becoming aware of Brads popularity and will do anything to be his friend . as we see in the scene when Brad and Sarah are ' making out ' on the field and Larry calls if Brad is going for a drink and makes him promise that he will , all the while ignoring the fact that he is having an affair . typical high school movie stuff . but all the characters become self aware at the ending , after all the tragic things come around , and all the dreams come a reality , and the characters realise they all have responsibility . this is when the selfishness lapses in them and they become adults once more and realise that they cannot relive their childhood again . a sobering thought . with great nods to the high school movie , and some fantastic performances from the cast , Little Children is a very moving film with some great narrative and some wonderful camerwork , with some very eerie scenes .
you killed my dog . . . . .	Teacher Jenny and her boyfriend Steve , escape for a romantic weekend away . Steve , planning to propose , has found an idyllic setting : a remote lake enclosed by woodlands and seemingly deserted . The couple's peace is shattered when a gang of obnoxious kids encircles their campsite . Reveling in provoking the adults , the gang steals the couple's belongings and vandalises their car leaving them completely stranded . When Steve confronts them , tempers flare and he suffers a shocking and violent attack . Fleeing for help , Jenny is subject to a brutal and relentless game of cat-and-mouse as she desperately tries to evade her young pursuers and find her way out of the woods . . . first off , this is not a film that is going to entertain . it's not a film that has any feel-good value in the proceedings , and it's definitely not one to take a girlfriend / wife to see . saying that , it's a shocking , expertly made piece of British drama , that tackles one of the biggest hot potatoes the UK is dealing with today , youth culture . i can already envisage a few months down the line when this film gets the blame for every violent act committed on someone in england . the film though is fantastic . it's relentless , never gory , but has enough atmosphere about it to stay with you long after . thats thanks to the young cast who plat the said ' youths ' , especially O'Connell , who makes your skin crawl as the main protagonist Brett . he has to be the worse possible young person you could ever wish to meet , and his character takes violence to the extreme . the tension mounts up during the second act , and thankfully never lets up until the final moment when a character breaks the fourth wall . this owes more than a little to the likes of southern comfort , deliverance , wrong turn , and even the Texas chainsaw massacre . it's surprising just how good this films , and it's destined to have a cult following , and it's destined to be hated equally too . a very uneasy viewing experience , but one , which is worth the experience , despite the shocks .
you owe me another lamp . . . .	A serial killer in the San Francisco Bay Area taunts police with his letters and cryptic messages . We follow the investigators and reporters in this lightly fictionalised account of the true 1970's case as they search for the murderer , becoming obsessed with the case . Based on Robert Graysmith's book , the movie's focus is the lives and careers of the detectives and newspaper people . . . if Finchers movie deoesn't get us anywhere nearer to showing us the true identity of the Zodiac killer , you have to admit , that the attention to detail has to be one of the best in cinema this year . for a film that is almost three hours long , and the majority of the film is discussion between the press and between the police , the film runs at a fast pace . in typical Fincher fashion , the camera-work is very stark and the characters are layered well , with each of the four leads getting their fair share of screen time ( Downey JR steals the movie , but Ruffalo will win an academy award sometime ) . although the film concentrates more on the people who receive mail from the killer , when we do get screen time with the ' killer ' it is horrifying and the killings are very unpleasant , leaving you quite unsettled . in the final third , Fincher carries out the conspiracy theory that the main suspect may or may not have been the Zodiac , but he died later in life . when leaving the movie , you wonder whether the killer is still out there or if he died a long time ago . but the film never falters and remains interesting until the final frame , one of the best movies of the year .
get the pud trolley then lad . . . .	this has to be one of the best British dramas of the decade for me . it's cinematic in scope and visually stunning in parts and also very surreal . some of the camerwork used in the drama could put some movies to shame , as the fade ins and out blend in with the mood and the gritty realism of the whole programme . it's all about police corruption , and at the end of it , making the rich man richer . but with performances seen in this , it proves that when a good drama comes on TV , it's a rarity , as i've never seen anything this good since ' our friends in the north ' . the whole cast have something special about them . Garfield , Clarke , Marsan , Mullan and Bean all add a bit of class to an already fascinating story . it's not for the easily offended , and it's very close to the knuckle , almost borderline horror in some scenes . the filming style really makes you think that this was made in the seventies , and nothing really seems out of place . an unsettling score and bleak settings make this unmissable .
no one forgets the truth , they just get better at lying . . .	It's 1955 . Frank and April Wheeler , in the seventh year of their marriage , have fallen into a life that appears to most as being perfect . They live in the Connecticut suburbs with two young children . Frank commutes to New York City where he works in an office job while April stays at home as a housewife . But they're not happy . April has forgone her dream of becoming an actress , and Frank hates his job - one where he places little effort - although he has never figured out what his passion in life is . One day , April suggests that they move to Paris - a city where Frank visited during the war and loved , but where April has never been - as a means to rejuvenate their life . April's plan : she would be the breadwinner , getting a lucrative secretarial job for one of the major international organisation's , while Frank would have free time to find himself and whatever his passion . Initially sceptical , Frank ultimately agrees to April's plan . When circumstances change around the Wheelers , April decides she will do whatever she has to to get herself out of her unhappy existence . . . Going to show how the other half live , this is a bleak and depressing motion picture , but very emotional throughout . Winslet and Dicaprio are amazing as the Wheelers , another couple who are realising that there life is just passing by and that they are becoming the one thing that they both dreaded , living a normal ( re : uneventful ) life . the dreams they both had when they were young are long gone , and the one chance that they have of being something different is disrupted by major events , that would usually make any other household elated . Mendes makes the film very difficult to watch at times , the couple are desperately trying to be the same couple as they were when they first met ' invincible ' , but they are fighting a losing battle . and finally when self realisation comes knocking at the door , the film becomes harrowing to watch , especially in the final act when April becomes an emotionless shell ( the scene with her making breakfast is unbearable , and makes the film atmospherically disturbing ) . it's a very hard , but rewarding film with touchy subject matters that obviously won't be for everyone , but Mendes proves again that he is a master film maker and some of the performances are amazing . well worth watching .
why don't we just sit here for a while . . . see what happens . . .	In the midst of the Antartican snowfield , the scientists and workers of a small American research base are shocked when a helicopter begins to circle their camp , chasing and shooting at a dog . When the helicopter is destroyed and the passenger's are killed by accident , the dog is let into the base and the American's begin to wonder what has actually happened . The helicopter is discovered to be of Norwegian make , and probably linked to the Norwegian base not too far from their own . Helicopter pilot J . R MacReady offers to travel to the Norwegian base and find out what has happened . On arrival , he finds that the place has been totally destroyed . He also discovers a mangled body that looks as though it was once that of a person , which he brings back with him to study . It is only then that the clues begin to add up ; the dog morphs horribly into a strange creature that attacks the researchers . They manage to fight it off , but the base's doctor has come to a conclusion : an alien with the power to transform and take the appearance of anybody else is amongst them . Who is infected already , and who can be trusted ? another masterpiece from the house of Carpenter , isn't the scariest film ever made , but it's one of the most tense and claustrophobic films you may ever likely encounter . yes some of the line are a bit cheesy , and the majority of the characters are stereotypical , but it's the situations that they are in , that makes the movie really work . and for a film that is nearly 30 years old , the effects are as impressive now as they must have marvelled people back in the eighties . a are gem of a sci-fi / horror that can be watched over and over again . and with one hell of an ending that will leave you with questions that may always remain unanswered . .
talk about shooting your load . . . .	this movie is basically a video game on screen . it's frenetic , fast paced and non-stop until the final credits roll . why was this movie made ? heavens knows why , but if you like films like face / off or anything John Woo has done or ever will doe , you will probably love this as much as i did . the story is your basic silly one , a lone man named Smith helps a pregnant lady deliver her baby under gunfire , he takes care of the baby all the while being chased by Paul Giammati and his endless supply of disposable bad guys . on the way he teams up with Monica Belluci and then he figures out why they are so desperate for the baby , it's carrying the bone marrow that will save someone important . for eighty odd minutes we are treated to non stop action , inventive set pieces , gunfights while delivering a baby , gunfights during sexual intercourse , gunfights while sky diving . this is Owen's shout out to Broccoli , his Bond , and to be fair he does a pretty good job of playing the mysterious good guy , while not all the while good , his best interest is the baby , but he does carry a massive chip on his shoulder , thinking the world owes him something . Giamatti too is wonderful in his role , almost usurping Rickman in Robin Hood as the most pantomime villain ever seen on screen . not for all tastes , this is for action junkies only , and a wild ride too
the grass is never greener . . . . .	It charts the breakdown of a working class family when the teenage daughter befriends a refugee girl . Helen has been married to Paul for 25 years . They live a monotonous and frozen existence . Helen is desperate , damaged , and looking for change . Paul - bitter , hypocritical and bigoted , sick and tired of being in the poverty trap - is on the brink of a breakdown . His biggest fear is change . Into their lives comes Tasha , a Romany Czech refugee , awaiting her British passport and her chance for freedom - a concept taken for granted by all those around her . Told in three revelatory narratives , each from a particular character's point of view , the film reveals how the disintegration of an ordinary working class family finally comes to a head when unexpected emotions are unleashed . . . . . filmed in the typical dogme 95 style , Gypo is a very interesting and intense view of topical issues , and one that will leave people with a divided opinion . on the hand we have Paul , a man who regrets the day that he never took a chance to have a happy life , a chance he had ten years ago , but instead bottled it so he could carry on living making ends meet , this fact has turned Paul into a bitter jealous man . he is in a form of poverty , which is partly his own fault , but he won't own up to this , so he does what the majority of people in his ' state ' do blame the government and the spongers . on the other hand we have Tasha , a young refugee who has fled her country in fear of her husband and father , and is trying hard to make her life work , the film implies that she was a prostitute before the story begins , and now she is at hairdressing school making something of her life . she is too in poverty , but really had no choice , if she was to stay with her husband then she would maybe not be poverty stricken but unhappy . so the film is essentially about choices . Paul had a choice to make his family happy and have a happy life but didn't have the guts to do it and now is poverty stricken . Tasha had no choice but run for a happy but poverty stricken life . they are both intertwined by Helen the pillar in the story . she gets on with her simple life from day to day , not knowing about her husbands infidelity and so on . the camera work in the film is marvellous and gives it a very documentary feel to it . and every now and again we see the ocean skyline which gives the movie an eerie beauty to it . all the performances are fantastic but Sirene stands out the most as Tasha her tortured but innocent soul all bared on here . a great movie but not for everyone , and a film that can strike discussion after viewing .
everything you have seen here has been an illusion . . .	In the turn of the Twentieth Century , in Vienna , the teenager Eduard Abramovich is the son of a cabinetmaker that becomes fascinated with magic . While practising some tricks on the streets , he meets the upper-class Sophie , they become friends and later they fall in love for each other . When they are separated by Sophie's family , the broken-hearted Eduard travels to the Far East and fifteen years later he returns to Vienna as a famous illusionist with a different name , Eisenheim . While performing a show in the presence of the ambitious and ruthless Crown Prince Leopold and the corrupt Inspector Uhl , Sophie volunteers for a trick on the stage and they immediately recognise each other . The flame of their passion bursts , but Sophie is engaged of Leopold , as part of his political game to be crowned king with the support of Hungary in a coup against his father . Sophie and Eisenheim plan to runaway together , but when the drunken Leopold discloses their intention , he apparently kills Sophie . The grieving Eisenheim brings his Chinese acquaintances and performs an amazing show , where nothing is what it seems . . . a very dark and very mysterious role for Norton and up there with one of his best . not really having many lines throughout the movie only adds to the dominance he has when on screen . playing a tortured soul , he lets his eyes do most of the acting and is given help with an amazing story and fluid narrative . the camera-work is second to none and the scenes with flashback are aided by giving them the appearance of a Victorian camera ( even with the effects of the iris opening and closing ) . the support here is also great , with Giamatti again putting in another class role , and for once Rufus Sewell being put to good use . he oozes unlikability from every pore and is fascinating to watch . alas though , this will probably always be compared unfairly to the prestige , which while also set in the same era and uses ' magicians ' as the main point of characterisation , they really are worlds apart from each other . a real gem , slow burning with a real convincing , if predictable ending .
smooth , that's how we do it .	After one of there informants is found out by some white supremacists , and sells out some feds , Sonny Crockett and Ricardo Tubbs have a chance to find out where they were getting their ' goods ' from . this means going deep undercover and playing a dangerous game that could affect each member involved . Sonny becomes involved intimately with the drug barons wife and risks ruining one of the biggest busts of their career . if there was an Oscar for style , then this movie would win hands down . with no opening credits , Mann throws us straight into the action with an opening scene in a nightclub that bears a lot of resemblance to the nightclub scene in collateral , same intensity but in different times of duration . for an opener this is pretty intense and due to this the movie does sag ever so slightly during the middle act . but that doesn't affect the movies outcome . this is Miami Vice , and if anybody can pull the movie version of this , Manns your man . using the same camera technique as he did in collateral , he brings the locations to life and making them characters themselves . he also uses to great effect mise en scene , and there are two really stand out examples . firstly just before their informant kills himself on the freeway , we see some material blow away int distance and in the second , we see Crockett stare out into the distant ocean . all silent , all beautiful images . cinematography is outstanding and editing is flawless . Mann does borrow heavily from a few of his previous films . Collateral has already been discussed , but he also uses heavily from Heat . a lot of conversations between cops and the ' bad guys ' reminisce of Pacino and his informants , and the final shoot-out is an obvious nod to Manns 1995 epic . Farrell is very good in his role , but he comes to his own when he performing alongside Gong Li . he adds an all new dimension to his character . Foxx as ever shows a lot of confidence on the big screen , and his Tubbs and Farrells Crockett gel well together . my only complaint ( very minor ) is that there are a few plot holes and a lot of story goes straight out of the window . and for the drug dealers , a lot of them are typecast and politically incorrect , but having never met a Colombian drug lord , what do i know ! ! a great film , if a little too long and saggy in the middle . if you are expecting the TV series , you will be disappointed . no Phil Collins here or Crocodiles called Elvis . a great thriller with a lot of style and substance .
I'll torture you so slowly , you'll think it's a career . . . .	Eddie Hawkins , called Hudson Hawk has just been released from ten years of prison and is planning to spend the rest of his life honestly . But then the crazy Mayflower couple blackmail him to steal some of the works of Leonardo da Vinci . If he refuses , they threaten to kill his friend Tommy . . . . . so there goes Eddie , meeting up with a variety of strange and bizarre people , from location to location , set piece to set piece , wise crack to wise crack , but still only managing a 17 million gross . . . let's be honest about this movie . it's a vanity project for Willis , from the word go , he has all the best lines , wears all the best clothes , and has his ear pierced in four different places . but it is a really good popcorn movie . yes the writing and the story is bad . and his support is the hammiest a movie has ever seen ( MacDowell , E . Grant , Bernhard and Coburn spring to mind ) , but what makes this film work is the Willis charm . he is really endearing ( if a little cocky ) in this movie , but he is the movie and he is in control of it all the way through . if you are a fan of Willis , then this is the perfect movie for you . sure , it was critically panned when first released , but it has grown to a cult status in the sixteen years since its release , and it's easy to see why . the set pieces are strong and come thick and fast , the characters are joyous works of art ( even if the acting isn't ) and always entertain the eye , and the final third is just so silly and over the top , that it cannot help but be enjoyed . maybe it was criticised because Willis thought that after three hits it was time to do a vanity project and a lot of people resented him for it . but there are worse vanity projects out there ( battlefield earth ? ) and worse movies to slate . so this movie won't win any awards for acting , story and originality , but you can see the love that Willis has put into the movie , it's like watching a hybrid of McClane and David from Moonlighting in this movie . a great movie , a fun movie , and one with a lot of heart put into it . give it a go .
we are bound by the secrets that we share . . . .	when Sheba begins a new job as a teacher at St . Georges school , she is immediately likened to by several members of the staff , and pupils . one in particular is Barbara , an elderly member of staff , who lives on her own , and keeps a journal of her day to day activities . a chance conversation leads to an invite around Shebas house where Barbara meets her family . their friendship becomes strong and this makes Barbara very pleased and writes down in her journal , that she is having several ' golden days ' . one Christmas though , Barbara finds something out about Sheba that could ruin her career . but instead of telling anyone , she keeps it a secret , thinking that it will make her and Sheba even closer , but her plan goes awry . Barbara starts to gossip about Sheba to other members of staff , thinking that making them dislike Sheba will make Sheba be closer to Barbara . . . . . Barbara is an obsessive , controlling woman who pours her thoughts and emotions into her diary rather than expressing them to people who are close to her . Much of her world is internal , so it falsifies peoples views of her . She has an obsessive personality who develops fast bonds with others and demands that her relationship with this one person be eternal and strong , so she can be delusional about her relationships with others . Dench plays Barbara with a very intense Gravitas , holding the screen to ransom whenever she is on screen . she plays Barbara as an innocent , because in Barbaras eyes thats what she is , innocent . what she is doing to Sheba will bring her closer , she has no ideas of the consequences about Shebas personal of professional life . Blanchett is also very good as Sheba , a very psychedelic part she plays , almost sixties-esquire in the way she walks and acts in the first two acts . by the final act we do not know who has lost it the most , is it Dench ? finally getting her claws into Blanchett ala ' fatal attraction , or is it Blanchett , going back to her new romantic roots , and going mad at the media ? the soundtrack accompanies the film very wheel , and can stand proud nest to Glass ' music from ' koyanisqaatsi ' . the script by Marber sizzles , and has some wonderful pieces of dialogue given to the cast . Bill Nighy is great as usual , and really excels toward the end of the film , and in some scenes , he shows some random bouts of psychosis toward the friendship . but this film is very stark about the message of loneliness and how it can make peole bitter and jealous without knowing it . a great movie , and there must be some reason why the director cast the friends ( Dench , Blanchett and the potential friend to Barbara at the end played by Anne Marie Duff ) , as actresses who have all played queen Elizabeth on screen .
the bodyguard . . . . . . .	Sanjuro , a wandering samurai enters a rural town in nineteenth century Japan . After learning from the innkeeper that the town is divided between two gangsters , he plays one side off against the other . His efforts are complicated by the arrival of the wily Unosuke , the son of one of the gangsters , who owns a revolver . Unosuke has Sanjuro beaten after he reunites an abducted woman with her husband and son , then massacres his father's opponents . During the slaughter , the samurai escapes with the help of the innkeeper ; but while recuperating at a nearby temple , he learns of innkeeper's abduction by Unosuke , and returns to the town to confront him . if you have seen Last man standing or a fistful of dollars , the premise is pretty much the same , but this is Kurosawa we are talking about , and with Mifune as the titular character , this is one his most exciting and forfilling movies to watch . it's true he has made better films , but the film is so much fun to watch and the narrative is so rich and concise , you cannot help but fall in love with the main protagonist . the film is very humorous yet very dark , and subtle touches such as lighting really add gravitas to the movie . the samurai is almost ghost like in some scenes , like Eastwoods character in high plains Drifter , a human form of the grim reaper , who has arrived to clean up ' the village ' . there is so much that this film connotes , that it demands repeat viewings , for it's sheer elegance . a unique masterpiece .
champagne for my real friends , real pain for my sham friends . .	In the 1960s , British painter Francis Bacon ( 1909-1992 ) surprises a burglar and invites him to share his bed . The burglar , a working class man named George Dyer , 30 years Bacon's junior , accepts . Bacon finds Dyer's amorality and innocence attractive , introducing him to his Soho pals . In their sex life , Dyer dominates , Bacon is the masochist . Dyer's bouts with depression , his drinking and pill popping , and his satanic nightmares strain the relationship , as does his pain with Bacon's casual infidelities . Bacon paints , talks with wit , and , as Dyer spins out of control , begins to find him tiresome . Could Bacon care less ? seeing this in the year 2008 was a bit of a curioso for me , bond has sex with the bloke who voices in the night garden ? but after the shock , i was treated with an excellent movie , sometimes very scary and nightmarish , and it sucked me in for the whole duration . both of the leads are wonderful , and the direction and cinematography gives the whole film a really depressing feels , it's as if you are feeling Georges pain throughout the whole movie . if you can stomach the content , and the slight pretentiousness to it all , you will be treated to a very well acted overlooked movie . excellent in a masochistic sense .
by god , let's give em ' what for ! ! !	In the third film of " The Evil Dead " series , our gun-toting , chainsaw-handed hero , Ash , has been transported to the 13th century where he has been prophesied as the one who will find the Necronomicon , the Book of the Dead , and deliver the people from the terrors of the Deadites , who quest for the book , too . But he is mistaken as a spy from a rival kingdom and forced to fight two Deadites before the people find out what he is here for . He also falls for a woman named Sheila before he searches for the book . But after finding it , he says the wrong words that will allow the wise men to use the book to send him back and stop the Deadites and accidentally awakens the Army of the Dead , led by his clone , Evil Ash . Now , Ash must use his 20th century wits and skills to beat Evil Ash and his army of skeletons . . when i first saw this movie in the cinema back in 1993 , i was quite unaware of the evil dead phenomenon , having only seen the previous two films once . but i was still blown away by this adventure movie . viewing it though fourteen years later and it has lost some of it's appeal that made the first film such a landmark , and another reason why the viewing experience leaves you a little empty , is because you are wondering whether you are watching the version that Raimi intended the world to see . the version i saw at the cinema , had the S-mart ending , the DVD version i have ( the numbered directors cut ) is the downer ending . still , the action never lets up and the film is endlessly quotable with a crackling script . Campbell has never been better as the eponymous hero , and he makes the movie . the rest of the cast are pure filler and the film feels a little empty whenever Campbell is not on the screen . the film is never scary , but always tongue in cheek , and the only time it comes anywhere near to be in ' evil dead territory ' is the pit sequence and the running to the mill sequence . but Raimi has made a satisfactory end to the trilogy , very cheaply made with hilarious results and the final act is a cross between the three stooges and Jason and the argonauts on LSD . if you are a fan of the evil dead movies , you will lap this up , but if you only watched the original because it was banned , then you will be disappointed . try and see the version with the S-mart ending , a lot more fun and a fitting tribute to the legend that is Ash .
thundercats are go . . . . .	i had no expectations for this film , it hasn't had any big write ups here in England or any media attention like lesser films , but after seeing the box office receipts that have rang in the States , i had to see what all the fuss was about . the film reminds me for some reason of the eighties , whether it's Junos view on life , or Garner and Batemans yuppie couple , the film has a mystic eighties feel to it . but the film belongs to Page . without her in the titular role , i feel the film would have been just slightly above average , despite the great script and the cool soundtrack . Simmons as Junos father is a genius piece of casting and remains deadpan throughout , an idealistic father in a dream world . Garner also surprises in a very serious almost obsessive role as the lady who will adopt Junos baby . all in all the film is a wonderful gem and should be seen to believe the hype
park life parkour . . . .	another satisfying character driven drama from Anthony Minghella , which sees Law get himself into a situation thats hard to get out of when he sees a teenager trying to break into his office . when following him home , he meets the boys mother and they soon begin an affair . the mother finds out about her son and takes photos of Law in order to bribe him to not give evidence against her son . Law is battling with problems at home and he finds escapism with the mother , but alas does not realise the consequences it will have against him . the story is first rate and the script , while sometimes a little too pretentious is one of the best of the year . the use of London settings is smart and gives the movie a late nineties feel . the soundtrack adds atmosphere to the move . the performances are great especially Law , who doesn't give his usual swagger that made films like Alfie and Sky captain such a chore to watch . and throughout the film we meet weird and wonderful characters trying to justify what they live for and why they live the life they liveably supported by Binoche , Penn and Winstone , this movie was unfairly overlooked at the cinema , although i feel it would have been a success in London as it really does make London shine . all in all a great film about the human conscience and priorities . well worth watching
keep the skies clear . . . .	Tony Stark is the CEO of Stark Industries which produces advance weapon systems for the U . S . military . Tony's father started the company after WWII , and after his death Tony inherited the company , worth billions . Tony lives the life as a hard drinking , rich playboy ladies man , but he is also a genius who has invented many high-tech items for the company . Tony flies to Afghanistan to demonstrate a new weapons test to the United States Air Force . On his way back to his plane , his convoy is attacked by terrorists , and Tony is wounded by a Stark Industries missile . Tony is captured and held hostage in a cave with Yinsen a doctor who saves his life . The terrorists force Tony and Yinsen to reproduce the new destructive Jericho missile Tony was demonstrating from parts of other weapons . Instead , Tony decides to build a suit of Armour with Yinsen's help . The suit gives Tony the strength and protection to be able to escape the terrorists . Back in America , Tony builds a better suit of Armour which gives him superhuman strength with the ability to fly . With the help of his personal assistant Pepper Potts and Air Force Lieut . Colonel Jim Rhodes , Tony vows to protect the world as Iron Man . . another year and another Marvel adaptation . i was slightly dubious about this one though , the trailer didn't give much away , but at the same time didn't excite as much as some blockbuster trailers should . but this is where Favreau played his cards close to him . believe me if you like comic book movies and all out popcorn entertainment , then this delivers in droves . Downey Jr . is excellent as stark and plays the role right down to a tee . it's extremely funny in places and never takes itself too seriously , but the film is also a character driven movie , which adds emotion to the film . Bridges too is good as Starks nemesis and the final showdown is a great thing to watch on the big screen . but in my opinion , Paltrow was wasted in her role , one , she was hardly in the film , and two , she wasn't given enough to do , she was just there as a potential love interest for Stark . the effects are great but don't deter you from the movie and the set pieces are marvellous , as are some of the in jokes for the more discerning Marvel fan . all in all a triumph for those involved and i cannot wait for the sequel . a word of warning though , please stay until the credits roll ala pirates of the Caribbean , because it makes a great film even better . . .
are you threatening me ?	when a mysterious videotape finds itself on Georges and Annes porch , and it is just an hour long tape of the exterior of their house , they appear to be bemused . when further tapes are found and involve more substantial images , the couple start to question each others trust , ability and love for each other . i have never seen a film about paranoia so gripping and yet so intellectual . when co - incidence happens , you have your gut feelings , but sometimes , you cannot always trust that feeling . in one scene Georges has a dream about a boy who his mother adopted over forty years ago . Now because of what his subconscious showed Georges in his dream , he instantly thinks that the person who sent these tapes where the same boy from all those years ago , Majid . he pays a trip to see Majid , who states he knows nothing of theses tapes and says that he recognised him a few years ago from his t . v series and felt sick , but didn't know why . A gut feeling . what the director does that is so ingenious , is not answer any questions which the viewer was asking . who was sending the tapes ? what happened all those years ago with Majid ? was Anne having an affair ? was Georges egotistical toward Majid back then ? this is a film that makes you think , and that will never be concluded with discussion . it isn't very pleasant to watch , it can be visceral at times , and the exclusion of incidental music makes it even more uncomfortable to watch . never the less a striking , bold movie that deserves to be dissected and analysed for a long time .
i'll just take my ego for a walk . . . . .	Handsome playboy Nicky Ferrante and beautiful night club singer Terry McKay have a romance while on a cruise from Europe to New York . Despite being engaged to other people , both agree to reunite at the top of the Empire State Building in six months . However , an unfortunate accident keeps Terry from the reunion , and Nicky fears that she has married or does not love him anymore . Will he discover the truth behind her absence and reunite with his one true love , or has fate and destiny passed them by ? . . . this film works because of the great chemistry between Grant and Kerr . they look like the couple in love from the very beginning of the movie . the scenes on the cruise are a joy to watch , and at times , some scenes are laugh out loud hilarious . knowing that a lot of the dialogue was improvised by the two leads just adds to the enjoyment of the picture . knowing that the two have partners when they meet , makes the viewer feel somewhat guilty in hoping that thay do keep to their promise , but oddly enough , both partners are very supportive . the cinematography and editing are both wonderful , as is the story , but Grant and Kerr make the film into the classic that it is today . with one of the most happiest endings ever committed to screen , this is a true love story for romantics everywhere . well worth seeing .
can you get me four cans of Carling please ? . . they're for me dad . .	Two teenagers , both newcomers to London , forge an unlikely friendship over the course of a hot summer . Tomo is a runaway from Nottingham ; Marek lives in the district of Somers Town , between King's Cross and Euston stations , where his dad is working on a new rail link . The boys are both infatuated with the same girl , and pass their days bickering over which of them loves her the most . Finding himself homeless , Tomo surreptitiously moves into Marek's bedroom - but it's only a matter of time before Marek's dad discovers what's going on . . . . Shane meadows does it again , with a film that is basically about nothing , just two lads meeting and fancying the same girl , but one cannot help but realise that this is one of the feel-good films of the year . the script is fresh and funny , and some scenes are just heartbreaking , but Meadows never lets up with the funny connotations , and sly visual gags that get you laughing every time . filmed in black and white , this adds to the texture of London , making it appear a cold and depressing place for our young heroes . very short , but well worth the trip to see it .
obsession is a young mans game . . .	Alfred Borden and Rupert Angier rise to become world-renowned stage magicians . Early in their careers , they meet and a bitter feud develops as they constantly try to out-do , and even sabotage , the other's acts . the film's story begins at the trial of Borden for the murder of Angier , but the narrative begins when the two are starting out as audience hands . The events of the past are revealed primarily through each of the magicians ' diaries . Borden develops an act called The Transported Man , and an improved version named The New Transported Man , which appears to move him from one closed cabinet to another in the blink of an eye and without appearing to pass through the intervening space . The act seems to defy physics and puts all previous acts to shame . Although never explicitly revealed , it seems probable that the secret of The New Transported Man is that Borden , all his life , has been two people ; his trick involves extreme use of a twin brother as a double , to the extent that they both live the same life . We might think that he is talking to his double by using their diary as a medium ( presumably , they couldn't meet without revealing their secret ) , but that both are using the first-person . Angier cannot discern the method that Borden uses and desperately tries to equal him , and with the help of the acclaimed physicist Nikola Tesla , develops his own new version , which has a similar result , though a starkly different method . For Angier's trick , Tesla successfully creates a device capable of teleporting a being from one place to another . . . . . What Nolan has done with the source material is amazing , as he recreates the Victorian era down to a tee , and makes it a haunting character of it's own . Bale and Jackman have great chemistry ehen together on the screen and are the perfect cast , as is Caine , who steals the show from both of them . the only real disappointment in this film is Johansson as the assistant , who adds no real substance to the plot . but this is a film primarily about obsession and how dangerous obsession can drive someone to do something stupid . it is also about compulsion and dealing with loss . the set pieces are amazing and really stand out as some of the most exciting of the year , even if it isn't a summer blockbuster . but what keeps the audience interested is the ending . we are truly intrigued as to how this will end and what explanation the narration will have for it . this is Nolans own ' prestige ' , and when you think about it , he has set his movie up to way Caine explains how a trick is performed . the flashbacks never confuse as the revelations during the film are informative and fuse well with the narrative . Nolan has made another masterpiece with this movie .
still filming ? . . . . . . .	Five young New Yorkers throw their friend a going-away party the night that a monster the size of a skyscraper descends upon the city . Told from the point of view of their video camera , the film is a document of their attempt to survive the most surreal , horrifying event of their lives . any comparison to the Blair witch project is inevitable , from the filming using a hand held camera or ' queasy-cam ' to the internet hype thats shrouded the mysterious film since Transformers was released . but is it all worth it . well yes for once , the hype can be justified in what can be classed as one of the most surprising movies , with hidden depths to be released in a long time . on one side , this could be classed as a big old monster movie with little nasty ones attacking too , and a mans quest to find his beloved . on the other hand , this could be classed as a commentary on how people feel about the state of the world in the last six years , and how paranoia has set in , every time we step foot on public transport , or trust an unfamiliar . however , what ever way you lean toward , you cannot deny that this is one hell of a movie , not letting you gasp for breath at it's very short running time . and kudos to the makers , for giving us a spectacle , instead keeping the amazing effects quite low-brow ( obviously apart from the statue of liberty's head bouncing along the road ) . it's very humorous at times and also very human as we get to care for the five people the film focuses on . the ending will definitely be compared with Blair witch , but this film has subliminal images of happiness , maybe telling us that things will be okay someday . a spectacle
a shocking , disturbing film . . .	Based on a true story . An exhausted Catholic priest ( Hurt ) and a young idealistic English teacher ( Dancy ) finds themselves caught in the 1994 Rwandan genocide . They must now choose whether to stay with the thousands of Tutsis about to be massacred or to flee for safety . . . . based on the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 , this picture , unlike Hotel Rwanda , is a no holds barred look at the events that happened in this year . the picture was assisted in the making by people who survived the massacre , and it shows . Hurt and Dancy are incredible in their respected roles and really have some standout scenes in the movie . throughout the movie , we see betrayal , loyalty , murder , and injustice through the eyes of several different cultures and people . there is really a lot of effort put into the film , the cinematography is great , as are the genuine locations , plus the script is one of the best seen in recent time . but there are some very disturbing scenes in the movie , we are submitted to the torture and murder of several Rwandans , and it is very hard to watch at times , but what makes it hard is seeing the U . N . officials just standing there watching . Hurts ' character really makes you feel empathy for the Rwandans when he is trying to make sense of why the officials won't help , but at the end of the day , it's all to do with bureaucracy . one of the finest films i have seen in a long while , shooting dogs deserves to be studied for a long time to come . exceptional portrayals from all the cast , and a fetching tribute to the crew at the end .
you look like a jackson . . . . .	this is the movie that got me into the legend that is known as van damme . bad points first . 1 . van dammes war cries always hated them , always will . 2 . some of the dialogue is the worst ever . such ' gotcha , like put up your dooks right ? ' thats it . van damme plays frank dux a soldier who goes AWOL to fight in the legendary kumite . along the way he meets some of the most UN PC characters ever to be committed to celluloid . but this is the eighties , so who cares ? the action is at a reasonable pace and to newcomers to the movie , there are some familiar faces such as forest Whittaker as an agent on the trail of van damme . this movie must have inspired street fighter 2 as the fights are basically the same . there are some amusing moments , sad moments , sickening moments , and of course moments that make you cheer . and then there is bolo , one of the most sadistic villains ever to grace a martial arts film . van damme never reached the heights of this movie ever again and it is a shame to know he is making a sequel of sorts in kumite . if you love the eighties , the music and the fashion , i urge you to see this . if you are a van damme fan then you have seen this already , so see it againthe ending is a bit camp and spoils the action but if you have seen this movie , you never watch it after the final fight . a guilty pleasure of the highest order
always practising , cleric . maybe thats why your'e the best .	john Preston is the highest ranking cleric , a kind of law official who is part secret service and part Nazi . his job is to find ' sense offenders ' those people who still have feelings , and listen to music and read poetry and collect priceless art . after a fellow cleric is ' processed ' by Preston , he accidentally drops his ' interval of prozium ' and begins to feel emotions he has never felt before . his new partner Brandt is highly suspicious of Preston , and this stays throughout the entire movie . with Preston beginning to feel , and learning that life is essential with emotions , he begins to question his morals and becomes allies with the underground movement . part blade runner , part the matrix and most importantly part 1984 , director Wimmer has made an inspired movie about a post apocalyptic future . as well as Preston's , he questions our morales , what would we do if we had no emotions ? we would just exist , be slaves for the father / DuPont without even knowing . the gun Kata sequences are amazing , and in my opinion , make the matrix pale in comparison . round of applause to bale and bean , who are amazing in this movie . the only let down really is taye diggs , who looks too smug and smiles too much for someone who supposedly has no emotions . ( maybe in years to come this will replace the ' is deckard a replicant ' question with ' was Brandt a sense offender ' ) . a few minor plot flaws aside , this is destined to become a cult classic of the highest order . well worth watching again and again . excellent ,
it was a good death . . . . .	In the 1870s , Captain Nathan Algren , a cynical veteran of the American Civil war who will work for anyone , is hired by Americans who want lucrative contracts with the Emperor of Japan to train the peasant conscripts for the first standing imperial army in modern warfare using firearms . The imperial Omura cabinet's first priority is to repress a rebellion of traditionalist Samurai - hereditary warriors - who remain devoted to the sacred dynasty but reject the Westernizing policy and even refuse firearms . Yet when his ill-prepared superior force sets out too soon , their panic allows the sword-wielding samurai to crush them . Badly wounded Algren's courageous stand makes the samurai leader Katsumoto spare his life . once nursed to health he learns to know and respect the old Japanese way , and participates as adviser in Katsumoto's failed attempt to save the Bushido tradition , but Omura gets repressive laws enacted - he must now choose to honour his loyalty to one of the embittered sides when the conflict returns to the battlefield . . . after a while of watching this epic movie , you begin to forget that Cruise is the star of this film and begin to focus more on Watanabe , who is ridiculously brilliant in his first English spoken role . but his character relies mostly on body language , and the film is at its best when he and Cruise share the screen . but really all the performances are good , Connelly gives one of his best performances to date , and Spall and Goldwyn are reliable as ever . even the running time appears to be less than what it is , as the characters are so rich and layered , that it really does evolve into something unique . it doesn't rely on battle sequences , and even though the final battle appears to be filmed on a football pitch , there is something about it . Zwick proves again that he can make an amazing film when he wants to , and Cruise plays it down for once , leaving the story and the impressive cinematography to cast a spell over the audience .
but you have a left hand . . .	Following the death of his father in Mexico , Stéphane Miroux , a shy insecure young man , agrees to come to Paris to draw closer to his widowed mother Christine . He lands a boring job at a calendar-making firm and falls in love with his charming neighbour Stéphanie . But conquering her is no bed of roses for the young man and the only solution he finds to put up with the difficulties he is going through is escape into a dream world . . it's difficult to to summarise the film as while you are watching it , you really do feel like you are living in a dream . Gondry has made the film very clever that sometimes , you cannot separate the real world from stephanes reality , maybe the whole film is a dream . funny in places , and quite emotional in others , the science of sleep is a film to watch when you are really clear minded and what something a bit trippy , but recommended .
what a family ! . . . .	an intimate behind the scenes glimpse at the interaction between HM Elizabeth II and Prime Minister Tony Blair during their struggle , following the death of Diana , to reach a compromise between what was a private tragedy for the Royal family and the public's demand for an overt display of mourning . . . the main narrative focuses on the Queens relationship with the new prime minister Tony Blair , and their agreements and disagreements during the week after Diana's death . before seeing the film i was a bit weary of the film causing controversy , as obviously to some the subject matter is still quite touchy . what a surprise to learn that none of the main characters were tarnished in any way , shape , or form . Miren gives an amazing performance of the titular character , giving her a real human feel to her ( as in ' she's just like you and me ' ) and by the end of the movie we almost begin to feel sorry for her . we do though show great empathy toward her , as this must have been the single most difficult thing to deal with during her monarchy . now , i am not a royalist , i never read about the monarchy in the news , but i feel that they have been portrayed very well in this movie . at times the film is very humorous too and Michael sheen almost steals the show from Mirren in his portrayal of Blair . a great film , even if your opinion of the monarchy is somewhat disdain .
no doubt it will be tomato soup and temazepam for you . . . .	Maurice and Ian are successful but ageing actors , close friends whose conversation revolves around theatrical . Ian in particular is fearful that death is right around the corner , so he agrees to let his niece's daughter Jessie move in to his flat to care for him . Jessie , a provincial girl in her early twenties , turns out to be a nightmare for Ian , a hard-drinking , rude , and dismissive girl . But Maurice sees something else in the girl , a potential for humanity which blossoms under his kindness and gentle guidance . Something else blossoms , for Maurice , as well : romantic love for a girl fifty years younger . . . when watching the movie , there is something of a twinkle in O ' Tooles eyes ans a knowing wink to camera , saying i may be old , but i'm still the raver i once was . when he is sharing the screen with Phillips , the movie is a joy to behold , they effortlessly bounce off one another and enjoy a rather boyish banter between them . but the real revelations here are the female cast of Whittaker and Redgrave , who put in two wonderful performances as Maurices new love and old love respectively . he treats them both differently , but is such a gentleman ( in very different ways ) toward them . the film is laugh out loud funny in places , but one cannot help thinking that director Michell included a few too many profane words in the script to get the extra laugh ( it does work though ) . the comedy and tragedy mix well together , especially the café duel between Maurice and Ian , funny and sorrowful at the same time . one can show empathy for Maurice as the ageing lothario , but at the same time there are a few embarrassing scenes between him and Jessie , who at times seems very uncomfortable to be in his comedy . the ending is very sweet , though very predictable , and who thought a line such as ' we'll cook the fish together ' would cause one to get a lump in the throat . a very well crafted , easy to watch comedy , but watching it seems like an encore for O ' Toole , practically telling the audience ' i haven't long left , so watch me give it my all ' . a great character piece , showing that some gentlemen do have a different side . O ' Toole deserves the Oscar .
an inspiration for film makers . . . .	After the ship's doctor declares rancid meat safe to eat , the sailors buy provisions at the canteen in a show of protest . The Admiral then orders all those who ate the borsch made with the meat to step under the cannons in a show of loyalty . Those who do not are covered under a tarp and ordered shot . Vakulinchik then implores his shipmates to rise up against those who oppress them , namely the officers of the ship . All the officers are killed and the ship is liberated . During the uprising , Vakulinchik dies . His body his placed on the docks in the Odessa harbour as a symbol of the revolution . The citizens of Odessa rally around his body and join the Potemkin in their revolt . Cossaks then come , in one of the most famous scenes of the film , and slaughter the helpless citizens on the steps leading to the harbour , effectively ending the revolt in Odessa . A fleet of battleships then comes to destroy the Potemkin . . . a hallmark of film making , Battleship Potemkin , is one of the greatest achievements in film making ever . for a film about revolution and in some scenes anti-Semites , it's hard to believe that it all starts due to the conditions of food . scenes are memorable for people who haven't seen the movie before ( one of the most famous is the pushchair rolling down the steps as referenced in ' the untouchables ' ) chapter three is very difficult to watch , seeing those who revolt being slaughtered like cattle . although it's difficult to watch at times , it's an amazing movie , with great use on connotation and mise en scene , the use of extras is wonderful , and makes it one of the greatest films of the century . a must see for any fan of cinema
i come in piece . . . . .	Jack Cain is a Houston vice cop who's forgotten the rule book . His self-appointed mission is to stop the drugs trade and the number one supplier Victor Manning . Whilst involved in an undercover operation to entrap Victor Manning , his partner gets killed , and a sinister newcomer enters the scene . . . Along with F . B . I . agent Lawrence Smith , the two investigate a spate of mysterious deaths ; normal non-junkies dying of massive heroin overdoses and bearing the same horrific puncture marks on the forehead . This , coupled with Caine's own evidence , indicates an alien force is present on the streets of Houston , killing and gathering stocks of a rare drug found only in the brain . . . Caine is used to fighting the toughest of criminals , but up to now they've all been human . . . first released in 1990 , this was one of Lundgrens high profile theatrical releases and one of the best starring vehicles he has been in so far . the acting from Lundgren is sometimes really really bad ( see the scene when he discovers his partners corpse ) but for most of the film he is very good . with great support from Benben , the pair have great chemistry together and share some great one liners . Baxley once again shows that he is very capable of making an exciting action film and makes great use of his cast and turns a pretty corny story into a very good movie . Hues is fantastic as the alien and probably because he isn't given very much to say . if you get all nostalgic about the late eighties early nineties action movies , then you should definitely check this out . very un PC , with a ridiculous soundtrack and great set-pieces , this is a classic .
you're not wearing your tie . . . .	in London , a sex criminal known as the neck-tie killer has the police on full alert , and the Jack the Ripper-esquire trail leads straight to an innocent man , who now must elude the law and prove his innocence by finding the real murderer . in typical Hitchcock fashion , we have the sprawling camera shots from the sky , the long camera shots from stairs and door ways and fantastic use of mise-en-scene during the film . Jon Finch plays your typical uptight Brit , a man who is down on his luck , he's just been fired by Bernard Cribbens for having a sly brandy at the pub he works , and is down to his last few pounds . the only real friends it appears at the moment is Bob , a jack the lad stereotypical English wide boy , who always keeps a big wad of cash in his pocket . Hitchcock treats us to a great story , a not very likable lead character , and the revelation of the murderer very early on into the film , and also , Hitchcock delves deep into sexual frustration and how it affects some people . there is much humour to the film also , especially the scenes where the meals take place and the police commissioner cannot stand his wife's food . the trademark mark Hitchcock Cameo is here ( he's the one who doesn't applaud at the beginning ) and there is one truly genius use of camera-work where the murderer is standing between two paintings of females , denoting that he has killed two women . but the London setting has aged very badly and some of the typecast English people are laugh out loud ( all ' what , what ' and ' alright guv'nor ? ' ) , and there is really no need for the face that one of the victims pulls as it does make you chuckle , but the film is tense and there are some wonderful set pieces . after 40 years in the game , Hitchcock still shows he is the master of suspense
an amazing feat . . . . . .	The cycle of life the Emperor's penguins is disclosed in this wonderful documentary . Every autumn , these animal leave the safety of the ocean and march along twenty days to a place called " Oamack " . Once there , they select their mates , they procreate , protect and feed their offspring and after months they return to the sea . Later , their progeny go to the ocean , where they stay for four years , and when they reach their adult life , they follow the same pattern of their parents . . . . with the great cinematography , amazing soundtrack , and with a familiar voice in the narration of Freeman , this can be assured as great viewing . charting the arduous journey of the titular animals , this is gripping stuff from the beginning , sometimes funny , sometimes heartwarming , and sometimes very harrowing . the film never takes its eye off the penguins , even when disaster hits the animals . sometimes they are shown as tough animals , sometimes heartless , but what they go through puts us humans to shame . they go for months without food . they have to endure extreme weather whilst nursing their young , but they never give up , never falter and never forget about their young . a fantastic documentary with some great cinematography . a film that will be remembered for years to come . a very intimate look into the lives of these animals , with very up close and personal shots of some very intimate moments . exceptional viewing .
punch it , baby !	Steve McQueen and Ali Macgraw star as a couple who are on the run from various people lawful and lawless in this classic example of movie making in the seventies . it's plain to see why McQueen was hailed As the ' king of cool ' in his reign in the sixties and the seventies , because he just acts everyone , including Macgraw off the screen , without doing much than looking cool . the chemistry between the two leads adds a lot to the story and makes the scenes between them more intense . my only quibble is with the subplot invading McQueens former partner on the trail of the couple , with another couple . it adds a depressing element to the film and does require fleeting through on repeat viewings as it adds nothing to the story or narrative . Peckinpahs direction is impeccable and shows him at the top of his game . a great classic , that was unduly tarnished in 1994 with the pointless remake .
short sleeve , or long sleeve ?	In 1999 , in Sierra Leone , Solomon Vandy dreams on the day that his young son will become a doctor . His dreams are shattered when the rebels invade his village and kidnap him to work in the diamond mines . Solomon finds a huge pink diamond and while hiding it , the commandant of the rebels sees , but the rebels are attacked and Solomon is arrested by the government army . While in jail , the wounded commandant tell the prisoners that Salomon found the stone , and the mercenary smuggler Danny Archer from Zimbabwe releases Solomon and proposes to exchange the diamond by his missing family . Using idealistic American journalist Maddy Bowen , Danny locates the wife and daughters of Solomon in a refugee camp , but is informed that his son has been recruited by the rebels . Solomon and Danny consolidate a partnership , with Salomon looking for and finding his son , and Danny looking for the diamond and finding redemption . . . Even though this is a genuinely interesting and involving piece of cinema , it cannot decide whether it is an action movie or a political piece of propaganda . in one instance we see Solomon and Archer on the hunt for his son and the diamond , in the next instance we are treated to government officials discussing ' conflict diamonds ' . obviously from the political point of view , the movie is based on fact , but it's Solomons journey that lies the heart of the film . Hounsou has never been better in his role and is easily the best thing about it . DiCaprio just about pulls off a good accent , but is disappointing compared to his role in the Departed . Connely appears to be there just to tie up the political and action point of the movie together , and unfortunately , there are stereotypes in the movie . but the film is full of extraordinary camera-work and the use of scenery is astounding . the script is wonderful , giving the three leads plenty to chew on . but some scenes are disturbing and unnecessary , as everyone should already know of the plight of Sierra Leone during the films setting . but all in all , it is a fascinating film , that will continue to elevate DiCaprios ' career and give Hounsou more recognition that he deserves .
your head always loses . . .	Frank McCloud travels to a run-down hotel on Key Largo to honour the memory of a friend who died bravely in his unit during WW II . His friend's widow , Nora Temple , and wheelchair bound father , James Temple manage the hotel and receive him warmly , but the three of them soon find themselves virtual prisoners when the hotel is taken over by a mob of gangsters led by Johnny Rocco who hole up there to await the passing of a hurricane . Mr . Temple strongly reviles Rocco but due to his infirmities can only confront him verbally . Having become disillusioned by the violence of war , Frank is reluctant to act , but Rocco's demeaning treatment of his alcoholic moll , Gaye Dawn , and his complicity in the deaths of some innocent Seminole Indians and a deputy sheriff start to motivate McCloud to overcome his Hamlet-like inaction . . . it's such a tight film to watch and very tense throughout , that one has to loosen their belt whilst watching this . from the arrival of Frank to the hotel , things seem very uncomfortable for the viewer . we know that something is up , and we know that Frank knows that something is up , but says nothing . Claustrophobia is a big element in this movie , as all the characters are confined to tight spaces throughout , in the wheelchair , locked in the closet , not coming out of a room , and the visual evidence of all the cast sweating whilst waiting for the storm to pass over . Huston directs like the master he is , and the movie never lets up until the final reel . if you like you film noir in sunny climates , this is for you .
hear me roar . . . . . .	in this , the second Batman movie , megalomaniac businessman Max Shreck sets a plot against Gotham City in motion . He is joined by the Penguin , a deformed and rather deranged man abandoned at birth by respectable parents . the Penguin , backed by hoodlums and real penguins , runs for mayor . The plot is further complicated by Selena , a wronged secretary who transforms into Catwoman , a villain with mixed motives . Keaton returns in his best role with much relish , but by this time he must have known that the villains took centre stage . Burton again uses his sets on a grand scale , and takes art nouveau to a new level . again plot-wise , it is as thin as a catwalk model , but the spectacle is still there and the ' story is a little darker this time . the penguins back-story is a very sad affair and although we know his bad intentions , we cannot help but feel a little empathy for him . the same can be said foe Kyle , a pathetic character until her transformation , but even then she carries a chip on her shoulder . the show stealer this time is Walken as Shreck ( a little nod to Nosferatu ) . his hair might be mad , but he is the most ' normal character in the whole thing . it's a shame Keaton did not do a third , because the series went seriously downhill from here ( up until Begins ) . but with the great cast , great score and some fantastic set-pieces , this is a great movie that again stands the test of time .
vintage van damme	this is it , van dammes finest hour . yes people will say that bloodsport and kickboxer were his best films , but this is the closest that he ever got to ' acting ' . his final big release at the UK cinemas is unforgettable for two reasons . 1 it's the best die hard rip off out there 2 van damme fights a woman in a penguin suit . powers Boothe does his best Alan rickman impression as the bad guy who wants power and money and it is up to van damme to save the day . using make shift bombs , chicken legs and taking his shirt off , he manages to thwart the villains several times before encountering Boothe in a comedy wig and moustache . be warned though there are some shocking scenes , the benecio del toro looking guy taking the old lady hostage is unpleasant and totally not called for , but then again this makes you want van damme to win the day even more . very funny moments , this film does not take itself seriously and all the better for it . it's just so unfortunate that his career went downhill from here .
the dark side of 16 . . . . . . .	one of the most beautiful films i have ever seen . to say the cliché ' if i could put this movie in frame and hang it on my wall if i could ' is an understatement . but most the characters are all very ugly on the inside apart from heidi , who i will get to in a moment . this film is the anti-amelie if there was to be such a thing . where amelie changed peoples lives for the better and made them appreciate it , heidi effects them in many a different way a lolita type subject without herself knowing ( in some ways ) . the film had me asking questions such as was a very innocent girl who came across some nasty people , or is heidi a clever licitly girl with a plan . is she amelie or a catherine trammell like character ? maybe i am looking into this too far but i could not help it . there are hints of lynch in the movie ( the man in the car staring at heidi reminds me of mulholland drive ) and it boasts a soundtrack cameron crowe would be proud of . all in all a very intense film about taboo passion and what can happen if you take a bite from the forbidden fruit . if you fu ck with heidi you get fu cked up . excellent .
hellloooooooo . . . . . . . .	when a group of activists break into a laboratory , they unleash a deadly virus into the atmosphere , known as ' rage ' . from the credits sequence we learn that the world has been quickly infected and only a few have survived . we then meet Jim who is oblivious to the fact that this has happened as he was in an accident and been comatose for a while . after walking through the sparse London he encounters the ' infected ' but is saved by Selena and Mark who inform him of what has happened . Jim is devastated and discovers that his parents are both dead . when Mark is killed by Selena ( because he has become infected ) they venture around and fin find a father and daughter who have been staying in their flat to protect them from the infected . they learn that ' salvation ' is in Manchester and meet up with some soldiers , but who are the real monsters ? ? from the Stark opening imagery of a bare London , this film is unsettling as it is entertaining . it's a simple story , but done with so much passion and hard work that it's impossible not to enjoy . there are some jaw-dropping moments , not only the desolate London , but when Selena kills Mark and gives no second thought to the act . these peole are the minority now as the infected dominate the demography . the film changes it's pace in the second act when they reach Manchester and we forget about the infected for a while , due to the savagery of the soldiers . heartbreaking in places , funny in others , but never taking that sense of dread from your mind as you learn that nowhere is safe . the only let down is the ending . had they kept it downbeat as originally planned , this would have been a masterpiece , but t is slightly marred by the ending . still a great British movie though , and the cast are fantastic and also the camera-work demands praise , for showing a ' no frills ' attitude toward the film .
i want to meet the wizard . . . .	Nicholas Van Orton is a shrewdly successful businessman who is accustomed to being in control . although he feels like he is slowly becoming like his deceased father , Nicholas has regular flashbacks to the day his father committed suicide , maybe thinking that his life is going down that route . his life goes under a profound change when his Brother Conrad gives him an unexpected birthday present that soon has devastating consequences . . . . after watching this for the first time in nearly nine years , one thing has become apparent to me , this movie is so like Tyler Durdens speeches in Fight Club . the object of the game is to free yourself from the doldrums of the day to day rat-race , and the first act of the movie implies that Orton will eventually commit suicide just like his father . Douglas ' character echoes Gordon Gekko , that he hasn't many real friends and talks down to anyone who isn't very close to him . is CRS a gift from Conrad , or is it a lesson in the real world . in Fight Club , Tyler durden talks about being at rock bottom will only let you appreciate your life more . well when this happens to Orton , we do see some difference in his character . whereas in the beginning , it is referred that Orton has really never wanted for nothing , has always got what he wanted , hear the line what Penn delivers ' what do you give to the man who has everything ? . at the beginning of the third act , Orton starts to realise what life is like being the average Joe , realising what it's like not to be waited on hand and foot , and has a big dose of self realisation . this is what makes the film so very interesting and the story very exciting . the same sadly cannot be said for the gaping plot holes , which mark the movie down . there are a few , and after viewing this with a few people , there will be a few ' what if . . . ? ' questions . but the performances are great and Douglas puts in one of his best performances in a long time . the film is very dark in places , and the soundtrack does hint to ' se7en ' in some stages . ala in all a very interesting movie about life and self realisation .
how much courage does it take to walk out on your kid ? . . .	Ted Kramer is a career man for whom his work comes before his family . His wife Joanna cannot take this anymore , so she decides to leave him . Ted is now faced with the tasks of housekeeping and taking care of himself and their young son Billy . When he has learnt to adjust his life to these new responsibilities , Joanna resurfaces and wants Billy back . Ted however refuses to give him up , so they go to court to fight for the custody of their son . . . with fantastic performances from all three of the titular cast , this is a very hard film to watch sometimes , but it has an original idea for once , it puts you on the side of the father , even going to the extent that you actually begin to feel bitter toward the mother . it's sometimes funny to watch , but underneath it all , we all know that Hoffmans character is suffering a great deal due to his loss and the heavy pressure that has been put on his life . Streep is excellent in her role , she plays the mother well , and even though a lot of the audience would resent her for what she has done , one must admire her for having the courage to leave her only child to find herself . it's a phenomenal movie , that would cause great arguments between a lot of different demographics , it's well written and the narrative flows like water . well worth the tears to watch this . .
where does he get those wonderful toys ? . . . .	After a young boy witnesses his parents ' murder on the streets of Gotham City , he grows up to become the Batman , a mysterious figure in the eyes of Gotham's citizens , who takes crime-fighting into his own hands . He first emerges out of the shadows when the Joker appears , a horribly disfigured individual who is out for revenge on his former employer and generally likes to have a good time . but the identity of the ' bat ' is unknown . on paper this would never had a chance , Keaton as batman ? now seventeen years later , he still reigns as the best batman ever to grace the big screen . Keaton has the mystery and the painful expression , that would inflict somebody who saw there parents murdered . story wise , this film has none whatsoever , but what we are looking for is pure spectacle , and Burton delivers it in droves . from the fantastical sets , to the set-pieces , to the Elfman score , the film high fives the fans until they can take no more . but the star of the show is obviously Nicholson , who has a ball as the Joker . his transformation is something of legend , and he has never been this fabulous on screen since ' the shining ' . Burton respects the comics by focusing on the history of Wayne and how he became ' the Bat ' and also does the same for Napier . all of the cast do well in their respective roles and add gravitas to the immense production . only bettered by ' returns ' the film sails past it's two hour running time so briskly , you will wonder where the time went . standing the test of time , this will please fans and newcomers alike , and just show us how masterful Hollywood can be when they treat a franchise with respect . one of the best comic book movies ever .
Sweded ! ! ! !	Jerry is a junkyard worker who attempts to sabotage a power plant he suspects of causing his headaches . But he inadvertently causes his brain to become magnetised , leading to the unintentional destruction of all the movies in his friend's store . In order to keep the store's one loyal customer , an elderly lady with a tenuous grasp on reality , the pair re-create a long line of films including The Lion King , Rush Hour , Ghostbusters , When We Were Kings , Back to the Future , Driving Miss Daisy , and Robocop , putting themselves and their townspeople into it . They become the biggest stars in their neighbourhood . it's true that this is a really funny film in the second act , when they are remaking the aforementioned movies . Def and Black gel really well on screen and at times , political correctness is thrown out of the window for laughs ( eg . the Rush hour 2 remake ) . but it's not all about a video store trying to make money , the films that the two are making , are bringing a pretty crumby community together , and regaining trust and friendship on the street . the ' movie ' screening in the end is fantastic and it really makes foe one of the first feelgood films of the year . Black doesn't go over the top like he does in most of his film , and makes him more endearing , but Gondry has made an amazing film , giving people the wrong impression of what the film perceives to be , and what you actually see when you watch the movie . a real pleasant surprise , and hilarious in places .
hope you have a pleasant fright Mr Bond . . .	After a ship sunk off the coast of Albania , the world's superpowers begin a feverish search for its valuable lost cargo : the powerful ATAC system , which will give its bearer unlimited control over Polaris nuclear submarines . As Bond joins the search , he suspects the suave Kristatos of seizing the device . The competition between nations grows more deadly by the moment , but Bond finds an ally in the beautiful Melina Havelock , who blames Kristatos for the death of her parents . . . . . a back to basics bond after the fun and frolics of ' Moonraker ' and ' the spy who loved me ' . this features some great skiing , Ariel shots and some amazing cinematography . although after watching the previous two , this can become a little tiresome in some places , but keeping faithful to the short story and borrowing from other Fleming source material , there is a lot to be gained from this bond outing . heavily referencing ' on her majesty's secret service ' in the pre-credits sequence , Bond at his wife's grave side and his final confrontation with his nemesis ( allegedly ) ' Blofeld ' , this is great to watch after Lazenbys outing , but the pre credits sequence does feel like it is from another movie . Moores most serious Bond film out of his seven outings , this has limited gadgets and Henchman , but still keeps a little of the tongue-in-cheek and one liners that made Moore's Bond his own . with some great support from Glover and Topol , the story is really good and the narrative carries the set pieces smoothly . one set piece that stands out is the skiing scene which involves the bobsleigh and Moore and even a young Charles Dance . a great film if not the most exciting , this is a really personal Bond film and one that stays very faithful to Flemings material . a must see
would you like a Hershey bar ? . . . .	An aristocratic British youth is separated from his family at the start of World War II after the Japanese Army invades British controlled areas of China . Reduced to living on the street and fighting for food , the youth is eventually interned in a Japanese POW camp for British civilians . Here , admiration quickly develops both for captured American pilots and the Japanese themselves . When the war ends , the boy torn from everything he knew attempts to again find his parents . . . . . a harrowing piece by Spielberg , in what could be one of his finest movies made . the grandiose set pieces , the sets , the narration and direction all flood the screen like gold when being watched . all the cast here are very strong and add gravitas to the movie . Bale in particular is fantastic as Jim and proves that he deserves the star status that he has today . a great movie and one that will stay with you long after the film has finished
it's a hard life if you don't weaken .	the film follows the life of Arthur Seaton , a Nottingham working class jack the lad , who goes through the week doing his mundane job and spends the weekend down the boozer spending all of his hard earned . you can tell that Arthur is fed up with this sort of life , through his narration and all of the ' antics ' he gets up to during the duration of the film . Arthur is having a fling with one of his work colleagues wives , Brenda and they become pregnant . not having any of this , Arthur seeks help from his aunt Ada , who tries but fails to abort the unborn child . when Brendas husband finds out , Arthur is beaten up by his two brothers , and Brenda and her husband decide to bring the baby up as their own . another sub-plot in this film involves Arhturs more happier courtship with young Doreen , a shy girl who takes a fancy to Arthurs ' boyish ways . she is the total mirror image of Arthur , not liking to drink and doing as her mum tells her too , but Arthur warms to this , and supposedly they get married and live happily ever after . this film works on two different forms of narrative and story . Arhturs dark side ( his affair with Brenda ) and his light happy side ( hi romance with Doreen ) . each of these blend seamlessly with each other as Arhtur goes about his business in 1960 Nottingham . his narration goes somewhere along the line of ' i'm destined for better things and i will make something of myself ' a dream that many a working class person has thought but has never done anything about it . this is evident at the end of the movie when Arhtur and Doreen are overlooking a building sight and Arthur realises that he will just have to settle with being another nobody . a great film about working class people with some very sharp dialogue and a bravura performance from Albert Finney . this film still feels as fresh and controversial as it did back in the sixties . by no means a depressing film , this actually makes you realise how good people had it ' in the old days ' and how we suffer today . in the old cliché , ' you could go out and leave your back door open ' is evident in much of this film as their is no real sense of danger in Arthuers world as he is just a normal working class man in his twenties with dreams of something better , and he sticks a great big middle finger up to society and the pressures of everyday life . a film for anyone who has worked a hard day in their life , and a great showcase of British cinema
if you're going to lead people , you have to have somewhere to go . . .	references to time , metaphors of heroin and drug addiction and homages to film noir , this is one of the most underrated films of the eighties . coming home injured , namely colourblind and deaf if the film has anything to do with it , the motorcycle boy comes home to discover that his brother , rusty James is going down the same slippery road he did . laced with quotable phrases and featuring an eclectic cast ( if the film was to be made today , it would cost millions in wages ) , the expressionistic monochrome pays off , painting a picture of what would happen if you aspire to be someone who isn't wholesome . in my own opinion , it is a metaphor for drugs , the soundtrack visceral and maybe connotations for what is going on in the characters brains . the references to time , almost every scene features a clock or watch of some sort ( maybe indicating that time stands still when you are hooked , see the scene where Rourke and Dillon are talking to the cop whilst standing behind a bare clock face . or maybe when you are hooked , time goes fast , see the scene where Dillon confrontates cage , outside Billy's billiards , the clouds fly by almost surreal ) . standout performances are obviously , Dillon and Rourke but also Diane lane , a very beautiful and talented actress who Coppola knows only too well that she is beautiful , most scenes where her face is in the main frame , the camera goes on to a soft focus . the camera work is also very vivid at times , especially when alcohol or playing pool is evident . a classic eighties movie which is a crucial piece for anyone who is interested studying the art of film .
what is it about the dark ?	Scientist Peyton Westlake is working on a project to create synthetic skin . Now the skin he has developed has a flaw - - it will not remain stable for more than 99 minutes . His girlfriend , Julie , a lawyer is investigating a developer . She leaves some incriminating documents at Peyton's . One night Peyton was working when the lights in his lab went out , he then discovers that the synthetic skin has remained stable past 99 minutes , he deduces that it's because of light that the skin doesn't remain stable . And it is at that moment that a psychotic criminal , Robert Durant appears demanding the documents that Julie left there . They beat up Peyton , and after finding the documents they blow up Peyton's lab . Peyton was blown away and everybody believes he is dead but in reality , he was found , burned seriously and a new procedure was performed on him that renders him unable to sense pain , he also now has tremendous strength and is now prone to violent outbursts . He is now working on perfecting the synthetic skin and at the same using his technology to make synthetic skin masks of the men who attacked him so that he could strike back at them . . . so Spiderman wasn't the first superhero that Raimi made a film about . what we have here is a very dark and sometimes a very visceral experience , about a man who has to come with the terms of his conditions . this isn't someone who wants to protect or uphold the law , the titular character is out for revenge plain and simple . Raimi has put some Gothic element into Peytons flashbacks and they standout on screen , in the eighteen years since the film has been made , the effects are decidedly dodgy , but the film and story still feel fresh and vibrant today . Darkman is not your typical hero , he is very complex and misunderstood , but this makes the film more intriguing and in depth , as you never know when Peyton / Darkman will turn . the story is pure filler , but thanks to some great performances and a cracking score from Elfman , this is one roller-coaster ride . plus Bruce Campbell makes a little appearance at the end . a great movie .
cyborgs don't feel pain , i do . . . .	A cyborg assassin called " The Terminator " is sent back through time to 1984 to kill the seemingly innocent Sarah Connor-a woman whose unborn son will lead the human race to victory in a bitter future war with a race of machines . If the Terminator succeeds , mankind is doomed . Sarah's only hope is a soldier from that post-apocalyptic war , who has chased the Terminator back through time . The future of the human race depends on which one finds her first . . . from the opening sequence of Schwarzeneggar appearing on earth as the titular character , this isn't your average science fiction film . the images are gritty , and make the film appear very realistic and showing the future as a very depressing place to be ( lightyeaers away from Star Wars ) . the story has to be one of the best and simplest to come from a science fiction film , and doesn't get bogged down by all the scientific spiel other movies of this genre can get stuck trying to explain ( the plot is basically explained by Reese when he is being interrogated ) , and just lets the movie get on with the action and the ' chase ' . the set pieces are stunning and quite unsettling , everyone knows by now that it takes a hell of a lot more than a bullet to kill a cyborg . from the first shoot out at the tech-noir to the final confrontation at the factory , he film still feels fresh today , as it did over twenty years ago . the effects are obviously looking dated now , but for such a minuscule budget , they are inventive and new . the cast are all very good , but this is Schwarzeneggers movie , as he commands every scene he is in and makes a very convincing killer , or maybe this is his best role as he has very little to say ! ! Cameron shows his skills as a director and makes relationships and trust a pivotal part of the plot . overshadowed by it's far superior sequel , ' the terminator ' is till one of the best films of the eighties and gave Hollywood one of it's biggest stars and best sci-fi franchises ever ( although the third has to be taken with a large pinch of salt ) . a great movie
beer is supposed to be taken internally John ? . . .	Things aren't going well for John McClane : his marriage is breaking up , he's been suspended from the force and now the brother of Hans Gruber , the German terrorist he threw off a building a few years back , is threatening to blow up a school if McClane doesn't run around the city solving his demeaning and dangerous puzzles . With the help of Zeus , a Harlem electrician , McClane discovers Gruber's plot to distract the NYPD while he clears the federal bank of billions of dollars of gold . . . . what Mctiernan has done in this sequel is turn the die hard genre on it's head by not confining the movie to one place ( any other movie , this would not be classed as die hard on a . . . . ) . Bruce is back , and at the beginning he isn't the sprightly McClane we all know and love , no , this is a man who is a heavy drinker , and living life on the brink , after being suspended . we then meet Zeus , through one of the series most funniest set-pieces , and he instantly dislikes John ( but everybody does in McClanes world ! ) , and has a few views on race and discrimination , but this is a minor sub-plot to the enjoyment that the rest of the film gives the viewer . soon McClane is back to his normal self , shouting out one liners and being injured to a very large extent . the twist with Simon being Hans ' brother is a neat one , but i feel it was just placed in there to lure viewers back for a third time , as we find out that Simon could not care less about his history with McClane . but it's a great summer film , with some great set pieces and Jackon and Willis make a fine double act . no where near as good as the original , but above the Harlin sequel . great movie
Master Wayne , you've been gone a long time . . .	As a boy a young Bruce Wayne watched in horror as his millionaire parents were slain in front of his eyes , a trauma which led him to become obsessed with revenge but his chance is cruelly taken away from him by fate . After disappearing to the East where he seeks counsel with the dangerous but honourable ninja cult leader known as Ra's Al-Ghul , he returns to his now decaying Gotham City overrun by organised crime and dangerous individuals manipulating the system whilst the company he inherited is slowly being pulled out from under him . The discovery of a cave under his mansion , and a prototype armoured suit leads him to take on a new persona , one which will strike fear into the hearts of men who do wrong - he becomes , Batman . In the new guise , and with the help of rising cop Jim Gordon , Batman sets out to take down the various nefarious schemes in motion by individuals such as mafia don Falcone , the twisted doctor / drug dealer Jonathan ' The Scarecrow ' Crane , and a mysterious third party that is quite familiar with Wayne and waiting to strike when the time is right . . . after the debacle of the last two batman movies , we finally get a film that has to be one of the maturest comic book adaptations out there . casting Bale as Wayne was a great move by Nolan , especially for anybody who has seen American Psycho , because he can play tortured soul effortlessly and what a cast . they all put in great performances and the story and the narration are backed up by some great editing and cinematography . if you are expecting the Gothic tone of Burtons movies , or the tongue in cheek-ness of Schumachers attempts , you will be sorely disappointed . this is a must for any fan of the dark knight and the final scene with ' a calling card ' is fan-boy heaven .
no ticket ! ! ! . . . . .	After Adolf Hitler & the Nazis fail to obtain the Ark of the Covenant , Hitler orders the SS and Wehrmacht to go after the cup of Christ - the Holy Grail . Indiana Jones is pressed back into action after a mining magnate's lead researcher disappears mysteriously . The lead researcher is none other than Indy's dad , the feisty Professor Henry Jones . Meeting up with Dr . Elsa Schneider in Venice , Indiana & Marcus Brody discover that a 2nd marker that reveals the location of the grail is buried in the catacombs of a converted church . Escaping from rats , fire , gunmen , and a ship's propeller , Indy discovers that his dad is being held in a castle on the German border with Austria . When he & Dr . Schneider reach the castle Indy locates his father , but Elsa proves herself a turncoat , and even worse - so is the mining magnate , Walter Donovan ! After Indy & Henry escape the castle , they head to Berlin to get the map & Henry's diary that provides critical information to those who seek the Grail . Marcus , however , is kidnapped by Nazis in Iskenderun , and Indy & Henry meet up with Sallah and start their own journey toward the ' Canyon of the Crescent Moon ' . They run into Donovan & the Nazis , and a huge fight ensues . Will Indy obtain the Grail and gain eternal life for himself & his father , giving the world a future of light , or will Adolf Hitler & the Nazis triumph and send the armies of darkness marching all over the world ? though this isn't the best in the trilogy , it's still one of the best adventure movies to ever be released , and with the addition of Connery as Jones's dad , there is a lot of fun to be had with the two leads . not even with the banter that they share , even the body language in some scenes is laugh out loud , eg , when Indy is on the bike with his dad in the side car , dad ' s not impressed with the way Indy handles the Germans , even if the audience is . the story as usual is very exciting , and the villains are fantastic as always , but what makes this film different from the other two is that the opening prologue , does potentially ruin the mysticism of Jones , we learn in this film how he got his fear of snakes etc , and although Phoenix does a fantastic impression of Ford , it didn't really have to be in the film . saying that though the film rumbles along at a fast pace , has some extremely funny dialogue , and is pure popcorn fun . a classic movie .
killings as easy as breathing . . . . . .	The next chapter finds Rambo recruited by a group of Christian human rights missionaries to protect them against pirates , during a humanitarian aid deliver to the persecuted Karen people of Burma . After some of the missionaries are taken prisoner by sadistic Burmese soldiers , Rambo gets a second impossible job : to assemble a team of mercenaries to rescue the surviving relief workers . . . Stallone has again resurrected one of his best loved characters and rejuvenated them for the new millennium . this is an action movie that knows what action means , and it shows on screen , almost all the way through . the opening scene is as visceral as anything in ' saving private Ryan ' and Stallone makes a point of lingering on the pain and torture that these poor people have to go through on a daily basis . the best way to see this movie is to forget parts II and III ( even though there both good in there own right ) and remember Rambo as the angry young man who had everything against him in First Blood , as this is how is character is during the film . even though Stallone is in his sixties , he just about pulls off the job as the titular character , and is as broody as he was in the forest back in 1982 . though be warned , it is extremely violent , and if you saw the three minute preview posted on the net a while back , it's all here . but it's a great movie and at a very good running time and Stallone ends the movie Just as the first movie began . a must see for action , Stallone and especially Rambo fansit does not disappoint .
my darling , my blood . . . . .	Frankie Dunn has trained and managed some incredible fighters during a lifetime spent in the ring . The most important lesson he teaches his boxers is the one that rules life : above all , always protect yourself . In the wake of a painful estrangement from his daughter , Frankie has been unwilling to let himself get close to anyone for a very long time . His only friend , Scrap , an ex-boxer who looks after Frankie's gym , knows that beneath his gruff exterior is a man who has been seeking , for the past 25 years , the forgiveness that somehow continues to elude him . Then Maggie Fitzgerald walks into his gym , a poor thirty-one year old waitress from the very lower classes and with a dysfunctional loser family , decides to make a difference through boxing . She convinces Frankie to coach her and be her manager , with the support of his old partner Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris , who sees her potential as a boxer . Frankie practically adopts Maggie along her career . . with some fantastic performances from all the main players concerned , the film is very different to the one that was shown in the trailers , along somewhere in the second act , the film takes a very macabre turn , and the rest of the film is history . the element of surprise here is that when the film was initially released , and if you have not read the source material , it will shock and take your breath away . the central characters are well scripted and Eastwood puts in his usual grizzled role like he has in the last ten years , but there is something a little different in his role here , there is a human side a very vulnerable side to his character , something is haunting him , but we never find out until the very end . Freeman as always is standout , and is very similar to his Red character in ' Shawshank ' ( that he is the narrator of the story , but it isn't really narration ) and Swank certainly deserves her academy award for her performance . the film shows that as he gets older , Eastwood is becoming an amazing director . he has had one or two blips ( the rookie . space cowboys ) but when he wants to make a good film , he certainly can take on the best , and put in a very near career best performance . see it , before someone spoils it for you .
watch the skies . . . .	Roy Neary is one of several people who experience a close encounter of the first kind , witnessing UFOs flying through the night sky . He is subsequently haunted by a mountain like image in his head and becomes obsessed with discovering what it represents , putting severe strain on his marriage . Meanwhile , government agents around the world have a close encounter of the second kind , discovering physical evidence of otherworldly visitors in the form of military vehicles that went missing decades ago suddenly appearing in the middle of nowhere . Roy and the agents both follow the clues they have been given to reach a site where they will have a close encounter of the third kind : contact . . . a stunning movie from beginning to end , i cannot believe how after thirty years the movie still could stand tall with other movie being released now . Dreyfuss is perfect as Neary , a chap who is obsessed with a mountain after a ' close encounter of the first kind ' . but it's a strangely adult movie , not one for young children , as sometimes the film can become on the verge of being quite scary . Spielberg out does himself in the final act , you really do feel as if you are there standing in awe with the rest of the crowd , and the cinematography and editing is second to none . a breath of fresh air if the only sci-fi films you watch are films like ' war of the worlds ' and independence day ' . this is a timeless classic .
have you ever seen any of your victims ?	An out of work pulp fiction novelist , Holly Martins , arrives in a post war Vienna divided into sectors by the victorious allies , and where a shortage of supplies has lead to a flourishing black market . He arrives at the invitation of an ex-school friend , Harry Lime , who has offered him a job , only to discover that Lime has recently died in a peculiar traffic accident . From talking to Lime's friends and associates Martins soon notices that some of the stories are inconsistent , and determines to discover what really happened to Harry Lime . . for once a movie that can almost be put in the category of perfect , The Third Man is a classic piece of film noir . from the ever so discrete about Martins luck throughout the movie ( he walks under a ladder at the very beginning ) , to the paranoia we share with him toward the final act . the film is beautifully shot and the use of lighting in this film is phenomenal to the shadows on the street walls , to the eerie never ending labyrinth like corridors of the the sewer , to the startling revelation of Lime in the doorway . the film is way ahead of it's time in narration and mise en scene , and the performances from the cast are exceptional . the characters are written well , as watching the movie , no , experiencing a masterpiece , you never know who is telling the truth and what they are hiding , from the doctor , to the police inspector , Martins can trust no one but himself , he is even unsure whether Lime is guilty of the crimes he has been accused of . but this is good reasoning from him , he only has the word of the police , and the company that Lime kept is hardly trustworthy . maybe Lime did these acts because there was something more sinister going on than selling Penicillin , but like Martin , one will never know why Lime was so desperate to get away . one could easily say because he faked his own death and ? killed the hospital porter , but this is why the film works on so many different levels . the story can be deciphered in many different ways , was Lime a double agent or was he just doing what he did for greed ? you must see this film .
my rug was stolen . . . . .	Jeffrey " The Dude " Lebowski is the ultimate LA slacker , until one day his house is broken into and his rug is peed on by two angry gangsters who have mistaken him for Jeffrey Lebowski , the LA millionaire , whose wife owes some bad people some big money . The Dude becomes entangled in the plot when he goes to visit the real Lebowski in order to get some retribution for his soiled rug , and is recruited to be the liaison between Lebowski and the captors of his now " kidnapped " wife . . . . . owing a lot to the film noir of the forties , and Phillip Marlowe mysteries , The Big Lebowski is a skillfully made noir picture , come comedy , come western . Bridges plays the ' Dude ' ( probably his best ever role ) with ease , and has such a laid back karma about him , you cannot help but dig the guy , after all he is in all but one scene , and out classes everybody else in the movie . the rest of the movie features oddball characters and red herrings we all expect with noir movies , with a little musical number or two thrown in . but what makes the film so exceptional is the execution of the story . the main problem that gets the ' Dude ' into this situation is so academic , it's almost ' curb your enthusiasm'-esquire . with good support from Moore , Goodman , Gazarra , and Hoffman , there is not a bad scene in this movie , and the narration is fantastic , but one important part that makes the movie is the actual soundtrack . it is not incidental music , as there is always a source which the music comes from , which is a clever element , as noir movies sometimes depended on the music . all in all a fantastic movie , with a great cast , script , and direction . a must see .
meet me . . . . in Montauk . . . .	On a Valentine Day , Joel Barish feels the impulse of going to Montauk instead of working . After spending the cold day on the beach , he meets Clementine Kruczynski on the train station and they have a crush on each other . Joel and Clementine do not know that they were mates in the past . Joel has just erased Clementine from his memories when he found that Clementine did exactly the same , when their relationship ended . However , along his erasing process , Joel becomes astonished when he finds that he still loves Clementine and he does not want to lose her , fighting for keeping the memories of their moments together instead . . . This movie gives a new meaning to " You never know what you've got until it's gone . " , as we see Barish fighting along the waves of layered stories , stark effects , ans subliminal images to try and save his relationship with Clementine . the film delivers the feeling that we have dropped into someones sub-conscious as we remember their best dreams and nightscapes . surprisingly , the film is really easy to understand , but very difficult to explain . Carrey is perfect as Barish and Winslet fantastic as Clementine , they have great chemistry together and along with the story , really hold the film above others that have been released so far this century . the film reminds me of waking up from an amazing dream , and a couple of seconds later realising that your back to reality . this movie is the couple of seconds between dreamworld and reality . It'll make you realise that at the end of the day , our memories are all we really have , and when they're gone , we're gone , so why waste time contemplating on the cringe worthy memories that happen to everybody ( things you have said , or done ) and concentrate on the things that have made you feel great . this film has to be seen more than once to appreciate it's rich narrative , hidden meanings and mise ' en scene . one of the best films to be released so far this century . amazing .
let's get the flock outta here . . . . .	my dad introduced me to this film in 1988 when i was eleven years old . i remember being absolutely blown away by this movie , which is one of the two best action films of the late eighties ( the other being die hard , and Predator is a sci-fi , so it doesn't count ) . Gibson plays Riggs , a man who has lost his wife and has nothing to live for . ha is assigned to work with Murtaugh , a man at the other end of the spectrum , has a loving family , and is well respected as a police officer . usually i would stae that this has all the cliché's of the ' buddy cop ' movies , but this is the one that defined that particular sub genre , and watching it 19 years after the first viewing , it still feels as fresh and as vibrant as it did back then . the film does have minor flaws when viewed , but this just adds to the charm of the picture . the chemistry between Gibson and Glover is electrifying , and the script , by Black , is one of the best he has ever written , and is still endlessly quotable to this day . all the boxes have been ticked for this kind of picture . over the top set pieces ? you've got it , from the very tense desert showdown , to the Torture sequence , all the way to the fantastically over the top fight at the end . plot wise , the story is good , if unoriginal , but the story goes second place to the character arcs the two leads have . seeing the directors cut shows just how lonely and desperate Riggs is , from paying a women to watch TV , to the obvious suicide references from the cinematic release . Riggs is the heart and soul of the film , and you really do care about him come the end of the movie . hilarious , action packed , dramatic and exciting all at the same time , the film doesn't let you breathe for it's duration , and they certainly do not make them like this anymore . the best in the series , this is a raw action movie , and sadly , Riggs became softer and softer as the sequels progressed . if you yearn for the good old days where the action star was very un-pc and wasn't a perma tanned wooden actor , this and die hard will give you the nostalgia you need . no one is too old for this sht
my mother told me to be wary of fawns . . .	In 1944 fascist Spain , a girl , fascinated with fairy-tales , is sent along with her pregnant mother to live with her new stepfather , a ruthless captain of the Spanish army . During the night , she meets a fairy who takes her to an old fawn in the centre of the labyrinth . He tells her she's a princess , but must prove her royalty by surviving three gruesome tasks . If she fails , she will never prove herself to be the the true princess and will never see her real father , the king , again . . . . an exquisite piece of cinema from Del Toro . nothing has been left to the imagination in layer upon layer of sumptuous story telling , brilliant use of mise ' en scene and cinematography and sets that will make the best Hollywood blockbusters cower in shame . the story is very easy to grasp , but very difficult to explain and the film contains some very graphic imagery , but this doesn't pale the films meaning and terrifying undertones . who is the fawn / is He merely a trick of Ofelia's imagination ? . or is he a reality ? ( debate could be held here , because the only other human who is present at the same time as the Fawm , is the captain , who at the same time is under the influence of medication and alcohol , so could he have missed him ? ) the three challenges are more gruelling to Ofelia as the film progresses and become more gruelling for the viewer . but which sub-plot is the most interesting to you ? is it the war backdrop with Ofelia having to come to terms with living with a monster for the rest of her life ? or is it Ofelia having to trust a potential monster for eternal life ? not all questions are answered , but the film is so innocent , yet so barbaric , that by the end you will make your own mind up . and the ending , which path do you choose ? the sweet ending where all is happy , or the bitter ending , where all is left cold . another great movie from Del Toro who knows how to tell a story , and get the best from his cast . exceptional .
i feel like the ghost of a total stranger . . . .	Camden College . Sean Bateman is the younger brother of depraved Wall Street broker Patrick Bateman . He's also a drug dealer who owes a lot of money to " fellow " dealer Rupert Guest , as well as a well-known womaniser , for he sleeps with nearly half of the female population on campus . Lauren Hynde is , technically , a virgin . She's saving herself for her shallow boyfriend , Victor Johnson , who's left the States to backpack across Europe . Her slutty roommate , Lara , has the hots for Victor as well . Paul Denton , who used to date Lauren , is openly bisexual and attracted to Mitchell Allen , who's dating Candice to prove to Paul that he's not gay . Sean loves Lauren . Paul loves Sean . And Lauren may love Sean . . . the shallow world of the college scene is exploited in Roger Averys finest piece to date . in this movie everyone is out for themselves and they end up being a lonely facade of society . the technical aspects of this film are wonderful . from the split screen sequences joining together , to the subliminal images of the girl who sends Bateman letters ( very Tyler Durden ) , to the magnificent three minute sequence of Victor travelling Europe to the music of TomandAndy . the narrative can be very confusing at times , as the beginning is the end , maybe a connotation of college students lives , the beginning of the end . it raises lots of questions regarding falseness and trying to fit in , with some fantastic performances from all concerned , the movie is a must for anyone studying the art of cinema . cruelly overlooked on it's initial release , this is destined to become a cult classic , and it looks amazing on Blu-Ray . if you are a fan of Bret-Easton Ellis , this is the perfect film for you . watching this with American psycho would make a great evenings entertainment , just to show you how shallow the world can be and how false others are .
this is my last pair . . .	Mr . Magorium never outgrew his toys , pretty remarkable , considering the guy is 243 years old . Magorium , a lively fellow with wild hair , a pet zebra named Mortimer and a fondness for shoes , has been running Mr . Magorium's Wonder Emporium for the last century or so . It's a place that makes Toys ' R ' Us look like the DMV where Legos build themselves , fish-mobiles are made with real , wriggling fish , and balsa-wood dinosaurs play with Frisbees . But big changes are ahead . See , Mr . Magorium has worn out his last pair of favourite shoes , and since he bought enough to last a lifetime , he knows he's about to die , er , depart , as he puts it . So Magorium hires a stuffy accountant ( whom he immediately dubs Mutant ) to determine what his store is worth and prepares to hand the whole thing over to his day-to-day manager , Molly Mahoney . . . . Another excellent family movie that was unfairly overlooked when released in the cinema . from the start , we are catapulted into a magical wonderland , hosted by a fantastic Dustin Hoffman . his character is lovable , like the worlds best grandparent with an added bit of Willy Wonka , and Hoffman excels in his role . but the film isn't just for kids , it has a whole other depth to it , and at times can be quite emotionally moving . it's slim running time keeps the fun at a fast pace , so the kids will probably never get bored of it . i never did , it brought the big kid out in me . .
i'm wearing em ' for a bet , what's your excuse ?	Mods , New Romantics , and Skinheads are the major youth sub-cultures of this very English summer of 1983 and young 12-year-old Shaun is left wandering aimlessly alone and lost during the start of his school holidays , until his chance meeting with Woody and his fun and friendly Skinhead pack . Finding a new lease of life ; girls , parties , Ben Sherman shirts , Doc Martin boots and shaven hairstyles young Shaun is welcomed , life during this summer holiday has got a whole lot better . That is until Combo arrives on the scene , a bitter , dangerous , racist , militant and psychotic life for young Shaun has just approached his first major crossroads . This is England is a look back at the early eighties of British working-class life through the eyes of young Shaun and his new gang , and dealing with the bitterness of outside influences such as racism and xenophobia , of mass unemployment and the fall out of the Falkland's War ; Thatcher's Britain : Did we ever have it so good ? Sahne Meadows has made his most important and most grown up piece of work with this movie which is very hard to watch , but never the less very entertaining . a friend of mine said ' they wouldn't be able to make films like this now ' not knowing that the film is relatively new . this is the attention to detail that Meadows has done for this film . all the exterior sets and design are straight from the eighties , and he has hit the nail right on the head with clothes , music , and basically the attitude that certain people had with the era and ' Thatchers Britain ' . the film is very funny to begin with and the performance from Turgoose is amazing . his transformation from bereaved loner , to skinhead is scary yet somehow elating to watch , as he has finally found some friends who listen . but the film belongs to Graham as Comboe , probably the most frightening and real character seen in British cinema . his monologues hit home hard , and as the characters say on numerous occasions , there is an atmosphere whenever he is around . his character is so unpredictable and unstable , but yet he sometimes appears to be the most mature person in the film , a very bad father figure for Shaun . an amazing experience , both visceral and nostalgic ( in the first act at least ) for those growing up in the eighties .
we are not a country club 007 ! ! ! !	The story opens with Bond and Felix Leiter , on their way to Leiter's wedding . Meanwhile , DEA agents spot drug lord Franz Sanchez flying into Cray Key , Florida , where he catches his mistress in bed with another man . The DEA dispatches a helicopter to collect Leiter in an attempt to capture Sanchez , and Bond tags along . The pair capture Sanchez by pulling his plane out of the air with a Coast Guard helicopter , and then parachute down to arrive at the wedding on time . Later that same day , DEA agent Killifer assists Sanchez in escaping federal custody , lured by Sanchez's promise of two million dollars for whoever aids him in escaping . Leiter and his new wife , Della , are captured . In retaliation for Sanchez's capture and imprisonment , Leiter is bound and lowered into a shark tank ; the shark bites off the lower half of one of his legs . After hearing the news of Sanchez's escape , Bond returns to Leiter's house to find Della dead . Bond finds Felix , maimed but still alive , bearing a note from Sanchez : " He disagreed with something that ate him . " a furious James Bond sets out to hunt and kill those involved in his friends ' torture and mutilation . with his licence to kill revoked , bond goes it alone out for revenge , and will risk everything to get Sanchez . , , in Daltons last film as Bond , he tales all the campness of Moore and the suaveness of Connery , and throws it aside for a gritty revenge tale . hated by many bond fans and critics alike , this was a box office failure when released in 1989 ( might have had something to do with Lethal Weapon 2 and Batman being released at the same time ! ! ) but this is by far one of the most interesting bond films ever made . Dalton is flawless in his role , and gives Bond the edge he so needed in the eighties after Moores poor last two films . with some great support from Benicio Del Toro and Cary Lowell , but the film has to go to Robert Davi , whose portrayal of Sanchez oozes charm and pure evil . with great locations , great narration and story and some very violent set pieces , this is one Bond film that will stand the test of time . it's a sham Dalton only did two .
final answer ? ? ?	The story of Jamal Malik , an 18 year-old orphan from the slums of Mumbai , who is about to experience the biggest day of his life . With the whole nation watching , he is just one question away from winning a staggering 20 million rupees on India's " Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ? " But when the show breaks for the night , police arrest him on suspicion of cheating ; how could a street kid know so much ? Desperate to prove his innocence , Jamal tells the story of his life in the slum where he and his brother grew up , of their adventures together on the road , of vicious encounters with local gangs , and of Latika , the girl he loved and lost . Each chapter of his story reveals the key to the answer to one of the game show's questions . Each chapter of Jamal's increasingly layered story reveals where he learned the answers to the show's seemingly impossible quizzes . But one question remains a mystery : what is this young man with no apparent desire for riches really doing on the game show ? When the new day dawns and Jamal returns to answer the final question , the Inspector and sixty million viewers are about to find out . At the heart of its storytelling lies the question of how anyone comes to know the things they know about life and love . . . an absolute masterpiece in storytelling , Boyle has done something that no one has done before , someone reflecting their life via the gift of ' who wants to be a millionaire ' . it's funny in places , heartbreaking in others , and at times , feels like a fantasy movie . the cinematography is second to none , and all the cast are fine in their respective roles . although it's predictable thanks to the title , it's an uplifting feelgood movie , even though it sometimes it borders on the dark side . it's violent in places , but doesn't justify it's r rating . it's a beautiful story , full of beautiful moments and an excellent soundtrack , leading to some brilliant characters and marvellous set pieces . i urge you to see it . . .
hey , there's the pants . . .	Enid ( Thora Birch ) and Rebecca ( Scarlett Johansson ) are best friends having difficulties with the social attitudes of other people . After graduating high school , they decide to get a job and rent a house of their own . However , Enid needs to attend Arts summer school to graduate but her anti-social behaviour makes her lose her job . Meanwhile , Enid and Rebecca play a prank on Seymour ( Steve Buscemi ) , a middle-aged collector of vinyl records that also has difficulties with relationships . Seymour and Enid eventually become friends . As time goes by , Enid reaches maturity and develops a different view of life . an excellent adaptation of the titular comic book , Ghost World is just that , a town that appears to be like something straight from twin peaks , and every character that utters a line has something kooky or kitsch about them . maybe this is Zwigoffs intentions with the film , but after the second act you become to realise that Enid and Seymour are the most normal people you could ever meet , but if you were to pass them on the street , you would have to stare at them . the film is hilarious in parts and heartbreaking in others ( i felt guilty along with Enid after playing the prank on Seymour ) and this is because the characters are so interesting and have had great thought to them . Buscemi steals the film though , and this could be one of his best performances to date . it's got cult classic written all over it , and if you happen to come across this gem , rent or buy it , you will surprised how much you relate to the move . amazing
i don't like food , i love it . .	A rat named Remy dreams of becoming a great French chef despite his family's wishes and the obvious problem of being a rat in a decidedly rodent-phobic profession . When fate places Remy in the sewers of Paris , he finds himself ideally situated beneath a restaurant made famous by his culinary hero , Auguste Gusteau . Despite the apparent dangers of being an unlikely - and certainly unwanted - visitor in the kitchen of a fine French restaurant , Remy's passion for cooking soon sets into motion a hilarious and exciting rat race that turns the culinary world of Paris upside down . Pixar and Brad Bird have ' cooked ' up another wonderful visual ' feast ' for our eyes . with the incredibles , he gave a whole new depth to the computer animated movie , with it's sharp vibrant colours and great characters . he has usurped himself yet again with this delightful film , with a great story , and actors that voice the characters so good , you cannot really tell who is acting in the film ( until i looked at the cast on IMDb , the only memorable voice to me was O'Toole who is fantastic as Ego ) . again the animation is beyond belief and this has to be the best family film released since finding nemo . the good guys are all lovable , and the bad guys all hissable , it's like watching the cinematic equivalent of a pantomime . so the plot is predictable , we all know by now that everything will turn out fine in the end with a couple of hiccups along the way , but there are enough movie references for adults and pixar fans alike to keep everyone entertained for 110 minutes . highly recommended
clarky cats . . .	all i can say is that this series and the special are a work of genius . it's out to offend as many people as possible , but no one can doubt the sheer intelligence , balls and insanity of one Morris . every episode is laugh out loud funny , and the celebs who are in this must have low IQ's because it's blatantly obvious what is going on . my favourite episode is ' drugs ' , which is endlessly watchable and laugh out loud funny every time it's viewed . the article on ' cake ' ' a made up drug ' is ingenious , and i could imagine Morris in fits of laughter whilst writing some of the alternative names for the drug . obviously it's not for the daily mail reader , or people without a broad mind . but if you can swallow sheer audacity of the show , it's a winner . every single time . one of the best programmes channel 4 has ever commissioned
it's a sin to kill a mockingbird . . . .	Presenting her tale first as a sweetly lulling reminiscence of events from her childhood , the narrator draws us near with stories of daring neighbourhood exploits by she , her brother " Jem , " and their friend " Dill . " Peopled with a cast of eccentrics , Maycomb finds itself the venue of the trial of Tom Robinson , a young black man falsely accused of raping an ignorant white woman . Atticus Finch is appointed to defend Tom for whom a guilty verdict from an all-white jury is a foregone conclusion . Juxtaposed against the story of the trial is the children's hit and run relationship with Boo Radley , a shut-in who the children and Dill's Aunt Stephanie suspect of insanity and who no one has seen in recent history . Cigar-box treasures , found in the knot hole of a tree near the ramshackle Radley house , temper the children's judgement of Boo . But fear keeps them at a distance until one night , in streetlight and shadows , the children confront an evil born of ignorance and blind hatred and must somehow find their way home . . one of the finest movies ever to be made and featuring in my opinion a career best performance from Peck , the movie centres itself on prejudice and segregation . the courtroom scene is tear-jerking when Tom tries to defend himself . everybody in the courtroom ( judge included ) knows that he is innocent , but they cannot let him free , because he is beneath them . but Finch believes that all men are equal , and this is the moral of the tale . the most notorious character of the tale though is one Boo Radley , and before we learn about his character , he is deemed to be sinister , and for the audience who are watching the movie and knowing about the segregation and the discrimination the films story carries , one could instantly think that Boo Radley is black , thus giving his nickname Boo , as a surprise to the audience , when we finally get to see the character . but the the connotations in this movie are fantastic and the narrative is excellent , this truly has to be one of the best films made in the last century . simply wonderful .
it depends on who's waiting for you on the other side . . . .	Elizabeth's heart is broken . For solace , she drops in late at night a few times at Jeremy's diner for blueberry pie a la mode ; they talk . Once , he watches her sleep , her head on the counter . Abruptly , she leaves New York City to get away from her pain . She works a couple of jobs in Memphis . There , a heart-broken cop is drinking himself into oblivion , his ex occasionally showing up where he drinks and Lizzy works . Then , she's in Nevada , working at a casino where she uses her savings ( she wants a car ) to stake Leslie , a busted gambler , in a high rollers ' game . After , Beth drives Leslie to Vegas where Leslie's estranged father lives . Broken relationships . What about Jeremy ? . . . i've had this on blu-ray since July , and i came across it today . finally saw it , and i'm amazed at just how emotionally charged and full of love this movie is . it's three stories under one narrative , and Jone's character is finding herself whilst becoming involved with people she hardly knows and joining them on their path of redemption . the scenery is stunning and for his first English language film Wong Kar Wai has done a really good job making this movie . he gets impressive performances from all involved , and the little sub-plot about Keys is heart melting . the final kiss between the two leads is one of the most sensual things ever committed to screen , this is the perfect date movie , and the perfect pick me up for when you are down , or to cheer someone up when they are down . makes you want to get on a bus and just go somewhere . . . .
into the head ? into the heart ?	The L . A . of a not-too-distant future suffers a surge of drug abuse involving a new ultra - addictive and eventually brain-damaging substance simply named " D " . Robert Arctor is an undercover narc leading a double life , dutifully reporting to his superiors while effectively having abandoned whatever normal existence he had for a " D " user / dealer career . But this schizophrenic situation and the drug-induced memory and concentration lapses put Robert under mounting stress . are you who you think you are ? that was the question going through my head after seeing this amazing movie . at last a movie that really makes you think about the point of this little thing we are involved in called life . should we be paranoid ? should we believe what the media tell us ? they say that people who are addicted to a drug are paranoid . but aren't we all paranoid and obsessive to an extent . this happens to Arctor as the film progresses , is the substance ' D ' making him paranoid , or is he just paranoid anyway . maybe a bit of both . his friends certainly don't help matters and then Robert starts to hallucinate in his weird and wonderful world . the film is almost flawless and the cast are perfect in their respected roles . Linklater has made the film possible using the same style he used for ' waking life ' . i cannot imagine another way to make this film possible . having never read the source material i wsn't sure what to expect , and although sometimes the film is a struggle , it does eventually ' come ' to you at the end . but at times the film makes you feel a little dirty and a little depressed . imagine Living the Life of Arctor and try not to feel a little depressed . friends who are losers hanging around you all day , making you paranoid and trying to get you into trouble . this film makes you feel guilty about addiction , whatever the addiction maybe . even the scene where Arctor is remembering ( possibly imagining ) his family , he takes a sip of beer , and i even felt bad that i had drank alcohol at all . a great film to watch , but keep an open mind and you may get something amazing . just expect to feel a little dirty after . an exceptional movie .
never start with the head . the victims get all fuzzy . . . .	With just one year having passed after taking out Ra's Al Ghul's plan to have Gotham eliminated and the mysterious disappearance of Dr . Jonathan Crane AKA the Scarecrow , and after the city was nearly plundered with his toxins , Bruce Wayne and his vigilante alter-ego the Batman , continue the seemingly endless effort to bring order to Gotham , with the help of Lt . James Gordon and newly appointed District Attorney Harvey Dent . But a new threat has now emerged into the streets . The Dark Knight faces a rising psychopathic criminal called The Joker , whose eerie grin , laughter , and inhuman morality makes him as dangerous than what he has yet to unleash . It becomes an agenda to Batman to stop the mysterious Joker at all costs , knowing that both of them are in an opposite line . One has no method at all and seeks to see the world plunge into the fire he has yet to light . One represents the symbol of hope and uses his own shadow to bring the peace and order he has yet to accomplish doing . . . what is there to say about this movie that hasn't already been said ? the best movie of last year is also the best Comic Book movie ever , and has some of the most character development ever seen in a movie . going down the predictable , path , Ledger absolutely owns this movie , his Joker is the most psychotic , mysterious , and downright scary movie villain incarnation ever to hit the screen . why ? because you never find out how he got ' those ' scars , telling people different stories about them . his agenda . he has none , except anarchy . this is a man with nothing to lose and has no reason for doing what he does , apart from one thing , enjoyment . this is what makes him a truly monumental adversary . the cinematography is amazing , especially the parts filmed especially for IMAX , and adds a whole new depth to Gotham and the film . the supporting cast are amazing and Eckhart as Dent , brings emotion and depth into a love triangle . Bale is as good as always , and Caine provides the much needed balance of humour and empathy to Wayne's world as he goes through his most difficult time . heavily influenced by Heat , The Dark Knight is worth watching again and again , it has amazing production values , good narrative structure and some of the best editing and sound i have ever heard . a film that really does live up to the hype . .
' how come he's so good at killing people ? '	Tom Stall is a wholesome American family man wit a Lot of respect for the town he lives in , and the townspeople respevt him too . he runs a coffee shop and goes home to his loving family . one evening , when he is just about to close , two strangers enter the shop and are prepared to kill an employee and rob the shop . before any of this happens though , Tom immediately reacts and kills the men in a brutal way . with all the media hype surrounding him , he attracts attention from all over the state and from some unsavoury characters . a disfigured man , Carl Fogarty , Believes him to be a member of a mob and that his name is really Joey cusack . and he will not leave tom or his family alone . it seems that his act of heroism has thrown his and his families lives in turmoil . . . . . for a David cronenberg movie , this is a very accessible ' light ' movie . all the characters are different and have wonderful lines and the casting of mortensen and bello is second to none . they deal with with tragedy and panic so well , they may as well be married in real life . this film basically disowns violence . yes in some scenes the film is very violent , but i believe that that is purposely done . what cronenberg is trying to explain here is that no matter what reason you commit violence for , you will always come off worse at the end . Toms marriage begins to falter , his son takes a leaf out of his dads book and commits violence . and of course his past catches up with him . Harris is truly terrifying in his role , and has an air of menace whenever he is on the screen . the only weak link in this movie is William Hurt who is miscast as Joeys brother . a great film declaring that everybody has skeletons in their closet and that nobody is perfect . ironically perfect .
Victims , aren't we all ? . . . .	Shelly and Eric were very much in love . But no one gets married on Halloween , not in Detroit . Shelly is raped and beaten by city boss Top Dollar's thugs , only to die 30 hours later in a hospital . Eric is shot and pushed out a window . A year later death is no longer what it was as Eric Draven , accompanied by a Crow and gifted with new powers and a world of grief and pain , is brought back to life to avenge his love's death . After all , love is forever . And some of us Believe in Angels . . . what could have been just another average comic book action movie , turns out to be a really dramatic and romantic love story , with a hint of vengeance . this is partly thanks to Proyas , who has made a very impressive set and layout , and the source material from O'Barr , which is very tragic to say the least . you cannot but be biast about Lee though , because even though he was tragically killed on set , it's very difficult to tell his stand in from the real thing . Lee puts in such a tragic and sympathetic performance , that whenever he is off screen , the film drops a little . Wincott puts in another gravelly performance as ' top dollar ' the boss who had the couple killed that tragic night . the film is great to watch , and the connotations are rife on screen , as when the crow becomes weaker , Dravens make up becomes more fainter . the set pieces are wonderful , as is the soundtrack , if you want a proper tragic ' superhero ' movie , you could do a lot worse . but also read the graphic novel too , it will make the movie more prolific .
we played with life and lost . . .	In Paris , 1900 , two friends , Jules ( Austrian ) and Jim ( French ) fall in love with the same woman , Catherine . But Catherine loves and marries Jules . After WWI , when they meet again in Germany , Catherine starts to love Jim . . . This is the story of three people in love , a love which does not affect their friendship , and about how their relationship evolves with the years . . . . . one of the most enigmatic pictures ever to be released , this film is the epitome of cool whilst watching the on screen chemistry between the menage a trois . for a ' talky film it is highly erotic in places and the tension between the two titular characters becomes unbearable toward the end . played with fantastic bravura by the three leads , the film is poignant , passionate and exuberantly directed by Truffaut and is one of the best of the ' nouvelle vague ' entries . this has to be seen . as important as anything in the Louvre or any poem written , simply beautiful
hey lady ! you call him Dr Jones ! !	if you really want to get trivial this is a prequel to Raiders of the lost ark . Indiana Jones is on the brink of a deal with Lao Che when he is doubled crossed by him when he is poisoned . a fight ensues and Jones ends up on a plane with his sidekick Shortround and Che's girlfriend , Willie Scott . the plane crashes and the gang end up being welcomed into a small village where there have been mysterious things happening and children going missing . Jones agrees to help the villagers and recover three stones of mystical power , believed by the villagers to have been stolen by the ' thugee cult ' . going to a palace and meeting various creeds and ethnicity , Jones uncovers something more sinister . The children are being used as slaves and that human sacrifices are being made to the cult . Only Jones can save the day . in my opinion , this is the best of the trilogy , starting in club obi wan ( tribute to star wars ) , the fun never stops . the fight in the club is laugh out loud and exciting ( Jones punching a female cigarette vendor is my highlight ) and from the start , you can tell that the production values are very , very high . although this is supposed to be a family film , it is very dark , and at times , disturbing . the sacrifice featuring the villain Mola Ram ripping out a heart , is very sadistic and started to show the dark side of Spielberg . but the essence of Indiana Jones is still there , big stunts , excellent music , very funny script and a knockout performance from Harrison Ford as Jones ( probably the best of the trilogy ) . Kate Capshaw does help Ford a lot tough in their love hate relationship . When they are sharing the screen it is pure magic . other standout moments are : the dinner scene ' chilled monkey brains ' hilarious and at the same time revealing important plot points . Jones turning evil and then turning good again . makes you want to cheer like a school kid when he starts kicking butt ! ! Indys fight with the big guard ( who is in all three films ) funny and quite sickening . the hammer hitting the mans head always makes me laugh . the mincart chase . the effects are cheesy now , but Spiel berg makes it exciting , still after 20 + viewings . and the homage to raiders of the lost ark . even though it's set before raiders , it's still funny . one of the best adventure films ever made , Fords second best performance and gets better with repeat viewings . essential cinema for any movie aficionado
awe-inspiring movie . . .	The film revolves around Park Hee-bong , a man in his late 60s . Park runs a small snack bar on the banks of the Seoul's Han River and lives with his two sons , one daughter and one granddaughter . The Parks seem to lead a quite ordinary and peaceful life , or maybe a tad bit poorer than the average Seoulite . Hee-bong's elder son Gang-du is an immature and incompetent man in his 40s , whose wife left home long ago . Nam-il is the youngest son and daughter Nam-joo is an archery medallist and member of the national team . One day , an unidentified mutant suddenly appears from the depths of the Han River and spreads panic and death , and Gang-du's daughter Hyun-seo is carried off by the monster and disappears . All the family members are in a great agony as they have lost someone dearest to them . But as they find out she is still alive , they resolve to save her . . . at first look at the movie poster and the trailer , one could be forgiven that this is in celebration of the Japenese Godzilla series . but when viewed , ' The Host ' is a very different movie indeed . What we have is a drama about a humble family coming to terms with loss and how small they are compared to the government and politics . to the government , they are just numbers , but obviously to the family , they are the most important thing happening at the moment . the family become desperate , knowing that no one is listening to them , indicating that the military have made their minds up about their plans and will do them regardless of their public . it's not a monster movie , it's about the medias ability to influence the public into a stat of panic and paranoia , and then leaving them to get on with it . with references to the SARS virus and other political hot potatoes , the host is an exceptional movie about thee human psyche and reaching ones goal . the effects are marvellous and the story and cinematography is fantastic , and also having great performances from the cast . with stark imagery from the upstart , ' The Host ' ends with a chilling picture of the future , two human beings all alone in a shack in the middle of a ( nuclear ) winter . impressive .
if it bleeds , we can kill it .	Arnie plays dutch , the leader of a team of commandos who have orders to rescue a group of hostages from somewhere in the jungle . they take along Dillon ( carl weathers ) an old friend of dutch , who plans to set them up in return for some vital information . with Arnie and his pumped up crew ( including bill duke , Jesse Ventura , sonny landham and one Shane black ) failing to save any of the hostages ( the set up ) something more sinister is lurking in the jungle waiting for them and wanting to hunt them down , for sport . . . . this is by far the best action film of the eighties , and one of Schwarzenegger's best . the claustrophobic setting and minimal cast brings a whole lot more than the alien versus Arnie high concept initially thought . with a minimal cast , it means we get to care for them and learn their traits and downsides . one by one they are killed in more and more gory ways , and with the group becoming more paranoid and unaware of the situation , the more we guess which one we be killed next . we obviously know that Schwarzenegger will live and kill the beast , but it's the way the film is executed that makes it such a fun ride . the last twenty minutes of the film are the most tense and probably Arnie's best acting up until then ( let's be fair , he didn't have much dialogue in the last twenty minutes ) . the tension builds when the predator cannot see dutch through the thick layer of dirt and the predator knows he has a worthy foe . both using the jungle and camouflage to their advantage , they fight to the death man against beast . funny in parts and moving too in parts , this is a film that should be viewed when romanticising about the eighties , and father's everywhere , instead of buying your kid a drink when they turn eighteen , watch this with them , it's better for their liver . a priceless example of how strong Arnie was once in Hollywood and the stereotypical eighties action movie
must go faster . . . .	everybody knows the story . Scientists have found a way to bring back Dinosaurs and are successful in bringing back many species . a ' theme park ' is opened and owner John Hammond invites a select few , to view the park and its contents before it opens to the general public . but not too long after , a computer hacker crashes the system and all the fences that secure the creatures are down , and the visitors are trapped right in the middle . . . you have to hand it to Spielberg , when he makes a film he does it in the grandest style . he knows how to entertain and inform the audience , and this is why he is one of the best at his game . a groundbreaking movie that really pushed cgi to a new level and brought sheer entertainment to millions over the world , JP has thrills , chills and laughs in bucketloads , and it's not just thanks to the t-rex . Goldblum is fantastic as sarcastic Mathmatician Malocom , who has all the best lines in the movie and steals every scene he is in . Neill is also great as the Indiana Jones-lite hero . but obviously the real stars of this movie are the dinosaurs and the set pieces . one of the best is the first encounter they have with the t-rex . from the dark set , the rain thumping down on the windows , you can feel the sweat on your palms , then the thunder of its steps begin . this has to be one of the best set pieces of the nineties , lasting over ten minutes , it draws you in to it's world and shows you how quick the creatures evolve . it even has a few laughs thrown in courtesy of a toilet . then Spielberg just ups the ante for entertainment , making Jaws look like a goldfish . the final third act is just stupidly exciting when they are trying to escape the raptors . and then it's over . and then you want to watch it again , and again . there is also a great subliminal moment at the end when the t-rex roars and a banner floats down in front of it stating ' when dinosaurs ruled the earth ' this was the icing on the cake for me . one of the best summer movies ever made , this will stand the test of time .
ironic . . .	the passengers flew on a united flight , the irony is they were united against pure evil at the end . . . what greengrass has done here has made an insightful , important and harrowing film on the last few steps of the fated light 93 journey . he shoes the films from three angles . the passengers , the control crew and the terrorists . what he has not done has made an exploitive film , he has not put any Hollywood into the movie . this is not an enjoyable film to watch , but it is a film that has to be seen . making it in a documentary style just adds to the tension . from the very upstart when the passengers are boarding the flight , it makes for uncomfortable viewing . greengrass has also made the film claustrophobic , putting the viewer right into the air plane especially in the last 30 minutes . without a name cast and using real footage from the attack , he dares to question peoples morals . were the acts of the passengers justified ? yes . but should they have struck at that exact time ? if they had waited for a little bit longer , would these people be with us today ? nobody has any way of answering these questions , but none of this matters when you are watching this . these people were acting on pure adrenaline , not knowing when the plane was going to crash , or what the plane was heading for . the last fifteen minutes of this film were the 15 most unbearable i have spent at the cinema . these poor people died trying to save not just them self , but for the USA . this is a dedication to these poor souls . i urge everyone to watch this as a mark of respect for the people and the families who lost loved ones on flight 93 . one of the most important films ever made .
i must become Caligari ! !	A man named Francis relates a story about his best friend Alan and his fiancée Jane . Alan takes him to a fair where they meet Dr . Caligari , who exhibits a somnambulist , Cesare , that can predict the future . When Alan asks how long he has to live , Cesare says he has until dawn . The prophecy comes to pass , as Alan is murdered , and Cesare is a prime suspect . Cesare creeps into Jane's bedroom and abducts her , running from the townspeople and finally dying of exhaustion . Meanwhile , the police discover a dummy in Cesare's cabinet , while Caligari flees . Francis tracks Caligari to a mental asylum . . . . . an absolute mind fck of a movie , from its nightmarish like sets and the eerie focus that the cameras have on the characters . at just over fifty minutes long , the film is short but never loses track of the plot or the narrative . the final act is made of pure dreamscapes and a real life nightmare as we become aware of Caligari . It blows away all your moral certainties and beliefs . This is the true power of its horror . To leave you vulnerable and uncertain of what you feel was secure and certain . a must see groundbreaking horror
stay out of trouble !	In the aftermath of economic and moral collapse , the city of Detroit has become a cesspool of crime and anarchy , forcing the underfunded police to fall under the stewardship of corporate juggernaut OCP . In his first day patrolling Old Detroit , Officer Alex Murphy is killed by feared gang leader Clarence Boddicker . OCP scientists are able to use Murphy's remains to build a cybernetic soldier codenamed Robocop . Dubbed the future of law enforcement , Robocop begins a one-man war on crime . When memories of his former life begin to surface , Robocop becomes obsessed with tracking down Boddicker and claiming revenge , even as his handlers try to rein him in . . . still twenty years after the films initial release , it feels fresh and original as any other science fiction movie made since . the premise is simple , it's basically the terminator in the present rather than the future , but the execution by Verhoeven is what makes it a much more serious and mature film than the title would suggest . obviously there are Christ allegories rife throughout , Robocop is deemed as Christ , references to this are him walking on water toward the end , being shot in the head indicates the crown of thorns and Boddickers blood at the end references Christ turning the water into wine . but thats if you take film into a whole different level . Verhoevan trademarks are there too , just like Starship troopers and Total Recall we are treated several times to news breaks and advertisements . Weller puts in a stunning performance as the titular character and Bottin has done an amazing job with the ' suit ' . but it is extremely violent at times , but is still one of the best science fiction movies and a sly poke at private corporations trying to but everything . unmissable
' et tu , chuckus '	in his feature film debut , Nick Stahl plays Chuck a boy who has come from a family that has been broken several times . he has no one who can understand him and he has failed an exam that will gain him entry to boarding school to help him escape his mundane life . while on a ferry , he encounters Justin Macloud a kind of legend to the area he lives in as he is disfigured and never troubles anybody . the local children make up urban myths about Macloud , so the majority of people steer clear of him . after a bizarre encounter with each other , Macloud agrees to tutor Chuck to help him pass his exam . they become very close and form a close friendship . but due to the myths surrounding Macloud , Chuck decides not to tell anybody about his tutor , but his secret is revealed in time . . as a first time director , Gibson does a terrific job of filming this very heart-warming drama . he makes great use of the locations , and the child stars are fantastic . most big name starsturned first directors usually do vanity projects , but for Gibson he has totally gone the opposite in his casting of Macloud , a kind of phantom of the opera figure the story is very dark and melancholy , it could almost fall into the same category as ' stand by me ' or even ' the shawshank redemption ' . this is a story about two people finding themselves and discovering the true meaning of friendship . inevitably , the subject content can swerve toward paedophilia , but this is what makes the film more powerful . as the viewer you do tend to empathise with the secondary cast , as if your son was spending time with a hermit you would think the worst . words cannot explain the masterpiece that Gibson has done here and this has been sorely overrated . if you want a great film with good acting and a sublime story , look no further . just make sure you have some tissues at the end . unmissable .
it's forbidden to get caught . . . . .	a misunderstood young boy is driven into a life of petty crime and rebellion , simply because he isn't stimulated enough . he tries hard to do well at school and impress his parents , but every time he thinks he has achieved something , another obstacle comes in his way . so the young boy decides to take the easy way out , and rebel . one of the true new wave films of the late fifties / early sixties , Truffauts masterpiece is way ahead of it's time and shows the constant struggle of being an adolescent or ' the adult knows best ' . in this world the child has no opinion , isn't entitled to one and has a different authority figure at every corner . with marvellous camera work and great actors , the film is a piece of beautiful art . it becomes more enjoyable as the film carries on and the final act in facility is pure movie heaven , Antoine is given the chance to describe how he feels , and opens up to the unseen psychiatrist , and at this point in the movie , we realise that Antoine is the most mature character in the movie . but this could be to do with the fact that the character of Antoine is loosely based on Truffaut himself . the final reel sees Antoine running away from authority , running away from life , running away from himself ? it's not clearly pointed out , but once reaching the ocean and the camera freezing on Antoines melancholy face , he realises that he cannot escape authority , life or himself .
i thought you were Richard Pryor ? . . . .	Frank Cross runs a US TV station which is planning a live adaptation of Dickens ' Christmas Carol . Frank's childhood wasn't a particularly pleasant one , and so he doesn't really appreciate the Christmas spirit . With the help of the ghosts of Christmas past , present and future , Frank realises he must change . . . a re-working of the Dickens classic , what Murray and Donner have done here is make ' Scrooge ' for the wall street generation . Murray shows one of his best performances here as Frank , and is absolutely hilarious , from his bitter venomous start , to his delusional middle , right down to the sentimental man we all knew he was at the end . even though the film is twenty years old , it still feels really fresh and new , and gets more laughs from me with each viewing . it can go from dark to light in an instant , which for some can be a very unsettling prospect , but it all makes sense in the end when frank breaks the fourth wall and tells the audience how he feels . it is truly tearjearking and one of the most heartwarming moments in cinema history . yes , it ; s schmaltzy , yes it's sickly sweet , but it's a Christmas movie , and probably one of the last great ones ever made . it never has a dull moment and sometimes it's just plain bizarre , which only adds goodness to the mixture . Lee Majors ? Bob Goulets old fashioned Cajun Christmas ? Father Loves Beaver ? Richard Pryor ? Brice Cummings ? the innocent window ? a fantastic movie , one that should be viewed every Christmas
boards don't hit back . . . .	Lee , a member of a Shaolin Temple , is a master of the physical and spiritual disciplines of the martial arts , and is being visited by Braithwaite , a British law officer . Lee has been invited to a tri-annual martial arts tournament held on an island owned by Han , a reclusive billionaire who was once a member of the Temple but has now become a renegade . Braithwaite believes Han uses his tournaments as cover for narcotic and prostitution activities . Lee reluctantly agrees to enter the tournament , but his reluctance to confront Han disappears when a Shaolin monk reveals that during the previous staging of this tournament , he and Lee's sister were accosted by several toughs led by Han's personal bodyguard , an American named O'Hara . In the ensuing confrontation the monk cut a deep scar on O'Hara's face but Lee's sister ultimately perished , and at her graveside Lee vows revenge for her death . Also attending the tournament are two American martial arts experts , John Roper and Kelly Williams , who served together in Vietnam and took differing paths toward martial arts upon their discharge - Roper is on the run from Mafia gambling debt collectors , while Williams was accosted by two racist cops whom he'd dispatched before stealing their car to escape . All three will soon find themselves at the mercy of Han and his army of martial arts fighters as he protects his underground factory of narcotics and prostitution . what can said about this film that hasn't been said before ? yes Sammo Hung gets his butt kicked by Lee , yes Jackie Chan sports a moustache and gets killed by Lee , but in my opinion this has to be the best martial arts movie that has ever been made , and in over thirty years , thats one big achievement . Lee emulates the screen whenever he is present , whether this has to do with the fact that he sadly passed on before the films release is that of discussion , but no one can deny the affect of the set pieces . the final 30 minutes just go so quick that it has to be seen to be believed . yes there are continuity problems with the big brawl at the end with shots being used again and again , but thanks to Schafrins timeless soundtrack , it never gets boring . the plot comes straight from a Bond vehicle , very easy to follow and very predictable , but it's the style the way the movie is filmed that makes it legendary . the hall of mirrors sequence is so intricately filmed with so much detail , that one cannot help but look for cameras in the reflections , and not one can be seen . after more than thirty years , the film still feels as vibrant and exciting as the first time i've ever seen it ( 1984 ) and now the most completest version is available to buy on blu-ray , it's time to get out your hard earned , and celebrate the best martial arts movie again and again . indispensable .
if you can dodge traffic . . . . . .	peter lafleur owns the not very profitable average Joe's gym , but he is in trouble as he has not been paying his bills or collecting his membership money . white Goodman is an egotistical fanatic who co-owns globogym , one of the most successful gyms on the planet . when peter discovers he has less than thirty days to pay 50 , 000 dollars , he decides to give everything up , until one of his devoted gym members , comes up with the idea that they should enter the national dodgeball championships in las Vegas . the only problem is that they have never played dodgeball before , and White Goodman has a formidable team . this movie is like the live action version of the simpsons , with all the educational videos , stupid one liners and pratfalls , it's almost a carbon copy . but somehow this film actually works . and it works really well . Vaughn is very likable and his group of gym members are ' average Joe's ' they aspire to nothing and you really want them to win . but the movie is all about Stiller . his white Goodman is one of the greatest creations ever to grace the screen this decade , a sad lonely paranoid man , whose only real friend is ' michelle ' you cannot help but like the guy . he looks like a cross between Colin Farrell in Miami vice and various other eighties stereotypes fused together . the film really kicks off when the tournament begins . with hilarious turns from Jason bateman and Gary Cole , and the film also boasts some of the best cameos i have ever seen . David hasselhoff , William shatner and praise be , chuck Norris . never boring , always funny and with some great quotable lines , this will be remembered as THE frat pack comedy .
asps , very dangerous . . . you go first . .	Indiana Jones teaches at The University of Chicago , where two agents from US Army intelligence tell him of Nazi German activities in archaeology , including a gigantic excavation site in Egypt - a site that an intercepted cable indicates to Indy is the location of the Ark of the Covenant , the powerful chest bearing the Ten Commandments , that the Nazis can use to obliterate any enemy . Indy must recruit a former girlfriend and an old chum in Cairo to infiltrate the Nazi site and make off with the Ark , but along the way Indy gets involved in a series of fights , chases , and traps , before the Nazis learn the full power of the ark . . . . from the upstart of the movie you know that a franchise has been born . the moody soundtrack , the hero in the shadows and then the crack of the whip . we then meet Indiana Jones for the first time . what follows is a prologue that is straight out of a Saturday morning serial . all the traps that await him are fantastic , and then the idol . it's a very eerie scene when we see the idol because Spielberg has used the lighting to make the Idol god like . we all know what happens after that , and Belloq makes the perfect adversary , with his maniacal laughter . we then see Jones ' ' normal ' life and how he is idolised ( the girl with the writing on her eyes and the chap leaving him the apple ) . the movie then quickly moves on to his adventure to find the Ark with some amazing set pieces and characters . the film stands out among other action films because the story is so simple yet amazingly interesting and has a great narrative . the other characters are very fun also and the film doesn't become a chore to watch during the ' talkie ' sequences . from Sallah to Toht , a lot of imagination has been put into these characters and these will stand the test of time as major villains and side-kicks of the silver screen . the set pieces are wonderful and also have a lot of imagination and love put into them . from the opening sequence to the hunt for Marion in the laundry baskets to the opening of the ark , what we have is a real classic . and what makes the action a little more exciting is the fantastic score by John Williams . Ford has never been better in a role than Indiana Jones . Jones wouldn't be Jones ' if it wasn't for Ford ( i cannot imagine Selleck as Jones ' now , High road to China , anyone ? ) , and with great direction from Spielberg and wonderful support from Freeman , Allen , Davies and Elliott , Raiders of the lost ark was a great beginning to the eighties , and one of the best franchises ever made .
listen ! , do you smell something ? . . . . . .	After being kicked out of their university , parapsychology professors Spengler , Stantz and Venkman decide to go into business for themselves by trapping and removing ghosts from haunted houses . After some initial skepticism , business is soon booming as The Ghost Busters rid New York of its undead . When a downtown skyscraper becomes the focal point of spirit activity linked to the ancient god Gozer , however , the problem may be more than the team can handle . . . . 1984 , what a classic year for comedy . this movie , gremlins and Beverly hills cop . this could be remembered that this year could have been the best year for comedy . the chemistry between the four leads is impeccable , and has not been bettered in a comedy . Reitman has never helmed a better film and the plot , story , soundtrack and special effects are perfect for there time . the set pieces are great especially , the initial meeting with slimer , the library ghost , and of course the ' staypuft marshmallow man ' . the film is endlessly quotable with lines such as . ' cats and dogs living together'this man has no dickand lots more . not tarnished by the mediocre sequel ( still very good ! ! ) a classic in all senses , and deserves to be in everyones DVD collection . the only question is , which do you prefer , this , or Gremlins ( both released on the same day , both mega hits , and both spawned sequels and a cult following ) ? great family viewing
we have all the time in the world . . . .	The most emotional adventure of his career begins for James Bond on a deserted beach where a young woman tries to drown herself . He rescues the girl and for his trouble is attacked by two toughs . It soon becomes much bigger for 007 - the girl is Teresa Draco , daughter of crime boss Marc Ange Draco , who wants James to marry his wayward daughter , and in return he can provide 007 with information on an even more dangerous criminal leader - Ernst Stavro Bloefeld of SPECTRE . But both James and Teresa find more than they ever bargained for when their paths collide in a vicious pursuit in the snow-capped mountains of Switzerland , an enormous avalanche , and a smuggling ring for germ warfare against the West by Blofeld . who proves most difficult to kill and who exacts a revenge that James can never forget - or forgive . . . . . best known as the only that starred Lazenby , it is easy to see why it is disliked ( supposedly ) by so many people , it is difficult to adjust to a new bond if you are watching the series in chronological order . but after the credits it soon passes by , and lazenby fits into the shoes of 007 very comfortably . he has great chemistry with Rigg on screen ( even though allegedly they hated each other off screen ) and Lazenby shows that bond can have a human side after all . the story is very good and keeps relatively faithful to the source material and Savalas brings in a good performance as nemesis Blofeld but doesn't shine as well as Peasence did in the previous movie . the final act is great and does leave you with a lump in your throat and a bitter taste in your mouth . it is shame that Lazenby didn't continue his stint as Bond as i would have loved to see what bond would have done to Blofeld in Lazenby form . one of the best Bond films in the series but very overlooked and unfairly treated when it was first released .
whats the most you've ever lost on a coin toss ? ?	in their twelfth feature together , the Coens have probably delivered one of their best movies of their career that can stand proudly with Fargo , The Big Lebowski , and Blood Simple . the film could be a commentary of their respective careers as the film connotates from both sides of the hunter to the hunted , and then having their roles reversed . this must be the year for Brolin , having played three magnificent roles this year , alongside Grindhouse and American Gangster . their is an eerie mysticism about Brolins character , as we see his descent from power after failing to kill a deer . he stumbles across what looks like a gangland hit , only to find a hell of a lot of money and decides to keep it . after his conscious gets the better of him , he decides to take some water to one of the survivors , who begged him for water before . then the hunter becomes the prey , and from there on Brolin is paranoid , unaware that the money has a tracking device which will enable somebody to find it . that somebody is the psychopathic Bardem , an assassin who thrives on mentally torturing people by repeatedly asking then the same question over and over . his character is spontaneous and very sadistic , you never know how he is going to react to his situation . support provided by Jones and Harrelson is fantastic and they add a little bit more to the film in way of narration and plot hole filling , but it's the lack of soundtrack and camera style that makes the film stand out so much . never have i seen a film that has left me feeling so tense during deadly silent parts , you do feel as paranoid as the characters come the end . in usual coen style the characters are kooky and there are full of laugh out loud lines during the film , despite its seriousness . please carry on making films like this Joel and Ethan , it makes be proud to be a lover of film . highly recommended
i am unknowing . . . . .	Antonius Block , a knight , returns with his squire Jöns from the Crusades and finds that his home country is ravaged by the plague . To his dismay , he discovers that Death has come for him too . In order to buy time he challenges Death to a chess match , which allows him to reach his home and be reunited with his wife after ten years away . The knight's faith is war-weathered , and this theme is stressed in one of the scenes in the movie : the knight gives confession to a priest about his doubts whether God actually exists , he tells the priest how he challenged death to a game of chess and reveals his strategy , only to find that the " priest " is actually Death . In another powerful scene of a witch burning , the knight is asked by his squire whether he sees in the victim's eyes God or a vacancy . The disquieted knight refuses to acknowledge the victim's and , in a way , his own emptiness despite his doubts about God . The knight realises that he would rather be broken in faith , constantly suffering doubt , than recognise a life without meaning . this film asks so many questions , but doesn't give many answers to the ultimate question , how would we feel facing death in the eye . although the subject theme is grim and full of despair , one cannot help but fell that the film has some very bright and uplifting moments , especially when Jos and Mia are involved , as they may connotate to Joseph and Mary . these people are the reason for Bloks decision of the outcome of the chess game , as this family , indicate hope in the future , as seen by the happy expression on Bloks face when he first meets them . it has some very haunting scenes , for example , the death dance , the burning of the girl and the interruption of the play by the flagging group . but what is most disturbing about the film , is the little smile that death has throughout the movie . words really cannot explain how this movie effects one , it does make you feel a little low whilst watching , but it's also a little uplifting too .
you lucky , lucky people . . . . . .	The Cardiff club scene in the 90's : five best friends deal with their relationships and their personal demons during a weekend . Jip calls himself a sexual paranoid , afraid he's impotent . Lulu , Jip's mate , doesn't find much to fancy in men . Nina hates her job at a fast food joint , and her man , Koop , who dreams of being a great hip-hop d . j . , is prone to fits of un - provoked jealousy . The fifth is Moff , whose family is down on his behaviour . Starting Friday afternoon , with preparations for clubbing , we follow the five from Ecstacy-induced fun through a booze - laden come-down early Saturday morning followed by the weekend's aftermath . It's breakthrough time for at least three of them . . . . if a film can define the clubbing scene from 1995 to 1999 , then this is that movie . Kerrigan has obviously lived part of the main characters lives , and met people like the ones depicted in the film , because this is about the most truthful and honest film about the clubbing scene that has ever been made . the scenarios and mise en scene are so visceral and real , it's the kind of movie that makes you want Friday to come and just go out and party . like the drugs that the group are taking , the film gives you a sense of euphoria and also can be quite melancholy at times . Simms is great as Jip , the kind of guy that everyone wants to be around , and the kind of guy most people want to be . he's out going , get's on well with everyone and is brutally honest about his life . his network of friends are also the kind of people you want to associate with as they all have their unique positives and negatives . along with this , the soundtrack is so good and so vital to the film , that Pete Tong has done probably his best job ever here with choosing the music . it's a great film to watch with mates or feeling low , but you do realise after watching this , that even though you still may think the best weekend your ever going to have could be soon , it might have already happened . you just didn't realise it because of your drug fuelled come down . a classic movie .
whats in the bag . . . . . .	Lola receives a phone call from her boyfriend Manny . He lost 100 , 000 DM in a subway train that belongs to a very bad guy . Lola has 20 min to raise this amount and meet Manny . Otherwise , he will rob a store to get the money . Three different alternatives may happen depending on some minor event along Lola's run . an amazing adrenaline fuelled movie that is over just as soon as it begins . who knows how this film works , but its seamlessly brilliant , ever changing stories due to some little hiccup , shows how much it can change somebodies life for the better or the worst . maybe the stories are set in parallel universes and they take place in the same tim , but that would open up a can of debating worms . basically the film states to people who think that their life is fixed from the the minute they are born are wrong , we make our own destiny with every step that we take , and the Director has provided us with a beautiful lead , some stunning animation and one of the best soundtracks ever . if you speak English , please watch the subtitled version , as the dubbed version does not do the film justice . one of the most influential films of the nineties .
your baby is the miracle the whole world has been waiting for . .	the film envisages a world almost 25 years from the present day , and the planet has fallen into anarchy on the heels of an infertility defect in the population due to the use of radiation and genetics over the years . the worlds youngest citizen has just been murdered by a fan for refusing to sign an autograph at just eighteen years of age , and humankind is facing the likelihood of its own extinction . the London of this film is torn apart by violence and warring nationalistic sects and refugees are treated like vermin and live in their own ' villages ' somewhere in Sussex . the narrative follows Theo , a bureaucrat who once stuck a middle finger to the system , but suffered heartache prior to the film after losing his own child to the flu . he meets up with his ex-wife who is now leader of a movement who need to escort a young girl to safety . Theo becomes an unlikely champion of earths survival as he knows people in high places and can help the young girl . the young girl is the planets last remaining hope , the first pregnant woman in over eighteen years . when she is threatened , Theo is forced to face his own demons and protect her and the unborn child from certain peril . now that the summer has officially ended , we come to the part of the year when we start to get more serious pictures that can be deemed as Oscar worthy . and if one film deserves to win for best cinematography , then this is the movie . not since ' saving private Ryan ' has someone made a war torn area seem so real and so near , yet still make the scene edge of the seat stuff . having not read the original source material , i had no idea what was in store . but the movie is a fusion of films such as 1984 , 28 days later ( in the dystopian London , nothing to do with plot ) , and several other post apocalyptic movies . but unlike movies like ' bladerunner ' the future only has subtle changes that are really ' blink and you miss them ' category changes . yes the London in this film is full of segregation and discrimination , but the buses have moving advertisements on them , and even the Tate Modern is now someones living quarters . the story though is very topical . what if this really happens ? what if all the damage that we are doing to the earth , causes problems with our genetic pattern ? and we are no longer able to bear children . this would make our existence pointless , and the violence seen in this movie could happen . the film is science-fiction , but the story is very plausible . Owen really shines in this movie , and this could be the movie that will put him up there with the cream of British talent , it also means that he has scored a hat-trick this year with three very good rolessupport is fantastic in the form of Caine , Moore , Ferris and Ejiofor and they bring am edge to the film in their very different roles . the editing is fantastic and the camera work is to die for , with some mind-blowing steady cam shots . one that springs to mind is in the final act where Theo is trying to rescue the baby . the camera never really leaves Theos ' side and we can feel every bullet and explosion with him . an amazing film that has a very touchy sub-plot ( refugees ) and will stick with the viewer long after , and maybe even change the way they take the human life for granted . maybe .
why be a servant to the law , when you can be it's master ?	Johnny Utah is a Special Agent for the FBI . Utah gets partnered with Angelo Pappas an experienced agent who is more than committed to his work . The two are asked to investigate the number of robberies committed by a group called the Ex-Presidents , who wears masks of Presidents Reagen , Nixon , Carter and Johnson for their robberies . Pappas has a theory that the Ex-Presidents are a group of surfers , and asks for Utah to go undercover as a surfer . The problem is , Utah couldn't surf to save his life . With the help of Tyler a competent female surfer , Utah begins to gain the respect of local surfer Bodhi and his group . Utah forms a close bond with Bodhi , but the relationship between Utah and Bodhi becomes limited when Utah suspects that Bodhi and his group are the Ex-Presidents . when this was first released in the UK in 1991 , i was totally blown away by how well the movie had been made , and thought Bodhi was the finest anti-hero ever to grace the screen since Snake Plisskin . 16 years down the line and it still feels as fresh and vibrant as it did when i was thirteen . my only problem is the script , some of it is genius writing , but some of it is really bad ( though i feel this is due to Reeves ' delivery ) . the action is seamless and the set pieces are fantastic , particularly the siege on the house and the now legendary on foot chase scene which has some wonderful camera work . toward the end of the film though Utah starts to become a little like Bodhi , going against normality for what he feels is right . and Bodhi goes for material instead of kinship as this is seen when he picks up the money and leaves roach's body for the vultures . but the best thing about this film is Swayze and the cinematography . Bodhi is a zen like mystical character , a bohemian if you would , and you can feel the anguish in his eyes when he has to resort to violence to get out of a tight corner . Swayze has never bettered himself after playing Bodhi , a truly landmark character . Reeves unfortunately is still in Bill and Ted mode for the majority of the movie . he is the weakest link in the movie and although i hate to say it , his acting is very wooden . support comes thick with Busey , Petty , LeGros , Sizemore and Mcginleybut the film oozes testosterone . whether it's because it's produced by Cameron , or the director Bigelow , likes to see men turning around in slow motion in the rain , one cannot help but yearn to be a little bit like Utah or Bodhi ( even their names ooze machismo ) . but this is purely a boys own film , with surfing , skydiving and profanity a plenty , you could do a lot worse than spend a night experiencing 100 % pure adrenaline with Point Break . look out for the Dirty dancing , Roadhouse and Bill and Ted references . the epitome of early nineties action .
' kids forgive , they don't judge , and what do they get for it ? '	private eye Patrick Kenzie was raised in a poor and dangerous neighbourhood of Boston , and works with his partner and girlfriend Angie Gennaro generally tracking missing losers in debt . When four year-old Amanda McCready is abducted from her apartment , her aunt Beatrice ' Bea ' McCready calls the police and the press , and the case is highlighted with the spots by the media . Then Bea hires reluctant Patrick to work in the case because he is not a cop and based on his great knowledge of their neighbourhood . Meanwhile Capt . Jack Doyle , who lost his own daughter many years ago and is in charge of the investigation , assigns detectives Remy Bressant and Nick Pole to give the necessary support to Patrick . After interviewing the addicted low life mother of Amanda , Helene McCready , Patrick goes to a bar and discloses that Helene was on the streets with her boyfriend Skinny Ray Likanski dealing and using drugs on the day Amanda disappeared . Along his investigation , Patrick faces smalltime criminals , drug dealers , paedophiles and corruption , facing a moral issue to solve the case . . . there are so many questions raised during this film , about who is actually doing right by the little girl in question , that it could cause literally hours of debate between viewers after the film is finished , as we are never given a clear answer during the film . the film not only deals with child abduction , it deals with corruption , taking the law into your own hands , and the thin line between right and wrong ( i cannot delve into it any further , as it would ruin the film ) . what Affleck has done , is taken a very delicate subject matter and treated it very very carefully , never focusing on the abduction too carefully , rather showing the aftermath and the way different people from different classes deal with it . it's skillfully directed and very taut throughout , with the narration clever enough to hold it whenever there is change of direction in the plot . the stellar cast are all really good in their respective role , but as expected , Harris and Freeman really steal the film from everyone else . it can be a very hard film to watch , especially if you are a parent , because by the time the film has finished , you never know who has done the right thing and if they will regret it in time . a fascinating story , brilliantly directed by Affleck , who hopefully will do more directing in future . an absolute must see .
pray and shoot . . .	One night at a bar , an old friend tells director Ari about a recurring nightmare in which he is chased by 26 vicious dogs . Every night , the same number of beasts . The two men conclude that there's a connection to their Israeli Army mission in the first Lebanon War of the early eighties . Ari is surprised that he can't remember a thing anymore about that period of his life . Intrigued by this riddle , he decides to meet and interview old friends and comrades around the world . He needs to discover the truth about that time and about himself . As Ari delves deeper and deeper into the mystery , his memory begins to creep up in surreal images . and surreal is the ideal word to summise this movie . it's such a bizarre feature that one cannot help but be in awe by the vivid images shown throughout the movie . it's technically amazing , a sort of ' a scanner darkly ' animation to it , but more gritty and with so much going on in the background , you have to watch it a second time . it's also disturbing to think that such an impacting part of someones life is just forgotten about , maybe the mind has to erase some bad things to help you to carry on . it's very difficult to watch at times , but well worth it .
don't ever let someone tell you , you can't do something . . .	In 1981 , Chris Gardner was a struggling salesman in little needed medical bone density scanners while his wife toiled in double shifts to support the family including their young son , Christopher . In the face of this difficult life , Chris has the desperate inspiration to try for a stockbroker internship where one in twenty has a chance of a lucrative full time career . Even when his wife leaves him because of this choice , Chris clings to this dream with his son even when the odds become more daunting by the day . Together , father and son struggle through homelessness , jail time , tax seizure and the overall punishing despair in a quest that would make Gardner a respected millionaire . . was i blown away by this film . Smith did an OK job with his performance in Ali , but he puts in the performance of his career with this movie which unfairly knows how to pull every string in your heart until a tear comes to your eye . everything Chris does is for his family , and this film makes the audience realise just how lucky you really are . this guy didn't even have a roof over his head and he still pursued his dreams . the only thing that made me feel bad about this film is the question , what if ? . what if he wasn't offered the job ? what would he have done then / it dreads me to think , but to be fair , this is an Oscar hungry movie and deserves to be . Smith pulled out the dream ticket buy having his own son play his on screen son . this film works on so many levels , though people Will disagree with me . an exceptional drama , about an exceptional story .
if i don't hear from you this time tomorrow , your a dead man . .	It's 3 : 07am and two girls burst into a run down London toilet . Joanne is crying her eyes out and her clothing is ripped . Kelly's face is bruised and starting to swell . Duncan Allen lies in his bathroom bleeding to death . Duncan's son , Stuart , has found his father and wants answers . Derek , Kelly's pimp , needs to find Kelly or it will be him who pays . Kelly and Joanne need to get through the next 24 hours alive . . . from the the good reviews and the hype this film received on it's initial release , i was expecting a lot from London To Brighton , and it delivered the goods as promised . Wiiliams has proved to be one of the directors of the future to watch , and is even given Shane Meadows a run for his money . the outline of the film is simple , revenge . but it's the execution of the film and the bond between Kelly and Joanne that really hold it together . the fact that Kelly is so protective over Joanne shows us that she may be a prostitute , but she has maternal instincts over someone she barely knows , especially for a girl who smokes , lives rough and swears like Gordon Ramsey . Maybe Kelly can see her younger self in Joanne , and doesn't want her to end up the way she has . but it's the females who dominate the movie , as the men are basically typecast gangsters and villains , who do what they say and say what they do , but they are convincing also in their respective roles . camera-work gives a grim depiction of London , whereas films such as Notting Hill give the capital a sugar coated feel to it . this London isn't nice . it's certainly not the film to watch if you are planning a trip there . Brighton on the other hand is shown in an optimistic way at the beginning of the second act , maybe indicating that the two heroines have escaped their reality . the ending though isn't much of a surprise , but while some will be sighing with relief , one would not class the ending as happy . one of the finest British films of the decade , showing that we have talent still here and not relying on millions of dollars to get attention .
a work of comedy genius	Over 20 years after this was first released , this is still absolutely hilarious stuff from start to finish , no matter how many times you watch it . Finally released on DVD in Britain , the jokes never fail to raise a smile , from the cookout story , to Uncle Gus , and his drunk father talking about his house , it's still funny . but also it's one of the most politically incorrect shows i've ever seen , and the opening of Eddies performance and him talking about ' faggots ' may raise a few gasps or tuts now . but because it's wrong to laugh at this sort of stuff now , because you'd end up in court , makes it even more funnier now , than it was . much better than ' Raw ' this is Murphy at his prime , and after Beverly Hills Cop , his career peaked and it was all downhill from there . stop making kiddie friendly films Eddie , we love you saying FK ! ! ! !
sorry , i wasn't aiming at you . . . .	Frank Horrigan is a Secret Service Agent . He currently does mostly undercover work . He goes to check on a report about a person who is threatening the life of the President . When he goes to the man's apartment , he finds clippings and photos of various assassinations throughout history . When he does a background check , he discovers that the man's identity is false . So he goes back to the apartment to get him , but when he goes in there , he finds the apartment cleaned out except for a photo of him when he was in Dallas , November 1963 , protecting Kennedy . Later he gets a phone call from the man and tells him that he plans to kill the President and is daring Frank to stop him . When Frank reports to his superiors , he finds that there are some people like the agent in charge of protecting the President and the Chief of Staff , who think that Frank is letting his failure to protect Kennedy cloud his judgement . But as Frank chases him down , he discovers that he is not dealing with a nut but with a well organised individual . . . . whoever thought of the idea to have Clint Eastwood as a guard for the president is an absolute genius . this has to be one of the most perfect adult orientated movies of 1993 . it's intelligent , witty , and very informative , with Malkovich on top form as the sinister Leary . no expense has been spared on minor details , such as superimposing Eastwoods younger face on flashbacks and photos . it's all slickly directed by Peterson and it's very tense throughout , especially the rooftop chasing set piece . a classic film in every sense , and even though it's ever so slightly patriotic , Eastwoods performance ensures that this film was one of the best to be released in 1993 . a real treat from start to finish .
i used to be the next president of the united states . . . .	Director Davis Guggenheim eloquently weaves the science of global warming with Mr . Gore's personal history and lifelong commitment to reversing the effects of global climate change . A longtime advocate for the environment , Gore presents a wide array of facts and information in a thoughtful and compelling way . " Al Gore strips his presentations of politics , laying out the facts for the audience to draw their own conclusions in a charming , funny and engaging style , and by the end has everyone on the edge of their seats , gripped by his haunting message , " said Guggenheim . An Inconvenient Truth is not a story of despair but rather a rallying cry to protect the one earth we all share . " It is now clear that we face a deepening global climate crisis that requires us to act boldly , quickly , and wisely , " . . . . not trying to scare us with fear factor or number crunching , Gore decides to give us facts , and for once these facts are explained in Laymans terms . what he is talking and explaining about obviously comes straight from the hearty , as when he speaks he makes the subject , however dangerous it may become , almost endearing and hypnotising you . he almost wills you to make a change . scary and reassuring in equal measures , this needs to be seen .
never trust a man whose eyebrows meet in the middle .	an anthology of sorts about symbolic folklore of werewolves , and their sexual connotations . disturbing tales are told about innocent maidens falling in love with handsome men who have a sinister background and a smouldering look in their eyes . as a spin on the classic fairy tales , what Jordan has done is really explain their genuinely frightening originality . they were often referred to as pornography of their time , they spoke of pain , conflict and tragedy as well as love and heroism , yarns of everyday people being thrown into a vortex of fantasy . they are also essential rites of passages , changes and challenges that all children face as they grow up into adulthood . the little red riding hood tale is essentially about dangerous men who seek to dominate virginal maidens , straying off the path of the virginal person , and heading off into the unknown world of passion and eroticism , sexual activity outside of a conventional marriage . the tale would let children develop subconsciously awareness of how to behave in the future , and lessons to be learned in order to reach adulthood . the film establishes the idea that women must do as they are told in a male dominated society ( a message that probably would not go down well today ) but also showing that the heroine is clever enough to rescue herself from the beast , celebrating female strength and ingenuity . made in 1984 , this movie is way ahead of it's time and could sometimes be mistaken for horror , yes the film does have some shocking scenes , but the essence of the film would be wasted to class this as a horror . all the cast are fantastic especially Sarah Patterson as Rosaleen . a great fairytale feel to it and also the film sometimes makes the viewer feel very claustrophobic , because the sets are so close together , but that is integral to the narration . editing , cinematography and lighting are fantastic , also a haunting soundtrack which compliments the film . one of my top ten favourite film , full of visceral scenes , intense eroticism , and disturbing images the movie is a visual feast with timeless appeal for all who appreciate a deep film .
i gave them their . . . . happiness	In 1935 , 13-year-old fledgling writer Briony Tallis and her family live a life of wealth and privilege in their enormous mansion . On the warmest day of the year , the country estate takes on an unsettling hothouse atmosphere , stoking Briony's vivid imagination . Robbie Turner , the educated son of the family's housekeeper , carries a torch for Briony's headstrong older sister Cecilia . Cecilia , he hopes , has comparable feelings ; all it will take is one spark for this relationship to combust . When it does , Briony - - who has a crush on Robbie - - is compelled to interfere , going so far as accusing Robbie of a crime he did not commit . Cecilia and Robbie declare their love for each other , but he is arrested - - and with Briony bearing false witness , the course of three lives is changed forever . Briony continues to seek forgiveness for her childhood misdeed . Through a terrible and courageous act of imagination , she finds the path to her uncertain atonement , and to an understanding of the power of enduring love . an absolutely amazing adaptation of the novel ' Atonement ' really captures the essence of the thirties and the cinematography and narration are some of the best i have seen this year . the film explains the way we perceive things when we don't know the full story , like when you walk in on a conversation , some people get the wrong idea of the conversation , but this story makes this harrowing and unimaginable . the long shot featuring the killing of the horses and the ferris wheel whilst the soldiers walk to the bar , is every bit as amazing as the long shot seen in last years ' children of men ' . but it's the final act that is truly heartbreaking , and for people who have not read the source material , will stick with you a long time after the film has finished . a beautiful piece of work , probably one of the most lavish films of the year , it really has to be seen anyone who is love . .
my name is William Keane . . . . . .	Keane is a genius movie that can be interpreted in different ways . the film is about a loner who is searching for his lost daughter who was abducted from a bus station . living on his own in a motel , he claims disability and spends his time in his room drinking alcohol . when returning to his room , he overhears a woman and her child having trouble paying for their room . after giving the mother some money , they form a kind of friendship , but the mother takes advantage of Keane and leaves him no choice but to look after her daughter . they form a very close relationship , and soon after the mother announces she is leaving the motel with her daughter , leaving Keane alone again . . . . with a great performance by Lewis , Keane can be viewed view two different ways . in one sense , the story can be told as a harrowing tale of a man who has lost his daughter , through his own silly mistake and has lost everything through it and it has caused him to have mental health issues . when he befriends the mother and daughter , he instantly wants to be part of their nuclear family , as a way to make up for the loss of his kin . when he realises that there will be no Chance of this he takes the girl to the place that his daughter was abducted from , and re-enacts the events that led up to her disappearance , but does everything right this time , laying his demons to rest . viewed in another way , Keane could be delusional , having paranoid schizophrenia , spending his days making up fantasies for his own pleasure . taking the boredom out of his days , he spends his benefits on alcohol and drugs and when he meets the mother and the daughter , in his own mind , he thinks he is the saviour and that they both owe him something . but when they leave , he realises things have not gone his own way , and decides to abduct the child . because the film ends so abruptly , we are left to decide the way the film ends , and as the viewer , get the choice of how it is depicted . made in a docu-drama style , Keane is an excellent very interesting movie , that will always have a different meaning to different people . well worth watching .
' watch your back ' . ' it's me me front i'm worried about ! ! ! ' .	Will and Elizabeths ' wedding is interrupted by their arrest and issued with a death warrant for aiding the escape of ' captain ' jack sparrow . Will is given the chance of them both being pardoned if he follows Cutler Becketts request of finding Sparrow and taking his compass . Will agrees to these terms and his journey starts . Sparrow meanwhile is at the helm once more of the ' Black Pearl ' and is in search of the key that will open Davey Jones ' locker and get him out of the debt that he owes him . On searching for rum , he encounters Bill Turner , who warns him of the debt to Davey Jones and that he has Bean marked . what goes on from here is their quest to find the key and to find the ' dead man's ' chest that hides Davey Jones ' heart , all the while trying to avoid cannibals , sea monsters , and being double crossed by fellow crew members and those they encounter . what Verbinski has managed to do is that of pure Disney magic . he has made a movie that surpasses the original by a mile , has made a two and a half hour movie fly by , and most importantly made a second movie so impressive , that this could be one of the best trilogies made , that it could stand alongside Indiana Jones and the first Star Wars trilogy proudly . Depp as always has stole the show . yes he is very funny as Sparrow and the magic he gave to first movie is still evident . but in this movie , there is more to Sparrow than before . He is a man on the edge . a man with a dark side and a man who the audience can cheer one minute and boo the next . Sparrow is the best anti-hero the movies has seen ( and needed ) in a long time . think the pirate version of Han Solo if you will . But this isn't all down to Depp . the supporting cast lift Sparroe up from beyond a two dimensional character and compliment his role . Every single member of the original cast ( who survived ) is back , and they all have pivotal roles and set pieces suitable for their character . Once again the only let down is Bloom , who never seems desperate enough for his character and is woefully miscast . Knightley however , surpasses her role from the first one and is showing that she will be a force to be reckoned with very soon . the biggest surprise of the show is Bill Nighy as Davey Jones . a totally cgi character but even when looking at the cgi , it's undoubtedly Nighy we are looking at . him and his crew put Barbossa and his skeleton army to shame , they are the perfect villains to this film , and they all ham it up in a spectacular way . the story is highly original , and with so much going on and so many characters involved , Verbinski has kept the story and narrative at a great flow that it is hard to get confused . the script sparkles and the set pieces are extraordinary . the ones that stand out he most are . . . 1 the cannibal island scene , so smoothly executed and so much fun that this could have nearly made the rest of the film a disappointment2 Turner and Norringtons sword fight upon a water wheel . again perfectly executed and inexplicably fun . you are just as in awe watching this as characters , in the movie . 3 the final showdown with the Kraken . average cgi aside . this is so exciting that after it is finished , only then you realise that you are on the edge of your seat . all in all a very good and very , very dark ( believe me , this is darker than the temple of doom ) return for captain Jack and the gang , this does deserve to be the film of the year ( box office wise ) , and harks back to the days of when you first saw ' raiders of the lost ark ' and ' star wars ' . with an ending like this one did , there is no doubt that the third and final instalment will be just as successful and entertaining . if you want to see this , but haven't seen the original in quite a while , my advice is see the original first , then you will benefit from the in jokes and the innuendo that makes this film so enjoyable . there hasn't been a summer movie this enjoyable , since maybe Jurassic Park , or even the last crusade , Verbinski has put the fun back into the summer blockbuster , and made the story and character his priority , and spectacle a close second . excellent .
the films got rhythm	OK , this isn't going to win any awards . and is was produced by cannon group , who did produce some of the cheesiest films of the eighties . but when a film is about break dancing , we don't expect rashomon , do we ? made in the mid eighties this is one of the most nostalgic films about the eighties . the clothes , the music and of course , the dancing . the story follows a struggling jazz dancer who meets two street dancers and become a force to be reckoned with on the dance scene . thats the story , plain and simple . it's a great film to watch when you have a hangover or have just come home from a bar . watching it today reminded me of just how talented these dancers were and the amazing soundtrack featuring kraftwerk . one of my favourite scenes was where ' shrimp ' was dancing with a sweeping brush to tour de France and , for all you eagle eyed viewers , watch out for a cheeky cameo from jean claude van damme as a dancer . in a leotard . honestly , this film is bad and the acting and story is dreadful , but like i said before , break dancing , eighties fashion and cool music , what's not to like ?
if you knew my name , you'd be as clever as me	successful drug dealer Mr . X plans his criminal career intermediating business with drugs without calling the attention , working with a small gang and honouring his payments with the suppliers . On the day planned for his early retirement , powerful mobster Jimmy Price gives two assignments to him : find Charlie , the addicted daughter of his associate Eddie Temple and negotiate a million pills of high-quality ecstasy with stupid smalltime gangster Duke . Mr . X hires two acquaintances crooks in a night-club to find Charlie , and he unexpectedly meets Duke's cousin Sidney with his sexy girlfriend Tammy and flirts with her . But Mr . X discovers that the ecstasy was stolen from the dangerous and wild Serbian drug lord Dragon that wants the head of Duke and the drugs back . Further , Eddie shows a tape proving that he has been double-crossed by Jimmy , and also wants the ecstasy . The smart Mr . X plots a scheme to resolve the situation and meet Tammy . . . after a slew of turgid English gangster movies that came of the back of Lock , Stock . . . comes one with brains as well as entertainment factor . Craig even usurps his role as Bond in his portrayal of Mr . X and commands the screen every time he is in it . the cast is really the cream of the British acting empire , with not one faultless role . it's gritty funny , and occasionally emotional . some key scenes stand out more than others thoufg . the film makes London as upper class and inviting as one could ever wish for , so anyone who hasn't visited the big smoke would appreciate a visit here . Vaughn has gone from high class producer , to expert Director , the narrative is slick , and sticks close to the source material of the novel . the sound track even benefits the movie , check out Duran Durans ' ordinary world ' and the goose bumps will be tingling . one of the best British films of the Decade .
death is the road to awe . . . . . .	the movie tells the story of one man , through three different cycles of life , on a journey for the key to eternal life . set in the past , present , and future , the movie will have different perceptions for different people , but after several viewings , the film grips the viewer with a zen like trance and never lets go . Aronofsky has out done himself again , with this wondrous movie , starring Jackman and Weisz , playing the same characters through different ages . in the first age , a man is on a mission to find the fountain of eternal life , a mission that asks for his beliefs to be thrown to one side , to start to believe himself as the 4th dimensional being that he is / maybe . to some though this sequence is how Tom interprets the novel he is reading in our present . the second story is set in our time , a man on a mission to save his dying wife / relationship , by working hard to find a cure for tumours , but he is working so much that he is missing his time with his wife , as although you cannot cheat death , the time you spend with your soul-mate goes on for eternity . the third part of the movie , is a man on a mission , although this mission is pointless , he still feels the need to complete it , this is set in our future , although set in the movies present . the film for me has several meanings . on one level , this is a wonderful love story proving fate doe exist , and that whoever your soul-mate is , you spend eternity with them , but you need to spend time with them and revel in it . on another level , this movie could be used as a guidebook for the Mayan calender , indicating that the world will end in 2012 . a kind of don't panic guide , the zen like visuals provide a kind of high for the viewer . but the film is beautifully shot and impeccably acted by all concerned and the visuals have never had such a symbolic meaning to them since Kubricks 2001 . a very difficult movie to interpret , an even more difficult on to explain , this is why the movie works so well when watching . it's a film that works well in your head , but is very difficult to explain . if you believe in eternal life ( afterlife ) and soul-mates , then you will relate to this . a beautiful , moving piece of cinema .
play some rap music . . . . .	Joe Hallenback is a burned-out detective . Jimmy Dix is an ex-LA Stallions player . Hallenbeck was hired to protect a stripper named Cory . Dix is Cory's girlfriend . When Cory is executed during a drive-by shooting , both Hallenbeck and Dix try to get to the bottom of the case . . . after the vanity project of ' Hudson Hawk ' and the drama of ' Mortal Thoughts ' , Willis gets back to basics with an action thriller that can even give ' Lethal Weapon ' a run for its money . Scott has taken the action genre and thrown it around to give the audience a really good experience in the ' Buddy Buddy thriller ' genre ( if there is one ) . and this movie proves that Shane Black is one of the best Writers out there . Willis is fantastic as Hallenback , juggling his broken family life with a murder case . the main thing with Buddy action films is chemistry , and this film has it in droves . when Willis and Wayans share screen time it is a joy to behold as they bounce off each other , and the script sizzles with this . no expense is spared on the set pieces , and as the film progresses , the set pieces become more over the top and more unbelievable toward the end . the story is very easy to follow and makes this a classic in the action genre . kudos to Negron , Field , Harris , and Berry for fantastic support . with some references to Silvers other productions such as ' Lethal Weapon ' and the vanity Project ' Hudson hawk ' this is a dedicated movie throughoutthis could be up there with ' Die Hard ' as Willis ' best thriller made . it's just a shame that it did not make as much money as it should of . one of the best action movies ever made .
what defines you ? . . . . . . . . .	The narrator suffers from a lack of sleep . He tries different ways to cure this , but he does not succeed . He does get some sleep , but his conditions rebounds back into it's original state when he meets a lovely young woman , whose name is Marla . He finds out that she and he both have a lot in common and they spend a lot of time together . While touring , he meets an enigmatic young man named Tyler and after a short conversation both become fast friends . Both like to relieve their inner tensions by hitting each other . Soon word gets around about their fights , and lots of young people also get interested . Then a club is formed , which the narrator and Tyler call ' Fight Club ' . . . . . . what is there to say about this film that hasn't already been said ? this film has the potential to mock every living thing on the planet , and it does so with relish . Fincher has made an absolute assault on the senses with this movie , proving that most of the people on this planet are shallow , false and buy clothes and other paraphernalia to try and define themselves , trying to make themselves stand out from other people . watching the film for the second time proves just what a genius Fincher is . splicing subliminal images of Durden in to the film when the narrator is suffering from insomnia , indicating that schizophrenia is just around the corner . and When we finally meet Tyler , his dress sense and his personality stand out from the rest of the characters so much , there is a sense of irony to the whole movie . the narration is subtle but powerful , and it gives you the gist that a lot of older people now ( mainly in their fifties ) are a bunch of hypocrites , because they were the people who were shouting all about free love in the sixties , but obviously most now , hold high powered corporate jobs . Pitt has never been better and the sets and the effects are stunning . Norton too , puts in a career best performance as the Narrator , his struggles with ' finding himself ' all too familiar with most people today . it's endlessly quotable with some brilliant characters , and a film that stays fresh and offers something new each time you go back to it . fight club not only defines a generation of people , it defines a society today , that is so keen on vanity , and so keen on image , it's actually become a facade , and instead of progressing , in a matter of fact we are taking a step back . you are certainly not a unique snowflake , and the film is trying to say , once you realise this , maybe you will realise that life is too short to worry about what other people think about you . one of the greatest movies ever made .
i must have appealed to her maternal side . . . .	powerful tycoon Auric Goldfinger has initiated " Operation Grand Slam , " a cataclysmic scheme to raid Fort Knox and obliterate the world economy . James Bond , armed with his specially equipped Aston Martin , must stop the plan by overcoming several adversaries . First there's Oddjob , the mute servant who kills at the toss of a lethal hat , sexy pilot Pussy Galore , whose romantic feelings for Bond complicate her involvement in Goldfinger's high - flying scheme . . . . . the bond film that is the most loved and most respected by audiences and critics alike . this introduces a wind of change in the bond series , after the dark tones of ' dr . no ' and ' from Russia with love ' this has a more brighter setting and more life than the other two . the film is very simple and the story is very straight forward and easy to follow . Goldfinger plans to turn all American gold radioactive , so his gold will become more expensive for the next 58 years . as diabolical plots go , this is very fiendish , but there is always bond to save the day . by now Connery must have known that Bond was a national institution , and you can see a little more of a swagger and a little more cocky in his ways , but this is why Connery is the best remembered Bond , he had no-one to follow and so had no actor to live up to . the film has aged badly in some scenes , the treatment of the female in a derogatory way and the laser beams and special effects . but this is the sixties , so it can be forgiven . the supporting cast are great especially Blackman as Pussy Galore and Sakata as Oddjob , who oozes menace and fear whenever he graces the screen . Jaws is definitely an inspiration to this character and probably would not have been created was it not for Oddjob . all in all a fantastic movie in itself and one of the three best bond movies ever . if you have never seen a Bond movie , this would be the ideal place to start .
pop in the meat , give it a good grind . . . .	After hard years in exile for a crime he didn't commit , Benjamin Barker now Sweeney Todd , returns to London to find his wife dead and his daughter in the hands of the evil Judge Turpin . In his anger , Sweeney goes on a murderous rampage on all London , with the help of Mrs . Lovett , he opens a barber shop in which he lures his victims in with a charming smile before casually ending their life with a flick of his razor across their neck . But not one man killed , nor ten thousands men can satisfy Sweeney's lust for revenge on those who've caused his years of pain . a massive gamble has paid off , in this eccentric monotone nightmare of a movie , where for some reason the songs feel almost childlike as Todd does throughout the movie . Burton and Depp are on top form , and it goes to show that they can stand proudly next to De niro / Scorcese as the cream of the actor / Director collaborators . the film is very eerie throughout and the monotone colours of old London make the killings even more visceral than they are . Depp has a wonderful singing voice , not too dissimilar to David Bowie , and he is supported greatly by Rickman , Carter , Spall , and Cohen . sometimes the film is laugh out loud funny , sometimes it is a sobering and frightening experience , but it's never dull , always entertaining , and i don't think i've ever seen anything quite like it before . absolutely destined for cult status , this is one of Depps best performances and one of Burtons most ambitious projects . a must see .
we're meant to lose people we love . . . .	On the day that Hurricane Katrina hits New Orleans , elderly Daisy Williams nee Fuller is on her deathbed in a New Orleans hospital . At her side is her adult daughter , Caroline . Daisy asks Caroline to read to her aloud the diary of Daisy's lifelong friend , Benjamin Button . Benjamin's diary recounts his entire extraordinary life , the primary unusual aspect of which was his ageing backwards , being born an old man who was diagnosed with several aged diseases at birth and thus given little chance of survival , but who does survive and gets younger with time . Abandoned by his biological father , Thomas Button , after Benjamin's biological mother died in childbirth , Benjamin was raised by Queenie , a black woman and caregiver at a seniors home . Daisy's grandmother was a resident at that home , which is where she first met Benjamin . Although separated through the years , Daisy and Benjamin remain in contact throughout their lives , reconnecting in their forties when in age they finally match up . Some of the revelations in Benjamin's diary are difficult for Caroline to read , especially as it relates to the time past this reconnection between Benjamin and Daisy , when Daisy gets older and Benjamin grows younger into his childhood years . even though the story is only 35 pages long , the screenwriters have done an impeccable job of bringing this melancholy story to the big screen , but is it as good as what the critics are saying ? yes , and then some . never before have i been so moved or touched by a film than i have with this movie . Fincher again proves he is one of the most skilled directors around , and not one minute is wasted in this film as Benjamins story is told . every character in the film has something going for them , and they all give something to Benjamins life and lessons . it's an extraordinary feat with effects that are so subtle , but add so much depth to the story . Pitt is great as the titular character , and one cannot think of anything better he has done , kudos too to Blanchett , who plays Daisy with so much empathy and sadness toward the end , it's hard to describe how she must feel when Benjamin starts to get younger and younger . this is where the film really get's the audience captivated , knowing that she is losing her only love and there is nothing she can do about it . film's like this make you realise just how short life is , and that is something of a running tradition with Fincher films , you never know what life is going to give you next . my absolute favourite part of the film is where Pitt is narrating the ' what if ? ' part of the film , or the ' if only ' part , explaining how daisy gets knocked over . words cannot express just how much joy this film will bring , and ultimately sadness , it feels so real in some parts , that if it's as if you are part of Buttons life . an amazing movie
it gives me something i never had before . . . . . Hope . . .	the story of a woman driven to confront a corrupted LAPD after her abducted son is retrieved and she begins to suspect that the boy returned to her is not the same boy she gave birth to . The year was 1928 , and the setting a working-class suburb of Los Angeles . As Christine said goodbye to her son , Walter , and departed for work , she never anticipated that this was the day her life would be forever changed . Upon returning home , Christine was distressed to discover that Walter was nowhere to be found . Over the course of the following months , the desperate mother would launch a search that would ultimately prove fruitless . Yet just when it seemed that all hope was lost , a nine-year-old boy claiming to be Christine's son seemed to appear out of thin air . Overcome with emotions and uncertain how to face the authorities or the press , Christine invites the child to stay in her home despite knowing without a doubt that he is not her son . As much as Christine would like to accept the fact that her son has been returned to her , she cannot accept the injustice being pushed upon her and continues to challenge the Prohibition-era Los Angeles police force at every turn . As a result , Christine is slandered by the powers that be , and painted as an unfit mother . In this town , a woman who challenges the system is putting her life on the line , and as the situation grows desperate , the only person willing to aid her in her search is benevolent local activist Reverend Briegleb . . it's astonishing to know that just recently , with every movie he directs , Eastwood gets better and better . he knows how to tell a story , and he knows how to surprise . just when you think you know what is going to happen next , Eastwood pulls the rug from under you and delivers something you never expect . Jolie is superb in her role and i will be very surprised if she doesn't get nominated come Oscar time . the cinematography is beautiful and editing is flawless , as are the performances and production value . this has to be one of the best films of the year , and should hopefully give Eastwood another nomination for direction come Oscar time . i urge you to see it , it's not the most comforting film to watch , but it's unmissable .
i'm supertramp . . . . .	Based on a true story . After graduating from Emory University in 1992 , top student and athlete Christopher McCandless abandoned his possessions , gave his entire $24 , 000 savings account to charity and hitchhiked to Alaska to live in the wilderness . Along the way , Christopher encounters a series of characters who shape his life . Hirsch delivers the performance of his career so far , in this movie which is inspiring and at the same time very haunting . Penn directs the movie effortlessly and he should be behind the camera more . because with each film he directs , they become stronger and stronger from a character based point of view . even though the film is very long , the advantage Penn has is making the film into different chapters , almost like when Mccandless begins hid arduous journey he is reborn . he does in this film what millions of people want to do but wouldn't dare , give everything up to find yourself . he meets people on the way , and they teach him him different life lessons , some good , some bad . if this film makes you want to travel , it's the wrong film to watch , because you'll just end up like the couple who are playing MC Hammer during the rafting scene . this man gave everything up to find himself and to find some Karma , and it makes him one of the bravest people ever committed to celluloid . this is a celebration of his life .
i hate most people . . .	and that about summarises the role that Day0Lewis has immortalised in this sweeping movie which grabs hold of you from the beginning and never lets go in its lengthy duration . in the hands of another auteur and a number of other actors , this would have been a drag to watch , but the cinematography and mise en scene ( especially the shot with Daniel and his ' brother ' sitting on the beach ) are beautiful , and also a lot of the films tension deserves credit to the score , as it is one of the most painfully unsettling scores in recent history . but what about Day-Lewis ? this could be his his best role to date , but due to him never being bad on screen and always usurping his roles , i think he is the perfect choice to play Plainview . think of his character in ' Gangs of new york ' and your not even near enough to the evil that Plainview has running in his blood . or is he really evil , or is it just a man who wants to succeed in everything he does and be the best at everything , and with him not being able to do so , this has left him bitter and twisted , losing his mind as the years go n and losing his loved ones as well . the two standout scenes for me are from a religious point of view . the first Plainview shouting in front of churchgoers that he is a bad father , just to get the land permit he wants , is absolutely amazing and this excels because the viewer knows that Plainview is only doing this to get what he wants . with a great supporting cast and beautiful imagery , this is the epic movie that people born in the seventies and after missed out on . now we have our own ' rebel without a cause , ' to kill a mocking bird ' and our own ' streetcar named desire ' . lets hope the academy recognises this come award time .
dude mens a regular sort of person . . . . .	Two long-haired bikers from Los Angeles take off on a cross-country trip to New Orleans for Mardi Gras . On the way they meet several unusual characters . A rancher and his family , a hitchhiker and the hippie commune where he lives , hookers , red-necks , but most noticeably George Hansen . . . having not seen this film before , i had high hopes considering the movies cult status and icons it had made . to be honest it exceeded all these expectations . what we have here is on of the most pleasing viewing experiences you could ever have . this film is written and directed by people who have been through the experiences the two lead characters are going through , not wanting to settle down , not wanting to work , just wanting to be free . as the heading goes ' a man went looking for America , and couldn't find it anywhere ' . a lot of the script can relate to the characters , when Henson is talking about UFO's in Mexico , the next scene shows the three in a coffee shop being mocked , because they are clearly alien . this movie is so influential as well , the camera-work is great , some of the visuals are stunning , and it seems you are living in Wyatts ' world for parts of the movie . also the soundtrack adds enjoyment to the viewing pleasure and really relates to the story . their are connotations about religion , when they are ' high ' the leads almost become biblical in a sense , as they make quotes , and make very stark and important focuses on life . the two leads are great , Nicholson is outstanding , and knowing that they smoked pot for real on screen is another pleasure . some say that there is a homosexual element to it , that Fonda is Hoppers whore as Fonda is the ' easy rider ' of the title . i myself cannot see this , they are both easy riders , and the world is their whore . endlessly quotable , and demanding multiple viewings , this could be on of the most important films made in the sixties . if you have not seen this , i urge you to see it .
i am Shiva , the god of death . . . .	Michael Clayton is an in-house " fixer " at one of the largest corporate law firms in New York . A former criminal prosecutor , Clayton takes care of Kenner , Bach & Ledeen's dirtiest work at the behest of the firm's co-founder Marty Bach . Though burned out and hardly content with his job as a fixer , his divorce , a failed business venture and mounting debt have left Clayton inextricably tied to the firm . At U / North , meanwhile , the career of litigator Karen Crowder rests on the multi-million dollar settlement of a class action suit that Clayton's firm is leading to a seemingly successful conclusion . But when Kenner Bach's brilliant and guilt-ridden attorney Arthur Edens sabotages the U / North case , Clayton faces the biggest challenge of his career and his life . . . the film has very much in common with Manns 2000 epic ' The Insider ' but to really appreciate that comment you do really have to watch both films more or less back to back . the film feels at times Mann-esquire and at others quite Lynchian , but all the while the story and narrative is wholly absorbing . this has to be Clooneys finest turn since Soderberghs 1998 cult smash ' Out of Sight ' and i would be willing to put money on Wilkinson being nominated for a best supporting actor award come Academy Award time . a very compelling drama , that really has to be concentrated on throughout , else you will miss attention to detail that makes the finale so satisfying . a must see .
lets start building some hurting bombs . . . .	Rocky Balboa retired and remembered by most as one of the greatest boxing champions in the world . He now lives back in the skids of Philadelphia but manages a good life including running his restaurant Adrian's , helping an adult Little Marie and her son Steps , and saying hello at any opportunity to his estranged son Robert . After seeing a virtual fight of Rocky in his prime vs . heavyweight champion Mason " the Line " Dixon , Rocky's interest in fighting sparks again and he plans to fight in local clubs . Mason Dixon and his managers have a different agenda though , with a plan to pit Rocky vs . Mason in real life for a publicity act to regain Mason's lost respect from his fans . Finally agreeing to Mason Dixon's proposal , Rocky prepares to step in the ring for one last time . . . . almost sixteen years after the last instalment , Rocky Balboa comes on to our screens and blows any pessimistic ideas we had about this franchise . the first two movies were stand alone classics , the third was probably just a showcase for one Mr . T , the fourth was cold war propaganda , and the fifth went down a different path . now the thing is , i am very bias with this franchise . i was brought up with Rocky , the third instalment was one of the first films i ever saw at the cinema , the fourth movie was just exhausted on VHS by my constant rewinding of the final fight , and the fifth has a place in my heart . but i was never prepared for the class that Stallone has done in this movie . after the debacle of Driven , Avengin Angelo and get carter , my expectations were not very high . but what Stallone has done has taken all the elements of the first movie and added them all here . the references from the first movie really make it something for Rocky fans . the turtles from the original films are here . spider returns after the first movielittle Marie from the first movie is hereand flashbacks featuring Adrian and Micky are all here . Stallone even references first blood when he is searching for is restaurant card in his pocket . but the main element in this film is Adrian . she may not be in the film ' proper ' but she is never too far from Balboas mind . it is sometimes heartbreaking to see Balboa sitting alone at Adrians grave , and to be honest it gave me a lump in my throat within fifteen minutes of the opening . but what all the fans really want is a training montage . and yes it is here , although a little short , you just cannot help but get goosebumps every time you hear the fanfare . OK , the final third is a little ott but thats what you expect from seeing a film about a 61 year old boxer who goes into the ring one last time . the film is well written , well directed and well acted by all . i haven't seen a performance from Stallone like this since ' First Blood ' . the emotion on his face throughout is compelling and he has finally come back after a string of flops . definitely not for everybody , but for fans of the franchise , you will not be disappointed . a real knockout .
i like to dissect girls , did you know that i'm utterly insane ?	Patrick Bateman is , along with Gordon Gekko , the bench mark for the eighties overkill . the expensive suits , the pinstripe shirts , excessive cocaine taking and jealousy through materialism . based on the book by Brett Easton Ellis this is a very watered down version of the film ( obviously due to the content of the book . Bale performs as Bateman flawlessly , you can almost sense a little Bateman in Batman begins . killing people for enjoyment , maybe due to the boredom of his personal and business life . he has more money than he needs , eats at fancy restaurants , wears the best clothing , out drinking every night and trying to be different from his colleagues . the problem is during the eighties , there was no real difference in the way wall street workers dressed or acted . all pretentious people trying to get one up on each other ( see the intense scene with the business cards , batemans jealousy is genuinely disturbing ) . so Bateman yearns for more and killing lesser people than him is his tonic . not for the squeamish or indeed animal lovers , Bateman kills his victims with glee , playing with their emotions before killing them , as bateman states at the beginning of the movie , he is emotionless . certain scenes do stand out such as : the business card scene . the scene where Bateman kills Paul Allen to ' hip to be square ' his mini lectures on eighties singers ( something he does before , doing a violent act and the ending . perfectly finishing with Bateman sitting below a sign saying ' no exit ' a subliminal message saying that no matter what you wear or how much money you earn , you are no different to any human on the earth . That is essentially why Bateman gets away with his acts . you were nobody in the late eighties , even if you thought you were somebody . using sunbeds , doing a 1000 abdo crunches a day and using the best toiletries will not get you recognised . an excellent satire on consumerism and excess , this should be viewed by people who think they are better than others , enjoyed with a big slice of humble pie .
eight years later . . . . .	Eight years ago , Margot Beck was murdered by a serial killer . Though the killer has confessed to eight of these murders , he has always denied to be responsible for Margot's death . However , the specific mutilations found on her body seem to remove all doubts over his guilt . Today , Alexandre Beck , her husband , is still deeply psychologically injured by the loss of Margot . He temporarily escapes his memories during the day by immersing himself completely in his work as a paediatrician . Outside of that , only the friendship he has formed with Hélène Perkins saves him from total isolation from the rest of the world . But when two new bodies are uncovered near where Margot's body was discovered , Margot's case is reopened . At the same time , Alexandre receives a strange e-mail with a link to a video-surveillance web-cam and a time at which to watch it . . . an absolutely breathtaking thriller , which references Hitchcock and even in some respects early De Palma , this really has everything that makes a classic movie . but it demands your full attention as the narrative , story and flashbacks could cause confusion to some who are not paying attention , each minute of the film is that important , it's almost impossible to take your eyes of the screen during it's running time . cluzet is fantastic as the tortured soul , who starts to realise that hings are not what they seem when he gets an e-mail , and then from there , the film really gets going , with so many twists and turns , you may have to rewind the movie a little to understand the full depth of the narrative . there are some breathtaking sequences , the chase on foot is so real and dangerous , you feel caught in the middle of it , and when U2 play in the background , it's imperative to the plot , even the song in the lyrics are important to the movie . it's hard to say too much more about the movie , as it could harm the story , but this is one of the best thrillers of the last few years . essential cinema
Pinocchio is a true story . . .	A madman carries out a massacre in a club , after hearing the popular DJ Jack Lucas give him an ear bashing about his life . Dejected by remorse , the DJ strikes up a friendship with Perry , ex-professor who became a tramp because of his wife's violent death ( she was killed by the madman ) . Jack decides to help him both searching a nonexistent Holy Grail and conquering Lidia , the girl he felt in love with . . . Probably the most audience friendly Gilliam film ( along with Munchausen ) has made so far , this has a glorious cast full of wonderful characters , rich in depth and back-story , and considering its running time , fills it with so much , it hardly seems 130 + minutes . Williams provides one of his most touching roles as the tormented Parry , who has become so obsessed with ' The Grail ' normality doesn't strike a chord . the scenes between him and Bridges are beautiful and elegant , and their conversations ( especially when Parry is telling the titular story ) really bring tears to the eye . this is a film about two men with something devastating in common , getting on because of nothing , which may sound strange , but when watching it fits well . there are some amazing set pieces , but the one that stands out the most is obviously the Grand Central Station dance scene , not only is it a thing of beauty , it really delves deep into Parrys psyche , and the connotations in this scene particularly are marvellous . its funny , touching , sad , and at times terrifying , but cannot deny the fact that Gilliam has made another masterpiece , and the narrative and editing are first class .
never stop fighting until the fighting is done . . . .	Young Treasury Agent Elliot Ness arrives in Chicago and is determined to take down Al Capone but he learns that it's not going to be easy , because Capone has the police in his pocket . But Ness meets Jimmy Malone a veteran patrolman and probably the most honourable one in the force . He asks Malone to help him get Capone but Malone warns him that if he goes after Capone , he is going to war . They recruit academy cadet , George Stone and Treasury agent Oscar Wallace , who is also an accountant , who wants to prosecute Capone for tax evasion . When they make headway , Capone tries to get them but they are untouchable . . . probably De Palmas most commercial and accessible film after 1996's average Mission Impossible . this has all the trademarks of vintage De Palma , the sumptuous set pieces , the ' spare no expense on the visuals , and the wonderful camera-work that has graced so many of his films . in the twenty years that film has been released it has aged very well ( unlike the actors involved ) and is still breathtaking after numerous viewings . particular are the rooftop scenes between Ness and Nitti , the reference to ' Battleship Potemkin ' at the railway station ( probanly the single most spectacular scene in the film ) , and of course Malones very touching death scene . all in all , one of the best movies of the eighties , and in my opinion 1987 had to be the year for movies , what with this , Lethal Weapon and Die Hard all gracing our screens , what a joy it would have been to be eighteen at this time . unmissable , let alone untouchable .
i can't get no spit . . . . .	The peaceful community of Amity island is being terrorised . There is something in the sea that is attacking swimmers . They can no longer enjoy the sea and the sun as they used to , and the spreading fear is affecting the numbers of tourists that are normally attracted to this island . After many attempts the great white shark won't go away and sheriff Brody , with friends Hooper and Quint decide to go after the shark and kill it . . . Spielberg invented the summer high concept movie with this masterpiece . but to really appreciate the movie , you have to understand that it's just not about a shark killing people . you have to understand the layered personalities of the three main characters , Hooper , Brody , and Quint . all have different life stories and all have a different story to tell . the set-up is fantastic . from the opening scene where chrissie is killed by the shark , following the community being terrorised by the shark and the media . the film though comes to it's own though when the three men board the orca . the acting is fabulous , the script sparkles with impeccable dialogue , and the three leads bounce off each other . the final act is one of the best ever to be committed to the screen , and the payoff line delivered to the shark by Brody gives me goosebumps every time i hear it . the camera work and the soundtrack are stuff of legend . every time this movie is shown , it sparkles Spielberg class . and i bet that anyone who has seen the film , and goes to another country and goes in the sea , this is the first thing that they think of . Spielberg is a master of the genre , see this now .
Henry ! you look like a gangster . . . . .	This film views the mob lives of three pivotal figures in the 1960's and 70's New York . Henry Hill is a local boy turned gangster in a neighbourhood full of the roughest and toughest . Tommy Devito is a pure bred gangster , who turns out to be Henry's best friend . Jimmy Conway puts the two of them together , and runs some of the biggest hijacks and burglaries the town has ever seen . After an extended jail sentence , Henry must sneak around the back of the local mob boss , Paulie Cicero , to live the life of luxury he has always dreamt of . In the end , the friends end up in a hell of a jam , and must do anything they can to save each other , and stay alive . . . what can be said about this legendary masterpiece , that hasn't already been said ? it's one of Scorceses finest films with a flawless performance from De Niro and a career best performance from the narrative source Liotta . the film has so much detail to it , it just looks so expensive whilst watching it , but the fresh dialogue and the marvellous camera-work keep you hooked on the downward spiral of henry through the years . it's a film that makes you sympathise with hill , i remember watching this and thinking , i Hope everything turns out right for them , but you can see their worlds crumbling around them , and there is nothing you can do but watch these people ruin their lives . the soundtrack is beautiful , as are the costumes and cinematography , but the film is stolen by Pesci as Devito , a vicious thug who is so unpredictable he is scary . but you show empathy for him too , even though he is ' the bad apple of the bunch ' . all in all it's such a sweeping epic and a masterpiece , that nobody involved in the project ( in my opinion ) has ever done anything better . a must see for anybody who has the slightest interest in film . and the final frame stays with you a long time after the film has finished .
he should have armed himself . . . .	The town of Big Whisky is full of normal people trying to lead quiet lives . Cowboys try to make a living . Sheriff ' Little Bill ' tries to build a house and keep a heavy-handed order . The town whores just try to get by . Then a couple of cowboys cut up a whore . Unsatisfied with Bill's justice , the prostitutes put a bounty on the cowboys . The bounty attracts a young gun billing himself as ' The Schofield Kid ' , and ageing killer William Munny . Munny reformed for his young wife , and has been raising crops and two children in peace . But his wife is gone . Farm life is hard . And Munny is no good at it . So he calls his old partner Ned , saddles his ornery nag , and rides off to kill one more time , blurring the lines between heroism and villainy , man and mythone of Eastwoods finest acting and directing collaborations to date , ' Unforgiven ' is a movie about the dark side of a reformed character and how they can turn in the blink of an eye ( as referenced in the schofield kids short sightedness ) . from the beginning , Munny just seems like a normal person who just wants to get on with his life and try to make an earnest living , believing that Karma took his wife away ( not on screen just my opinion as perceived by the narrative ) , he decides to partake in the execution of the offenders . all of the main characters have big opportunities to expand their story on screen , and the three veteran leads are astounding on screen , and have wonderful dialogue . lighting is a main part of this film , especially in the final third , when Eastwood films his mini version of ' high plains drifter ' , where Munny becomes the devil and wreaks havoc on the town . even though some of the dialogue in this sequence is funny , it's one of the most tense sequences ever committed to a western . Eastwood has made what some can argue as the last great western , but it's a great story , with a great script , and a fantastic director at the helm . a must see .
you can expect five more . . . . . .	This thriller portrays the exploits of a deranged serial-killer . His twisted agenda involves choosing seven victims who represent egregious examples of transgressions of each of the Seven Deadly Sins . He then views himself as akin to the Sword of God , handing out horrific punishment to these sinners . Two cops , an experienced veteran of the streets who is about to retire and the ambitious young homicide detective hired to replace him , team up to capture the perpetrator of these gruesome killings . Unfortunately , they too become ensnared in his diabolical plan . . . . this is one of those rare movies that when watched again will never have the same impact as it did on you the first time you saw it . darkly horrific and sometimes darkly funny , Andrew Kevin Walker has written a very ambitious and often harrowing movie . it's not horror , though the film stays with you a long time . Pitt and Freeman are excellent in their respective roles but predictably , the film is Stolen by Spacey . be it strange that he is listed as one of the most sadistic murderers ever portrayed on film , we never see him commit a crime . he is a calm , collected psycho who believes that he is doing the world a favour by ridding the world of vain , gross , and greedy people who we see every day on the street . the film is very dark , about 80 % of the film is very darkly lit , but what is surprising , come the revelation in the end , it's sunny and the sky is blue . is it connotation that it's finally over ? that Doe's ' mission ' has been completed ? the editing is some of the best i have ever seen , and their are tender moments in the film which makes the ending seem even more ' depressing ' . Kudos to Pitt and Freeman for standing their ground on the ending , because it's one of the most awe inspiring endings ever , and one that will stand the test of time . if you have not seen , this movie , and know nothing about the ending , tell no one , seek a copy , and enjoy . believe me it's worth it .
we swim together , we sink together . . .	Michael Moore interviews Americans who have been denied treatment by our health care insurance companies - - companies who sacrifice essential health services in order to maximise profits . The consequences for the individual subscribers range from bankruptcy to the unnecessary deaths of loved ones . A group of Americans who became ill from volunteering at Ground Zero , but were refused health coverage for their illnesses , are ferried by Moore to Cuba , where they receive the top-rate , free care one would hope they'd get here at home . In his interviews , historical reportage , and typical sarcastic wit , Moore soundly condemns American health insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies , as well as the politicians who have been paid millions to do their bidding . He makes the case that there is something wrong with Americans that we cannot learn from the successes of other countries in providing better quality-of-health than they enjoy in the USA . as a nurse in the UK , it makes me glad that we have such a good health service , despite it's flaws . compared to the USA . our patients are treated like royalty , not left to die or wander the streets as Moore observes here on several occasions . but the film is very sad and sometimes very hard to watch , and if i were American , i'd feel that Moore was rubbing my nose about health across the world a little . probably his most accessible film outside the USA , i suggest that everyone who moans about the NHS watch this film , and then eat a little bit of humble pie . a true revelation .
i'm sorry , that last hand nearly killed me . . . .	the movie traces the early career of James Bond . His first " 007 " mission leads him to Le Chiffre ( Mads Mikkelsen ) , banker to the world's terrorists . In order to stop him and bring down the terrorist network , Bond must beat Le Chiffre in a high-stakes poker game at Casino Royale . Bond is initially annoyed when a beautiful Treasury official , Vesper Lynd ( Eva Green ) , is assigned to deliver his stake for the game and watch over the government's money . But as Bond and Vesper survive a series of lethal attacks by Le Chiffre and his henchmen , a mutual attraction develops , leading them both into further danger and events that will shape Bond's life forever . . . from the initial opening sequence , we are thrown into a new era of Bond . purely black and White , their is no mystery to whom bond is ( as previously in Goldeneye we were teased by seeing Brosnan from behind and just his eyes for the first few minutes ) . Bond does not yet have his ' 00 ' tag but is shown in flashback how he killed his first victim , and the effect it had on him . for the first time in Bond history , the ' gun barrel ' sequence is explained , and this introduces us to the traditional credits / main song . straight after this we are thrown straight into the action were Bond is surveying a bomb maker , who just happens to be a master at free running . so where ' district 13 ' showcased this in its movie , we are treated to breathtaking free-running where it is so jaw dropping , you wonder how they pulled it off . deciding not to be shown up by the free-running bomb maker , Bond usurps him by just running through a wall , which had the audience in fits of laughter . Bond then irks his government by killing the man , in the embassy . we then meet M ( judi Dench , in her best role yet in the series ) and frankly , the chemistry between her and Craig has never been better between any Bond and any M in the series . they just roll off one another and Bond is very cheeky to her . for example the audience so nearly finds out what the M stands for and we see M with a partner , showing the human side of the characters . after some plot building and great narration we are treated to yet another fantastic set piece in Miami airport , where if you look closely in on scene Richard Branson is being searched ! ! Bond must stop a bomb blowing up the worlds largest plane to thwart Le Chiffres ' plans . let's just say that Bond finishes the scene with a wry smile . the tension at the main set piece , the actual poker game is phenomenal , and just shows what a great director Campbell can be , this is a man who surely does have respect for the franchise as he treats it so well . Bond is also introduced to Felix Leiter in this sequence , played with much attitude by Jeffrey Wright . the third act features many double crosses and bluffs just like the actual poker match , but to tell you will just simply spoil the film for you . but mark my words , next time Bond will be meaner than ever . When Craig was first announced as Bond i wasn't disappointed at all , surprised , because i thought someone like Bale or Owen would snag the role , but never disappointed . and whilst writing this i am still not disappointed . rather happy actually . Craig makes bond his own character , but with a little bit of the Moore charm , the Dalton edginess , and the Connery cool , but when he has been on the screen for a few minutes , you truly do believe he is Bond . Craig has put into bond charm , egotism , ruthlessness , arrogance , friendliness , emotion , immatureness ( the ' ouch ' sequence is a gem ) , but most important of all humanism and empathy . Bond does get hurt , he gets punched , kicked , nearly stabbed , involved in an amazing car crash , falls , gets a nail in his back and also has a cardiac arrest . but he shakes it all off and carries on with his job . as you may have guessed , i was amazed by this film , it has to be one of the best Bonds ever because it just has so much heart and respect for the entire series . the are compliments to the other bond films , fantastic one-liners that reference the series , ' shaken or stirred ? ' ' do i look like i give a damn ? ' no Bond fan will be disappointed as Campbell has breathed new life into the series and fleshed out all of the characters to give them a little human touch . even Le Chiffre has a human moment . Mr Craig i salute you , and am expecting to see you very soon again . exceptional viewing .
it's just a bicycle . . . .	this simple tale of one mans quest for his life and his families income , turns out to be one of the most important and beautiful , not to mention hilarious and ironic films of the last century . the premise is simple , a man finds work as a bill sticker , he needs a bike , but has pawned it to buy food for his family . his wife pawns bed clothes for a small amount , and they buy the bike back . the next day , elated , the man starts work , getting on OK in his new job . but then the worst thing imaginable happens to him ( clue : the title ) . and it's up to him and his very grown up son , to trek around most of Rome looking for a needle in a haystack . the direction is slick with very good editing , and seeing that the majority of the cast were amateurs , there are some really fine performances here . the father son relationship is touching at once , yet hilarious in others ( the scene where Bruno needed to pass water made me howl with laughter ) . but at the same time this is one mans un-winnable quest , he must realise sometimes that he will not get his bike back , but he does go through the different stages of grieving , obliviously anger is evident through the movie , but there is also denial ( the scene in the restaurant with him being extravagant , is what he wants his son to think will maybe be a normality in the future ) and finally , desperation sets in , and the last few minutes of the film are a killer to watch , very tense , almost unwatchable , because the majority of people watching this will know the outcome . a lovely film , about the struggle of surviving through a war , trying to find your feet , and realising that sometimes , however hard you work , not all things come to those who wait .
love will tear is apart . . . . .	Ian Curtis works for an employment agency and sings in a band called Warsaw . He meets a girl named Debbie whom he promptly marries and his band , of which the name in the meantime has been changed to Joy Division , gets more and more successful . Even though Debbie and he become parents , their relationship is going downhill rapidly and Ian starts an affair with Belgian journalist Annik whom he met after one of the gigs and he's almost never at home . Ian also suffers from epilepsy and has no-good medication for it . He doesn't know how to handle the feelings he has for Debbie and Annik and the pressure the popularity of Joy Division and the energy performing costs him . . . possibly one of last years contenders for best British film , Control focuses purely on the life of Curtis and how the pressure of fame and illness so young cost him his life . Riley portrays Curtis as a sympathetic , quiet individual who is trying to battle his inside demons ( think Oldman as Orton in Prick up your ears ) all performances are excellent and the makers of the film have really captured the era and the emotions of all involved . the music is fantastic , and if you are or are not a fan of Joy Division , you will be curious about their music after this . it is sometimes a painful and hard film to watch , especially if you know the history of Curtis , but it's still a must see .
the phantom lady . . . .	Jordan again makes another fantastic movie , with some fantastic story lines and a great narrative . breakfast on Pluto is split into 30 plus chapters , telling the story of Kitten , and the search for his mother . though his journey doesn't really begin until the beginning of the second act , his journey into his own self realisation begins the movie . Unloved by his surrogate mother , Kitten takes solace in cross dressing , hiding his feelings behind smiles and make up . after being blasphemous , he leaves his village to go on his long arduous journey . we too are taken along in his journey , but just how much of the journey is real , and how many of the people he meets , exist . this could be a fact , because kitten is forever writing in his book about ' the phantom lady ' and for the very ' real ' people he meets ( Friday , Hart ) he appears to be delusional and neurotic , but since we have been on his journey , we believe his behaviour to be normal . with some great camera-work and fantastic use of narrative , Breakfast on Pluto has to be one of the greatest film of last year . all the cast are fantastic , and Murphy puts in a career best performance as ' Kitten ' , his pain felt throughout the movie and in his narration . with fantastic support from the likes of Gleeson , Ferry , Neeson , Rea , Hart , Mackintosh , and Friday , breakfast on Pluto is a fascinating insight into the mind of misunderstood youth , during times of segregation and discrimination . well worth seeing .
beware the blackness of day . . . . . .	Set in the Mayan civilisation , when a man's idyllic presence is brutally disrupted by a violent invading force , he is taken on a perilous journey to a world ruled by fear and oppression where a harrowing end awaits him . Through a twist of fate and spurred by the power of his love for his woman and his family he will make a desperate break to return home and to ultimately save his way of life . . . no matter what people think of Mel Gibson on a personal note , no one can deny his skill as a film maker . first making an impact in 1993 , with the cruelly under-rated ' man without a face ' , he has gone on to be one of the most prolific directors in Hollywood today . which other English speaking director has had two non-English speaking films hitting number one at the box office ? the story is basically one mans journey of becoming a real man after his father is killed . when Jaguar paws village is captured , he is spared sacrifice , and escapes to recover his pregnant wife and child . hot on his trail , are the pillagers who took his father . he has hid his wife and child in a well , and it's just started to rain . what Gibson has done has upped the ante for a man on a desperate cause , looking for his true meaning and finally finding it . the cinematography is rich and vivid and the performances by all are ferocious and realistic . some may be deterred that the whole movie is spoken in Mayan , but that doesn't affect the film in anyway . in fact it adds more depth to the movie . full of eerie sequences and prophecies , the movie sticks to the Mayan prophecy of the Apocalypse as we see when the tribe meet the sick girl / oracle and she tells them of their impending doom ( a very haunting scene , reminiscent of the ' devil ' in ' the passion of the Christ ' ) it does start very slowly , but Gibson gives us a feeling of unease and tension throughout , and the scenery is sumptuous . the final third is basically one big chase scene and movies rarely get more exciting than this does . it is very violent , but not to a point that would make you want to turn it off . the violence and disturbing scenes are justified , as it makes Jaguar Paws quest more involving . Gibson has made an epic motion picture , with a lot of heart and love put into the project . a must see .
i'm the guy doing his job . you must be the other guy . . . .	the film starts ' a few years ago ' when we are introduced to Frank Costello , one of the most notorious crimelords in Boston . he meets a young Colin , who Frank moulds him to be an informant for him by joining the police service , and reporting back to him their every move . during Colins training , we are introduced to Billy Costigan , a streetwise ' southie ' who graduates around the same time as Colin , and is sent ( very ) deep into undercover , to work for Costello . what happens now is a hectic race to uncover the rat on both sides , and the most crucial part is who is uncovered first , as it will spell certain death for them . . . from the opening prologue , with Nicholsons narration and his figure doused in shadow , you know that Scorcese is back in ' Goodfellas ' territory , with its fabulous opening introducing the characters and all its flashy editing and profound use of expletives . the thing that amazed me most about this film was how long the pre-title sequence was . it is almost twenty-five minutes before the title appears on the screen , and when it appears , i was genuinely speechless as i totally forgot that the titles had not been introduced . what Scorcese does with the cast is phenomenal . not Even Nicholson can pull the rug from anybody . Dicaprio , Damon , Baldwin , Sheen , Winstone and even Whalberg put in career best performances in this movie . one of the messages in this movie is about identity ( in my opinion ) . there is one scene that particularly gave this message . when Damon is enjoying dinner with Madolyn , it keeps cutting back to Costigan , looking claustrophobic and tense , indicating that sometimes the villains do get all the perks , whilst the honest people get zip . their are a few very minor flaws to this film though . 1 . overuse of mobile phones . could this film have been made sixteen years ago ? don't think so . i know the cellular phone is crucial to the plot , but having phones wired when someone close could be found out has been done before ( out of time ) . 2 . it sags ever so slightly for about twenty minutes , when Madolyn moves in with Sullivan . that's it really . the final third is Scorcese at his finest , and i do not think you will see anything as taut , tense and gripping on screen for a good while . the set pieces are terrific and given a lot of thought into their set ups and the editing is seamless . the narrative can be at times somewhat confusing , with flashbacks and flash - forwards becoming all but too comfortable in the film . the soundtrack is very subtle and not as loud as other films would have their songs played . which excels the film . as a remake of ' Infernal Affairs ' it exceeds the original by filling out the characters so the viewer can show empathy toward them . but if you have not seen the original , please try to see this first , as it will be a total different viewing experience . as for me and others who have seen the original , some of the important plot points and ' shocks ' were not new , so it kind of spoilt the whole viewing experience . ( to people who have seen the original , imagine seeing this film before the original and think about the lift sequence toward the end . . . . . . i know ) but still , this is one of the best , if not THE best of the year , and should hopefully score well with the academy . don't think Scorcese will be nominated though . but from seeing this , i don't think he really cares , he's clearly having a ball , as you will too . classic cinema .
you just made friends with Cyrus the damn virus ! ! !	Cameron Poe is a Us ranger who goes home to his wife and unborn child . after a drink fuelled fight , leaving one man dead , Poe is sentenced to seven years in prison due to his ranger background . The seven years pass , and Poe is finally released to go home and meet his seven year old daughter , Casey . Poe and former prison mate ' baby-o ' board the ' jailbird ' , an aircraft that is harbouring some of the most notorious killers the world has ever known . predictably , the plane is overtaken by these prisoners , led by Cyrus ' the virus ' Grissom . also along for the ride are Nathan ' diamond dog ' lane , Harland ' the Marietta mangler ' green and William ' billy bedlam ' Bedford . it's up to Poe to save the day and convince agent Larkin and his colleagues not to shoot down the plane . after all he has to get his friend insulin , give his daughter her bunny , and save the day . high concept movies do not get any better than this . basically ' die hard ' on a plane but with more style , more colourful characters , and more ott action than Willis could stand , thanks to Jerry Bruckheimer . Cage , Malkovich , Rhames , and Cusack are perfect as the hero , criminals and fed respectively , and are all clearly having fun making a film that does not take itself seriously at all . kudos though to Steve Buscemi , who turns in a chilling performance as the mangler , his facial expression not changing throughout the whole film . the fight scenes are spectacular , explosions big and brash as they should , bad guys totally ott , fantastic music , and a spine tingling finale . i'll bet there is not one man who has seen this film and not had a lump in their throat near the end . in 1997 there was only one action film that was better than this , and Cage was in that as well . see it , enjoy it and experience the most fun action movie of the 90's with con air .
i'm the one paying THEM ! !	in present day Amsterdam , three guys one Icelandic and two American are back packing their way around Europe for fun and most importantly , women . One night after being thrown out of a nightclub and are locked out of their hostel , they meet Alex , who advises them to travel as far east as they can to get the best girls , namely Bratislava . Alex has recently been there and guarantees the three guys that any girl will do anything . so the next day the three guys make there way east and eventually find the hostel and Alex was right . there are so many beautiful girls in the hostel and they are very friendly too . it is almost too good to be true . in the morning Oli has checked out of the hostel and left Paxton and Josh alone . the two guys now know that something isn't quite well with the hostel or the situation . if you have not seen the film then please ignore the warnings about it being gory . yes it is gory , but nowhere near as bad as what people say . i think it's due to the fact that a lot of Hollywood horror now opt for the pg-13 rated horror . what makes the film impossible to watch is the whole situation and the tension that Roth builds up during the first act . the film could be compared to From dusk till dawn , as the film does change pace halfway through . the first half plays like a dark American pie , three guys just going on about sleeping with women . but even in this part there is a sense of dread due to the bizarre people they meet and what people do whenever under the influence of alcohol / drugs . the film also references the wicker man in the scenes with the child gang as they can appear anywhere and are unnerving . another reference is don't look now . several people who go missing during the film are ' spotted ' entering doorways and are chased after , only for it to be someone else . Roth also makes great use of sets and locations , they make the cities and places very cold and uninviting . the torture scenes are stuff what nightmares are made of . for the victims there is no redemption and no way out . watching this you will be on the edge of your seat as you do put yourself into their situation as you realise that the torturers cannot be bargained with as they are paying for the privilege of doing what they are doing . a fantastic look into the human psyche and loneliness , this may make potential travellers think twice . essential .
we have a ping pong table in our basement . . . . . .	DJ spies on his neighbour across the street , watching his every move . when he and his friend chowder , cause him to go to hospital , the house starts to form a life of it's own , stalking DJ and Chowder , by giving them terrifying phone calls and hiding it's secret from everyone else . when Jenny , a girl selling candy is nearly eaten by the house , the three of them decide to take matters into their own house , and try to kill the house before it kills them . . . . . a very creepy but fun film , ' monster house ' harks back to the eighties and feels almost like one of the movies we all know and love from that period . from the music , the atmosphere and even the voices ( Choeder does sound like Chunk from the goonies ) this movie can be compared to classics such as The Goonies , Gremlins , Ghostbusters , and every child in peril adventure from this period . it is obvious that Spielberg and Zemeckis had a lot to do with this film , as they both know how to entertain children and adults alike . great characters and special effects and ' small frights for the kids , great narration , laughs , innuendos , and sly references to other films ( the omen and castaway have blink and you'll miss them references ) for the grown ups . in a year when every other film released feels like a computer animated one , this has to be the best of the bunch . if you are a fan of adventure movies with a little bit more , or are stuck in an eighties rut , you could far worse than to pick this movie . great voice work too from Buscemi , Lee , Heder , Turner and Kevin James . this will be one family film that will be remembered for a long time .
the rifle is the first weapon you learn to use . . . .	Mathilda , a twelve-year old New York girl , is living an undesirable life among her half-family . Her father stores drugs for two-faced cop Norman Stansfield . Only her little brother keeps Mathilda from breaking apart . One day , Stansfield and his team take cruel revenge on her father for stretching the drugs a little , killing the whole family . Only Mathilda , who was out shopping , survives by finding shelter in Léon's apartment in the moment of highest need . Soon , she finds out about the strange neighbour's unusual profession - ' cleaning ' - and desperately seeks his help in taking revenge for her little brother . Léon , who is completely unexperienced in fatherly tasks , and in friendships , does his best to keep Mathilda out of trouble - unsuccessfully . Now , the conflict between a killer , who slowly discovers his abilities to live , to feel , to love and a corrupt police officer , who does anything in his might to get rid of an eye witness , arises to unmeasurable proportions - all for the sake of a little twelve-year old girl , who has nearly nothing to lose . . . with its sympathetic characters , sparkling script , mesmerising cinematography and three wonderful career best performances , Leon is one of the most perfect films ever made . if you have to see on version though , see the international uncut version , it really expands on the relationship between Leon and Mathilda , even if it does sometimes make for un-easy viewing . but the relationship between the two is absolutely innocent though , Leon is a father figure to Mathilda and Leon is very innocent and childlike himself , entrusting himself to Aiello and reluctantly taking in someone , who will eventually change his life forever , making him realise that he doesn't have to sleep ' with one eye open ' . the film is sometimes very funny , and the set pieces are stunning , especially considering that this is a very low budget move . Oldman overplays his role but he is at his maniacal best and will probably always be remembered as the bad guy . he almost usurps Rickman in Die hard as best screen villain ever ( in my opinion ) . a beautiful film to watch over and over again , absolutely stunning and emotionally charged throughout . Maybe Bessons best work ever .
don't shoot yourself , and don't shoot each other . . .	After seeing Grindhouse , i thought it was only fair to watch each film separately . whilst watching grindhouse , i was looking more forward to death proof , than this , so really my mind wasn't that set on it . but after seeing the stand alone version , i have to admit this has to be ranked with Sin City as the directors best work to date . the film is amazingly mental and so over the top it's ridiculous , but this is where it's it's own worst enemy , the movie will fall into two categories , you will either love this film or you will hate it , i really believe that anyone will see this film and say ' it's okay ' because you will never have seen anything like this . plot wise , it's your usual Maguffin about some military group and some infection that has spread over Texas , and the survivors who carry the antidote . thats the premise . but the execution is where the gold is hidden and it wears it's Grindhouse moniker on it's sleeve . it's a dirty movie , it's over the top gore-narathon ( thats my trademark now ) that makes anything Roth or Zombie have made look tame . the cast are all exceptional and over the top , so over the top even Tarantinos performance is passable ! the script is laugh out loud funny and even though you will be confused at times , you just can't help but get carried away with the ride . it will be such a shame if this film goes un-noticed , it really does have to be seen , and as a stand alone film , for sheer ballsiness , it has to be one of the best escapist movies of the year , or really any year . but please remember , it's not serious , it's just a fun 111 minute ride . enjoy
i ache . . . . for who we were . . .	Paris , je t'aime is about the plurality of cinema in one mythic location : Paris , the City of Love . Twenty filmmakers have five minutes each ; the audience must weaving a single narrative out of twenty moments . The 20 moments are fused by transitional interstitial sequences and also via the introduction and epilogue . Each transition begins with the last shot of the previous film and ends with the first shot of the following film , extending the enchantment and the emotion of the previous segment , preparing the audience for a surprise , and providing a cohesive atmosphere . There's a reappearing mysterious character who is a witness to the Parisian life . A common theme of Paris and love fuses all . . . . a wonderful film , featuring all aspects of love . love lost , love found , bitter love , enduring love , melancholy love , doomed love , every angle of love is observed in this masterpiece , sometimes funny , sometimes sad , but ever entertaining . the cream of independent directors have managed to make Paris appear to be THE city of love , without all of the sugar coated clichés that affect other romantic movies situated in this City . some of the stories are very odd , the Coens segment is the strangest of all , but Buscemi puts in a magnificent performance without uttering a single word . the performances are great , especially from Nolte , Portman , Binoche and Hoskins , but the final two stories are probably the most beautiful of all , even though they have a little depressing air about them . but Payne puts in the best story , the final segment , which is again melancholy , but filled with hope , showing that it is a lonely planet , but some people are just happy that way , being in love with hope and fantasy . it never gets boring , the cinematography and editing are beautiful , just a beautiful movie , filled with touching stories . a must see . . .
one of the best documentaries i've ever seen . . .	People suffer largely unnoticed while the rest of the world goes about its business . This is a documentary exploration of the mythic beauty of the Golden Gate Bridge , the most popular suicide destination in the world , and those drawn by its call . . . there is something about this film that makes you realise how precious life is , and many people suffer while the rest of us , think their not right . it must have been a harrowing experience for the film makers watching the poor souls jump from the bridge and just watch helplessly . but it's not all depressing stuff , there is one story about a 20 year old who jumped , ans seriously believed that god saved him . other questions are asked , such as is it a sin to commit suicide ? many religious people will agree with the above quote , but the film does make you wonder if it is more of a sin to not lead the life you yearn for . people do have aspirations of becoming a success and fail , and with the beauty of the golden gate bridge , it must be to the jumpers some kind of poignant moment , knowing that they will end their life on one of the worlds most famous landmarks . what stands out the most in this , is the story of Gene , a guy who cried wolf for several years , and the camera focuses on his almost reaper like figure walking along the bridge , whist we see interviews with his friends about how he lived his life . the film is shocking and sometimes very hard to watch , but at the same time makes you appreciate just how short life is . the final shot of Gene falling is macabre , but almost graceful , as he just falls , whilst the others featured in the film jumped almost reluctantly . a very important piece of film and one of the best documentaries ever made .
beats a lonely rhythm all night long . . .	Eastwood plays Walt Kowalski , a bitter lonely man , who has just lost his beloved wife and has new neighbours moving in . the fact that the neighbours are Korean , irks Walt as , he was in the Korean war , and lost several of his friends . things start to change for him though when one of the neighbours , Thao tries to steal the titular vehicle , and Walt catches him , but he finds out it was an initiation to join his cousins gang , and Thao was reluctant to do this act . when Walt sticks up for Thao , they form a bond , one which Walt would never thought would happen . . . . . Forget what you have read about this being a potential Harry Callahan sub-project , this is so much more than that ( not criticising those movies though ) . this is a movie about redemption and trying to come to terms with loss , and being the cause of loss . Eastwood proves yet again , that he is a master of storytelling , music , and knowing when to shock an audience . the film is very laid back throughout , so when you see the little outbursts of violence , it does shock you , but i feel that this is Eastwoods intentions , as are the admittedly funny moments , sometimes laugh out loud moments , which mix really well with the narrative . it's a blunt movie at times , with the banter between the men in bar scenes and when Eastwood squares up to the younger generation , but one cannot deny the fact of how powerful the final act is . In my opinion , this is Eastwoods best starring and directing job since ' Unforgiven ' . it has a lot of emotion and although i thought the movie finished swiftly , i found myself sitting through the credits until the very end . without giving too much away , this could be Eastwood subliminally telling his audience that he is retiring as an actor , if he is , thats a big shame , but what a high to go out on . this is definitely one of the best films of the year . a must see . .
