Quite possibly the worst film ever made	This movie is so bad , it is an insult to all those films it ripped off , particularly Reservoir Dogs , which I didn't even like all that much anyway . I know the director claimed that he never saw any of Tarantino's films , and it actually shows in just how terrible Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels was . Let's see , take four or five white guys who look more or less exactly the same , write an overly complicated crime plot , make it as violent as possible , presto , you can impress people with low iqs .
Most appropriate title ever	More thought should have gone into the title for this film . They had to have known it was awful when they were making it . I saw it because I was a fan of Kinnear's from his Talk Soup days . It is absolutely worthless , though , other than one transcendent moment : Rue McClanahan , Blanche from the Golden Girls , is going blind , and her son , Kinnear , makes her feel Coolio's face as a joke . It's not funny . It's just bizarre .
If I . D . proponents were hoping to look smart by making this movie , boy are they crazy !	It's common knowledge that actor and game show host Ben Stein was a speechwriter for President Richard Nixon , but does anyone know if he was a good speechwriter ? Judging from his new documentary , Expelled , which argues that the discussion of intelligent design is barred from academia , Stein couldn't hold an argument with a mute clown . The film jumps all over the place with its ideas , setting up and knocking down the most obvious of strawmen and making leaps of logic , making him about as coherent as a schizophrenic homeless man . And , man , is he obnoxious about it . Imagine Michael Moore with a megaphone , pressed against your ear . Stein questions his allies with faux disbelief , and his foes with raging cynicism . The film begins with a montage of professors , academics and journalists who claim to have been fired for their belief in intelligent design . What evidence does Stein have ? Their word , and that's all he needs to believe them . To make it look more official in the film , there have been documents typed up giving reasons , but these are pretty clearly unofficial documents , not the actual pink slips , and we're only shown selected , highlighted words from them anyway , so there's no way to judge for ourselves . The I . D . proponents claim vehemently that their purpose is not to insert religion into scientific discussions , but Stein harps on the atheism of his enemies , and even goes so far as to point out the word " Creator " in the preamble of the Constitution . In other segments , Stein interviews evolutionary biologists , asks them leading questions and gives each of them a total of about 20 seconds of screen time to answer while Stein sits there widening his eyes at them in fake disbelief . Not once does he bring together an I . D . supporter and an accredited scientist and have them discuss the subject at any length . The only scientist who gets any more than a moment of screen time is the infamous Richard Dawkins . Yeah , we all know he is kind of a jerk . Purportedly the filmmakers had to cut his interview to pieces to make him look worse , or so Dawkins claims . You have to believe him , considering how much the rest of the film cheats . To add insult to injury , Stein comes to the conclusion that Charles Darwin and those who uphold his theories are the reason the Holocaust happened . He's quite far off by this point , if you couldn't tell . His original premise is that I . D . proponents had been expelled from academia . That may be true . If he had asked one of the evolutionary scientists why that was and let him answer without interrupting , they would have basically concluded that I . D . is not worth discussing because it does not provide an argument . Expelled itself provides no real argument , either , and should definitely be expelled from the ranks of cinema . There is no competition for the worst movie of 2008 .
Give me an L ! Give me an A ! Give me an M ! And give me and E ! What does that spell ?	LAME ! This movie is incredibly lame ! Before the car chase begins , the story makes no sense whatsoever . I was sitting there waiting for the famed car chase , yawning a bit . And then it came . And then , forty grueling minutes later , it was over . If I were not watching it with a friend , I would have turned it off about ten minutes through the chase . If I just could have fallen asleep ! Really , I'm not against car chases . But there was no reason to care about anything that happened in this movie . Did the characters even have names in this movie ? I don't remember . If you're the kind of person who likes car chases a lot , all three Mad Max movies have chases that are a thousand times more exciting than the ones in Gone in 60 Seconds . There are characters we care about , and the stunts are innovative . The ones in this movie are repetitive and uninventive and unrealistic . So really the only reason to watch this movie is to see muscle cars from the 60s and 70s , and if you're that type of person , you should just be slapped back and forth in the face for eternity . Absolutely one of the biggest wastes of time ever made , devoid of anything remotely worthwhile .
Art for dummies	If Andrei Tarkovsky had been a hack , he would have directed Mother and Son instead of Mirror . This is the single most pretentious film made anywhere in the world , I am convinced . A son , without a name , takes care of his mother , without a name . They love each other , I guess . No , they don't , I'm sure . These aren't characters . They aren't even actors playing characters . At least it could be pretty , but even the nature seems ridiculously touched up and changed wherever it was necessary with a Macintosh computer . And could Sokurov have come up with a technique as hackneyed as a distorted aspect ration ? You would have to have been born yesterday to buy this garbage . .
Godawful !	Egads ! There probably won't be a worse movie than this in 2005 . If there is , I hope to God I miss it . Vin Diesel stars as a Navy SEAL assigned to take care of some dead operative's kids and find a secret location in their home . The plot is ludicrous and completely illogical . No one acts like a real human being . The only funny thing in the film is when the little girl asks Diesel if her boobs will ever be as big as his . Diesel is painful to watch ? when Vin Diesel looks embarrassed for being in a movie , you know it's bad . Some of the children show some talent . I especially think Max Thieriot as the oldest kid has a future ; he co-starred in the movie Catch That Kid last year . Hopefully he'll land some decent roles in the near future . Brad Garrett , the very funny guy who plays the brother on Everybody Loves Raymond , has a particularly creepy role ? he seems like a pedophile working as vice principal . The script of The Pacifier was written by Thomas Lennon and Robert Ben Garant , the creators and two of the stars of Comedy Central's brilliant Reno 911 . Well , I guess it's no big deal if they pollute the minds of idiots when they give back so much . They also wrote the recent theatrical release Herbie : Fully Loaded . I actually fell asleep for the final 15 or 20 minutes . My mind just shut down , and I thank Jebus for it .
The Koreans give us an Uwe Boll movie	Completely retarded Lord of the Rings rip-off , supposedly based on a Korean legend . The movie was made by Koreans , but it was aimed at American audiences . Please let this not be a trend . This is one of the most inept films I've ever sat through . Dull , terribly edited and directed , with an incomprehensible plot and just plain bad CGI monsters . There are times when this reaches the coveted so-bad-it's-good level , but it takes way too long to get to the titular war . When that starts happening , it's laughable and entertaining ( for all the wrong reasons , of course ) . The two leads are utterly boring . Jason Behr in particular seems like the homeless man's Skeet Ulrich . And it's pretty sad that they kill off the cute minority girl ( Aimee Garcia ) and keep around the homely white chick ( Amanda Brooks ) to be the heroine . It's kind of sad in general that Korean filmmakers would have their legendary heroes reincarnated as faux-hot white people . I guess they were thinking they knew their audience . But then again , they don't . Why would anyone feel Americans would like to sit through a movie where their military gets decimated by a bunch of lizards ? I think even war supporters are more than a little sick of seeing soldiers die , and more soldiers die in the approximately 20 minute-long D-War than have died in the Iraq War . There's one awful ( ly humorous ) scene where a pilot flies his helicopter into a skyscraper . We see the man jump out of the copter , as if he's going to escape , but , no , KABLOOEY ! I feel sorry for all the nobodies who had to appear in this movie . Sure , they got a pay check , but who would really want to put this on their resumé ? I particularly feel sorry for character actor and Oscar nominee Robert Forster . He clearly got paid the most for his appearance , seeing as he's the most recognizable face . I know character actors do whatever comes their way , but there is the occasional time when you should choose to retain your dignity .
A very poor movie indeed	The film is supposed to make fun of lame teenage comedies like She's All That , American Pie , even back to The Breakfast Club ( although I kind of like that one ) . Why ? Those are comedies in the first place . If a comedy is unfunny , then what are the chances that its spoof will be funny ? There are maybe one or two small laughs in the proceedings . The opening scene , where the main character is caught playing with herself by first her father , then her brother , then her grandparents , and then her priest is pretty amusing , if foul . That's probably the least disgusting joke of the whole film ! The younger boys are pretty funny . Cody McMains , who plays the main character's little brother Mitch , looks like he might be Judd Nelson's son , especially in the homage to The Breakfast Club . The ' token black guy ' is pretty funny . When the characters all go to a party , he has to approach another black guy who has showed up first . ' Excuse me , I am the black guy in this movie . ' ' Oh , sorry , ' the other black guy replies , ' my mistake . ' Mr . T and Molly Ringwald appear in truly uninspired cameos ( do teenagers even know who they are ? ) . Melissa Joan Hart , the star of She's All That , appears , probably to inspire nostalgia from the uber-young audience . I'm just normal young , and I'll always think of her as Clarissa . .
Terrible !	I've always liked Kevin Smith , if not a lot , but I never imagined he would sink so low . He completely co-opts his talents to make a romantic comedy so sickly sweet that I thought my eyes were going to stick in the back of my head . Ben Affleck gives a performance that should effectively torpedo what's left of his flagging career , and Liv Tyler , while cute as ever , makes you wish that Jennifer Lopez hadn't died in the film's first ten minutes . Smith uses every cheap rom-com convention in the book . He probably thinks he's doing a send-up of the genre , but nothing feels subversive . The little girl , Raquel Castro , is adorable , especially during the climactic music sequence . I don't think I cracked a smile more than once during the movie . The worst I've seen so far in 2004 . .
Gag !	The reason I always get so ped off at those who demand that all the imdb ratings they give average out to 5 . 5 ( or , if their math skills are poor , 5 ) is because I am rather sure that most people are smart enough to avoid movies like The Country Bears , thus missing the type of movies that would make a Bell Curve remotely possible . The reason my own vote history averages out to a high 7 . 5 is because I can see a preview for a movie like this and say ' I'm never going to see this movie . ' However , once in a while , I just have to bite the bullet and watch an awful movie . As long as it's short , how bad can it hurt ? I usually watch these kinds of movies with my brother , who has a far less refined taste in movies than myself . I'm sure he sat down to watch this particular movie to see just how bad it could be ( he rented it for his two and a half year old ) . And , oh lord , is it terrible . I don't know if I've ever heard lamer jokes delivered with worse timing . Some of the jokes might have even been funny if the actors cared whatsoever , but they really don't . Celebrities pop up in thankless cameos . You'd think Brian Setzer would know better . Christopher Walken tries hard to make something out of his role as the villain , who wants to knock down Country Bear Hall really bad ( his hood ornament is a wrecking ball ) . The script is far too awful to allow him even a decent moment . Alex Rocco , Moe Green from the first Godfather movie , wears his hideous red wig and acts like he wants another bullet in the eyeball . The actual Country Bears wouldn't have been impressive when I was a kid ; they made me long for the live action Ninja Turtles . Haley Joel Osment is lucky he didn't actually have to appear in the movie . My brother and I spent most of the movie fiercely debating whether the man who drove the Country Bear tour bus was played by Ted Nugent . Dammit , I lost the bet . I should have known Mr . Nugent had more integrity than that ( for the record , Queen Latifah , Elton John , Bonnie Raitt , Don Henley , Wyclef Jean , and Willie Nelson do not ) . ( why 2 and not 1 ? Well , I liked a couple of the songs and that Krystal chick is hot ) .
SPOILERS , although I promise you that you won't care	This couldn't have even been popular in its day . It's incredibly incompetent . I can forgive the total lack of cinematic devices . This is , after all , pre-Griffith . But there's no imagination in the film whatsoever , not a wink of it . In fact , the novel on which it's based was written by a total idiot . Only one character in the film has a Roman name , despite it taking place in Pompeii , and the name that that one man has is of a family that had been extinct for a couple of decades by the time that the film takes place , in the last few days before the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 CE . To this film , anyone wearing a bedsheet counts as a Roman . In this melodrama , prominent man falls in love with one woman on the same day as he buys a blind , female slave away from an abusive mistress . The blind slave is so grateful that she quickly falls in love with him , stumbling after him with arms outstretched as he takes his fianceé for a walk . The blind girl goes to the priest of Isis , who gives her a potion purported to be a love potion , but really a potion that causes insanity ( I don't recall why he particularly hates the guy ) . The blind girl poisons the guy , the priest frames the guy for murder . The priest locks the blind girl in a dungeon , and the guy is sentenced to be eaten by lions . In the film's only decent sequence , the blind girl fools the slave left behind to protect her by performing a bogus magic trick and then stealing his keys when he is unaware . She goes to save the guy , but then , right before the soldiers can feed him to the lions , there is a very angry deus ex machina as Vesuvius begins to erupt . The citizens of Pompeii run around in circles , flailing their arms , not even attempting to escape . The blind girl leads the insane guy to a boat ( ? ! ) but he and the other people leaving in the boat just leave her behind to be engulfed in lava . The film is worthless , although , nearer the end , it does start to become unintentionally funny . However , it's not near funny enough to warrent any sort of recommendation . This should have been lost with the multitude of other silents that were being made at the time . .
One of the worst films of the past few years	I can't believe the amount of positive comments on this film . It is poorly directed , acted and written . It wants to be a love story , but the relationship is unbelievable . The characters themselves are inconsistent and live only in a script . The politics are pathetic - it's like the screenwriter heard some stuff about political activism in the late 60s and early 70s . The sex scenes are exploitative and downright embarrassing . The two lead actors , both great elsewhere , are pathetic here , especially Connely and her Southern accent . But you can't blame them . They didn't write down this awful and pretentious dialogue . I wish I could find a quotation , but the critics have wisely not quoted a single thing from the film in their reviews . Oh yeah , there's the thing about " I need you like I have a thousand monkeys on my back . " What the hell kind of romantic imagery is this ? If this is the kind of stuff you find touching , hey , you're a lost cause . I would give it a , but I'd feel guilty . You see , I didn't have the patience to finish it , but turned the VCR off instead after an hour . Wait , so is she a ghost or is she alive ? Who the hell cares ? .
Critics were right : it stinks , big time !	The critical reaction to this film was just vile , but then a lot of normal people who saw it afterward said , " Nah , it's pretty good . " I'm here to tell you that the initial critical reception was right on the money for this one . It's God-awful . A symbologist and a cryptologist ( two fields of study which probably do exist , I suppose , but sound awfully made-up ) get framed for murder and get caught up in an ages-old clash between factions of the Catholic church . The movie mostly consists of the two scholars ( Tom Hanks and Audrey Tautou ) racing from one locale to another solving riddles and puzzles , and just barely escaping the cops and the villains each time . The puzzles are reminiscent of the ones the Riddler produced on the 1960s Batman show : they're completely inane ; no one could ever solve them , certainly not the audience . But somehow the heroes figure it all out in a matter of seconds . It's about as much fun as watching someone do a Sudoku when you don't know the rules . And the characters are as paper-thin as they could possibly be . I had absolutely zero involvement with them or their adventure . Dan Brown's novel is famously terrible , and , while I've often heard cinema improves his painful prose , after watching this film I shiver to think what actually reading him feels like . If the plot weren't enough to convince me , the dialogue is terrible . The actors are all only here for the fat paycheck . Hanks in particular seems completely dissatisfied with the part . Possibly the worst movie of the year .
Awful	A really bad little film from Cameroon , one of the sloppiest I've ever seen . The plot concerns a teenage girl who wants to be a man . A witch changes her , and then he spends the rest of the movie trying to get laid . It's riddled with many annoying penis jokes . The script doesn't even remember that the guy used to be a girl . It's as poorly edited as I've ever seen , and every decent part of it is ripped off from Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing . .
I'm a Mr . Show fan , and this definitely sucks	This film is based on characters from the mid-to-late ' 90s HBO sketch comedy show Mr . Show , which starred Bob Odenkirk and David Cross . Mr . Show , which I just rewatched in its entirety in the past couple of weeks , has a reputation as being one of the best sketch comedy shows ever . Personally , I wouldn't rank it anywhere near as high as many others . It was far more hit-and-miss than its fans like to believe . For every great sketch , you'd have to suffer through at least one completely lame sketch . That said , when the show did hit upon something good , it was truly memorable . And the Ronnie Dobbs sketches , of which there were two in the show's 30 episode run , are definitely a couple of the best they did . This movie basically retells the Ronnie Dobbs sketches over 90 minutes . And , as Saturday Night Live has proved again and again , what works in 5 minute segments doesn't stretch out well to 90 minutes . But even most of SNL's movies surpass this one ( although not It's Pat ! ) . This movie is incredibly unfunny . The only thing that works ? kind of ? are a couple of the songs that pop up occasionally . The only other Mr . Show characters that appear in the film are the members of R & B group 3 x 1 ? 1 , and that little music video they do was one of the few tolerable things in the movie . Jack Black , who appeared in several episodes of Mr . Show , gets a funny little non-sequitur song that's supposed to have been cut from a Mary Poppins-like movie . And the fat kid action sequence was slightly amusing . The only performer who is consistently entertaining is SNL's David Koechner , who , IMO , is one of the most underrated of SNL performers . Other than that , the film is terrible . Even Bob & David have disowned it , so I would suggest that even fans of the show should just ignore its existence .
A really terrible movie	The story is good enough : two sailors are ordered to take a younger sailor from Virginia to New Hampshire to a brig . There he'll serve eight years for a ridiculously minor offence , trying to steal $40 from a charity box . On the way there , they try to show him a good times and have some adventures . But the style of the film seems very amateurish . The sound feels like Ashby really wanted to copy Robert Altman's revolutionary soundtracks , but it just doesn't work . The characters mutter all the time and often I couldn't understand what they were saying . Luckily , I rarely cared . The dialogue seems like it was improvised . Often the characters would stumble through lines , as if they weren't sure what to say next . Some of the dialogue resembles that of the Blair Witch Project : when the actors didn't know what else to say , they just swore . Well , I guess they are supposed to be sailors . Jack Nicholson has never been so obnoxious , nor ever as bad . I despised his character more than any other I can think of offhand . Otis Young has almost nothing to do in the film . Randy Quaid is pretty good , but , if indeed it was improvised , he has an easy job as an extremely shy and dumb fellow . I don't know what the hell Hal Ashby was thinking when he did this one . He's no master filmmaker , of course , but , in his own charming , sloppy way , he made two of my favorite films : Harold & Maude and Bound for Glory . .
A movie based on a costume from 2001 that someone found in the garbage	Joan Crawford's infamously bad swan song , the story of an anthropologist ( Crawford ) who makes a study of a missing link , whom she dubs " Trog " ( short for " troglodyte " ) . The film is extremely cheap and cheesy . Hey , I like extremely cheap and cheesy . If it were only that , I probably would love the movie . But what makes the movie bad is its slow pace . People talk interminably about stupid things , and the boredom sets in and never leaves . The scenes where Trog and Crawford play ball are the very definition of camp , and I would have much preferred Trog's final rampage to last 80 % of the film's run . So , due to boredom , this truly is a terrible movie . It may be bad , but I still liked it more than Love Story , which was released the same year .
Painfully lame comedy	Man , who allows scripts like this to be made into movies ? Is it really that funny to hear a Jewish guy speak in black slang and an old white guy pretend he's African American ? Why didn't they just put Steve Martin in blackface ? This film is far more offensive than Al Jolson singing ' Mammy , ' let me tell you . I feel so embarrassed for Martin . He's far too talented to be appearing in sht like this . Queen Latifah provides some of the energy that should have been in the script , but she doesn't have the talent to save this train wreck . This film was very successful , but I beg you , Hollywood , please don't shove a sequel down our throats . You can't blame the executives , however . The audience is directly culpable for dreck like this , and every single person who gave this film a dime should feel ashamed . .
Simply terrible !	The most expensive film ever made in Russia . And what a tremendous waste of money it was , too ! It's a fantasy / horror flick about ? I don't know , something , I guess . Some people called " Others " exist among humanity . There are light Others and dark Others , and they apparently keep the world in balance . The mythology of the film and its plot are largely incoherent . The film's star is seriously lacking in charisma . There are some cool visuals , but , like the worst Hollywood blockbusters , it's all overbearing . And , better yet , this is only the first installment of a trilogy ! Well , count me out for parts 2 & 3 . This is the worst film I've seen in some time .
What the . . . Terrible !	I don't know where to begin with this one . It starts off well enough , and goes on that way for fifty minutes or so . Never great , I'd say , but it's a perfectly acceptable little indie comedy . Alan Arkin and Steve Carell are both excellent , and Toni Collette and Greg Kinnear are fine , too . But then it takes a majorly wrong turn ( think grandma from National Lampoon's Vacation , miscalculated at an astronomical level ) , follows that up with some incredibly forced bits and ends up at one of the most outrageously appalling climaxes I have seen in a long time . I went from moderately enjoying it to downright hating it . It's too bad , too , because I do like some of the things it's trying to say , some of the things it's trying to do . But what a disaster ! I guess I'm the only one who feels that way , though . My movie-going companion ( whose opinion I respect , I should add ) was enamored with the picture all the way through , even laughing uproariously at what I thought were some of the most cringe-inducing moments in some time . It's already ranked on IMDb's top 250 , though that's hardly a sign of high quality . Oh well . I'm happy enough in hating it . Easily the worst I've seen so far this year .
Pointless	I was first introduced to director Jim Jarmusch with Dead Man , and I loathed it . I thought that I had never before seen such an utterly pointless or pretentious movie in my life , and I probably never would again . It was many years later I ventured to watch another Jarmusch film . The second was Stranger Than Paradise and , while I still felt it was fairly pointless , I also felt it had its moments . It was interesting and occasionally aesthetically pleasing . From there , I explored much of the director's filmography , and found a few films that I really liked , foremost among them being Broken Flowers , his most recent . But I'd have to say , the majority of his movies I do find to be rambling exercises in cinematic pointlessness , even if they are sometimes interesting . I even found Dead Man tolerable on the second viewing . Unfortunately , I have come to Night on Earth , and I'm pretty much right back where I started . Following in the footsteps of the pretty good Mystery Train , Jarmusch directed another film with several different stories in it . This one is comprised of five different nighttime cab rides in five different cities , L . A . , New York , Paris , Rome and Helsinki . Basically the film is just about cabbies ' interactions with their customers . But there's little , almost nothing , really , of interest in any of these characters or conversations . Only one of the five sequences I found even remotely worth sitting through , the New York City episode , where the only cab black man Giancarlo Esposito can hail belongs to a German immigrant , Armin Mueller-Stahl , fresh off the boat . He doesn't even know how to drive , so Esposito persuades Mueller-Stahl to let him drive instead . Along the way from Manhattan to Brooklyn , they run into Esposito's sister-in-law , Rosie Perez . As in all the segments , nothing much happens during this cab ride , but I did enjoy the little friendship the two men build in the short time they know each other . Even this one ends horribly , though , with Jarmusch leaving Mueller-Stahl in dire straits . The worst segment by far is the Rome one , where Roberto Benigni plays a sunglasses-at-night kind of driver who loves to talk . He picks up a clergyman who becomes stupefied at the driver's chattering . Jarmusch kind of discovered Benigni in Down by Law , and the guy was almost tolerable there . But here he is so over-the-top that I eventually stopped reading the subtitles . I don't know why I just didn't fast-forward it to the final sequence , as none of the sequences are related anyway . This was definitely one of the more painful movies I've watched of late .
Ugly and misogynistic . What happened to the Farrelly Brothers ?	It's way too bad about the Farrelly Brothers . It looked like they were going to be the great comedians of modern cinema after their first three films , Dumb & Dumber , Kingpin and There's Something about Mary , but all of their subsequent films have been disappointments . Me , Myself and Irene , Shallow Hal , Stuck on You and Fever Pitch were all decent movies , but none of them had the cojones of their first three . They seemed to be getting sweeter , which wouldn't be such a bad thing if they didn't also lose their edge . Well , their new film , The Heartbreak Kid , proves that their edge is completely dulled . Where they were able to combine a certain humanity with the gross-out jokes in a film like There's Something about Mary , it now feels like they are just desperately cramming them into The Heartbreak Kid . None of the dirty jokes work . They're all groan-inducing . Nothing seems more out of place than a Tijuana donkey show . The incongruity of it all isn't even what ruins the movie , unfortunately . It's the way they treat women , or at least one woman , Malin Akerman . Man , does this movie come off as misogynistic . I'm guessing that , in the original film , written by Neil Simon , there's more insight into how bad a person the protagonist is ( there played by Charles Grodin , here by the every day more dire Ben Stiller ) . It doesn't feel like there's much insight into Stiller's character , and I think we're actually supposed to like him and root for him to get into a relationship with the " good girl " , here played by Michelle Monaghan . In the end ( and especially in the end , given the final twist of the film ) , I hated the guy . Akerman comes off as nasty , but Stiller's character doesn't even deserve to get peed on by her .
First film I saw on Blu Ray . Hi-def doesn't make it any better	If nothing else , this movie will be a landmark in my film viewing life : it was the first movie I ever saw on Blu Ray ( a buddy bought a Playstation 3 ) . If not for that , I'm sure it'd be one for the dustbin of my memory . Granted , it's hard to judge fairly when I never saw the first two installments of this based-on-a-video game trilogy , but Resident Evil : Extinction can only barely count as a movie . It's a post-apocalyptic zombie movie where a genetically engineered woman with excellent fighting abilities ( model / musician Milla Jovovich ? I refuse to acknowledge her as an actress ) helps a ragtag band of survivors escape to Alaska , while she herself infiltrates the underground layer of the Umbrella Corporation , which created the virus that zombified the rest of the world . The plot is mostly nonexistent . I kind of like the set and costume designs ( sci-fi being every set and costumer designer's favorite gene ) , and the movie's watchable when it focuses on the scenery . But it's an action movie , and , for God's sake , the action sequences are dull . CGI looks even more fake in high definition . The director and / or editor cut madly during these sequences , inducing headaches and making it impossible for you to tell what's going on . It's a pretty worthless film , and let's leave it at that .
Of almost no worth	It's always a tricky thing to adapt great novels into films ( I haven't read it , by the way , but I know of its fame ) . Some filmmakers , well , producers , especially , but also directors , have this notion that if the novel is famous and / or great , the film is liable to be great , too , or , at the very least , profitable . It almost never turns out well . What masterpieces of literature ever made a great film ? To Kill a Mockingbird is probably the best , but that novel's greatness lies in its simplicity ( the film , in my opinion , attains greatness in Gergory Peck's performance more than anything else ) . Generally , if you're going to adapt a novel into a film , you certainly cannot rely on one that relies too heavily on the words ; imagery is necessary . Most great films based on great literature are great because the screenwriters have actually adapted it into something new . Now , think of a great masterpiece of literature adapted into a SILENT film . To boot , a silent film made without the inventions of Birth of a Nation to imbue it with a sense of the cinematic . Germinal is about the most unintersting film I've ever seen . Perhaps its only interest is its similarities to Fritz Lang's Metropolis , enough to make me think Lang liked it , at least . Maybe not . This is an awful film . .
Unbelievably terrible !	Sorry to say it , Topper fans , but I found this movie to be utterly , utterly lame ! Cary Grant and Constance Bennett play a fun-loving married couple who like to down the booze . One day they drive their fancy car off the road and die . They can't go to Heaven until they complete one good deed . So they attempt to rectify the situation by making the life of Topper ( Roland Young ) , a banker who worked under Grant , more fun . The usual ghost movie stuff occurs , with Grant and Bennett lifting up objects all over the place , mostly for no reason . The ( very bad ) special effects guy attatches a fishing wire to a handkerchief and waves it around in a way that doesn't look remotely like a ghost is carrying it around . Strangely , the physics of ghosts in this movie seems more like those of the invisible man ? they have physicality but can become invisible at will . Apparently ghosts can even have sex with humans , as Cary Grant gets jealous when his wife is hanging out with Topper . Every belabored joke is painful to sit through . There was all of one scene where I giggled a little , where Topper walks around drunkenly , supported by the invisible ghosts . David Lean did this so much better eight years later with Blithe Spirit . You definitely want to stay far away from this turkey .
Would be better off forgotten itself ( possible spoilers )	Almost a textbook example of what a film critic would refer to as ' underbaked ' . The Forgotten is a conspiracy thriller with one half a good idea behind it . Even more unfortunately , behind that half a good idea lies piss poor script development . So that takes it down to half of a half of a film that had some potential . Julianne Moore plays a woman who lost her nine year-old son in a plane crash 14 months earlier . Lately , the memory of the child seems to be disappearing all the more . Her husband doesn't acknowledge the son's existence , and all corroborating evidence seems to have disappeared . Is she losing her mind ? Only in a good movie . No , it's a conspiracy . She confirms this when she meets up with the father of one of her son's friends , who also lost his offspring in the same crash ( played by Dominic West ) . They unite to try to figure out what happened . Meanwhile , the government comes after them . Straight from Gerald Di Pego's screenplay class , there is a subplot involving a police investigator ( Alfre Woodard ) and Moore's psychologist ( Gary Sinise ? if he's in a movie you know there's a conspiracy ! ) who both start to believe the protagonist and want to help her . The movie becomes fairly nonsensical as it moves on . Characters just don't act like real people would . After strange things begin to happen , Moore and West still plod on in search for their possibly alive children without the fear any real person would develop . When the nature of the conspiracy is finally revealed in full , tons of interesting questions should arise . Nope . I just want my kid , sir . It reminds me of an episode of South Park where the kids go on an adventure simply to retrieve their stolen video game system . When they finally find it , they just start playing , as the incidental characters reveal vast intergalactic goings-on . Nope . Just let me play my video game , sir . .
A 10 . 0 on the pretention scale	SPOILERS SPOILERS Oh Christ ! My worst fears came true ! Tom Tykwer was told so often by both critics and audiences that he was a freakin ' genius that he actually believed it . Of course , his previous film was Run Lola Run , a smash hit on the festival circuit , and subsequently in the video stores , a couple of years ago . That film hinted that its director had some talent , but it played too much like a hip music video director's notion of a Kieslowski film . In the end , the excessiveness served only to give me a massive headache . It was also painfully lacking in substance , although I was pretty sure that Tykwer thought it was chocked full of it . The Princess and the Warrior is unfortunately a step backwards . Way backwards . Tykwer has no restraint and he certainly doesn't have a critical eye when looking at his own work . It sort of has similar themes to RLR , fate and interconnections and such . Absolutely none of it works . Few films have such an egregious lack of cohesion . I don't think there is a single scene in the entire film I thought succeeded . Take a look at this scene ( don't worry , no spoilers ) : after being rejected by the man who saved her life , Sissi ( Franka Potente ) walks out in the rain . In slow motion , she stops , and then the rain ceases . She lays down in the wet grass and looks up at the stars . Brilliant , huh ? Maybe if a middle schooler came up with it . An adult , I hope , would giggle at it . I won't ruin it ( I think you have to see it to believe it ) , but the final sequence is so bad that the audience was laughing their heads off . And Tykwer , as always , wasn't joking . He thought he was being profound . Another thing : I could tell you more , much more about the two main characters from Run Lola Run than I could about the characters in P & W , which is , incidentally , nearly an hour longer than RLR . In fact , I could tell you more about secondary and tertiary characters in RLR . All of the secondary characters in P & W are caricatures , especially the offensive stereotypes you're going to find in the mental hospital scenes . Stop for a brief second : for God's sake , Tykwer , it's like you don't even realize that that whole mental hospital schtick was done to death twenty , maybe even thirty years ago . Christ ! Anyway , before I relate the only bit of back story we get for the two major characters , I'll issue a SPOILERS warning . Sissi : yeah , um , apparently , though it's not clear , her dad's one of the patients . Her mom was electrocuted in the bath tub by a hair drier that mysteriously fell into it . This is explained near the end of the film , but it's rather laughable . After those two facts , nothing else . I knew absolutely nothing about her , except that she works at a mental hospital and is not opposed to masturbating her patients . Why does Tykwer even include this scene , btw ? I'll tell you : it is simply to shock . Does it say anything whatsoever about Sissi ? It serves little purpose . The same goes for half a dozen other scenes in the film , like when one of the patients gets mad and starts to eat glass . Riemer : okay , now this is especially funny , although it's played , if you can believe it , as straight drama : he was arguing with his girlfriend one day in the car ( we know nothing about her ) , so , when he was in the bathroom at a gas station , she , um , lit a cigarette and blew herself to smithereens . I would say that this has to be the stupidest I'm - depressed - 'cause - my - girlfriend's - dead backstory in the history of the cinema , and the world , for that matter . Actually , there's that great one in The Naked Gun where Leslie Nealson tells the ol ' boy - meets - girl - girl - dies - in - a - tragic - blimp - accident story . I think the one in P & W is funnier . END SPOILERSAnother thing that bugs the hell out of me is Tykwer's use of music . In RLR , the film is so steeped in execrable techno that it either hypnotizes you and carries you past the numerous flaws or it gives you epilepsy . The same is true of P & W , except that the score is a bit more traditional . The film is never once suspenseful , but you could easily be tricked into thinking it was just by the music . Actually , there is a simple piano score during the bank robbery sequence that is so beautiful I was nearly fooled into thinking the scene was the only good one in the film . It would have remained that way in my mind if not for the fact that I started to think about what was going on . The acting is pretty horrible , also . The two main characters have a combined total of two expressions . This rather disappoints me . Although I disliked Run Lola Run , I thought that Potente was quite pretty and that she might be able to act in a real film . I was wrong . My guess now would be that , even in a film where the characters are well developed , she would be poor . Maybe I should rent Blow and check out if I am right on that . So what did I like about P & W ? Well , as you can probably guess , very little . However , I can recognize that Tykwer ( or , more correctly , his photographer ) has a talent for camera movement and framing . Color is sometimes used well . The editing can be interesting , though poorly used 99 % of the time . Still , with such vapid writing , no technical prowess could ever have saved The Princess and the Warrior . It's awful . .
The most offensive movie of 2005	If not the most poorly made film of the year , it is indeed the most insulting , offensive , idiotic and just plain evil film of the year . It is , in fact , the absolute worst movie of 2005 . What makes this one particularly sting is that I was completely familiar with the true story it is based on , that of the German woman Anneliese Michel . I have or have had an interest in the occult , demonic possessions included . Not that I believe in it , but I do find stories of it interesting and often very frightening . I read of Michel's case years ago , and it's a chilling one . It is also one of the complete failure of religion which , as an atheist , delights me , I must admit . What really happened is that two priests began performing an exorcism on Anneliese . They didn't bother to care for her physically and eventually starved her to death . As a result , the Roman Catholic Church required that a physician be present at any future exorcisms that they might sanction . In Emily Rose , which moves the story to America , the priest who is accused of letting the possessed girl die is conveniently already given a doctor to observe the ceremony . It's even specifically mentioned that this is Church doctrine . This fact doesn't come into trial right away ( which doesn't make any sense ) . Anyway , we're pretty much told right off the bat that the priest ( played by Tom Wilkinson ) is completely guiltless . There's never any doubt , and no ambiguity whatsoever . The only reason he wants to go to trial is so that he can " tell Emily's story " , as he says about twenty times . And her story , as written by the girl herself , is that she died because the Virgin Mary , whom she saw in a vision , told her she had to so that the people would realize that the spiritual elements of life do in fact exist . So God lets demons take over an innocent girl's soul so that more people would believe in Him . It's Job all over again . The film ends with updates that treat the story as if it happened the way the idiots here have told it , informing us that Emily's story helped people to believe in God . One wonders why it wouldn't do the exact opposite .
Wow , am I ever of a different opinion from the majority on this movie !	It's easily the worst I've seen in months . It was hitting notes that were really hurting my ears , and it kept hitting those same notes over and over and over and over again . I thought I was going to die . I can't believe I even finished it . I passed the excruciating two hours by creating an elaborate fantasy wherein I torture each of the artists involved with the film in the most sadistic ways possible , except Audrey , of course , whom I would be rescuing ? Ahem . Anyway , my God , I hated this movie . I mostly blame Frederic Raphael , the screenwriter , who comes up with a nice gimmick . The film retells the story of a marriage ( whose participants are Audrey Hepburn and Albert Finney ) in a somewhat random order , telling the stories of their various vacations , from when they meet to when other lovers come between them . Unfortunately , the script is in search of an arch . I need some sort of path to follow emotionally , but instead we get everything randomly . Any scene near the end could just as easily be transported with any scene from the beginning . The film wouldn't be any more confusing , for the most part . So we're hitting these ups and downs of the couple's lives pretty steadily , and it just starts to get as repetitive as hell . Worse yet , the dialogue is some of the most horrible ever . It's clever at a certain , low level , but the same bit of cleverness hit over two thousand times in a single movie is enormously torturous . Reminds me of David Mamet . I tried , tried hard to keep my mind on Audrey , because I love her so , so much , but I couldn't . Her costumes were really nice , but that's about the extent of how pleasant I can be . I so wanted to beat Albert Finney to death with a street sign . And every supporting actor is so obnoxious , which is the perfect word to describe this movie : it's the single most obnoxious piece of tripe ever committed to celluloid .
An embarrassment for everyone involved	Ugh ! The Royal Tenenbaums can be blamed on one of two reasons . You know , I think Rushmore is a fine film , but it was far overpraised . Because of its outrageous success , Wes Anderson was probably so sure of himself that he didn't even bother to do any rewrites on his new film , of which it needs at least a dozen and a half . It's either that or that Anderson and Owen Wilson lost all their writing abilities before they went on to pen this screenplay . The Royal Tenenbaums feels like writing that was crapped out when its authors had severe writers ' block . Or , a third alternative , Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson may just have been coked out of their gourds when they were writing this . I don't know how anybody could find this film clever at all . It's quirkiness for quirkiness ' sake , and nothing more . The scenes arise and end randomly , nothing at all connects . The characters are all caricatures , dressing in the same outfits as if they were in a cartoon ( which was meant , but God knows why ) . There are a few laughs , but 90 % of the jokes fall flat . All of the actors are flat and emotionless , except for Ben Stiller , who overplays his role . I imagine that everyone wanted to work with the writer / director of Rushmore , but I can't believe anyone would have signed on if they had read the script . The Royal Tenenbaums is one of the worst films of 2001 , and has possibly the sloppiest script ever written . An Oscar nominated script , I must add . I think the cinema has gotten stronger in the last few years , after a slump in the late 80s through the mid-90s , but this film demonstrates what is worst about the cinema right now , especially independent cinema . .
Nooooooooooooooooooo ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !	Way to start the summer , Marvel . This is a prequel to a series of mostly decent comic book movies - I'd rank the second one , X2 , as maybe the second or third best comic book movie ever . It concerns the origin of the series ' most popular character , Wolverine . Well , that's kind of a lie . It's not really that concerned with anything . It's an indifferently created action movie that goes through the cliché plot line ploddingly . Dialogue is flat , as is the acting . The film is overly violent but completely bloodless - I hate when they edit an R-rated movie into a PG-13 rated movie . At least it's sometimes laughable . Try not to giggle every time Wolverine is on his knees , hands ( and claws ) spread , screaming " NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! " That happens four times in the story , and the movie flashes back to one of those times at least once , as well . There's hardly a good thing I can say about it . It's a stinker , probably the worst summer blockbuster since Van Helsing . Sorry , Mr . Jackman . I have nothing against you , but these two movies are beyond abysmal .
Can only barely count as a movie	Lame pot-inspired comedy produced by Adam Sandler . The low quality of this flick makes me long for the relatively well made Sandler vehicles of the 1990s . Grandma's Boy just feels like a bunch of potheads gathered together and crapped out half a script that they wrote while giggling through clouds of smoke . Things people find hilarious when high tend to be , if you're lucky , only slightly funny in sobriety . The only element of the movie that's ever even remotely entertaining is the wonderful stand-up comedian Nick Swardson , who was the reason I rented it in the first place . His movie characters are always the same , but he has a great sense of comic timing . In the film , he gets to sleep with Shirley Jones . Poor Shirley Jones . All of her Patridge Family money must be spent , and DVDs of The Music Man must be gathering dust on Best Buy's shelves . The film also co-stars Jonah Hill , who's getting famous right now from his roles in Knocked Up and Superbad , and Doris Roberts , aka Ray Romano's mom on Everybody Loves Raymond . The movie actually stars Allen Covert . All I have to say about him is it must be nice to have rich friends like Adam Sandler .
Not especially offensive , but quite lame	Playboy Bunny Anna Faris attaches herself to a sorority full of losers in this Adam Sandler production . That should tell you in itself that this isn't a very good movie , because Sandler's Happy Madison production company has produced some egregious crap over the past few years . The House Bunny is a masterpiece compared to some of those films ( e . g . Grandma's Boy ) , but it's mostly lame with only a handful of laughs , none of them too big . Faris is actually a pretty talented comedic actress , even if she really only has the bimbo persona to work with . But her line readings are often very clever . Emma Stone , who co-starred last year in Superbad , proves herself a talent to watch here . But after those two , no one else is particularly funny . I did like the film's almost 1980s-like feel , almost like this was a Revenge of the Nerds for girls . I just wish it were funnier .
Lame	Lame pot comedy about a girl ( Anna Farris ) who gets high , eats a bunch of cupcakes which , unbeknownst to her , have pot in them , and then becomes really , really high . The movie follows her as she stumbles about , trying to acquire more pot and then to pay off her dealer . But , being high and all , she doesn't quite have the gumption to get where she's going . There are definitely some funny moments , but in general it's never more than mildly amusing . And Farris , I think , overplays it a bit . I'm not a pothead myself , but I don't think most potheads would even find much to like about the movie . For one thing , Farris does not end up winning in the end . The message is clearly that drugs can get you into trouble . And I don't think that's something the film's intended audience really wants to hear . A big step down from Araki's previous film , Mysterious Skin .
Something amiss . . .	I understand why every Dick and Jane on the planet liked this , but why did the critics give it such good reviews ? I mean , it is not , contrary to popular opinion , the worst movie ever made ( although , yes , it may be the most overhyped , although The Matrix and Star Wars : Episode 1 are huge contenders ) . It is merely bad . There are very few things to like in this film . Technically , it succeeds to a point . I really did believe that I was watching a real ship sink ( well , since the model built by Cameron for the film was just barely a model and more a full-sized ship , it ought to look real ! ) . Some of the CGI was terrible , though . The people falling from the boat were so obviously digitally created that I laughed a bit . The writing is extraordinarily weak . Dialogue is just as bad . Everything that happened in the film , which takes over 3 hours , can easily be related on a cocktail napkin . The worst part about it has to be the acting . Kate Winslet has actually been good , elsewhere , but here she has nothing to work with . DiCaprio is bad . There's no saving him - his career , much like that of a boy band , is going down the toilet as I type ( he's starting to gain weight and get greasy like Marlon Brando did - this sort of right is only reserved for actors of Brando's status , so stop it now , Leo ! ) . Billy Zane is awful , too , but it is mostly that his part is so insubstantial . So do you believe in payolas ? It's beginning to make me curious that such obviously bad films as Titanic , American Pie , and The Matrix all got rave reviews from critics . All three of the films were abominations . And you may ask , what does it matter if a critic reviews it well ? I don't care about their opinion ! Not true , my friend . Even if your insecurities tell you that critics are unimportant , you always secretly feel victory when the consensus is for a film you really like . Therefore , there are no guilty feelings after you have enjoyed something like Titanic so much . Instead , you feel for a fading second that , yes , you are part of high culture . You understand art . BLAH ! It's all just sinister psychology working its claws over simple minds . And for those of you who absolutely despise this film , I can guess your favorite pictures : Pulp Fiction , Reservoir Dogs , Fight Club , and , of course , The Matrix . Well , you people should actually begin to learn what REAL film is . Rent A Night to Remember , the best film about the Titanic's sinking . It is not the greatest film ever made , but it is great .
Maybe the least thrilling thriller ever made	The major mistake of the filmmakers here was to make this film a thriller at all . It would have been better as just a drama . Still , it wouldn't have worked well at all . The film is paper thin in every way , and , as they did set out to make a thriller , it has no suspense whatsoever . I had great hopes for Leelee Sobieski . I've only seen her once elsewhere , in Eyes Wide Shut , but I was completely knocked over by her beauty . Now , two or three years after she made that film , she seems to have gotten uglier . Well , she was shorter than Tom Cruise in EWS , but now she's taller than Stellan Skarsgard . I don't know . Her character is poorly written , so she has no real chance to give a decent performance . The only character given some meat is that of Skarsgard , but he delivers what can only be his worst performance in this film . I didn't despise this film , really . I was just bored . It's not at all worth watching , but the climactic sequence is pretty amusing , although in the wrong way . .
Terrible ! Skip it !	Extremely phoney-feeling indie about a disaffected youth who has a secret habit of sucking his thumb . This quirky character is surrounded by many other quirky characters and blah blah blah . Who the hell cares ? Mills ( and / or novelist Walter Kirn ) get pretty much everything wrong here . Everything feels forced and it's impossible to give two craps about anything that happens . The dialogue is atrocious , and the casting is awful . Several indie regulars appear and others come along obviously trying to improve their indie cred . The only actor who fits is the lead , Lou Taylor Pucci , who was found after many auditions . His debut film is so bad that I hope he can overcome it . The kid has talent . The music , as well as the cinematography , are decent , too . Otherwise , this is one of the worst of 2005 . If you want real indie dramedies that ring true , check out Junebug and You and Me and Everyone We Know . The latter especially demonstrates how a film can be extremely quirky and still feel like there's honest humanity behind it .
Stay away from the American DV	I'm not prepared to pass any kind of harsh judgement against this film , because the DVD that Netflix has is pretty awful , and the American version is severely edited . From what I did see , however , the direction of this Francis of Assisi biopic isn't that good . Liliana Cavani , most famous for her exploitation film The Night Porter , directs this very blandly . Her casting is bad , too , and she seems to have made her choices for beauty's sake . After seeing The Wrestler a while back , I was left wondering who this Mickey Rourke person was , and when it was that he was a world-famous actor with a great career to which everyone refers . Having also recently revisited Rossellini's The Flowers of St . Francis , one of my favorite films , this film seemed like a natural choice . Rourke was indeed a great beauty at this point in his life . He's certainly not the gruff bruiser I know him as ( from The Wrestler , Sin City , Man on Fire and Domino mostly ) . I'll have to see him in something else before I judge his earlier worth . He's not particularly good here . He doesn't seem to belong , anyway . Far too beautiful , and I wasn't convinced by his soft-spokenness . Helena Bonham Carter co-stars , and the rest of the cast is mostly Italian . I have to admit I was mostly bored by this film . It came off as a cheap made-for-TV biopic , though that could mostly be due to the crumminess of the DVD . The worst aspect is the electronic score by Vangelis . I have to admit I rather like his scores to Chariots of Fire and Blade Runner , but his score here does not fit and is brutally awful much of the time .
Against the grain	Sorry people , but I really hated this movie . I found it dull and I found the characters incredibly banal . It's not unprecedented . I also disliked Ophuls La Ronde , made three years before this film . The next time I want to see a well made French romance , I'll go slumming with Rene Clair . And , people , the next time I say I want to see a movie , and you know that there is a climactic pistol duel , kindly tell me to avoid that one . I have no sympathy for Madame de , none whatsoever . If I were her husband , I too would have cheated on her . I mean , we're supposed to judge him for having a mistress , but when Madame de cheats on her husband , we're supposed to find it romantic ? Only in movie logic . She apparently goes off with Vittorio de Sica's character because she finds her husband boring and inattentive . Who would attend to her ? She's utterly brainless herself ? What does she have to offer ? Nothing besides breasts . All of my negative judgement was concentrated on her , and , while I wasn't strictly allowed to sympathize with her husband , I tended to , anyway . I mean , yeah , Vittorio de Sica is a stud . I agree totally . He deserves a better mistress than Madame de . Think about it : if she were married to De Sica , life would be just as dull and she'd probably be cavorting with Monsier de . I can recognize the great camera work , and there are a couple of fantastic moments . A dance that fades into another dance , a letter torn to bits transforming into snowflakes . Beautiful moments . Too bad they were in the wrong movie . Someone should steal them . .
Crap	Based on the autobiographical tale of writer Toby Young , this film follows a British writer ( renamed Sidney Young , played by Simon Pegg ) who is hired by a major magazine in New York . To work there , though , Pegg must soften up his edges and lose his soul . The model for the movie is La Dolce Vita , referenced directly many times in the film . There is almost nothing I hate more than a mediocre or bad film referencing a movie I love ( it also references All About Eve ) . How to Lose Friends isn't that bad a movie , probably , but it bothered me with its insistence on being as uninteresting as humanly possible . The cast includes Kirsten Dunst , Jeff Bridges , Gillian Anderson and Danny Huston . All are fine , but this kind of material is a huge waste of time for all of them . It's even worse for Simon Pegg , who won so many of us over in Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz . I didn't see Run , Fatboy , Run , but it's only two films into his American crossover career and he's nearly castrated . One more chance is all he gets . Thankfully , I'm one of the few people who actually saw this movie . Fireproof , the Christian-themed movie where Kirk Cameron plays a computer porn-addicted fireman , made nearly three times as much money as it did .
Bordering on torture	Love Happy is not one of the first Marx Brothers pictures that you're going to want to watch . In fact , you had better be a Marx Brothers enthusiast if you plan to get through this one without being bored to tears . Myself , this is only the second one of their films that I've seen , the first being the hilarious Duck Soup . Most everything in that film was pure genius . Love Happy almost completely lacks humor . I laughed at Harpo a lot in Duck Soup . Here , he makes me cringe . I did not laugh at him once . Chico fares slightly better , but I'd stress the word slightly . I love the way he plays the piano in one scene . Groucho seems to be the only one who can still successfully ( and almost effortlessly ) inspire laughs . But he's reduced to almost a supporting role in this one . The scene where Marilyn Monroe walks into his private eye office is very funny , although it kind of ends randomly . Monroe walks out for no reason , and Groucho decides not to follow . Well , whatever . The only other point of interest was the copious amount of advertisements in the last section of the film . I always find it interesting how advertisements worked in the past , and this film provides a window to that time . But besides these few things , this is a huge disappointment to someone who was just looking to experience more comedic genius .
Crud	Awful Star Wars knock-off with a slightly more comic tinge . Robert Urich stars as the leader of a group of ice pirates , who steal ice because water is the most valuable substance in the universe now ( how all the poor people stay alive is a mystery ) . He hooks up with Mary Crosby ( Bing's daughter , around 25 and a total cutie ) , a princess looking for her missing father . Also in the cast are an embarrassed-looking Anjelica Huston in some hilarious sci-fi get-ups and a pudgy , short-ish Ron Perlman ( whom I thought was seven feet tall from his other roles ! ) . And John Carradine , who looks days from death and Hollywood Squares funnyman ( relative term ) Bruce Vilanch . If you ever wanted to see Bruce Vilanch get decapitated , here's your film . But , then again , even that's not worth seeing , as it doesn't shut him up at all ( think he might have been a robot , but I nodded off a couple of times ) .
Like a really shtty Chekhov play	I cannot imagine Woody Allen creating a film worse than September . Never has a film been more stagy - Allen must have intended that feeling , but only God knows why . The direction is poor in every way . The dialogue is God awful , often laughable , and the acting is just as bad . Mia Farrow and Dianne Wiest turn in what must be their worst performances . Sam Waterston is ineffective . The two parents ( whose names I cannot even recall ) seem like their in a different movie - a Woody Allen film . Their delivery is wry and often good , at least it would be if it belonged here . None of the characters ever ring true - never . What's really sad is that there is a good story underneath this terrible train wreck of a film . Lane's situation and her relationship with the other characters could have been fascinating . Unfortunately , the events of the past are introduced is such a poor way , the same way a really bad play would do it , that they never really seem important . Allen wanted desperately to make a Bergmaesque chamber piece , but Bergman is smart enough to have the outside world exist in his similar films , Persona , for instance . If you are an Allen fan , then this one is worth seeing - an artist's bad work is nearly as important as his great work . Just be prepared for something utterly awful - at least it's only 82 minutes long .
I liked Institute Benjamenta , but this really is a bore	The Brothers Quay are directors , judging by conventional thought , should have stuck to making short films . I myself actually really liked their first feature , Institute Benjamenta , but judging by their sophomore effort , The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes , I'm willing to agree they don't come close to equaling their past genius at feature length . Piano Tuner is , without a doubt , a gorgeous film to look at , and often to listen to . Unfortunately , it's borderline painful to sit through with its convoluted narrative and glacial pace . Reading the plot synopsis , it sounds like a pretty good story . But the Brothers fail miserably to bring it to life . One thing they should consider avoiding completely in the future : dialogue . My God , it's awful here . A huge bust .
A rather hideous movie	I shut it off with about 15 minutes to go . Katharine Hepburn is a middle class girl ( who's supposed to be poverty-stricken - I'm sure Depression era audiences just loved to hear how poor this family is ) with upper class tastes . She sometimes gets invited to big parties at mansions , and during one of these outings she meets Fred MacMurray - if I had known the Shaggy Dog was in this picture , I probably would have avoided it altogether . I can't think of a duller performance in the movies than his in Alice Adams . This film also has a greater than normal level of bigotry . I usually try to look past this kind of material , but it wore on me here , probably because of the poorness of the rest of the film . Hepburn's less uptight brother says hello to the band leader at the upper class party , and she is just horrified at this . When MacMurray catches him playing craps in the closet with a couple of black men , Hepburn explains , " Oh , he just likes the stories darkies tell . He's thinking of writing about them someday . He's very literary . " And then there's Hattie McDaniel . This woman had genuine talent , but she was always reduced to whoring herself for money . Out of the four or five films I've seen with her , this is easily her most embarrassing role . A sweaty , gum-chewing mammy , she shuffles around forgetting to refill her massa's water glass . Her little tiara or whatever the hell maids wear keeps falling down over her face , ha ha ha ( oh , did I mention that this was supposed to be a comedy ? I didn't even realize it was trying to be funny until that scene ) . This film would be sheer torture if it weren't for Katharine Hepburn's great performance . Yes , pretty flowers can grow on sht . I just wish I could give a damn about her situation . Well , if it hadn't been Hepburn playing the role , I wouldn't have even tried to give a damn . .
Weak Crusades epic by Ridley Scott	Scott has an undeserved reputation , mostly based on just a couple of movies ( Alien and Blade Runner ) , and it doesn't surprise me that this movie is so unimpressive . It makes Gladiator , a decent film , look like it deserved to win the Best Picture Oscar . Orlando Bloom stars . A lot of negative stuff has been said about him , but , truth be told , I don't think he's that bad an actor . He's a perfect matinée idol , and Pirates of the Caribbean suits him well . He's poor in Kingdom of Heaven , but I wouldn't blame him . His role is underwritten . His character , Balian , is a French blacksmith who discovers that he is the illegitimate son of a great warrior . He then travels to Jerusalem , where Christians have held fort for the past century . Through dirty dealings on the Christians ' side , the Muslims , lead by Saladin , attempt to take Jerusalem back . There is little that is worthwhile . The battle scenes have all been done better in other movies . I guess after Return of the King , nothing much is going to compare . The references to modern politics are sparse and very poorly integrated . Troy did this much better last year . It criticizes hardcore Christianity to some extent , but really these are only petty barbs . The attitudes of the characters feel completely anachronistic . Besides a couple of scummy priests , religion is barely present . Morality is completely modernized . The only reason I had interest in seeing this movie was because it is Eva Green's second role . Her first was in Bertolucci's The Dreamers . Her screen presence is hard to argue with , but I think she is a gifted young actress and I hope she will go onto better things . She is completely wasted in Kingdom of Heaven .
Problematic to an enormous degree	The War Zone is a very frustrating film . Most self-proclaimed film buffs and critics will and have been easily convinced by the film . That's not to say that if you like this film you're dumb . You just missed the flaws . Anyone who wanders upon it unawares is likely to be repelled , needless to say . I , who have been wanting to see it since Jamie Berardinelli spewed about it as being one of the best films of the 1990s , that bone head , I myself found it contrived and very annoying , containing some bits of worth in individual scenes . To me , it seemed that Tim Roth , as well as the screenwriter ( who also wrote the novel on which it's based ) , had calculated every iota of this film from the dialogue to the shot composition . Their goal was emotional manipulation , but the camera records the film's falseness clearly . This film is an attempt to produce a realistic situation . In the cinema , realism is achieved by a naturalness in the actors and writing , as well as the actual filming . In a good 90 % of the scenes , dialogue was obviously scripted with nothing improvised . I would bet that the minutest detail of tone of voice was written into the script . You can tell this because the rhythm of the dialogue is so precise , it leaves no room for invention . It might seem natural to the untrained ear , but it is phony naturalism . In the remaining 10 % , I think it is possible that there was some improvisation , especially in the scene where the father denies everything and attacks his son for suggesting such awful things . I would bet my life that Tim Roth began his career on the stage . He's a mediocre but entertaining actor , speaking his lines , even those in the basest slang , as in Pulp Fiction , with the most eloquent and practiced diction . As a director , this is how his actors turn out , too . It should not be this way . The acting is measured to an unnecessary degree . All of the performances , except for a few individual scenes , seem forced . I can just see Roth directing these actors from behind the ever-present camera . Also , the impeccably composed photography is totally out of place in The War Zone . This should have been done with hand held cameras , maybe even on video . It should have seemed sloppy . Instead , we get one of the most beautifully shot films of the past few years , which tells me that Roth was so confident that his subject matter was important , the only thing he was worrying about was the cinematography . Movies about sexual abuse should not be beautiful in any way . The photography definitely undermines the weight of the subject . Even if the film had not seemed so phony to me , I still would have had problems with it . The film sickened me , not because its subject matter was sickening , but because it is treated in an exploitative way . My guess is that more people would get off on it than would get anything from it . Nudity is rampant , which is called for , I suppose , but Roth couldn't have found a more sexually compelling actress to get buck-naked . I guess if the film had worked , I would have felt guiltier about finding that actress so attractive . But she seems like she's playing naughty through the whole film . Sadists will love the scene where she burns her nipple , not to mention the very graphic depiction of daddy-daughter anal sex . Speaking of which , the version I saw was rated R . I swear it was rated NC-17 in the theaters , so I assume that there was some editing done to reduce it to R for HBO . But what the hell could have been removed ? I'm certainly no prude , but , if any film has ever earned an NC-17 , whether or not I saw an edited version , it is The War Zone . It's the truth that the evil MPAA castrates a ton of indie films with that rating when they don't at all deserve them , handing awful Hollywood products R's , but this is not a case of that sort of discrimination , for sure ! This is most definitely a failure , an enormous one . .
Ugh .	I knew I was going to dislike this , as I have a real distaste for Alexander Payne's films , so I probably should have just skipped it . But I had a chance to see it for free , so I did . And ugh . It is such an ugly and cynical movie , with obvious themes that , if a better writer or director had handled them , wouldn't have seemed nearly so trite . It is in vogue for critics to claim that certain filmmakers revel in deriding their characters , and it's a criticism that I personally don't like to make , but Payne is one who spends most of the time looking down on the poor saps in his creations . All one has to do to prove that in About Schmidt is to point out Dermot Mulroney . Payne's idea of humor is to give him a mullet , and to make sure that the audience can always see the mullet . I'll bet the audience in the theater ( and this is the type of film that attracts pseudo-intellectual , semi-yuppies ) was cracking up at it . I watched it alone on a television , so all I had was my own screams of horror . And the letters to Ndugu were on a whole other terrible level , as the depth of the ' joke ' is more complex ; these emotional testimonies should really be touching , but instead Payne constantly has to remind us that Schmidt's pains are as insignificant as Schmidt himself . This probably wasn't even Payne's intention , but he is such an inept writer that he shoots himself in the foot with his own poorly judged gag . Well , the one positive thing I can say about the film is that Jack Nicholson finds every shred of humanity in Warren Schmidt that he can . If it succeeds on any emotional level at all , it is because Nicholson is such a great actor . Kathy Bates , however , in a highly celebrated role , is embarrassing . She was Oscar nominated for getting naked . Otherwise , she is just another one-dimensional character for Payne to tease . .
A disappointment coming after Cellular	I finally got around to seeing this film , which everyone was talking about months before its release , but which everyone avoided like the plague when it actually opened . Really , the title is all you have to know about the movie . Take that , and the fact that it stars Samuel L . Jackson , and you can basically imagine an amusing scenario in your head . Unfortunately , a feature length movie has to last a certain amount of time ( although , I should point out , one doesn't have to last 107 minutes , which is how long this one does ) . The concept grows old pretty quick , especially when the titular villains are created with poor CGI 90 % of the time . Jackson seems pretty lifeless , which is surprising considering how happy he seemed while promoting it . While I can't say I was too shocked this was so poor , I was holding out some hope . David R . Ellis ' previous film , Cellular , was ingenious in how it spun such a fun movie out of such a stupid gimmick . I was hoping he could do the same for Snakes on a Plane .
Just plain boring between the all too few action sequences	Roland Emmerich isn't a very good director , I'll readily admit , but he's made a few entertaining movies . I might feel guilty about enjoying Stargate , Independence Day and The Day After Tomorrow , but I won't deny that I did enjoy them . His new film was advertised as an action extravaganza involving woolly mammoths and saber-tooth tigers . I expected it to be ham-fisted , but I also thought it looked like it should be a moderately fun picture . My modest expectations were not at all met . Don't get me wrong , the action sequences delivered . The special effects were great , and the set pieces were decently exciting . But , man , are they few and far between . There are pretty much three of these set pieces in the film , a mammoth hunt , an encounter with gigantic , man-eating birds , and the whole climactic slave rebellion . Prepare to be gravely disappointed with the saber-toothed tiger , if you were hoping for something cool there . Between these sequences are endless bits where undefined pre-historic tribesmen sit around chatting it up in faux-primitive English , which consists of simple sentences and the lack of contractions . It's hard to even sit through at these times , and it's one of the few movies I've seen at a theater where I seriously contemplated falling asleep .
ENORMOUSLY disappointing :	Ugh , what an awful film . How could Vincente Minnelli have directed such a film ? There are a couple of good points . The cinematography is pretty good , as well as the costume design and sets . Basically , the technical side is fine . And Leslie Caron , whom I hardly recognized ( An American in Paris , in my humble opinion , is the greatest movie musical ever made ) , is marvelous . Her character , Gigi , is wonderful , and I wish , oh , God , how I wish that she was in a different story with different characters played by different actors ! She has nothing to work with here . EVERYTHING is awful . The story just meanders . I could describe it in just a short sentence ( MAJOR SPOILERS , if you give a care , IN THE NEXT SENTENCE ) : a Parisian aristocrat falls in love with a strong-minded young girl and then marries her . That's ALL there is . END SPOILERS : None of the actors besides Caron is worth their weight in feces . This is the type of film where I hope like heck that the heroine doesn't end up with the hero . To boot , the songs are AWFUL . Most of them , anyhow . There are a couple of songs that are decent , one in the form of the people's gossip and the other where Gastone , Gigi's suitor , sings , with his mouth shut ( for the most part ) , " She's Not Thinking of Me . " That one is the highlight of this otherwise dismal film . Take the song " It's a Bore , " which Gastone sings with another man . In it , he basically expresses that everything in life , every part of Paris and all the world , is boring . Finally , he finds a girl who does not bore him . At least now she doesn't , but I feel mighty sorry for her in the future . No woman can be entertaining til death does them part ! Gigi won the Best Picture Oscar in 1959 , and , in my opinion , it's the worst Best Picture winner I've ever seen , even worse than Titanic . I almost want to cry ! What happened to the Vincente Minnelli who directed the absolute masterpiece An American in Paris ? I'd rather watch that film back to back from here to eternity than experience this dreck once more .
The South Korean equivalent of Skinemax	A woman goes to a psychologist and is hypnotized . In her hypnotic state , she has flashbacks of black widow-like murders she committed recently , while possessed by the Greek goddess Hera . In a confusing bit of editing , we also follow a group of detectives who are investigating the murders . The film is just a massive excuse for softcore porn and lame violence . I rented it because of the absolutely hilarious trailer found on the DVD for Miike's Gozu , which advertises " sex with on snowfield ! " , " homosexual sex ! " ( while a man and woman copulate on screen ) and " sex with doctor ! " The actual movie is much less funny , of course , but it has its moments . They invent all kinds of interesting new sexual positions . The woman causes an instant erection when she brushes against a man's crotch . Perhaps the best thing about the DVD is that the default language is actually English , a dub that sounds like it was produced in India , half incoherent and half containing ludicrously translated phrases like those I've already mentioned .
Very , very bad	This takes the cake so far for the worst 2002 theatrical release that I've yet seen . It's one of those movies that can't decide if it wants to be an exploitative teen comedy along the lines of American Pie or a poignant teen movie along the lines of some other title that I can't come up with at this time of night . I suppose those two sub-genres could mix quite well , but screenwriter Mike White has no clue how . He populates his movie with cartoony characters who do have a basis in reality , but he emphasizes the cartoonishness of them too much . Catherine O'Hara , for instance , is an alcoholic , but would any mother really behave as she does in front of important regents from Stanford ? One character is supposed to be insanely into helping animals , but this point only comes up once in a while and it has no pay off . A wild little dog that is picked up rips up a car seat , but then vanishes for the rest of the film . I know , why should I want a cliched scene of the dog ripping up expensive crap or something , but why even have a nutty dog if he never gets to go nutty ? Now , I don't want to be too mean , but sometimes I can't help it : Colin Hanks , son of Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson , turns in a truly execrable performance in this film . I know , plenty will jump right on the I-hate-Tom Hanks bandwagon , but I'm not going for such a cheap shot . Tom Hanks is , if nothing else , at least a competent actor . But Colin mugs in the worst way . His whining gets annoying instantly , and I wanted to smack him for most of the film . On the other hand , we have Jack Black . I , for one , am a Jack Black fan . Sure , he hasn't acted in the best movies , but I think he's consistently funny . He's hilarious when he lands the right material , like , for example , High Fidelity . He's actually not bad at all here . He's generally funny . Unfortunately , he's barely in the film . I think he crosses the line here from being a lovable scamp to a criminal maniac , though , which isn't beneficial for the movie . Sure , I can laugh at the stoner Jack Black , but can I laugh at the Jack Black who burns down the Stanford Admissions Office ? The director of this film , Jake Kasdan , debuted with the excellent and offbeat The Zero Effect . I reel at the thought of such a huge backstep as Orange County . .
Terrible ! Godawful !	One of the least funny comedies that I've ever sighed through and one of the most overrated pieces of crap I can think of . I like a couple of Brooks ' movies . Young Frankenstein I would call his masterpiece , and The Producers is pretty funny . After that , Silent Movie is okay . Spaceballs is good for some cheap laughs . But he can make quite the awful film when he wants to . Remember the Hitchcock parody , High Anxiety ? That sucked big time , but I liked Blazing Saddles even less . I giggled a couple of times , but there was only one big laugh . Most of the funnier jokes were ruined by a 60 seconds long promo I saw on Comedy Central ! Cleavon Little , Gene Wilder , and Slim Pickens try their damndest to make it work , but they have no material to work with whatsoever . Some of the racial comedy might have worked back when Richard Pryor first started his career , but it's all hopelessly dated in 2002 . And is it just me , or do others cringe whenever Madeline Kahn shows up in a Mel Brooks movie ? I guess I laugh at her in Young Frankenstein , but she does little but embarrass the production when she comes on screen . .
Not very good at all	This infamous Japenese cult flick unfortunately doesn't live up to its lofty reputation . It has some worthy moments , but only a few in what is otherwise a painfully boring and poorly made affair . The confusing story involves a medical student searching for his origins based on the few memories he has from his childhood . He makes his way to the coast of the Japan Sea , where he discovers an obituary for a man who looks exactly like him . He then pretends to be the dead man resurrected , and eventually is brought to an island not far away where the dead man's father is purportedly conducting odd experiments on human beings . The entire story up to here is confusing , uninvolving , and honestly pretty stupid . Only when the protagonist arrives on the island with the titular malformed men does it contain a shred of interest . But only a shred . The mad scientist on the island , kind of the Japanese version of Dr . Moreau , is mutating human beings into freaks . These people , played by circus performers , are dressed in weird costumes and covered with icky makeup . Supposedly the film was meant to reflect the effects of an atomic bomb . I'm not really that sure that was meant , since I don't think any radiation poisoning resulted in a person turning silver . This seems to be where some of the film's fans find substance in the thing , but , really , that half-assed commentary isn't even close to as good as the half-assed commentary in the original Gojira , or , even more appropriate to this conversation , another Ishiro Honda film , Matango : Attack of the Mushroom People , which was made six years earlier than Horrors of Malformed Men . The malformed men are pretty cool , I must admit , but their appearance and participation in the film takes up around ten minutes of this 100 minute film , one tenth , by my estimation . I couldn't forgive the first half of the movie . And even moreso I can't forgive what comes after this , where the mad doctor tells his story in a prolonged , monochromatic flashback . I guess I should be thankful , because the stuff I couldn't understand about the plot earlier in the movie is explicated in such detail that I wanted to rip my hair out . But at least I finally got the plot . And worse , after the doctor has his ten minute flashback , another character has another ten minute flashback . The story is patently ridiculous , but that's not necessarily a bad thing . It could have been fun , but it isn't . It's a crushing bore ! It does end on a hilarious bit , but nothing could have saved this movie .
Am I the only one who hated this ?	Perhaps I missed something . It was rather hot where I watched this , and I was a bit tired . However , Jin-Roh seemed distinctly like it was trying way too hard to be ponderous and philosophical , but it only ended up seeming silly . The whole Red Riding Hood allegory was rather overdone . The whole story seemed somehow both overcomplicated and too slight simultaneously - quite an achievement in itself , really . The animation seemed poor in comparison to so many other animes . Perhaps if I were to see it again , I'd appreciate it , but I couldn't take this film !
Mediocrity	A nice effort , I suppose , but a failure nonetheless . I actually prefer the first three installments of the 1980s & 1990s Batman franchise , though none of them are great movies , either . Tim Burton ? and even Joel Schumacher ? brought at least some vision into their Batman worlds . Nolan attempts to do this realistically ? that was the original idea , anyway ? but he is bogged down by screen writing and action movie clichés . There weren't half as many explosions in all four of the 90s Batman films combined . Batman Begins does little to deepen the story , as some critics have claimed . The backstory was told perfectly , and with great economy , in 1989's Batman . There was no emotion lost . Nolan takes nearly an hour to tell it , and he doesn't make it any more interesting . They didn't find a better actor to play Batman . Christian Bale is as dull as Keaton , Kilmer , and Clooney . The villains are uninteresting . Ra's Al Ghul ( which is mispronounced throughout the film ) has always been my least favorite of the Batman villains . Dr . Jonathan Crane , aka " the Scarecrow " is wonderfully played by Cillian Murphy when he's out of his mask , but he is supremely uninteresting when he's in it ( doesn't help that Nolan resorts to stupid distorted images and noise pollution whenever he puts the mask on ) . Katie Holmes is a wonderful actress in small projects , but , like Natalie Portman , she doesn't translate well to blockbusters . Plus , Tom Cruise just ruined her for me . Gary Oldman and Tom Wilkinson are horribly miscast ( Wilkinson as a mob boss ? ) . They actually might have just switched roles and it would have been better . The only things the film gets excessively right are Alfred and Lucius Fox , played by Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman . But , really , while these two consummate actors bring an air of class to this kiddy pool , they out-act both the hero and the villains to such an extent that it warps the movie . I really should not desire more scenes with the butler . I should add Liam Neeson to that , as well . He's very good , and perfectly cast . Batman Begins is often a good actioner , but it should have been much better .
Not that good , really . Newman's been better , and the writing is poor .	Quirky small town comedy about a likable curmudgeon ( Paul Newman ) who becomes reacquainted with the adult son he left years ago , as well as his son's son . Honestly , I just didn't like the film . It comes off like a poorly written novel , with scenes and characters the author thinks are funny but which just aren't believable . And when put on the screen , the weaknesses become all the more obvious . I thought the whole film felt phony . Some of the performances were good , especially Newman ( though I certainly wouldn't consider this among his best work ) . Also good are Jessica Tandy , Pruitt Taylor Vince , Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis . The biggest hole in the cast is Dylan Walsh , who plays Newman's son . He went on to star in the F / X series Nip / Tuck . Incidentally , the woman who plays his wife , Catherine Dent , also went on to co-star in an F / X series , The Shield .
Half and half	Now this I would call exactly an average film . For me , it landed precisely at the very center of imdb's 10 point scale , right at 5 . 5 . This means that I found exactly as much to like as I did to dislike . There is a bit of inspiration here , but just as much that's stolen from other better horror movies . If it had opted for tone and real fear instead of cheap shocks , the movie could have been great . The story is good enough that it could have been great if handled well . But we do live in these times , and , although there are scholars of the modern era who would try to have us believe that the current generation consists of a bunch of kids who get everything instantly and process it on a billion levels at once , the truth is indeed the exact opposite . No , there is no subtlety here . It would go over your average teenager's head in a heartbeat . Nope , better play it safe and provide us with a gruesome scene up front where a couple of dozen people are sliced in half by a loose cable during a ball . Gore is not scary . I did however produce a dry heave during this sequence , which is more than I can say for any other gore scene that I've viewed lately . As the gore accumulates , I began to appreciate the artistry that was put into the enormous number of deaths . These are some sickeningly creative people , let me tell you . Unfortunately , the director ( or screenwriters or whoever ) ruins any real potential by revealing every detail about what happened on the titular boat in a fast-motion sequence accompanied by techno music ! It's the kind of moment where you just slap your head for the lack of talent involved . And then there was more stuff I liked . For example , the art direction is very impressive . The revelation of one character's identity , while not particularly surprising , is at least somewhat new . I give this film a , rounding down because I felt the final moment was a bit groan-inducing .
Has a few decent ideas , but the results are mediocre , at best	Not quite as terrible as I had heard , but most definitely mediocre . There are some good ideas that hint that it could have been a decent horror movie , perhaps if it had a better director . Stephen Hopkins is a pretty big hack , his credits including the abysmal Lost in Space and the not - that - bad - but - not - that - great - either thriller Blown Away ( the Jeff Bridges movie , not the one with the Cories ) . Hilary Swank plays a former missionary who has lost her faith and now works at debunking miracles . She is recruited by a small Louisiana town that is apparently being revisited by Old Testament plagues , starting with their river turning into blood . The town is blaming it on an untrusted household out on the bayou , which they think may be involved in Satanic rituals . In particular , they fear the 12 year-old girl who lives out there ( played by AnnaSophia Robb of Bridge to Terabithia ) . The film is definitely silly , and it's annoyingly religious ? which doesn't make too much sense , as the fundamentalists it seems to want to appeal to would avoid it like the , ahem , plague because of its violence and nastiness . But it never reaches the abysmal and insulting level of , say , The Exorcism of Emily Rose , and that angle can work well , like in , say , The Exorcist . But I quite liked the bayou atmosphere , which seems perfectly suited to a horror movie . The plague of locusts sequence is not bad , although it would have worked a lot better if they weren't such phony-looking CGI . And Swank is good . I always wonder how history will see her . She's one of the worst whores in the movie industry right now , and clearly does almost all of her films for money . In 2007 alone , she made three utterly forgettable films , the other two being P . S . I Love You and Freedom Writers . She's won two Oscars , both for dressing like men . Both were entirely justifiable , too ( although she wouldn't be near my top choice in 2004 ) . But in between those two films she made The Core , a movie about a crew of scientists drilling to the center of the Earth in order to make it start spinning again , and which included the line " So you want me to hack the Earth ? " Come to think of it , I really need to see that movie some day . The trailer had me on the floor . In 2009 , Swank will be dressing like a man once again when she plays Amelia Earhart for Mira Nair . I can almost guarantee an Oscar nomination .
Crap , but interesting crap	An intriguing piece of history , but not at all a good film . Panic in Year Zero is the story of a nuclear family living in the aftermath of a nuclear attack . It's fun to wonder what audiences at the time thought of it , themselves , we imagine , living with the fear of a nuclear attack . I'm guessing it wasn't even considered much at the time , seeing as it's relatively unknown now . It's very cheap-seeming , and poorly written . The most notable bits of silliness come when two sets of characters who were introduced earlier in the film pop up later to encounter the protagonists in a place far removed from their first appearances . That , or the fact that fugitives from a nuked L . A . stop to get breakfast at a roadside diner and whine about their being out of eggs . I love the way the classic American family is depicted . Ray Milland , who directs and stars , is the patriarch determined to keep his family together . The script thought a post-apocalyptic America would immediately dissolve and that it would be everyone for themselves . And I don't think the script feels that that's the scary part , just the necessary part . Milland doesn't even make much attempt at civilization . The movie is only a half a step removed from being a satire on American selfishness . Late in the film , the drama becomes somewhat more potent when Milland's daughter is attacked , and he and his son ( teen idol Frankie Avalon , who racks up a couple of kills with his trusty shotgun ) save a teenage girl who's being held hostage by three rapists . Jean Hagen , a decade removed from the cinema firmament , is unrecognizable as a stereotypical ' 50s housewife . A weird time capsule of a movie , for sure .
Meandering mother and daughter melodrama	Anywhere But Here was decent , but could have been a lot better . It gets bogged down with melodramatic moments that pop up randomly from time to time . The struggles of the mother and daughter could have been dramatic enough without these things . I liked the premise . Perhaps the biggest reason the film fails , though , is Susan Surandon . Am I the only person on Earth who sees that she is a terrible actress ? She overacts even the simplest scenes . So Natalie Portman has the job of holding the entire film together , and she just can't do it . I love her . She is the reason that I endured this film . But there're just too many things going wrong with it for her to be able to save it with her understated , realistic style .
Interesting and silly at the same time	Strange , and it has some interesting bits , but it's dull and nonsensically plotted . Gerard Depardieu and Marcello Mastroinanni make asses of themselves , and Gail Lawrence , better known under her porn name , Abigail Clayton , is naked for about 50 % of the film . Depardieu plays a boy toy in New York City . One day his friend , played by Mastroianni , is walking along the beach when he discovers the corpse of King Kong , whose orphaned baby he gets Depardieu to adopt . The themes involve the ever-changing gender roles , and this could have been very interesting . Unfortunately , it has no real plot to speak of , and it just meanders from weird scene to weird scene . Sometimes , the visuals are quite haunting , especially when the characters are on the beach with the New York cityscape towering over them and the giant ape corpse dominating the bottom of the frame . .
Dissenting review	One of the more famous African films , Xala comes from Senegalese director Ousmane Sembene , who had a well liked film that saw fairly wide release last year called Moolaadé . Moolaadé , for some reason , hasn't been released on DVD yet in the US , and , so far , it doesn't look like there's any imminent release . New Yorker video has provided us with two new DVDs from Sembene , this and Mandabi . Xala tells the story of a corrupt government official , El Hadji , who marries his third wife using pilfered funds . When El Hadji goes to consummate his marriage , he finds out he has been cursed with impotence , a curse known as xala . The historical context is slightly after Senegal's independence is achieved , and there are obvious metaphoric meanings of the impotence . The story and the politics behind it are rather interesting , and if I were the type to judge films solely on their politics I'd call this a good one . Unfortunately , the film moves so ungodly slowly that it is next to impossible to sit through . It runs for slightly over two hours , but has only about half that much material . I might recommend it to those interested in the history or just the region , but the rewards are limited . In short , it's a chore .
Wow , am I ever on a different page for this film !	I can't say I hated it , but I found it an extremely lame and tired attempt at wit . It tries so damned hard to be clever , but never succeeds . The biggest obstacle is the main character and the actor who plays him , Dennis Price . I can't think of a more boring protagonist in any film I've ever seen . He's so dull he almost put me to sleep . And the gimmick of multiple roles with Alec Guinness . It should have worked ; I think Guinness could have done wonders with his eight parts . But no , his segments are so thinly written that all eight roles are imminently forgettable . I mean , the very funny picture of Guinness in a dress for the one female role he plays is completely squandered . Not only does Lady Agatha D'Ascoyne get a mere one minute on screen , she doesn't even get a single line ! If it weren't enough that Alec Guinness is wasted eight times over , the wonderful Valerie Hobson is equally wasted . The sole performer who pulls off their role is Joan Greenwood , and even she's not great . I seriously cannot see how people find this movie worthwhile . .
When Lee Marvin stinks in a movie , you know it sucks !	I don't know exactly what it is , but I found this movie very grating . I only laughed a couple of times , almost exclusively during the train robbery sequence . I cringed much more often . It's very disappointing , as I loved the opening sequence and couldn't get enough of Nat King Cole and Stubby Kaye , who provide running commentary in song . The film is also well made , well directed , and well shot . And , damn , Jane Fonda has the cinema's nicest behind , I think . I was also particularly disappointed in Lee Marvin . I love him as an actor , and his role here won him his only Academy Award nomination , and he won . It's quite obvious that he won the award for his collected earlier works , for which the Academy was far too cowardly to give him . Let's face it : drunks aren't funny . I did giggle a bit at the shot of him and his horse sleeping against a wall , but that's about all . He also plays the evil gunslinger , as well , but this dual role is nothing but a gimmick . The man in the black hat is barely in the film . The film gets no mileage out of him , and the most he can do is impersonate Jack Palance from Shane . It's truly sad to see Liberty Valance , the meanest S . O . B . I can think of , reduced to not one but two paltry roles .
Rather weak , considering its grave subject matter ;	Vittorio de Sica's _ Two Women _ is mostly about the hardships of war ( WWII ) on normal people . Sophia Loren is a mother who takes her daughter away from the daily bombings in Rome to her childhood home . She is pretty good as the exasperated mother . Maybe not deserving of an award , but she is good . The other very famous actor in the cast is Jean-Paul Belmondo . Both of these actors could have done a lot better if the script were up to par . Both characters are quite superficially stereotypical , and their big scenes are all over the map . I think that is a good phrase for this film , all over the map . Themes are very weakly held throughout , so it feels meandering . By the end , nothing is accomplished . All I could think of were better films that dealt with similar subjects . This is incredibly unfortunate , seeing that de Sica and his screenwriter Zavattini concocted two of the best films of the 1940s , The Bicycle Thieves and Umberto D . SPOILERSThose who love the movie are probably wishing to crucify me right now , since I am criticizing a film in which the central episode is a rape . But really , I did not dislike the film before this scene . Although I felt it meandered , I liked it . But when Loren and her daughter are raped , the movie fell apart . Let me say this : just because such a heavy subject is dealt with does not make the movie great . I felt this scene , this plot point , was handled extraordinarily poorly . Instead of seeming horrific , it seemed completely exploitative . After the deed , Loren , certainly a beautiful woman , walks around with her cleavage popping out for the rest of the film . I did not feel that she and her daughter have been destroyed by this incident . Instead , it feels more like an unfortunate thing that happens to them on their journey . The reason for this is that the film ends only about ten minutes later . Since everything before the rape scene had been dealt with more successfully in previous films , I believe the best choice would have been to open the story right before the rape , and have them deal with it afterwards . That way , the gravity of the situation would have hit better . Just randomly , I watched two films tonight that had to do with rape . This one , and right before it , Ingmar Bergman's The Virgin Spring . The Virgin Spring hit me like a sledgehammer , whereas Two Women left me squirming with disappointment . The major difference between the two is that The Virgin Spring had a theme , a point . It went somewhere with the horrible event . Two Women just believed it would be powerful because it happened . I may sympathize , but I have little empathy , since I do not know what they felt .
One of the very few Altman films I didn't like	Definitely one of Altman's worst , though perhaps not quite as bad as some may lead you to believe . The producer wanted Altman to make a teen comedy in the vein of Porky's or something . Altman hated those kinds of movies , and decided to make a parody of one instead . Unfortunately , you just can't make a parody of a comedic genre . It never works . O . C . and Stiggs comes off as just a wacky teen comedy as directed by Altman ; the only difference is that the characters are slightly more obnoxious and , instead of being fun anti-heroes , they're detestable . Which makes for a rather unpleasant movie . The script ( or Altman's alterations ? he apparently hated the script as written , so who knows how much he changed it ) is extremely sloppy as well , especially as it nears the end . There are some amusing moments along the way , so it's not a total bust . It does contain one of the funniest dialogue exchanges I've ever heard : " How would you like to have more fun than you've ever had in your life ? " " I don't know . I've had a lot of fun . I have Legos , you know . "
Just stick with the 1971 version	I feel sorry for any kid who has this forced upon him or her when a near perfect version of this book already exists on film . It's not that Burton's film is totally awful . It looks nice and is occasionally amusing . However , it has little or no reason to exist . If Johnny Depp had not been allowed by Burton to make some truly awful acting decisions , the film might have been more watchable . I'm a Depp supporter , but I'll loudly say that he gives the year's worst lead performance . The kids are all pretty good , but the only one who could stand next to her 1971 counterpart would be AnnaSophia Robb as Violet Beauregarde , the gum-chewing champion who turns into a giant blueberry . I also liked the woman who played her mom . The Oompa Loompa songs are crappy , and I really missed some of the other songs from the ' 71 version ( most notably " I Want It Now " , the original's best scene ) . One new sequence I did like was Willy Wonka's flashback to when he found the Oompa Loompas . Most of the rest of it is worthless .
Weak action / comedy based on a manga	Tadanobu Asano stars , but really anyone could have played any character in this film , they're all so two-dimensional . Asano has stolen money from a yakuza boss , who now , along with his comic-bookish henchmen , is out to get him . Along the way , Asano hooks up with a shy woman . The film does contain a few really good scenes . I could actually forgive it for being shallow if it were more fun than it is . Unfortunately , what makes it really bad is that , for most of its run , the film is just damn boring . Some of the scenes drag out forever . The faster paced bits are more tolerable , and this might have been cool if it were more like a Ryuhei Kitamura film . Another problem is that , while the story is mostly very straightforward , there are occasions where it becomes incoherent . Which made me lose interest even more . Skip it .
The worst possible outcome of a decent concept	Mel Brooks has had his stinkers , some much worse than this ( Dracula : Dead and Loving it being by far his lowest point ) , but this came at the end of an era of great comedic successes for him . It's only four years after Young Frankenstein , for instance , which is one of the funniest films I've ever seen . And the concept of this film , a spoof of Hitchcock films , seems like gold . There's more than a dozen well known films and a hundred well known sequences that Brooks could have parodied . For some reason , he forgets to do it through a good 75 % of the film , only parodying Vertigo , Psycho , the Birds , and Marnie with one or two throw-aways to North by Northwest . They are all from late Hitchcock , and the only one I may be missing is the Jimmy Stewart version of The Man Who Knew Too Much , probably the only major Hitch film I haven't seen . But these films are only mentioned a little , besides Vertigo , which is , more or less , the basis for 90 % of all the parody . There's a take off of Psycho's shower scene , some pigeons poo on Brooks , and there is a flashback near the end that seems to be parodying Marnie . None of those parodies work . Almost none of the rest of the jokes work , either . Cloris Leachman is the only person on screen who ever gets a single laugh , as Nurse Diesel , the wack-job , manly , conniving , dominatrix , but she's trying so hard that she only managed to make me laugh a couple of times . I don't even know what Madelaine Kahn is doing here , although the phone booth / obscene phone call scene was one of the couple of scenes that made me laugh . I hope Hitchcock never actually saw this . I wouldn't be so mean as to call it an insult to his films , but it certainly stands as a major embarrassment to Mel Brooks who can't even demonstrate in his direction that he understands WHY Alfred Hitchcock is " the master of suspense , " as he calls him in the kindly dedication . .
1200 + 1 point votes ? Get a life , people , it wasn't that bad !	I scored a free ticket to this movie , and I thought , hey , I've wasted my whole life up to now , what's another hundred and forty-one minutes ? After all , I have a higher tolerance for crap than most people , and , once in a while , I like to see something that completely sucks . According to the critics and to voters on IMDb , Catwoman is supposed to suck bad . Fortunately , or unfortunately , depending on how you look at it , the movie really doesn't suck . I mean , yeah , it sucks , but it hardly plumbs the depths of true suckitude . Currently it sits at # 35 on the IMDb bottom 100 , but I can think of way more than 34 other movies that suck far worse than Catwoman . It is much more fair to say that it is a mediocre , perhaps slightly below average , action film . It has a few pros and lots of cons . The cons first : 1 ) The jumpy editing is awful . 2 ) Way too much CGI . Same problem with the 500 pound gorilla comic book movie out right now , as well . CGI is probably the worst thing ever to happen to cinema ; it's hard to believe people are worshiping a technique that looks more fake than stop-motion . 3 ) Benjamin Bratt is a horrible actor , and the ugliest handsome man I've ever seen . 4 ) How the fck did Alex Borstein land a movie role ? She should be doomed to die on MAD TV , the longest running train wreck of a show ever . 5 ) Crappy , crappy script . The pros : 1 ) The film looks wonderful , even though that's due mostly to the CGI ( I guess when it's making buildings and inanimate objects like that , it's not so bad ) . The costume design , even apart from the Catwoman outfit . And if they gave out Oscars to hair stylists , the ones who worked on this film would have no competition . 2 ) Sharon Stone ? not a great performance , by any means . Her character is downright silly , perhaps even nonsensical . But she's gorgeous and has a great presence . She makes a really boring villain somewhat more interesting . 3 ) Duh ! Halle Berry ! She might not have the best ability to choose roles . Perhaps she's just obsessed with money , and now that she's got a statuette , she's going to do everything in her power to become a billionaire . Whatever you can say about her , she's a great actress . Last year , she brought Gothika up a notch , and she does a lot to make Catwoman more entertaining than it ought to be . She plays the characters ' two halves , the sweet , insecure girl and the dominatrix , very well . And , come on , I'd be lying if I said I didn't go to the movie because I thought Berry would be walking around in a leather outfit for a good portion of the movie . And , damn , she's hot . This makes the movie watchable , if nothing else . There's a shot where the camera circles Berry from toe to head right after she first dons the Catwoman which was worth the price of me embarrassing myself by handing my free pass over to the cute little theater girl at the counter . .
I'd bet that I'm in the minority , but I just found this one a bore	A bust . As disinterested as I often am in Mizoguchi's films , Sisters of the Gion effectively knocked me unconscious . Some of the acting seemed decent , as did some of the direction . The opening shots were great . But then it slows down to a crawl that I just couldn't withstand . This is the first of his films that I was just not able to take . The couple of Mizoguchi films that I really like are Life of Oharu and Sansho the Bailiff ( and Ugetsu's pretty good , as well ) , so if you haven't seen those ones , do so . .
Terrible special effects and poor direction ruin a promising film	This wuxia epic is more fantastical than the other ones that have been widely distributed . It's more or less a fairy story about a princess who falls in love with a slave when she mistakes him for his master , a great general . There are gods and a sexually ambiguous fairy tale villain ( who carries around a scepter that looks like one of Borat's sex toys ) , and all kinds of magic and stuff like that . Really , it's a pretty good story . Too bad the movie that tells it isn't very good . Chen Kaige is a pretty good director of the kind of middlebrow movies that , if made in America , would be Oscar frontrunners . He shows absolutely no talent for telling this kind of story , or directing action sequences . You really have to work hard to follow what's going on , even though the story isn't at all complicated . The worst thing about the film is the special effects . I haven't seen CGI this bad since that Dire Straits video . With a director more suited to the material and better effects , this could have been a great movie . As it is , it's lame .
It's hilariously awful	Maybe the best bad movie of 2006 . It's an amateurish horror anthology hosted by Snoop Dogg . The stories are dumb and often nonsensical , but there's enough amusing stuff to make it worthwhile . Any movie where Snoop Dogg blows a chihuahua into smithereens or where a gangsta impales himself on his own forty has to be worth at least something ! The second segment of three ( not counting the terribly animated opening ) is by far the most entertaining , where a redneck trust fund kid , subtly named Tex Jr . and partly modeled after the President ( played by Anson Mount ) , has to move in with some old black veterans who served under his father in Vietnam . Mount's performance is as offensive as anything Stepin Fetchit could ever produce , but it's just so damn funny . Recognizable actors include Billy Dee Williams ( aka Lando Calrissian ) , Ernie Hudson ( aka Winston Zedmore , the black Ghostbuster ) , Danny Trejo ( the Columbian knife thrower from Desperado ) , Jason Alexander ( George from Seinfeld ) , Aries Spears ( a player on MAD TV ) and Lin Shaye ( the ugly woman from Kingpin and There's Something About Mary , and she's a surprisingly attractive older woman in real life , apparently ) . If you like bad movies , check it out when it hits video . If you actually want a watchable urban horror film , check out Tales from the Hood .
Lots and lots of booms	A perfect dumb action movie for the Fourth of July weekend , because it features a heroic military guy and a whole lot of explosions . It's not too bad if you like that kind of movie . John Cena , a WWE wrestler , stars as the titular Marine . The film opens in Tikrit , where he rescues a bunch of his friends who are being held by terrorists . The scene plays hilariously just like the opening of The Naked Gun . I half expected Cena to yell at the terrorists as he left their base , " Don't let me catch any of you guys in America ! " After that , Cena returns home to South Carolina and his hot wife ( Kelly Carlson ) . He has a hard time settling down in his new life , where very few things explode and the best you can do is smash someone through a window or something . Luckily , he runs into bad guy Robert Patrick at the gas station , whose gang kidnaps his wife to use as a hostage . Finally , explosions return to his life . It's really hard to think of a 90 minute movie with more or bigger explosions . Cena is kind of a dull guy , but he certainly can beat the hell out of people when it's called for . Patrick is the best thing about the movie . The wacky , über-evil villain is a staple of action movies , but this one is particularly entertaining .
Commies hate children	Hilariously bad Chuck Norris vehicle , which is kind of redundant , I know . Not only does Norris star , he also co-wrote the script . He plays a retired member of " the agency " who is called back into action , reluctantly , when a group of communist terrorists , lead by Richard Lynch , invade US soil . The communists ' plan : to blow crap up and shoot people at random . They wander around Florida looking for American-looking locales , and then they start firing bazookas at everybody and everything . The movie particularly loves putting children in danger , because , you know , commies hate children more than anything . Get a busload of children , have them sing " Row , Row , Row Your Boat " and commies are bound to try to blow it up with a time bomb . Like most bad movies , it's only really bad because it's frequently boring . But the action sequences are a hoot , and there are several laugh-out-loud moments . Worth watching , if you love bad movies .
Forgettable	The kind of movie that's really hard to remember having seen mere hours after leaving the theater . I'd call it a made-for-TNT movie . SNL alumnae Tina Fey and Amy Poehler star as a successful businesswoman and a white trash girl respectively . Fey hires Poehler to carry her baby to birth , as she cannot conceive . Most of the best jokes were spoiled by the numerous commercials and previews . Even if that were not true , most of them are pretty weak anyway and their success depends completely on the actors . Fey and Poehler succeed , for the most part , both playing personae that anyone who watched their work on SNL has already seen . I'd actually say the film would have been pretty close to intolerable if Poehler had not been so funny . I don't think that woman could be unfunny if she tried . But , yeah , I'd recommend skipping it , or at least waiting for television .
One of Hollywood's worst musicals	Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra play sailors on leave who get mixed up with Kathryn Grayson . They promise her an audition with musical director José Iturbi ( playing himself ) in order to get her in good with Sinatra , but the two sailors are unable to procure such an audition . Predictably , Kelly begins to fall for Grayson instead , but , luckily , the second female lead ( Pamela Britton ) attracts Sinatra's attention . This was the first iteration of this formula , which was used again in the other Kelly / Sinatra pairings Take Me Out to the Ball Game and On the Town , but the other two films did it better . Yes , even Take Me Out to the Ball Game . The difference ? Ball Game wraps up its plot in an efficient 93 minutes , and has a few memorable songs ( along with several very unmemorable ones ) . Anchors Aweigh runs for two hours and twenty minutes with this hackneyed plot . The songs are more in line with Sinatra's early crooning days , and several of the musical numbers here consist of classical music ( not to knock classical music or anything , but it's just not what I want when watching a Hollywood musical ) . The film is best known for Gene Kelly's dance with MGM's Jerry the Mouse . That sequence is great . I also very much like the adorable Grayson , and the set design is often excellent . Otherwise , it's completely forgettable .
Well , put this one in the " Overrated " files	I admit that some parts of this movie did make me laugh , and it was true to high school , but I thought the writing was sloppy . The direction was extremely amateurish . 1 . Voiceovers almost never work , and they never work if more than one character is narrating . I can only think of one : Goodfellas . But that had two characters narrating , while this film had four , one of them being completely unimportant ( the sister of the jock , who drops out halfway through the film ) . 2 . The character of Tracy Flick had a lot of contradictory personality traits . She was a nerd , yet she was popular enough to win an election . She's extremely overbearing ( and it does show in her actions ) , yet she's popular enough to win an election . She was a hard-working nerd , yet she sleeps with a teacher . These are three very harsh contradictory pairs . 3 . The updates at the end were very amateurish . I don't know how this got nominated for best adapted screenplay , a movie with this sloppy a screenplay . Well , so did Cider House Rules , which I also thought was only worth .
Lame	Fairly uninteresting , but not particularly offensive . This is the most complete , most straightforward Francis of Assissi movie out of the four I've recently watched ( including The Flowers of St . Francis ( Rossellini ) , Brother Sun , Sister Moon ( Zeffirelli ) & Francesco ( Cavani ) ) . Somewhere in the middle of the film , I brought up the Wikipedia page about the saint , and it read pretty much like the script of this movie . The production is quite nice , but one would think the tale of a man who chose to live his life in poverty wouldn't concentrate so much on sets and costumes . Bradford Dillman is forgettable as Francis . Stuart Whitman plays his rival for Clare's love ( of course , Clare's love for Francis is purely religious ) . The addition of this love triangle is perfectly representative of old Hollywood's frequent ridiculousness . The only person who really rises to the occasion is Dolores Hart as Clare . She's quite good . Two years after this film was made , she actually became a nun . She's a member of AMPAS and is the only nun who votes for the Oscars .
Good concept , poorly executed	The kind of movie that has a pretty good idea at its center , but doesn't do all that much with it . That idea is that a modern day aircraft carrier runs into a wormhole and ends up in the Pacific on December 6th , 1941 . Should they stop the bombing of Pearl Harbor , or should they not reveal their presence , lest they change history ? Unfortunately , most of the movie consists of the characters figuring out what has happened , and no one really asks the kinds of important questions you'd think they would . The cast is good , including Kirk Douglas , Martin Sheen , Katharine Ross and Charles Durning , but none of them has much to do . Sheen in particular , what was the point of his character ? He adds little to the movie , except that he is Martin Sheen and Martin Sheen is pretty awesome . Just out of curiosity , I checked out Roger Ebert's review of the movie . Hilariously , he reveals the ending and every secret the movie has in the second paragraph . He also doesn't seem to understand the concept of time travel whatsoever . Was this like the first time travel movie ever ? He is right that it's not very good . I'd say more forgettable than bad , though .
My least favorite Ford film	Sad to say , but this was the first John Ford movie that I did not like ( and I've seen more than 20 ) . This is the story of Abraham Lincoln's first trial as a defense attorney , working on behalf of two young men who were accosted by a deputy brandishing a pistol . Henry Fonda does not give one of his better performances as Lincoln . He seems uncomfortable , and looks particularly terrible in his make-up . Of the other actors in the film , the only two worth mentioning are Donald Meek , who plays the prosecuting attorney , and Ward Bond , the victim's best friend and a witness to the crime . The prologue to the film is corny , as is a lot of the rest of the film . I'm not a fan of courtroom dramas , and this aspect of Young Mr . Lincoln is one of the worst examples of that genre that I can think of . People often criticize Ford for injecting ill-fitting humor into his pictures , but I was never bothered by anything like that until this film . Lincoln is constantly cracking jokes , and the jury and audience are always laughing uproariously at them . The only scene I thought was really successful was the one where Lincoln stops the lynch mob . That dialogue is very good . Otherwise , I was very disappointed in this one . .
Ambitious but wrongheaded film philosophizing man's worth in the universe	The Story of Mankind is a noble attempt to argue the case of humanity , whether he is inherently good or evil , as he has just developed the " super H bomb . " Vincent Price is at his best as the Devil arguing against humanity . It was a poor choice in general to reconstruct so many scenes of human history , especially since the screenwriter ( s ) changed the events so much as to make them unrecognizable . The casting is very odd and distracting in these sequences , too . The film is chock full of once-brilliant character actors like Agnes Moorhead , who embarrasses herself as Queen Elizabeth , and especially the Marx Brothers . I guess one of the biggest reasons you might want to see this is to see what Groucho , Harpo , and Chico looked like in technicolor ( which , if you remember Groucho in The Big Store , was too expensive for their earlier vehicles ) . They among the numerous actors retain their vaudville characters in this film . Groucho plays Peter Minuit , the man who fleeced Indians out of Manhattan island . He makes suggestive comments towards the chief's daughter , but none of them are funny . Chico is on screen for 30 seconds as a priest arguing about the shape of the world with Columbus ( he is the only one to retain his dignity in this movie ; at least his character was Italian ) . Harpo plays Isaac Newton in a particularly pathetic sequence . He starts to play his harp , and apples drop onto his head . Then he mugs for the camera . No Brother fell further from grace than Harpo . Basically , The Story of Mankind forgets its purpose , worrying too much about the elaborate recreations than the philosophical argument . This plot could have made a good film , I think . Its ending is one of ambiguity , which is where it should be . It tells us that the filmmakers did intend to make a serious film . I say that this is worth ignoring . For a better film with the same message , we all have and still love to watch The Day the Earth Stood Still . .
Not Bresson	Disappointing on a couple of major fronts , as a Bresson film and as a Cocteau script . This was Bresson's second film . Five years later , he made the first film in his signature style , Diary of a Country Priest . Dames is much more conventional in its style and content . A society woman tricks her former lover into falling in love and marrying a former cabaret dancer ( a Hollywood-like front for prostitution ) . The film is pretty , but dull as Hell . Elina Labourdette , who plays Agnes the dancer , is excellent ( and she sure can dance ) , but the rest of the cast is lifeless . I can't believe Jean Cocteau worked on this script . For curiosity's sake only . .
Throwaway Fellini	When The Voyage of G . Mastorna came to a halt in 1968 , Federico Fellini began plans to film a version of Petronius ' Satyricon . In between the two films , he quickly put together this hour-long semi-documentary for NBC . It is an unwieldy and somewhat nonsensical 50 minutes ( the running time without commercials ) that might as well be forgotten by everyone except Fellini biographers and fanatics ( and I am certainly one of the latter ) . So what is there of worth here ? The best scene is the interview with Marcello Mastrioanni , who exploits to the hilt his reputation as a Grade-A Womanizer in a scene that resembles the scene in Jean-Luc Godard's Breathless where a group of reporters , Jean Seberg among them , interview a novelist played by the film director Jean-Pierre Melville . The tiniest bit of The Voyage of G . Mastorna is also shown , and some of its ideas are expressed , which is always interesting . If you've never heard of this film , well , that's because it doesn't exist . Fellini developed director's block during its early stages . It was to be about a cellist's journeys in the afterlife . Much of his loss of reputation during this period was a result of its scrapping and the enormous amount of money lost by the producers , among whom , I believe , was Dino de Laurentiis , Fellini's frequent collaborator and arch-enemy . Another point of interest is an interview with the spiritual medium Genius . I haven't seen it for years , but I believe he co-stars in Giulietta of the Spirits . In reality , as far as the word " reality " works in this situation , Genius was Fellini's personal medium . It was partly because of his predictions that Fellini scrapped Mastorna . The rest of the film closely resembles Fellini-Roma , which might just be my least favorite Fellini film . This semi-documentary ends with footage from the shooting of Fellini-Satyricon ( which is another of my least favorite ; however , I need to see these two and Giulietta again ; they're the only features I do dislike at the moment ) . The documentary is to be found on the new Criterion DVD of 8 . 5 . .
I hated this movie . Don't buy the hype	People are saying that this is one of the best movies of this decade , but I thought it was god awful . It is nothing but an 81 minute Music Video . There is a point , but the director obviously didn't care much about it . The point is that every little thing that happens to us can have a profound effect on our lives . It's been done before and much better . Take Krystof Kieslowski's Three Colors : Red . It is a movie about a friendship that would have never happened if the main character had not turned the station on her radio . Lola Rennt is a movie that would and does impress beginning film buffs . I think we more seasoned buffs can tell that it's just a great example of style without content .
Capra-Corn for the 21st Century	I liked Darabont's first two films , The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile , a lot , though I have problems with each . But I could tell that , if he slipped up , he would make a picture like The Majestic . It's like 1000 megatons of Capra-corn mixed with some half-assed politicizing . The film exists in two realms : at the beginning and end of the film , the main character ( Peter , played by Jim Carrey ) is a Hollywood screenwriter . With only one screenplay under his belt , the House of Un-American Activities calls him in for trial , based on a meeting he attended when he was in college . He didn't even know the Bread Instead of Bullets Club was involved in Communist activities ; he just went there to impress a girl . Angry at his misfortune , Peter goes for a drive and gets in an accident . He loses his memory and ends up in the small town of Laughton , California . This is the second realm of the movie , the small town Americana from Frank Capra's films . Laughton lost a large number of its younger male citizens to WWII , and Peter is mistaken for one of them who was lost in action , Luke . Luke's father ( Martin Landau ) is convinced from the outright that this is his son , and the rest of the town , praying for this kind of miracle , is able to easily convince itself that this amnesiac is their lost hero . The material in this part of the film is actually quite good , and could be the stuff to make a much better film . There's a lot of pathos that exists in the town of Laughton . The film could have been about the pain of loss and the worse pain of denial . The screenwriter and Darabont , though , want little more than to tug at our heart-strings . It tries so hard to be a weepy ( Landau's scenes are pretty awful to watch ) , but it doesn't much succeed . Most of the stuff in Laughton is pretty good , and , like I said , it's good material . The real problem with the film is that the filmmakers are not able to connect those parts to the HUAC stuff . The Americana of Laughton is supposed to convince Peter that what HUAC is doing is wrong and unconstitutional ( he reads aloud the First Amendment when he is called to testify ) . The whole time I was thinking , yeah , hindsight is . This is wishful thinking from the future . None of this works well . Jim Carrey's performance is just bad . He can not do dramatic roles , and he needs to learn this immediately if he wants to stay in the movies . The only performance that's really worth pointing out comes from Bob Balaban as one of the presiding senators in HUAC . He had two great performances last year , here and in Gosford Park . .
Lame sci-fi flick with an inexplicable cult reputation	The idea is not bad : a man crash-lands on Mars and has to fend for himself , his only companion a monkey . Unfortunately , the people who made Robinson Crusoe on Mars didn't know jack about science . Not that they had to . It's a B-movie . I like B-sci-fi films , but there's a point where the degree of silliness becomes too much to take . This film actually wants to be taken seriously , I think , but that's not possible . It picks up a bit after Friday shows up . In this film , he is an alien slave . Still , it's a weak excuse for a sci-fi flick . Almost any sci-fi from the previous decade is better . Watch Forbidden Planet again instead . .
Frustrating ( a wildly dissenting view )	Frustrating . There are so many exceptional pieces of this film , but there are probably even more pieces that are rather infuriating . The story concerns a neurotic woman who swears she is a medium ( Kim Stanley - giving one of the most mannered performances in cinema history ) . To prove this she devises a plot to kidnap the young daughter of a rich man and then lead the police to her . Her testes-less husband ( Richard Attenborough ) goes along with her plan . After the first couple of minutes of their interaction , we know how sorry he feels for his wife . He doesn't believe any of what she says , but he'll obviously do anything she asks . The kidnapping plot is truly terrible , though . Neither the original author of the novel , Mark McShane , nor the director / screenwriter , Forbes , knew anything about either committing crimes or police procedures . Either that or everyone in Britain is retarded . Attenborough accomplishes this kidnapping by approaching the child's driver and telling him that the school's headmistress has a note for him . When the driver walks away ( with the kid and the keys still in the car ) , Attenborough jumps in and drives away . Okay , don't you think that when the driver finds that there is no note with the headmistress he's going to run back to the car and find it gone , which would then lead to a massive hunt for the vehicle and the man who lied about the note , whom the driver saw very , very clearly ? This crime should have been solved by the next evening . Oh , and don't forget Kim Stanley's trip to the rich man's house , when she tells him that she dreamed about their daughter , who told her the name of her best friend and her favorite stuffed animal . The rich man says , " Oh , you could have heard that anywhere ! " Hmm , really ? I would think that that would raise a certain amount of suspicion , more than it does anyway ( the police visit her house but simply leave when they find them not home , and do not leave anyone to stake out the place ) . The there's this stupid backstory about the kidnappers ' dead son ( they try to hide that fact but it's obvious from the first two seconds of the film ) . The way hints are dropped it comes as no surprise to any thinking audience that there's something even more special about this kid . When that point is finally revealed , it's just silly . Two years later the film Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? would be much more successful with a similar subplot . It's all so disappointing , because the film is very well directed . Very beautifully so . And Attenborough , despite desperately needing to grow a pair of cojones , is exceptional . Also great is the music , by John Barry . But , damn , so much of the film blows . So little of this story is believable , and it's just so frustrating . That frustration turned into total annoyance by the end of the film . .
I should rate it lower , but it has a couple of things going for it that make it watchable , at least	There might be a movement in the future to turn this box office bomb into a cult classic , but it doesn't deserve that . Much in the style of Robert Rodriguez's Sin City , but different enough not to feel like a cheap imitation , The Spirit does look cool . The images are often gorgeous . Add to that a number of pretty women , notably Eva Mendes and Scarlett Johansson , and it's almost worth watching with the sound off . But then you'd miss Sam Jackson's hammy villain , which is fun enough . But after the look and Jackson , there's nothing worth seeing . Miller infamously got a directing credit for Sin City because Rodriguez felt he followed the comic book so literally it would be wrong not to . But Miller here finds that storyboarding is not the same as directing . His tone is all over the place . He's going for over-the-top comic book-style camp , and it works occasionally . More frequently it flops on the ground like a suffocating carp . Miller also doesn't properly establish who any of his characters are , and , especially nearer the beginning , it's difficult to follow the plot . Most of the fault is surely Miller's ( I've also heard that fans of the original Eisner work feel like Miller has put too much of his stamp on the work ) , but the editor is probably partly at fault , too , for the confusion . It's extraordinarily sloppy , but I was carried along enough by the art work enough where I can't rate it too low .
Poor screenplay ; too cutesy at times	Azzurro has its moments , mostly because Paolo Villaggio , who plays Guiseppe , the grandfather , has such a marvelous presence . He's a big , fat man with white hair , a white beard , and black-rimmed glasses . He's probably the only guy like that who wouldn't be mistaken for Santa Clause . A couple of the other actors are decent , mostly because they have expressive faces . The script , though , is very weak . It should have been killed long before it arrived on the screen . Half of it is a decent drama about an old man coming to terms with his past . That's always a potent subject . It doesn't even really have to be done well to make a good film . But the other half of the film is pure evil : Guiseppe has a granddaughter whom he dearly loves . She is blind , and Guiseppe wants to get her an operation to repair her sight before he dies . Yuck . The whole being-cured-from-blindness thing has been tired for decades . We can forgive Charlie Chaplin for doing it in City Lights . That film is too charming to criticize that much . Douglas Sirk did a pretty good soaper with a blindness angle in Magnificent Obsession . And we can look past it in Lars von Trier's Dancer in the Dark . He was experimenting with the melodramatic genre , and it was of interest . But Azzurro is playing the melodrama so cheaply . It's even too stupid to keep the music from swelling to all hell , which makes the already embarrassing moments more so . Besides , that little girl , Francesca Pipoli , is far too annoying . They play the cute angle all the time , and it hurts my head . To boot , they give ol ' Guiseppe a heart condition , just in case the movie wasn't affecting you enough . There is , like I say , some pretty good material concerning Guiseppe's coming to terms with his past . They really should have scrapped the entire blind girl stuff and concentrated on that . It's not everyday we have a big , plump , white-haired man . He's so awesome ! I would cast him in a movie in a second if I were making one . .
Mediocre dance movie	Hip-hop dancer Jessica Alba wants to become a professional , as well as save her dance studio , the only place where local kids can hang out and not get in trouble . Yes , it's a 2000s version of Breakin ' 2 : Electric Boogaloo . Unfortunately , Honey has little of the charm of the Breakin ' movies . Well , maybe in 20 years it'll be seen as camp , too . It's kind of the only way any Jessica Alba movies , save maybe Sin City , will ever be viewed in the future . The film is less than terrible when it focuses on the dancing . I say yes to Jessica Alba dancing . Apparently she knew nothing about dancing before taking the role . It's impressive that she learned how to do it so well . Has no one suggested maybe acting classes ?
Will they blame me , or the bees ?	Infamous bad movie , with disaster-meister Irwin Allen tackling the important possible , nay , probable future invasion of Africanized honey bees , aka killer bees ( other aliases : Brazilian bees , or just " Africans " in the last third or so of the film , creating wonderful quotations as " Tomorrow there will be no Africans . . . at least not in Huston " ) . As usual , Allen has assembled an embarrassingly rich cast , including Michael Caine in the lead , with support from Katharine Ross , Henry Fonda , Richard Widmark , Olivia DeHavilland , Ben Johnson , Slim Pickens , Fred MacMurray , Lee Grant , Jose Ferrer and several other big name actors ( albeit mostly past their prime - Irwin Allen disaster movies were , savor the pun , where the stars came to die ) . Caine plays an entomologist , an expert on bees , who joins up with an Army general ( Widmark ) after a military base has been decimated by the bees . Caine was never worse . In fact , whenever he gets huffy about the state of films or actors today , someone needs to throw this back in his face . It feels like he has nothing but contempt for the script , barking lines without any conviction , simply shouting them when the script calls for passion . Yes , you'd think he had contempt for the script , but he happily came back to Irwin Allen the next year for the equally despised Beyond the Poseidon Adventure . Widmark fares slightly better , but he has the worst part , that of the always-wrong military commander who wrecks everything . The only actor who makes it out unscathed is Fonda , who may not be particularly good , but who brings a little professionalism into the movie . Like most bad movies , The Swarm is only really bad , in my mind , because it's boring . Way too many scenes of people sitting around talking , arguing , trying to plan a course of attack on billions of killer bees . Yes , the plot of the movie is extraordinarily silly , but it's silly in an entertaining way . The set-pieces are hilarious . I never got sick of the bee victims writhing around in slow-motion while about ten bees buzzed by them at a time . The bees derail a train and even cause a nuclear power plant to explode . And while Michael Caine comes off as a total d-bag , everything he said made me giggle . My favorite line : " We've been fighting a losing battle against the insects for fifteen years , but I never thought I'd see the final face-off in my lifetime . And I never dreamed that it would turn out to be the bees . They've always been our friend . " This is truly his Exorcist II .
Good concept ! Now if they had just come up with a coherent and natural script to go along with it .	One of the bigger disappointments of the year . The concept is interesting , and the cast is more than promising . Will Ferrell , in a slightly more serious role than usual , plays an IRS agent who begins to hear a British woman ( Emma Thompson ) narrating his humdrum life . It's merely an annoyance until he hears that his death is imminent . He attempts to discover where this story is going , through the help of an English professor ( Dustin Hoffman ) , but eventually he just decides to live life to its fullest , which includes getting a girl ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) to like him finally . The general problem is that it feels like the screenwriter ( Zach Helm ) came up with a great concept , but never really figured out where to go with it . Also , he never even comes close to figuring out how to reconcile the fantastic premise with the real world , in which the rest of the film firmly takes place . After the concept has been established , you can really feel Helm uncomfortably forcing the story along . Gyllenhaal's character is one of the best examples . She's made completely two dimensional , a supposed über-liberal hippie chick who despises Ferrell ( who is auditing her ) at first sight , but who later sleeps with him just because he plays her what we assume to be her favorite punk song ( we assume because we're given pretty much no information , except that there's a Clash song playing in her bakery earlier , though the song he plays isn't a Clash song ) . It's one of the worst roles I've seen in 2006 , and Gyllenhaal is at a loss , giving what is easily her worst performance ever . Even worse is the character written for Queen Latifah , who is given absolutely nothing to do . One has to wonder why any producer would shell out the money for a name actress when the role requires nothing . The story gets even worse after Ferrell finally finds Emma Thompson and attempts to stop her from finishing his story . He can't bring himself to read the ending ( it's in outline format , so it hasn't happened yet ) , so he gives it to Hoffman . Hoffman declares that the novel is too good ( though from what the audience heard of the book , it sucks ) for Ferrell to live . At that point , I was totally lost . Luckily it ended quickly enough that I wasn't at the point of despising it yet ( a couple of movies this year , namely Little Miss Sunshine , weren't so lucky ) . Some decent performances and some decent laughs , but it's a pretty big failure .
Ferrell tries his best , but the writing is unambitious and mediocre	So-so film with a few really funny moments . It always seemed like the comedy could have gone two steps further than it did . There are tons of missed opportunities and jokes that are built up without payoff ( the news broadcast at the end of the film is a perfect example ) . Elf earns points for being a decent family film in that it has almost no objectionable content ? one very long belch is about it . It's nice that it doesn't resort to gross-out humor , but it could certainly stand to be less lame a lot of the time . Will Ferrell , a former Saturday Night Live actor , stars as a human who is raised by elves until his enormous height compared to the other elves makes this fact all too obvious . When Ferrell finds out that his father ( James Caan ) lives in New York City , he goes out and finds him . It becomes a standard fish-out-of-water comedy . The writing is half-hearted , so the weight of the movie ends up resting wholly on Ferrell , who does his damndest to carry it on his shoulders . I've always been a fan of Ferrell , even if he did create a couple of truly obnoxious characters on SNL . He actually does a fine job in Elf , playing a truly manic but sweet idiot . The filmmakers should have trusted Ferrell more , because it really shoots itself in the foot when it begins to concentrate on a very cheesy and unbelievable crisis in the elf's newfound human family . Ferrell has run away from home , and Caan and his family think they can find him in New York City ? which , of course , they do . And Ferrell ( along with his family and his girlfriend ) have to convince the people of NYC to have faith in Santa Claus so his sleigh can fly . They do this by having the girlfriend ( a very cute Zooey Deschanel , who might look a bit too much like Reese Witherspoon to become a star ) sing ' Santa Claus Is Coming to Town ' on the news . I was enjoying the film , but this kind of formulaic garbage just ruined it . It's nice to see Bob Newhart , Charles Durning , and Andy Richter . One of my favorite comediennes , Amy Sedaris , was also there somewhere , but I must have missed her ( was she one of the elves ? ) . .
How could Hitchcock not tell this was a bad project from the script ?	Probably Hitchcock's worst movie . I can't believe he was even involved . The thin plot involves a brilliant lawyer falling in love with a client he believes is innocent , jeopardizing his marriage . Courtroom drama is the second lowest genre , with the lowest being the sports movie . Hitch made another that is as lowly regarded , I Confess , but I thought that one was quite compelling myself . The Paradine Case literally put me to sleep . And look at the cast ! Gregory Peck , Ann Todd , Charles Coburn , Charles Laughton , Ethel Barrymore , Alida Valli - it's hard to believe it came out as bad as it did . All of them do good jobs , too . I also liked Joan Tetzel , who has one of those common Hitchcockian meddling daughter roles , like the one played by Patricia Hitchcock in Strangers on a Train , for instance . Tetzel also had a fine role in the previous year's Duel in the Sun , which was likewise produced by David O . Selznick . The only really worthwhile element of the film is Franz Waxman's sometimes gorgeous musical score . Unless you're a Hitchcock completist like myself , just skip The Paradine Case . You'll be better off , unless , that is , you desperately need some sleep . .
Just bad enough to be boring , not bad enough to be fun	Newfangled B-Western , pretty much released straight to video , starring Selma Hayek and Penelope Cruz as bank robbers trying to right the wrong of an evil American railroad company . Dwight Yoakam plays the bad guy and Steven Zahn plays a detective skilled in brand new technologies like fingerprinting . Sam Shepard also briefly appears as a famous bank robber who teaches the bandidas his trade . Produced and co-written by French Eurotrashmeister Luc Besson , I thought this might be amusing crap . Unfortunately , it's unamusing crap . It's actually fairly well made and respectable enough to look at , and the performances are good . But the script is just bad enough to be boring , not entertaining . It's coy , despite the heaving bosoms of Hayek and Cruz . There's maybe only one scene that could be described as sexy . The two actresses do look awfully cute dressed up as cowgirls . They always look like they just took a shower before they shot every scene ( or more likely a milk bath with rose petals ) , and the extras always looked like they just got thrown into dirt piles .
Somewhat fun , but too long to be worth it	This is a 15 episode serial based on the Bob Kane comic . It wasn't the first version of Batman brought to the big screen . In 1943 , there was another serial that had Japanese villains . This one is pretty innocuous , and also pretty forgettable . I am almost completely ignorant of the medium of serials . The only other one I've seen is Feuillade's Les Vampires , which is strikingly similar in form , even though made much earlier and in France . American serials are generally known for their cheesiness , their quick pacing and their cliffhangers . If I've gotten that stereotype correctly , Batman and Robin is a perfect example of the form . Some of the cheapness is a lot of fun . Like you notice the one bat that is perpetually flying around in circles in the bat cave . You think he'd die of exhaustion after a while . Vicki Vale appears . While she was in the comic books before this , Bob Kane only incorporated her as a main character after this serial ( though he based his design on Marilyn Monroe ) . Vale here feels a lot like Superman's Lois Lane ( I can't say which character in this form was first ; I don't know enough about their relative histories to say for sure ) . It's fun how difficult a time Batman and Robin have at keeping their identities . Half the time Batman is visiting Commissioner Gordon as Bruce Wayne , and he keeps having to tell people that Batman wants him to convey certain information . The best moment in the series comes when Vicki Vale pulls up behind Bruce Wayne's car ( the Batmobile does not exist in this version ) and Batman and Robin pop out . " Does Bruce Wayne know you're driving his car ? " Vicki asks . Without a pause , Batman replies : " Of course he does . " Their capes and costumes always get in the way when they're fighting . One time Batman's cape almost pulls him down , and he's often shifting his mask so he can see better . I wish the villain had been one of the familiar faces from the Rogues Gallery ( which literally appears in the serial as a filing cabinet ) . Instead we have " the Wizard " , a dull guy in a black hood and cloak . The serial as a whole is amusing , but hardly worth spending four and a half hours watching .
Weak documentary by Errol Morris	Errol Morris is easily the most famous documentarian around . His following is somewhat ridiculous . Being the foremost documentarian , it is easy to recognize his faults , as well as his strengths . I have seen several of his films , Gates of Heaven , The Thin Blue Line , Fast Cheap and Out of Control , Mr . Death , and many episodes of his television show First Person . I don't think he's ever produced a masterpiece , or even a great film , for the cinema . Personally , I think he is at his most successful with First Person . His most successful films , IMO , are Mr . Death and The Thin Blue Line . Fast , Cheap , and Out of Control is the pinnacle of what Morris was going for in films like Vernon Florida and Gates of Heaven , that is , documentaries featuring several interviewees with an abstact theme developing in the background . Personally , although it has great critical support , especially with Roger Ebert , I find Gates of Heaven to be an awful film . It's the least coherent documentary I've ever seen . Fast , Cheap , and Out of Control is good , but it seems more like an exercise than a real film . Its themes and points are there , but they are labored . The reason I like Mr . Death and The Thin Blue Line best is because they are concentrated on one subject . I can see what Morris wants to do with Vernon , Florida . It is a series of interviews with eccentric individuals from a small town in Florida . Most are elderly and retired . We have a turkey hunter , a priest , a bored police officer , and a couple who believes that sand grows amongst many others . This seems to me like an attempt to show that everyone has their story or that everyone has something interesting to say . This documentary doesn't really work , but there are several scenes that are very interesting or entertaining . It could use subtitles , because almost all of these people are only semi-coherent . I like this film much better than Gates of Heaven . It's not nearly as messy as that thing . Still , this is a flop . .
Annoying and not very funny	I'm sure everyone's experienced this a few times in their film watching lives : you sit down excitedly to watch a film that is widely considered to be a classic , but , from start to finish , it rubs you the wrong way . Nearly everything about it bothers you , you are annoyed and you can't see how anyone could possibly enjoy it . That's what happened to me when I watched Howard Hawks ' Twentieth Century . I was led to believe that it was one of the best comedies of the 1930s . For its first half , I wasn't even quite sure it was a comedy . I could see a few comic bits , notably a stereotypical inebriated character , but it didn't seem to be trying to be a comedy . Maybe a subtle comedy , I thought . It wasn't working on me at all . The second half jumps into a more plainly comic situation , but to me it still wasn't working . I laughed exactly once , a small guffaw that I wished I could have taken back . The plot involves egotistical theater director John Barrymore as he discovers , then moulds , then loves , then loses , then tries to get back Carole Lombard . I guess the comedy is supposed to come from Barrymore's extreme hamminess . To be fair , nobody does ham like John Barrymore , and he does it well . But it doesn't seem too far off his dramatic roles , so I never got that I was supposed to find his meanness amusing . I just hated him . I pitied Lombard as the ingénue at the beginning of the film . Later in the film , she also is a blowhard , a famous Hollywood actress . I hated her , as well . Barrymore and Lombard spend most of the movie shouting at each other at ridiculous volumes . I just wanted it to end . It just seemed like the kind of thing a playwright would find clever , and it comes off as a badly written play .
I didn't like it	This has to be # 1 on my list of movies whose popularity I don't understand . It's occasionally humorous , but the story isn't very interesting or insightful . It's the biopic of a comic book writer ( not artist ) who , despite his success , worked as a file clerk most of his life . I like the idea of a biopic about an ordinary guy , but I didn't find Harvey Pekar's life especially interesting . My life deserves a movie more than this guy's . The worst part of it is that I found Pekar's own work trite and uninsightful . Have you ever heard the one about the old Jewish lady arguing with the cashier at the super market ? Of course you have . You've heard it from any number of stand-ups in your life . But you've never heard it as unfunny as when Harvey Pekar tells the story . I liked the acting , especially Hope Davis , who plays Pekar's third wife . I love Pekar's co-worker who is obsessed with Revenge of the Nerds . And I did think that climactic speech about Pekar's phone book namesakes . That's the only time where I felt the film found any depth in its material . Otherwise , I thought American Splendor was kind of lame . .
Excellent images , but no story and a lot of noise	Visually stunning , but that's pretty much all it has going for it . This Russian did hold my interest for about an hour . I'd definitely never seen anything like it . But at about that point I realized it wasn't going to go anywhere . It's perfectly satisfied with being weird for weirdness ' sake . There is no coherent narrative . I probably would have enjoyed it anyway , seeing as the visuals are quite fun . However , there are many sequences that are loud and obnoxious , and it just started driving me crazy . After I watched it , I felt like I wanted to punch the first elderly woman whom I ran into . No film should make someone feel that way .
Where the hell are the jokes ?	The second feature from the comedy troupe Broken Lizard , the first being Super Troopers . That film was one of the crappiest I've seen of the last few years , but my brother wanted to see Club Dread and I'm easy . And I didn't hate it . Don't get me wrong , I didn't like it either , but I've seen a lot worse . It's a slasher comedy , although it needs way , way more comedy . I found it to be more adequate as a slasher flick , a slasher flick with a few amusing jokes tacked on . The plot involves a serial killer on a rampage on a Costa Rican resort island . This resort is owned by Coconut Pete , a clone of Jimmy Buffet . This character amused me a lot . As performers , the members of Broken Lizard ( and , by the way , I don't know which actors qualify as part of this troupe ) do have talent , but they seriously need to learn how to write a movie script . I may not have hated this movie , but I've got to wonder who the hell keeps giving these nobodies money . .
Profoundly Boring	Jeeze , whoever decided , out of the blue , to declare Hou Hsiao-hsien a master filmmaker was really pushing it . Those who chose to believe that opinion are even more guilty . I don't want to declare that he's untalented . I did truly like Dust in the Wind and City of Sadness , no matter how flawed I found them to be . The Puppetmaster is an enormous step in the wrong direction , more like the atrocious A Time to Live , a Time to Die than the two I actually tolerated . Hou's just not especially talented . People praise him to high heaven , claiming that his style is incredibly unique . Let me diagram his directorial technique : 1 . Static long shots with few movements and few close ups . 2 . His shots are often framed by doorways and the like . 3 . Many landscape shots . 4 . Characters in a scene often remain out of sight for a long time at the beginning of a scene , which confounds the audience when a visible character is talking to or interacting with them . 5 . Loose narrative structure . 6 . The subject of his films is most often Taiwanese history , often radiating from the tumultuous period of the WWII era . That's it . There is not one thing on this list that hasn't been done before and much better , whether Asian or Western ( well , maybe the thing about Taiwanese history , but plenty of great filmmakers have illuminated their own country's history ) . The combination of several of these factors ( and no more ) is a recipe for insomnia medication . His cinema is about as limiting as cinema can get , reminscent of pre-Griffith cinema , where filmmakers never thought to move their camera or give a close-up of anything . The effects are all de-dramatizing , which is extraordinarily pointless . As Pauline Kael once said , if films aren't supposed to be entertaining , then what are they supposed to be ? Torture ? I know what Hou's answer would be . Sorry . I went a bit too far with that last paragraph . The Puppetmaster does have its great moments , mostly coming in two forms : theatrical performances ( puppet plays and opera ) and one-on-one interviews with the Puppetmaster himself , Li Tien-lu , where he tells long and rambling stories - long and rambling , but very interesting and entertaining - about his life . The rest of the film is made up of accounts of the events he's talking about acted out on screen . Some are good , some are bad , but none of them are inherently interesting . Since these episodes are only tenuously connected to the past and the future , there is absolutely no weight to these scenes . This is particularly pathetic , because the real Li Tien-lu was the best part of both Dust in the Wind and City of Sadness . I would have been infinitely more contented to just watch the interviews without the sketches , because Li is a beautiful human being ( not to mention a marvelous actor ) whose face , body movements , and tone of voice communicate infinitely more than the motionless actors and actresses who are insultingly acting out his life experiences . And people who would like to deify this director and , consequently , want to crucify me , check out my other tastes : if you want to jump to the conclusion that I'm a brainless American who needs his movies fast , chew on a few of my favorite films that 99 % of the population would find as slow as molasses : 2001 , anything by Andrei Tarkovsky , anything by Antonioni , most things by Bergman , My Dinner with Andre , Dreyer's sound films ( Ordet , Day of Wrath , and Gertrud ) , Rhapsody in August , The Decalogue , and The Dreamlife of Angels , for starters . How about those who would criticize me for not liking loose narratives ? Godard is one of my very favorite filmmakers . And seeing that The Puppetmaster was supposedly improvised , at least in the editing room , I happen to love Pierrot le fou , Godard's film where he , Jean-Paul Belmondo , and Anna Karina grabbed a camera and went out on the road , improvising an entire film ( as rumor has it ) . And if this is all Hou could come up with if he came into this film not having an idea what he was going to make , Fellini did the same thing with 8 , and that is one of the ten best films ever made , in my opinion . Now how come I don't love this master's films ? The answer is simple , methinks : he's no master . I have very stubbornly stuck with a different Hou film every Friday for a month now , and he has revealed little or nothing to me about the human condition or the nature of filmmaking . Seeing that the showings are free , I'm not going to skip them . However , I can breathe a huge sigh of relief that there is a two week break in this particular series . for The Puppetmaster .
Weak in pretty much every way	If Polanski has made a worse film , I haven't yet seen it and don't want to . The story is dull and fairly common . It's about the tempestuous relationship between two lovers ( Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner ) who meet in Paris . At first things are beautiful between them , but over time the relationship deteriorates and becomes abusive . The story actually takes place quite a time after that , when Coyote , now paralyzed , is telling their story to Hugh Grant on a cruise ship . Grant is madly attracted to Seigner , which annoys his wife , Kristin Scott Thomas . I think the worst thing about the film is the casting . Peter Coyote is fine in supporting roles , but he's not a strong enough actor to carry this film . James Woods was originally cast , and he would have been a lot better ( though I doubt he would have been able to make it a good movie ) . I absolutely despise Hugh Grant . Completely talentless , and utterly unable to carry dramatic roles like this one . Emmanuelle Seigner , Polanski's wife , is sultry but not much of an actress . Only Kristin Scott Thomas among the four is reliable , and she's given by far the least to do . Even Victor Bannerjee , whom you may remember as the lead in Lean's A Pasage to India , has more to do than her ( and may just give the best performance in the film , with about five minutes of screen time ) . The film didn't offend me with its sheer terribleness or anything like that . It's just imminently forgettable .
Weak film for everyone involved	Mostly reminiscent of Suddenly Last Summer , which was made eight years earlier . With the loosening of the Hayes Code , Huston is able to imply a lot more than Mankiewicz could , but , just like the earlier film , in the end it feels like little more than a freakshow , with little insight into the situation or characters . I was hugely disappointed in it . I also found it nearly impossible to pay attention to . It moves slowly and is very poorly paced . Except for some of the racier material that wouldn't have flied just a few years earlier , it's really hard to believe that this was made in 1967 . The film-making feels so creaky and old-fashioned compared to other American films released the same year , like Bonnie & Clyde , Cool Hand Luke and In Cold Blood . I'm not overly familiar with John Huston's filmography , but with a film like Moby Dick it felt like he was the director most responsible for modernity in American cinema . I didn't much care for the performances either . Elizabeth Taylor delivered the performance of her life the previous year with Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , and this feels like a reversion to a more classical , palatable Liz ( palatable in looks and style ; the character is a bitch , but it's nothing new ) . Nice to see that her Martha was just an act , though , which makes that performance even more impressive . I've actually been kind of sick of Brando for several years now . His Actors ' Studio style just gets on my nerves , and those habits are in full force in this film . His constant mumbling is so difficult to understand I had to turn on subtitles . The film's final shot is hilarious , though of course unintentionally . Maybe I'll give this another try down the road , but after one viewing I really didn't care for it .
Not really that good a film	I watched this as a supplement to The Last King of Scotland , which I saw the previous weekend . It's actually fairly worthless ( this one , that is ) . I mean , there are interesting things going on in the sidelines . But Amin himself controlled very carefully everything Schroeder was allowed to see and film . He wanted to come off as a good man and great leader . Mostly he comes off as a babbling fool . If anything can be gleaned from the film , it's that this guy just wasn't smart enough to run a country . Like any idiot , Amin let his own bigotry and fear make his decisions for him . Much of the documentary consists of the dictator going on and on about the evils of Israel , and how Uganda will defeat them in an eventual war . There's a little bit of interest here , but mostly the film is dull . Would have made a nice special feature on the Last King of Scotland DVD , but unfortunately Criterion already has the film available .
Maybe I missed something	I have seen about a third of Hitchcock's films ( and that is a lot , more than a dozen ) , and Shadow of a Doubt was the first one I disliked . I thought the story and characters were uninteresting . I felt no suspense , except for maybe the last ten minutes . The acting was decent , but not great . I like Joseph Cotten , but he didn't do anything particularly noteworthy here . I liked Teresa Wright , too . I could tell she was a fine actress , but I just didn't like her character . The two younger kids and Hume Cronyn and Henry Travers are a really funny pair , too . Overall , though , Shadow of a Doubt didn't capture me like other Hitchcock films . It's my least favorite so far .
Mediocre comedy	I could easily sum up my feelings on this one in three words : Not Enough Laughs . But I'll go a little further , ' cause I know that's hardly satisfying . Paul Rudd is a newly engaged man who realizes that he doesn't have any male friends . Where his future wife has seven brides maids , he hasn't a groomsman to his name , let alone a Best Man . The film plays like a romance , except it's about a guy looking for a guy friend . It even ends with his guy friend rushing to the wedding . The guy he finds is Jason Segel , who , for the first time , gets Rudd to act like a guy . Which , of course , ends up upsetting his wife-to-be . Everything's very predictable here . But , I'll say it again , it would all be forgivable if there were laughs . There are some , but never big ones . I might be more forgiving if it weren't for the bevy of fantastic comedies we've had in the past few years . Last year alone there was Forgetting Sarah Marshall , Step Brothers and Pineapple Express . Those three are enough to keep you laughing for weeks , and you remember the laughs . So many laughs , in fact , that after I saw each of those films I forgot many of those laughs . Not because they were forgettable , but because other big laughs replaced the first laughs ! Nothing at all like that here . For the first time in a while , at least among the other films made by the actors featured in this film , almost all of the good moments were in the commercials . And , I must add , this film must set a record for the biggest waste of a great cast : Jaime Pressly , Jane Curtin , J . K . Simmons , Andy Sandberg , Joe Lo Truglio and Thomas Lennon appear . Most of them get a joke or two ( except Curtin ? why cast Jane Curtin and not give her one gag ? ) , but with all those great comedians , you want more .
Some day I will " get " Wes Anderson , but that day has not come yet	Wes Anderson would make a hell of a production or costume designer , or cinematographer even . I'm assuming he is the major force behind the aesthetic qualities of his films , and not the actual production or costume designers , or the cinematographer . His direction pretty much sucks , unfortunately . I did like The Life Aquatic quite a bit better than The Royal Tenenbaums , but only because I wasn't overly bothered by everything , and it did not feel torturous . And I was giggling occasionally , which didn't happen whatsoever during Tenenbaums . Like Anderson's previous film , The Life Aquatic deals with plastic characters in plastic situations . I think it might work as abstract art if the dialogue were inaudible , because it looks absolutely gorgeous . But , as it is , the actors mumble in this odd monotone ( Owen Wilson with the worst Southern accent in film history ) , and I can only assume Wes Anderson wanted it that way . I cannot , however , deduce why in the hell he does want it this way .
I'd take Browning's or Murnau's versions any day - and I am not a big fan of either of those films	Don't quite understand the popularity of this one ? I found it 82 of the longest minutes of my life . It's a completely lifeless version of the Dracula story , made and performed with the energy of an episode of masterpiece theater . Peter Cushing is decent as Van Helsing , but all the other actors are terrible . I'm sorry , but I found Christopher Lee excessively wrong in this , his most celebrated part . He made absolutely no impression on me , and he doesn't compare to Max Schreck or Bela Lugosi , or even Gary Oldman , sad to say . The set design ( especially Dracula's castle ) and the cinematography are pretty good , but the bright colors just do not work that well in a horror film . Does this movie scare anyone ? There isn't even a smidgen of eeriness in the entire movie . Then is it camp ? There was nothing funny about it , either , and that , without a doubt , includes the poorly conceived comic relief bits . I seriously hope this isn't indicative of the rest of the Hammer horror series ? they have been one of the major holes in my film knowledge . If they don't get better than this , it's a hole that I'm unsure I want filled . .
Lousy indie	Stereotypical indie from the sucks-to-be-poor subgenre . Hope I'm not being too glib . It does suck to be poor . I'm nowhere near wealthy myself , and I grew up with a mother under similar circumstances to the protagonist of this film ( a little smarter , though ; at least she realized that she was eligible for food stamps ) . I have more than just sympathy for her and people like her . But I am still suspicious of movies like this that lay it on so thick and seem to delight in jerking the audience's emotions around . The story follows a middle-aged woman ( Melissa Leo ) trying desperately to get by on her meager , part-time wages . Her husband is a thief and gambler , and has stolen the little money she has saved up to buy herself and her two sons a bigger trailer . Up the creek without a paddle , Leo meets up with a Mohawk woman from the nearby reservation ( Misty Upham ) who introduces her to the lucrative world of smuggling illegal immigrants across the Canadian border . First-time director and screenwriter Courtney Hunt seems to be following some kind of indie film-making book , because she makes sure to hit all the cliché bits . Everything is very predictable ; everything that happens in the movie happens for a reason . For instance , every time a radio is on , the weather is reported , which will come back later in the story . The dots are all connected , and there's no room for character or mood building . The tone is pitched at that quiet , supposedly subtle level that so many indies are . The sequence that summarizes the movie is the one where Leo throws a duffel bag out the window of her car on the titular frozen river on a night that the radio , of course , tells us is going to be far below zero , because she's afraid that the Pakistani couple in her trunk might be terrorists . It turns out that their baby was in the bag . Horrible , right ? Well , Leo's reaction is , " Well , we'll just have to go back and get it . " She's so nonchalant about it , I was sure I must have mistakenly heard " baby " . It turns out to be dead . Later , after one of the dozen or so contrivances that drive the film , the baby comes back to life in an apparent miracle . No reaction , at least from Leo . The event ends up changing Upham's outlook on life , but there's no grandiose reaction from her , either . The point is , anyway , that Hunt uses these silly , melodramatic situations which are completely unsubtle , and then she insists with her film-making that her movie is , in fact , subtle . I do have to admit that both Leo and Upham are decent actresses in the movie . I don't think either are award-worthy . It doesn't help that Leo's character often seems so profoundly stupid that it would be easy enough for a privileged audience to dismiss her with , " Well , someone like her deserves to be poor ! " I like the attempt Hunt makes in exploring the subtle ( and occasionally overt ) racism of the white people in the film , but sometimes it feels like she wrote the script without any of it , and someone who read it suggested she add it to give it some more depth . Honestly , if she made it her focus and not just the sideline to the sucks-to-be-poor material , Frozen River would have been a more vital movie . As it is , it's rather poor , and definitely forgettable .
Planet of the Apes , the Remake : Now with 75 % more snarling !	SPOILERS ( also for original PoA , 1968 ) You would have to look far and wide to find a bigger fan of the original Planet of the Apes . I nearly went berserk a few months ago when a woman I know said that Planet of the Apes was a so-bad-it's-good type of movie . It took all of my mental power to remain calm ( she wasn't even speaking to me ) . Yes , I worship the original Planet of the Apes and disdain its cheap , money-hungry sequels . It was those that lowered the original's reputation . Now comes the remake , directed by Tim Burton , a director whose work , IMO , is often visually brilliant but more often narratively incompetent . After I saw Sleepy Hollow , I wrote on imdb how I thought Burton should make sure his next script is okay before filming commences . Obviously Tim doesn't care what I think . His Planet of the Apes is a decent , run-of-the-mill summer actioner , but it has these weird attempts at social commentary and , even worse , at comedy . The jokes referencing the original are very cheaply made and only inspired embarrassed laughter . Charlton Heston's cameo is so gauche it's unbelievable . I pity him . The only self-referential gag that worked was a visual one that few people in the theater seemed to notice : the spaceship that Leo ( Mark Wahlberg , who is so bland I almost forgot he was in the film while watching him ) and his crew find in the forbidden zone is a visual pun on the Statue of Liberty ending of the original , even quoting camera angles . I laughed at that bit of cleverness . The make-up ought to be criticized a lot , for it is so much worse than the make-up of the original that it is startling . People nowadays might scoff at the original's make-up , not realizing that it was Academy Award-winning at the time . It is not bad at all , and the emotions could be seen on the faces of the actors . My favorite expression is one that a gorilla soldier has on his face when he is hosing down Taylor , Taylor exclaiming : " It's a madhouse , a madhouse ! " The ape shouts back " SHUT UP YOU FILTHY HUMAN ! " The expression on his face and his tone of voice are powerful . In this one , the make-up artists foolishly tried to ape real apes . What results is once and a while amazing ( the orang-otans , especially Senator Sandar , whose corpulent orang-otan politician is the greatest and most underused creation this film has to offer ; the other orang-otan , Limbo , is the best character in the film ( Paul Giamatti , a good character actor all-around ) ) but more often terrible ( Ari ( Helena Bonham Carter , a poor actress in most respects ) , apparently a chimp , looks so much worse than her counterparts in the original , Zira and Cornelius ; Thade seems more like an invented ape or a werewolf than a chimp ) . The apes ' movement in this film is also ridiculous . They move basically as humans in the original , simply because they were supposed to have evolved . Evolution has given us humans straight backs . These apes run on all fours and jump a hundred feet in the air . What is this , Crouching Chimp Hidden Gorilla ? Maybe a chimp can do that , maybe even an orang-otan , but not a gorilla . Thade ( Tim Roth ) at one point throws a fit where he leaps around like crazy . It's so ridiculous , several people in the theater were laughing . Also ridiculous was the decision to make these evolved apes sound just like their natural counterparts . There is so much squealing in this film that it ends up hurting your ears . Heck , I wish they would have just gone for broke and had them whip feces at the humans during their battles . In the original , characters were well developed and defined . The apes ' society and civilization was well displayed , including the complex ape class-structure . The original film had patience in setting things up , it didn't overburden us with unnecessary action sequences . All in all , the new Planet of the Apes is only worth seeing if you are bored and in desperate need for an action film . It does not work on any intelligent level .
Not of any real worth ; MAJOR SPOILERS , but I'm confident that everything I ruin is so predictable as to be unruinable	It's not that I despise this sort of realism , either . This is just an example of the most generic type of realism . It's a dime a dozen . It has no point whatsoever , really . The most effect I got out of it was watching it as a character study of Ah-Ha , the main character . He is the only character , besides Grandma , whom I'll discuss later on , whose name I could remember by the film's end , although there was a rift in my recognition of him after a long period of time was skipped and a new actor began to play him . There may even have been two skips in time ; I'm not sure . My major criticism of this film I must state right here and now : to only be able to proceed in one's narrative by killing characters off is a sign of very poor authorship and a general lack of imagination . Many other films and novels have faced this problem , too . The most famous one , in my opinion , is Gone with the Wind , whose second half is little more than a series of pointless deaths , so much so that , to me , it became very laughable . Another good example is Zhang Yimou's To Live . The most important example , though , is Satyajit Ray's Apu Trilogy , Pather Panchali , Aparajito , and World of Apu . If you're worried that I might ruin those films for you , go ahead and skip down a bit . These three films seemed to have influenced Hou Hsiao-hsien's film greatly . In fact , the grandmother character seems to me to have been directly taken from Pather Panchali . In that film , an old aunt would wonder about and get lost and such . She was played mostly for humor , as is the grandmother in this film , but that aunt had pathos . Grandma here just seems silly . Okay , here's how predictable A Time to Live , a Time to Die is : within the first five minutes , in the opening narrative , the father's death is clearly foreshadowed . The title of the film , which is pretty generic in the first place , announces this film's subject and even its structure , for the most part . More than halfway through the film , the mother of the main family discovers a growth on her tongue - count her dead , my brain said . Half an hour later , we were at her funeral . To top it off , Grandma dies . Its her death that , for me , hammered the final nail in the coffin . Her death is so morbid that it becomes almost funny . Nearer the end of her life , she cannot move off her mat . She ends up defecating and urinating all over the floor ( apparently with great force - the sht stains are something like half a foot from her anus , which , I assume , is still covered in some fashion ; she must have been eating some extraordinarily spicy General Tso's Chicken or something ) . The teenagers who are taking care of her only discover her death is by the ants which have begun to devour her . And when the morticians begin to move her , well , let me put it this way : have you ever seen a frog that has been out of water for too long , dead with it's legs sticking straight up in the air ? When the morticians move Grandma , her arms are stiff , so when she is moved , her arms , legs and all are so stiff that she is stuck in that position . Yes , I know that that's what would have happened , but it simply looks hilarious . Also , the side on which she lay was totally rotting away . I think the point is supposed to be that , with all the tragedy that they've experienced in their lives , these children just don't want to accept their grandmother's death , who was always so kind to them . Or maybe they didn't want even her shell to be taken away . But , during this moment which is supposed to be touching , it simply turns out to be foul . Grandma does happen to be the most entertaining and interesting character after Ah-Ha , so she really deserves more dignity than Hsiao-hsien is giving her . Compare the similar death in Pather Panchali , the only film in the Apu Trilogy whose tragedies I can accept ; after that they just get repetitive as Hell . As for this film's first two deaths , we don't get to know the characters enough to care . You might think , and , yes , Hsiao-hsien must have been thinking , that just because these are the parents of Ah-Ha , the main character with whom we should be identifying ( and are , for the most part ) , we should feel pain . Nope . That's not how it works . Even if they are the parents of a character with whom we identify , the screenwriter is required to build a touching and realistic relationship between the parents and the child . There was no such pathos involved in the situation . Pathetically , although not " pathetic " in the sense that I had any pathos , but rather in a sad and embarrassing manner , Hsiao-hsien tries to make us care about the father's death by having the mother cry profusely , knowing that people will be more likely cry if someone else is crying . This is no less dishonest than a laugh track . And I don't think anyone in the theater where I saw the film was falling for it . I've been hearing so much about Hou Hsiao-hsien in the past year that I was truly disappointed in this film . However , I'm not going to give up on him . There's a free program featuring many of his films at my university this semester , and I plan to take in every one I can . My rating for this particular film is .
Doesn't touch the original with a 100 ' pole	One of Hitchcock's worst , a remake of his infinitely better 1935 film . If it ain't broke , don't fix it , and the 1934 version is a small masterpiece . In many ways , I like Hitch's grittier British works with their dark black & white cinematography . The Master tries to outdo himself by casting James Stewart and filming in color . While the first decision works out fine , the second diminishes the film a lot . However , the worst decision was to cast Doris Day . I admit I've never watched a whole film starring this actress , and I have to admit that her performance here makes me want to avoid all the rest of her movies . She sucks ! There's not two ways about it , her performance here is hugely embarrassing , over-emoting at every corner . Her rendition of the famous song ' Que Sera Sera ' is painful to listen to . I have heard other recordings of her singing the song , and they sounded much , much better . Hitchcock tries for a slow build , but ends up taking forever . It only picks up when Stewart invades the church full of bad guys , and the Albert Hall sequence is probably a bit better than the original ( that's the only bit of the film that even comes close ) . The final nail in the coffin comes with the groan-inducing final joke . Maybe it's just me , but I hated it . .
Inconsequential	Some people might find La Ronde sweet and romantic , but I just found it to be weak and thus forgettable . The story's innovative structure does not seem so innovative in 2000 , and it's not because people have copied it ad infinitum . It is because people have improved upon and perfected the multiple storyline film . Nowadays we have masters like Scorsese and especially Altman who can do this kind of film without trying . Ophuls , though , did not have many ( or possibly not any ) real precursors to this sort of work . The film progresses very linearly , far too linearly . It begins with two characters , a man and a woman , meeting . Then one character goes on to meet a member of the opposite sex , then the newcomer goes on to another , and so on , until the person whose story did not move on in the first segment is met by the last character we meet , and then FIN . It is so fixed in this structure that it immediately becomes boring . It would have been possible to keep it from becoming boring if the characters had more depth or the stories themselves could have been deeper , but no . In fact , the segments are varied quite a bit in length . One may last for 15 minutes , the next could last 2 minutes . Characters pop in out of nowhere to become the next link in the chain . I just didn't care about anything that happened . Plus , all the men in the film are enormous jerks . They are very misogynistic and use the women of the film in a terrible way . Not to mention the theme song , which is repeated ad nauseam throughout the film , etc , etc . . . The only real value to the film was that it did contain some very innovative scenes . I did not like the whole thing with the merry-go-round's breakdown symbolizing a man's impotence . It was a bit tacky , but I can't say that it wasn't inventive . I liked the way the narrator ( a character whom I have not discussed ; I'll just say I found him annoying and a little creepy ) led one of the characters through time . My favorite scene in the film involved a very clever way of cutting out a sex scene : when two characters embrace , there is a cut to the narrator , who is looking at a strip of film , the very film we are watching , and he cuts , on screen , the sex scene . That was clever . Someone should steal it . All in all , though , La Ronde is pretty inconsequential . I give it a .
Occasionally funny , but often lame	The most recent film from the Broken Lizard comedy troupe , whose other films include the terrible Super Troopers , Club Dread and The Dukes of Hazard ( the third of which I skipped for some strange reason ) . Why do I keep watching their movies if they are so bad ? Good question . Honestly , I think the guys have a lot of charm , and they're pretty funny at times , and I feel that someday they might go on to do something worthwhile . Jay Chandrasekhar , the guy who directs these films and co-writes them , is actually a pretty darn funny actor . I just wish he'd act in someone else's movie for once so he has something funnier to say and do . Beerfest is their best film , which is not saying much . There's a good 20 minutes before there's even a laugh , and there are only a couple of good laughs within the picture . A lot of giggles , though . Not nearly enough to make it worth sitting through , but I've seen worse .
Muddled sci-fi	I really love sci-fi , probably more than any other genre . I like to see different imaginings of the future of humanity . And I am probably more forgiving to sci-fi than I am elsewhere . Code 46 presents an intriguing vision of the future , one where the different races of humanity have intermingled ( though not necessarily interbred ) throughout the globe , and many common phrases in the English language ( which has apparently dominated all other languages ) have been replaced with Spanish , Madarin , Arabic , and other languages . Unfortunately , this idea is never explored , and it ends up feeling false . That has little or nothing to do with the plot . I guess that there are big ( perhaps enclosed ? ) cities where breeding and genetics are kept under a strict control . Outside of these cities , people live as they always have , but are destitute and want to get in . Tim Robbins plays a man investigating a case of people breaking in from the outside . He meets a woman , Samantha Morton , who is in the inside working to help those on the outside . He is attracted to her , though , and does not turn her in . Instead , he impregnates her , violating Code 46 because they have a common genetic code . None of the premises or themes of the film ever make enough sense . I hated a lot of it , truth be told , but the visuals and music made it more pleasant than it would otherwise have been . I have to say , I especially hate Samantha Morton . In the recent past , I was thinking that she is amongst the best young actresses around . But after In America , and especially while watching this , her pixie-ishness just got on my nerves . I had to look up where she was from , because her accent was bugging me so much . Turns out she's from England , so where's she getting this fake , invented accent from ? I just want to punch her . And God knows what possessed her to reveal her vagina for the whole world to see in this movie . The rest of the film doesn't even merit a PG-13 rating , but then , all of a sudden ? hey , it's Samantha Morton's vagina ! No tits , though . .
Pretty lame	Mediocre Universal horror film which paired director George Waggner and Lon Chaney Jr . , a pair which would produce one of the best of the genre , The Wolf Man , later that same year . " Electrobiologist " Lionel Atwill doses patient Lon Chaney Jr . with larger and larger jolts of electricity until he becomes his murderous slave . When Chaney follows an order to dispose of Atwill's scientific partner , he is arrested and sentenced to death . Since Chaney is famous for surviving an electrical shock that killed four other people , you would think they would hang him or send him to the gas chamber . But no , they electrocute him , which , of course , gives him super powers and allows him to go on a classic movie monster rampage . The rampage is fun enough , and you've got to love the image of a glowing Lon Chaney Jr . , but most of what comes before is rather boring . The script is quite poor . Late in the film , characters start knowing things that they were never around to learn in the first place . It has a couple of great howl-inducing lines , my favorite being " He stole some rubber boots ! Now he won't die ! " The title is also pretty stupid . It's based on a story called " The Electric Man " . The original story's title was retained in the UK , and I don't understand why that was replaced with its much more generic title .
Twig-thin , pretentious garbage	I should have known it was going to happen eventually . There's always one potential Oscar film that I absolutely hate , and in 2008 it is The Curious Case of Benjamin Button . To get it out of the way immediately : yes , the film is technically accomplished . It totally deserves to be nominated for all the technical categories , including score and cinematography . It is absolutely gorgeous at times . But so freakin ' what ? The film behind those technical accomplishments is just plain bad . The film is about a man who is born old and ages backward . He falls in love with a girl who is in reality the same age as he , but he has to wait for her to grow up and for him to grow down . Cool concept , yeah ? I was aware of this story since way back when Spike Jonze was talking about doing it , around 2000 . I've been waiting for it for the better part of this decade . But you know what ? It's just a gimmick . I don't know what F . Scott Fitzgerald's original story is about , how he uses that gimmick , but Fincher and screenwriter Eric Roth do absolutely nothing with it . The backward aging thing doesn't provide any insight into how a life is lived . Ben Button the character has no insight , besides a few banal observations . The film has no historical point of view . Set in New Orleans from the end of WWI and ending , chronologically , at Hurricane Katrina , it has almost nothing to say about the 20th or 21st Centuries . This is particularly obvious when there are black and white characters interacting with each other as if no such thing as racial tension existed . Many of the film's critics note its similarities to Forrest Gump , which was also written by Eric Roth . Yes , there are many honest and insightful arguments against Forrest Gump , but at least it didn't turn its back on history the way Ben Button does ( though it does , of course , polish it far too much ) . So little happens in the film , it's almost amazing that they were able to stretch it out for nearly three hours . The film just gives us bland sentiments , two dimensional characters whom I didn't come close to caring about , lots of talk about life and death but no real philosophies on it and no sense of time or place , except for the most generic sort possible . I haven't mentioned the actors yet . This disaster isn't at all their fault . Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett , both fine actors , are given little to do . I guess you could kind of praise Pitt's old man act , but much of the impressiveness of that is due to the special effects and makeup . Taraji P . Henson is getting a lot of praise for her role as Queenie , Benjamin's adoptive mother . She's probably the best actor in the film , but this kind of mammy role is below her talents . No black woman should have to waste her time in such a stereotypical role . The only performances I liked at all were those of Jared Harris , who is a lot of fun as a sea captain , and Tilda Swinton , who is always good . I blame most of this movie on Roth , whose script is so extraordinarily vapid , but Fincher is partly at fault . This just isn't his kind of movie , and it's obvious he isn't able to handle sentimental material . I hate his most famous films , Se7en and Fight Club , because I find them both disgusting , cruel and cynical in a dangerous way . He found his perfect match , in my mind , last year with Zodiac , which utilized his clinical style perfectly . He seems to approach movies with a detached procedure , much as the investigators and journalists of Zodiac are supposed to operate . A grand love story , which Button purports to be ( but never is ) , requires a director more in touch with his emotions .
Big , dumb , and forgettable	Blade II isn't terrible . I , in fact , like it a smidgen better than the original . That film suffered from a very uninteresting love interest ( who doesn't come back ) and a dull villain . It had its moments , though , and so does Blade II . The visuals in both films are excellent , with a marvelous eye towards the set designs and costumes . II contains more computer animation , with several scenes using far too much computer animation . It tries to hide that a few times by setting the sequences in the dark or whatever , but you'd have to be mentally challenged not to notice . Because of this , its action sequences don't carry as much weight or energy . It steals liberally from The Matrix and , even moreso , Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . It's slightly better than The Matrix , pretention incarnate , but can't come close to the physical beauty of CTHD , whose action sequences did not rely on computers . Blade II steals its plot wholesale from Aliens , which is a common action film to steal from ( it's probably the best ever made at this point , over 15 years old now ) . The villains are pretty cool , but they're a direct combination of Max Schreck ( of Nosferatu fame ) and the aliens from Aliens . They're still pretty brutal . A lot of the supporting cast is simply terrible . The film employs a ton of uber-predictable twists and betrayals . You'll see some of them coming and you'll wonder why the writers even bothered with others . .
Mediocre weepy	The story of a man ( Kim Rossi Stuart ) reuniting with the disabled son ( Andrea Rossi ) whom he abandoned at birth . This was Italy's official entry for the Academy's Best Foreign Film award , which makes perfect sense : it's the same kind of clichéd , sentimental crap that usually takes home Oscar gold . By some miracle , the Academy skipped it over ( another story of disability , The Sea Inside , won that year ) . The Keys to the House pulls out just about every cliché imaginable . The most obnoxious is perhaps the fact that the boy's mother died in childbirth ? which is why the father has ignored him for 15 years . Like many films dealing with the disabled , it sees them mostly as objects to be dealt with . A woman whom the father befriends during the film ( played by Charlotte Rampling ) also has a disabled child , and at one point she admits that she wishes her daughter would die . The only difference between this movie and your standard American prestige picture is an overbearing score . There are a couple of decent scenes , but , for the most part , and I thank it for this , the film is instantly forgettable . Avoid .
Best Picture my . . . eye	Zetes ' Dictionary defines ' mediocrity ' as the 2003 Best Picture nominee Seabiscuit , directed by Gary Ross . It's watchable , but it's a weak , uninteresting story that is poorly plotted and has a low success rate at tying said story into its historical context , as hard as it tries . I can take films about underdogs once in a while , providing that they're well done , but Seabiscuit wins , what , a quarter of the way through the movie and then its rich sponsor ( played by Jeff Bridges ) pesters the even richer owner of the Triple Crown winner War Admiral until he finally gives in , lest he be annoyed any further . The only actors who do anything nearing a decent job are Tobey Maguire as Seabiscuit's down-and-out jockey and William H . Macy , who plays a radio sports broadcaster . Jeff Bridges , Chris Cooper , and that other uninteresting lady sleepwalk through the film . The film does boast some fine cinematography . .
Jesus , can't anyone make a decent horror film anymore ?	Jeepers Creepers has a lot going for it . It has a decent premise ( nothing extraordinary , but it's workable ) , several excellent scenes , and a great baddy - one that , if the film itself had been better , would have haunted the popular imagination as much as Freddy Krueger . Instead , the dialogue is terrible , the characters often make frustratingly awful and difficult to swallow decisions , and several annoying horror movie cliches that , for Christ's sake , should never be included in a movie again , yet somehow always end up there . How rare is it that a director can direct his own script ? Really , Jeepers Creepers required two , maybe only one rewrite or script doctoring and it could have been a B movie masterpiece . The changes wouldn't have been difficult . I actually suggest that people see this film . Wait for it to move off the new release shelves and then snatch it up . It's only 90 minutes long . Expect your knee to jerk , but I implore you to find the seeds of good ideas in it . And , let me add , they are apparently making a sequel ( the film really didn't make that much money , but , as I remember , it topped the B . O . for a week or two ) . I will definitely rent it when it comes out on video , just to see if Victor Salva has improved himself at all . .
Boring samurai flick	There's little to recommend about this cheaply made samurai film . The films of this genre boast great patience , but within that patience there ought to be at least a few good samurai battles . There are only two real battles in this one . The first one has a neat setting , but it takes place during the night and it is so dark that it is difficult to see anything . The climactic battle , which is actually two consecutive battles , is very good but nothing compared to those in much more well known samurai flicks . The editing of the film is consistently poor and reduces the effectiveness of many of its scenes . This movie is only 90 minutes long , but it feels as long as The Seven Samurai . .
Dumb and dated	A post-Watergate conspiracy thriller that kind of found its way into my ( now sputtering ) ' 70s and ' 80s sci-fi marathon . I kind of knew that it didn't fit , but I've always wanted to see it . I actually found it to be laughably bad . But I was laughing , so I have to give it some credit , I suppose . The film was inspired by the " moon landing hoax " conspiracy theory that had been put forward a few years earlier . In this film , the three astronauts of Capricorn One , James Brolin , Sam Waterston and O . J . Simpson , are whisked away just moments before they are about to blast off to Mars . The head scientist of the project , Hal Holbrook , tells them that they would not have survived the mission , so instead they are going to fake it on a film set . The three astronauts are all upstanding citizens , and though Holbrook assures them that America couldn't take another disappointment after Vietnam and Watergate , they are unsure about it . They reluctantly agree to it . But when the pod they are supposedly in explodes on its way down to Earth , they decide to run away , lest they be murdered to complete the illusion . Meanwhile , reporter Elliot Gould is tipped off by a NASA scientist that something is amiss with the project . The setup is all pretty good . What follows isn't . It's not so much that the story as a whole is bad , but there's a lot of really stupid stuff that goes on that drags the film down . At one point on the film set , when he is talking to his wife , Brolin gives a cryptic hint that things aren't as they seem . Gould picks up on this , and this whole segment of the script is awful . Brolin's hint makes no sense , and it's impossible to believe that Gould would ever pick up on it . And then there are the attempts on Gould's life . These assassination attempts are hilariously inept . At one point Gould's brakes are cut and he goes careening around busy city streets at 100 mph in a weird , phony-looking first person point of view shot . He drives up a raised bridge at full speed and flies into water hundreds of feet below , upside down , and lives . In another sequence , Gould visits a ghost town and is shot at . He's the only one in the entire town , the assassin , who is never seen , takes one bad shot at him , and then runs away . Later , a bunch of cops apparently much less ambitious than the crappy assassin try to assassinate his character by planting cocaine on him , which results in him being fired and keeps him in jail for approximately two hours . To stick with Gould , late in the film he joins up with Telly Savalas , a city folk-hatin ' ( and it probably doesn't help than Gould is so Jewy ) , smart alecky crop duster who provides some very unwelcome comic relief . The part of the film that made me laugh to hardest were the two black helicopters that are sent out to kill the escaped astronauts . Director Hyams treats the helicopters as if they were themselves characters , not the people inside ( though they do appear late in the film ) . Kind of a good concept , because these ominous copters are definitely creepy . But when the two helicopters see something interesting , they turn towards each other inquisitively . You can almost see the giant question mark above their heads . The movie becomes sillier and sillier as it moves on . Hyams ' dialogue is belabored , and his actors are pretty much all poor ( Gould is the best , but his role in the film is utterly contrived and stupid ) . The slow motion shot that ends the film is a perfect , giggle-inducing cap to this moronic thriller .
Its vapidity is pretty much par for the course for Hou Hsiao-Hsien	Ugh . Yeah , why do I bother ? I have some terrible masochistic streak in my psyche . Truth be told , I kind of liked Hou's two previous films , Three Times and Café Lumiere . Neither was good , per se , but both were pretty and moderately enjoyable . I downright liked parts of Three Times , although I did feel like Hou was shamelessly ripping off Wong Kar-Wai during the parts I liked . The Voyage of the Red Balloon is very much the sister film to Café Lumiere . In Café Lumiere , Hou vacationed in Tokyo and made the film as a tribute to Yasujiro Ozu . It wasn't much of a tribute , honestly . I wouldn't characterize it as an insult to Ozu , but it had nothing to do with Ozu . Voyage of the Red Balloon , likewise , is claimed to be a tribute to Albert Lamorisse and his landmark short film , The Red Balloon . Hou's film references the Lamorisse movie several times , and even has a red balloon that pops in once in a while to greet the young boy . It feels like an afterthought , though , and the film has almost nothing to do with The Red Balloon . Like most Hou films , this one doesn't have much to do with anything . It's embarrassingly empty . Juliette Binoche does voicework in a puppet theater . She's recently divorced , and she's having a rough time of it . Meanwhile , her new nanny , Fang Song , is the new nanny to Binoche's son ( Simon Iteanu ) . The film is very pretty , but it's about as dull as a movie can be and still be called a movie . I find most of Hou's films vapid , but this is a new low .
Only moderately interesting	Yeah , I totally agree with the last couple of comments . I love Varda's two most popular films ( which are the only others I've seen ) , Cleo from 5 to 7 and Vagabond , but The Gleaners and I is a rambling , tenuous , and only intermittently interesting mess . She makes all these trash diggers seem like rebellious , beautiful heroes , but really they're nothing but trash diggers . The political message is negligible . I like the stuff about Varda's fleeting life , but it's very poorly integrated into the rest of the film . .
After Titanic , the most worthless Best Picture winner of the 1990s	What is so special about this film ? I've watched it once , about a year ago , and could never figure it out myself . What I saw was a pretty good thriller which bombed out at the very end . I never thought the acting was all that great either . I think Anthony Hopkins was overacting , and I thought it was one of Jodie Foster's slightest performances . She had a more complex character in Freaky Friday . Oh , and the end that I mentioned above ( I guess SPOILERS ) : Jodie Foster just stumbles on Buffalo Bob while following her clues . It seemed believable to me that she might come upon him before she actually new exactly who she was confronting . But it also made the film seem rushed to actually have the final showdown as soon as she accidentally runs into Buffalo Bob . It almost seemed to me as if they decided that the movie was too long at that point , and that they should just let this coincidence develop into a finale , even if it was premature . If you don't understand what I am talking about , that is , if you thought the film ended at the correct time , read Roger Ebert's review of the film . I did not develop my opinion from his review either , he just confirmed my suspicions . I don't think Silence of the Lambs was particularly fascinating elsewhere , but it was often entertaining . I would have given it a , but the sloppy ending knocks it down to a . Jesus , how did the Academy remember this at awards time . 1992 must have been a slow year .
Disappointing .	I love Pasolini , and Medea is easily the weakest of his works that I've seen . After having made the brilliant adaptation of the Greek tragedy Oedipus Rex , Medea seems rather uninspired . It retains most of Pasolini's beautiful settings , but the script is a poor adaptation of Euripides ' play . The film's as slow as they come , and to me it seemed like a way to cover up the lack of ideas . Maria Callas is excellent as Medea , but she really doesn't have that much screen time , if you measure it . Most of the film is made up of people performing weird rituals , and the characters of Jason and Medea don't do all that much . I don't like Pasolini's interpretation of Jason as a chauvanist , egotistical jerk . It's too simplistic , and it's unfair moralizing from a modern vantage point . The character has much more depth in the various myths , even in Euripides ' play . Medea's depth is sapped , as well , and her motivation in the film is sketchy at best . And then there are a couple of confusing ellipses , especially an extended fantasy sequence ( apparently ) where Medea imagines killing Glauce and Creon , followed by the reality . It feels more like there were two versions of this section , and the editor screwed up and left both in . Pasolini's direction is often amazing , as is the cinematography and music . I didn't hate Medea , but I can't muster any enthusiasm for it . .
Meant more for casual fans than for diehards . Plus , the format just doesn't really work as a movie , I think .	I'm an absolute fanatic of The Simpsons and have been watching it since it was on Tracey Ullman . I grew up with it . I was the exact same age as Bart when the very first episode premiered . Unlike a lot of fans , I've never turned my back on the show . I am not one who thinks each new episode is worse than the last . I do acknowledge that it's long past its peak , but I think almost every new episode is funny enough to be worth seeing . Once in a while , they'll produce an episode that's genuinely fantastic . But , really , I don't demand fantastic . I'll settle for a few good laughs and be at least moderately happy . Now comes The Simpsons Movie , which had been talked about for the last 15 years , at least . Much like when I watch new episodes , I wasn't expecting the movie to be that great . Unfortunately , it fell below even those expectations . It has a few good jokes and moments ( the only time I laughed really loud was the Tom Hanks bit ) , but it doesn't do much right . Those who've long turned their backs on the show like to complain about recycled plot lines . It's true , of course , for pretty much every new episode , but the show has grown more manic and self-referential over time . Many don't like that , either , but I personally do like those kind of jokes . The movie just plods along with a predictable plot that's made up of some of the most basic of all Simpsons plots : Homer and Marge relationship problems , Lisa's environmental concerns , and Bart's loss of faith in his father . None of it here is done with the irony of the newer episodes . It's like it's part of the really early Simpsons , when we hadn't seen these plots a billion times . Except it completely lacks the perfect comic timing of the early seasons . In the end , the movie is only an occasionally amusing affair . Certainly it's worth seeing if you're a fan , but , unless you're the kind of nut I am , you can wait for the DVD .
The long awaited reviewing of a movie I've often trashed	I'm only somewhat happy to say that it's nowhere near as bad as I remembered it ? I rated it a dismal after just one viewing . Since I first saw it , probably around a decade ago , I've educated myself in both Westerns and Jarmusch , and I can judge it better being more familiar with its referents . My judgment now : still not very good . To be fair , I can't say that I'm the biggest Jarmusch fan . I've seen most of his movies now , and the only one that works for me on any large level is his most recent , Broken Flowers . That film just blows me away . Other than that , I did like Mystery Train . All of the other films I've seen of his , which include Coffee and Cigarettes , Down by Law , Stranger Than Paradise and Dead Man itself , work for me up to a point . After that point , they just bug me . My specific complaint about Dead Man is that it seems to want to be profound , or at least people think it is ( the lead comment on IMDb right now begins : " A profoundly spiritual film speaking to our true human nature in a world of illusion " ) , but it also wants to be a goofy / weird comedy . That goofiness is fun at times , but definitely kills any apparent profundity . And , dammit , how can anyone take it the least bit seriously with that damn fat Indian ? I hate the character of Nobody , and hate Gary Farmer's performance . If it weren't for him , I think I'd like the film . I like a lot about it . First and foremost , the cinematography is outstanding . I also love the quirky costume design . And the supporting performances are fun . I personally don't think Jarmusch is trying to be profound at all . I think the goofiness was more of his intention . In that case , it would have been better if it had been trimmed a bit . This is his longest film , I think , and , even besides Nobody , it overstays its welcome . While I don't hate it anymore , this is certainly my least favorite of Jarmusch's films .
Decent , but I think hardcore Trekkies will find it weaker than it could have been	I have to admit that I enjoyed a lot of this film , but as a pretty big fan of Star Trek , I found the jokes to be sometimes quite weak . Many of them are okay , but there's no joke that knocked me flat . Nowhere near flat . Maybe it's not just that the jokes are weak at times . Maybe it is that there are not enough jokes . The characters maybe could have been closer to the actual Star Trek characters . Or it could have been really great if they had actually made it with the actors from the original series ( or even The Next Generation characters , most of whom are moving towards the same situation ) . Also , the script is quite predictable . True , it is a comedy , but comedies don't have to follow strict script outlines . The one thing that I thought they hit closest to the mark was the depiction of the actual Trekkies ( " Questers " in this film , I believe ) . The main Quester was hilarious . And props to my homeboy Kevin McDonald of Kids in the Hall fame , finally finding some work .
Honestly , I thought this was Ghibli's weakest film that I've seen	Based on a Japanese cartoon strip , and it shows . Yes , the visual style is very simple and , honestly , once I got over the novelty of it , it did start to grate . But that's not even what I'm talking about . I only ever read the comic strips in the papers when I'm extremely bored . I like to see just how bland and unfunny they are . My Neigbors the Yamadas isn't entirely bland , but it is often enough that the film disappoints overall . For every charming moment , of which there are quite a few , there are half a dozen moments filled with the most banal of observations about Japanese family life . The script is very episodic , presumably because it is based on a bunch of individual story lines from the comic strips . There are some longer stories , but a majority of the film follows the basic three-box comic strip formula . There's a two part set-up and then a quick punchline , always in the film followed by an annoying musical cue . The best moments of the film are meant to be small and sweet , but even these are so understated that they are mostly forgettable . Ghibli has done toned-down material very well in the past , notably Yoshifumi Kondo's Whisper of the Heart . I would never have imagined that a Studio Ghibli film would disappoint me ; it's beyond comprehension that I had to fight to stay awake during one !
Not among Miike's best films	In fact , I might call it his worst , or at least it's close to it . Miike is actually a very good director-for-hire , but he never seems to feel comfortable when he's directing a movie for younger audiences . Like The Great Yokai War and Andromedia , the two other Miike films of this type I've seen , Miike keeps the worst part of his normal aesthetic ? that is , the incredibly drawn out , Asian art-house dialogue scenes . It can work well in dramas or in suspense pictures , but these three films lack anything that could be considered suspenseful . Miike's not allowed , I would guess , to push the boundaries much , so he can't create any memorable setpieces . He works a lot with computer effects in Zebraman , but they're extremely poor . They wouldn't have been acceptable ten years ago in the United States . The film concerns an ineffectual teacher and father , played by Sho Aikawa , who longs to become a super hero he remembers from TV when he was a kid . He is soon endowed with the powers he wishes for so he can fight an alien invasion . Sho Aikawa is very good in the lead , and there are a couple of good sequences . But , all in all , it's a bore .
Interesting failure	I would categorize this as an interesting failure . Jacob Kogan plays the title character , the first child of Brad and Abbie Cairn ( Sam Rockwell and Vera Farmiga ) . After his baby sister is born , Joshua becomes morbid , and more than a little creepy . I love the whole evil child angle , and the fact that there is no supernatural reason for Joshua's behavior makes it even more horrifying . Unfortunately , Ratliff and co-writer David Gilbert haven't written a good enough script to support their idea . While there is no supernatural reason given for Joshua , the kid is so odd and seemingly beyond his own years that I think some viewers will end up supplying their own . I never really bought the character . He ends up almost paper-thin , like there's nothing behind his wickedly blank face . I wouldn't say that Jacob Kogan gives a good performance here , but he certainly has the look of utter wickedness about him . There are other fatal flaws , as well . Sam Rockwell is a little too broad , and comes off as almost comedic . This is especially true in the final half-hour , after Rockwell's character has begun to expect his son of being malicious . I shouldn't be giggling at the whole concept ? this is where some true horror should arise . But Rockwell's reaction to his son's evil is almost comical , and I'm not entirely sure it's unintentional . Particlarly awful is the scene where Rockwell hires a child psychologist to examine Joshua . That whole bit was patently ridiculous : the woman deduces after approximately twelve seconds ( she looks at one drawing ) that Joshua is being abused . And she tells Rockwell instantly ! You'd think if she really thought he was abusing his son , she'd play it more subtly and , you know , call child services or something . That scene is pretty unforgivable . There are , on the other hand , several very good sequences . I especially liked the bit where Joshua gets his mother to step on some broken glass . And that scene where the kid mocks his father for mourning their dead dog ? which Joshua killed , of course ? is chilling .
Not really that good	I remember liking this one fine the first time I saw it , though I thought it was maybe a tad overrated . This time , it didn't hold up well at all . I didn't like too much about it . It can't be called noir ; it's not very atmospheric , nor is the cinematography especially dark . I'd rather just call it a murder mystery . But even then , the mystery is fairly simple to solve . And there are a couple of twists along the way that strike me as unbelievable . The celebrated dialogue felt forced to me . The famous score also did not seem good to me . The worst part is the casting , though . I know most would disagree with me , but the only bright spot in the cast is Judith Anderson , and she doesn't have too much to do . Clifton Webb is okay , I guess , but most of the forced dialogue comes from his lips . Gene Tierney is certainly one of the most beautiful Hollywood actresses , but I've always found her just a little bit to the right side of talentless . And , though both were good once in a while , Dana Andrews and Vincent Price are generally two of the dullest actors from the era . Truthfully , Laura doesn't shine as brightly as most want to believe it does .
Interesting for Cohen Fans , but Rather Pretentious	This documentary is somewhat lame . It is very worshipful towards Leonard Cohen . There are scenes in Canadian lecture halls where people laugh at his every word , and I wasn't even sure half the time that he was joking . You can tell Cohen doesn't really care . In fact , he speaks in silly little poetic quips that become awfully annoying very quickly . In fact , after the documentary part of the movie is done , there is an interview with Cohen after he has just watched the film . A piece of film that was recorded and not included in the actual documentary is very telling : it shows Cohen writing " CAVEAT EMPTOR " on the wall above a bathtub while he is bathing . Yes , the buyer should beware in this case . Oh , and speaking of buying , you can buy this on VHS or DVD if you really want it . Just go to Amazon . com and search for it . The DVD has a few supplemental short films which are actually more interesting than the feature . There is a goofy music video for " I'm Your Man , " and a couple of really marvelous video montages coupled with Cohen's poetry .
Can a movie about cricket , 15 minutes short of four hours , be entertaining ?	The answer : kind of . Occasionally . But Lagaan is a very flawed film . I think the Sports Movie is probably the worst cinematic genre , in that there are really only two possible outcomes in the end . The underdogs either win or they lose . Both options have been so utterly overdone that a sports movie just can't really be very interesting . Add to that the fact that I know so little of cricket ? if you don't , you probably should read up on the rules before you see Lagaan ( like the fact that you can bean a batter without any penalty whatsoever ) ? and that promises a very dull movie . Fortunately , the film manages to be pretty entertaining all the way through . And since I personally broke it up into three different sittings , the length wasn't a big deal ( if I had seen this in the theater , I very well might have despised it ) . It helps that the film is partly a musical . There are , I think , only six musical numbers , all of them good , a couple just fantastic ( they get less impressive as the film goes on ) . The musical score of the film is also very good . And the ( Indian ) actors are all pretty good , with Gracy Singh ( as Gauri ) being an absolutely stunning beauty . I hated the way that the British were portrayed , though . Yeah , I know , they were pretty awful to their subjects at this point of history . But they're so evil , they might as well be twirling their ever-present mustaches . And the more flamboyant the facial hair , the meaner they are . There is a lot of semi-frightening ' I hope our gods break the backs of the Whiteys ! ' sentiment flying around the film , and Lagaan sometimes seems like a very hateful movie . It does very little to actually separate the past with the present , it seems to me . And then there's the white woman . She seems like she might have been added to apologize for the rest of the British characters ( she has no facial hair ) , but she's so poorly written that all of her actions and appearances are laughable . And the semi-romantic relationship between herself and Bhuvan , the main Indian character , is an incredibly anachronistic and unbelievable conceit . Not much is even made of it , really , except for a particularly hilarious scene where she joins in during one of the better musical numbers . I don't particularly recommend Lagaan ( you might want to buy the soundtrack , though , or download a couple of the songs ) , but many may like it much more than I did . .
Sometimes hard to follow	This story involves two girls , Dora and Sunako , who are best friends in Yokohama . They vow never to separate , but along enters a man ( with the Western name Henry ) . Sunako goes for him , but he's a bad guy , a gangster and a philanderer . She eventually catches him with another woman , and does something rash . In her shame , Sunako runs away only to become a geisha . Later she meets up with Dora and Henry again , now married to each other and feeling guilty for what became of Sunako . Japanese Girls at the Harbor is often a very pretty film , but I sometimes found it to be poorly made . The first half is especially confusing with Shimizu's gimmicky editing . And the transition between the big event of the first half and the second half of the film is never quite clear . I had initially thought I was confused because I watched it tired , but I watched most of the first half over again and still found it hard to put together . Plus , whenever characters who aren't one of the main three enter the film , it's always hard to understand who they are . The second half of the film is much stronger than the first , but I would still complain that Henry and Dora are never especially interesting characters . My attention was focused entirely on Sunako , and I found it hard to concentrate when she wasn't around . This is the earliest film in the Eclipse Travels with Hiroshi Shimizu box set ( and the only silent film ) , and I've read at least one review of the set that claims that it's the weakest . Looking at the better aspects of the film , it's clear that Shimizu is a talented director . I'm confident that the other films will be better . I definitely do not recommend starting with this film if you're just renting them . Skip it all together , or at least come back to it later .
quite underwhelming	there are several hundred foreign films that are so much better than this . It's simply more of the same Bunuel bourgeosie bashing . perhaps it was shocking in the day , but it's dated now . Even Catherine Deneuve is positively weak here . Actually , this was one of her first films , and I was also unimpressed with her performance in The Umbrellas of Cherbourg . I cannot see what is so special about this .
The one thing I never want to hear while in a helicopter : " We're running on fumes here . "	It's difficult to gage whether or not _ The Perfect Storm _ is worth seeing . On the negative side , the film contains about the most generic and stock characters and situations one will find in Hollywood . The actors in this film , most of whom are normally great , obviously did this just for the big pay check so that they could star in more Magnolias and Three Kings . But on the positive side , it contains some extremely exciting and physically harrowing scenes . From a technical point of view , it might be the most well done sea disaster film ever made . Whatever happens , don't decide to wait for video to see this film . Even on DVD , it would not be very fun to watch . These waves simply have to be over your head to enjoy this film . See it at a matinee . I paid $3 . 50 to see it , and I'm perfectly happy about that price . And after you watch it , if you do think it's something great , go out and rent _ The Poseidon Adventure _ , which , while the special effects don't reach anywhere near this level , I feel is the best disaster movie I've ever seen . I give _ The Perfect Storm _ .
Silly , but moderately entertaining	Though this film is found on DVD in a Bela Lugosi box set , Lugosi has a supporting role . Boris Karloff is also in it in a much more major role , but the star is character actor Stanley Ridges . The fact is , Karloff was supposed to be in the Ridges part and Lugosi in the Karloff part , but Karloff was considered unconvincing in the dual role . Ridges plays a college professor who is harmed during a gangland shooting . Also injured is a gang boss , Red Cannon . Cannon is dying , as is the English professor , so Boris Karloff transplants half of Cannon's brain into the prof's head , which helps him survive . Later on , the prof starts exhibiting memories of Red Cannon . Karloff attempts to use that subliminal knowledge to get hidden gangster money . Unfortunately , the subliminal soon becomes the conscious . It's a moderately entertaining story . The wrap-around story kind of ruins it ? the movie begins with Karloff about to be executed , and then the main thrust of the story is told in flashback . But when we get to why Karloff is about to be executed , it's just stupid .
Decent filmmaking - morally reprehensible story	For quite a while , I really loved The Harder They Come . The music is fantastic . The cinematography and location shooting are gorgeous . And , most of all , I was simply fascinated by the Jamaican dialect of English exhibited in the film . A word of warning : this film is in English , but it is very difficult to understand , almost impossible at times . The Jamaicans accent their words completely differently , and their speech patterns have an entirely different cadence than ours do . And I liked the plot a lot for about half or more of the running time . I was genuinely involved with the characters and their stories . Unfortunately , after a certain point , it becomes very morally dubious . Yes , the main character , Ivan ( Jimmy Cliff ) , is not treated too fairly by Preacher . However , it's hard to root for a hero who stabs a man in the back because he confiscated his bicycle . It would be different if the audience were not asked to root for Ivan , but we plainly are . He thinks he'd make a great singer , but the producer of his record refuses to let the radio stations play it . After a while , Ivan is forced to make a living by selling ganja - which goes really well , obviously . When a police officer attempts to pull him over for speeding , he ices the copper . Then a bit later he kills three more , and basically goes on a killing spree . All of a sudden , people want desperately to hear his record on the radio . The producer'll make tons of money , so he lets it have airtime . Instantaneously , Ivan becomes a star and a Robin Hood-esque hero to the supposedly oppressed people of Jamaica . Well , Robin Hood isn't the best example - he's much more O . J . - esque ; is there anyone in the world who won't immediately conjure up the image of a white Bronco during a scene in which a dozen people cheer Ivan on when he's blasting away at a rival ganja dealer ? This is really dispicable , and it becomes even moreso when , during Ivan's final stand-off , the director , Brecht-style , cuts to the movie's Jamaican audience clapping and laughing as he kills a couple of more police officers . .
Interesting failure	I applaud Kenneth Branagh for attempting this film . He's going for Shakespeare + Astaire and Rogers . Unfortunately , he doesn't succeed . Therefore , on the other hand , I must castigate Branagh for not planning it all out more carefully . The film has great potential , and is often a lot of fun . But where the tremendous energy goes slack , it simply becomes grating . In fact , it feels like the whole project was tossed together in as short a time as possible . Here are my complaints and suggestions : 1 ) Branagh clearly wanted to make a surreal , visually inventive film , but that inventiveness stops dead in its tracks every time it gets going . He'll be playing with the colors , dressing his characters in beautiful and vibrant shades , but then he won't compose his shots so that the color is at its maximum effectiveness . He just throws everything up on screen . The intent with the sets seems to be to make the film more theatrical . I think this is a mistake , especially when , at first , he was going for the visual inventiveness . Something neat will happen , like , for instance , when the men start floating in the air during " Cheek to Cheek " . I was hoping for a ceiling dance or something , a midair dance , perhaps . Nope . They just float their in the air like Charlie and Grampa Joe , and flailing like a possessed character in the Evil Dead movies . And during the " No Business Like Show Business " scene , the camera is positioned straight above , ready for the Busby Berkeley number . But no . That shot lasts less than a second . 2 ) Which leads me to the second complaint : The editing is far too quick . It's headache-inducing at times . Not that the editing shouldn't be quick . It would work if it were paced a little better . 3 ) Branagh never really utilizes the potential of the older musicals he seems to want to be parodying . He's not bad in segueing into the songs ; I was rather impressed on that account . Sometimes he blends the Shakespeare and the Gershwin , especially in the " They Can't Take That Away From Me , " which may represent Ira Gershwin's best lyrics . But Branagh never does it for any reason other than a gimmick . He sets the story in 1939 Europe , with WWII breaking out across the continent . The Astaire-Rogers team went on hiatus at that point . It would have been so easy to follow the logical loss of innocence of that age . Instead , the musical stuff feels gimmicky and the WWII stuff feels terribly clunky ( especially the climactic montage of the entire war ) . 4 ) What's with Alicia Silverstone ? I almost want to leave her alone , because it's too easy to criticize . To tell you the truth , she's not as bad as I had envisioned , but she's definitely not up to it . I would say as much about Matthew Lillard , too , but his role is so incidental that it's not bothersome . He is actually in the movie all the time , but has little dialogue . Lillard does have one particularly embarrassing scene - although the embarrassment of its creation belongs to Branagh - where he humps his top hat . But , wait , what am I talking about ? This is the guy who cast Keanu Reeves in a Shakespearian movie , not to mention the fact that he was playing Denzel Washington's brother . But I don't want to tear into Branagh . In fact , I was serious when I wrote that I applaud him for attempting Love's Labours Lost . It's worth a look . Few more interesting movies have been made in the past few years , and I can think of no more interesting failure . .
Great concept , great acting - so why does it turn out so weak ?	This is the kind of movie that just pisses me off to no end because it has so much potential , but somehow it comes off as exceedingly mediocre . Jennifer Aniston plays a woman who discovers her family was the model for the novel and film The Graduate . She never saw how she fit in with her family , so she wonders if maybe the model for Benjamin , a rich man named Beau Burroughs ( Kevin Costner ) , is her real father . She's wrong , but in the process of this discovery , she ends up sleeping with the man , thus continuing the tradition of her mother ( deceased ) and grandmother ( played here by Shirley MacLaine ) . This in turn ruins her relationship with her loving fiancé ( Mark Ruffalo ) . I remember seeing the trailer last fall and thinking , " This is a great idea . " I laughed pretty much constantly during that preview . Unfortunately , it contains most of the film's best moments . The actual film is more of a romance ( or perhaps a better term would be " chick flick " ) than a comedy . It gets somewhat sappy , and the whole thing lumbers on and his never very strong . This is especially annoying , as all the actors are actually very good . Aniston proves once again that she is a very good actress ( if only she could land some great material ) . Costner gives his second excellent performance of the year ( I thought his performance in The Upside of Anger was perhaps the year's best performance from an actor ) . He was so mediocre earlier on , it's kind of cool to see that maybe he is just now hitting his peak . Mark Ruffalo is very funny , as is Mena Suvari , who plays Aniston's younger sister . And MacLaine's role is absolutely golden . She also had a very good performance elsewhere in ' 05 ( In Her Shoes ) , but she has even more to do here and she flexes her comic muscles . With all that goodness , it really pains me that it's so hard to muster any enthusiasm for this somewhat lame film !
Now on DVD from No Shame	Bertolucci was heavily indebted to Godard and the other French New Wave directors in his sophomore feature , Before the Revolution . His third feature , Partner , has him follow Godard into his fin de cinema . Partner is a purely experimental film with little narrative . It's definitely a turn for the worst for Bertolucci . Thankfully he was drawn back into narrative cinema with his fourth film , The Conformist . Partner is worth seeing for fans of the director and New Wave enthusiasts . It has some interesting points . The minimal plot of the film has Pierre Clémenti playing a man with split personalities . Most of the rest of it is made up of random vignettes . Some are amusing , some are annoying . Some are just plain boring . Unfortunately , there just aren't enough amusing ones to make it an easy watch . Clémenti is excellent , and Bertolucci lives up to his reputation as one of the cinema's greatest visual minds . Stefania Sandrelli , who would go on to star in The Conformist , appears briefly with curly blonde hair . She doesn't do much , but she's gorgeous .
A man's Valentine to himself	Tarnation is a very personal documentary exploring the director's history and the pain that his mother went through with her various psychological problems . There are two ways to look at this film : either you can see it as a soul-searching document produced by Caouette , or you can see it as an egotistical project taken up to achieve notoriety and project depth . While I think the former view is less cynical , I think I'd lean toward the latter . The film was sold as being about Jonathan and his disturbed mother , but his mother feels almost like an afterthought . The film is almost always , and almost always gloriously so , about Jonathan Caouette . He had a fairly difficult life , it is true . But whenever I personally feel my own life is terrible , I think of a scene from Voltaire's Candide , where each person on a ship is asked to tell their sob story , and each story is more horrific than the last . Yes , Jonathan , it was bad , but others have had much worse , and much more interesting lives . And when you put your face on screen for eighty minutes of the time , use third-person narration to describe the events in your life , and have all of your greatest works of creation on display , it's hard for the audience not to find it egotistical . Still , the film can be affecting , and the editing ( done on a Mac ) shows great skill . The film was an obvious influence on director John Cameron Mitchell's film Shortbus , in which Caouette appeared in a bit part .
Profoundly Annoying	George Washington is one of the most upsetting film experiences I've ever had . The reason for this is not what you might expect . It was not bad . A bad film isn't exactly annoying . What is annoying is inconsistency . It is as if it were written and directed by Dr . Jeckyl and Mr . Hyde . Dr . Jeckyl's parts are the great parts , of which there are numerous . In fact , many individual scenes have an utterly profound power , almost knocking me down . But here comes Mr . Hyde ! About of the scenes of the entire film are awful in every aspect . They clash so horribly with the great scenes that it basically kills the film dead . Actually , I think the good parts and bad parts can be identified further . I think I know which aspects were sorely lacking in the film . The film's story is great . I could imagine reading it in a novel and finding it quite compelling . The script , though , lacked a huge part : the dialogue . The dialogue ranges from not bad to terrible . Fundamentally , the dialogue is problematic in the same way as the Terrence Malick film The Thin Red Line . In that film , we here narration of a grand poetical quality coming from these soldiers . It's as if there are two characters : the actual ones , and the fantastically poetic ones . George Washington is the same way , except for one major flaw : these deeply poetic and philosophical musings that these young kids come up with are neither very poetic nor very philosophical . They're all extraordinarily hackneyed , in fact . And to boot , all actors in the film except for one of the kids are HORRENDOUS actors , both in dialogue delivery and in gesticulations . The kid who plays George , arguably the main character , is the best . There is one monologue in the film that I feel the need to just attack ferociously to demonstrate the lowest depths of this film . George's uncle , who has adopted him , is particularly cruel to animals , especially dogs . He admits to killing a dog to his nephew , and then proceeds to tell George the root of this psychological problem . It seems that when he was a young kid , 6 I think , a big dog came up to him and started humping his leg . He tried to overpower the darn thing , but it was too big and knocked him down . It " humped [ him ] all over [ his ] body . " So he went home and got a drill to kill the dog , but that dog was gone . COME ON ! ! ! This is incredibly silly . I cannot think of a sillier event than being raped by a dog ! ! ! Jeeze , I almost threw things at the screen that was so terrible ! This is one of those movies that I would love to see someone remake , cutting the bad things , thickening the rest of the story ( the themes in the film , while potent , are often tenuously held together ) . I bet a really compelling film could be made with just the existing footage . One thing I do have to say , though , is watch out for this director ! This film may have been a failure ( and that is only in my opinion , of course ) , but there is so much worth in it that I think if the director matured , he might produce a real masterpiece . I will give it a because of the good things in it . Really , though , the film falls pretty flat by the end .
Hard to get too enthusiastic after seeing The Assassination of Jesse James	Six days after seeing Andrew Dominik's The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford , it's still the film at the forefront of my mind . I saw this as a followup to that . Like most Hollywood films of the era ( and most of today ) , I Shot Jesse James plays fast and loose with the facts . In this film , Ford ( John Ireland ) shoots James for the reward money so he can marry his sweetheart ( Barbara Britton ) . Unfortunately , that cowardly act turns her off of him , and she gravitates toward a man named John Kelley ( Preston Foster ) . Kelley is a fictionalized version of Ed O'Kelley , the man who ultimately shot Robert Ford for nothing more than fame . It's pretty hilarious that he's more or less made into the hero of this picture . Jesse James is ludicrously depicted as an avuncular Abe Lincoln figure . Besides all of this hoo-ha , Sam Fuller , whose debut this was , does a decent job characterizing Ford . Too bad Ireland , an actor I immediately recognized but couldn't say for the life of me where I know him from ( I looked it up ? he also played the reporter , and pretty much the lead character , in the Best Picture of that year , All the King's Men ) , is a pretty boring actor . I usually associate Fuller with fast pacing and good plotting , but this one plods along lamely with its romantic triangle melodrama . It does have a couple of good scenes , though , like one where a goofy looking teen ( Gene Collins ) tries to assassinate Ford , and another where Ford encounters a folk singer performing the Jesse James ballad , a scene which is echoed in Dominik's film .
Reviews for episodes 1-4 ( more to come , perhaps )	This French crime serial from the 1910s is one of the few silent serials left ( and probably one of the only ones available for consumption ) . Louis Feuillade is its director . I watched the first four episodes ( the tapes come each with four episodes of varying length ) and will give a brief review of each . SPOILERSEpisode 1 : The Severed Head - I was a little afraid that Les Vampires was going to be really bad when I was sitting through The Severed Head . We are introduced to a journalist , Phillipe , who is hot on the trail of a notorious gang called the Vampires , which is the subject of his daily reports in the newspaper . An important lawkeeping official has been found dead , decapitated . Phillipe goes on the hunt , and the clues lead him to the home of Dr . Nox . Dr . Nox is currently showing his mansion to the mansion's potential buyer , an American woman . Long story short , this is a really weak film . The cinematic devices are still pretty new , but Feurillade shows no talent in using them or innovation in this first episode . It is unsuspenseful , slow , and somewhat laughable . . Episode 2 : The Ring That Kills - This one's a lot better than the first one . This one is rather short compared to the other three on the first tape . Phillipe sets up a trap at a ballet . There is a really neat ballet number involving a woman dressed as a bat . Anyway , the plan doesn't go that well and Phillipe gets captured . Luckily , Mazamette , a friend of his , has infiltrated the hideout of the Vampires . Phillipe is freed , and they capture a Vampire and put him in his place ( he is about to be executed ) . All in all , The Ring That Kills is pretty goofy ( some of the humor is intentional , some is not ) , but it is a pretty effective crime movie . . Episode 3 : The Red Cypher - Phillipe takes a few days off of work in order to decipher the codes in a book he has found on the Vampire whom he got killed in his place at the end of Episode 2 . The Vampires devise a way to get into his house using false identities . A replacement maid , whose real name is Irma Vep ( which you might recognize as the title of a French film from the 1990s ) , tries to poison Phillipe , but he tricks her as well . Phillipe's mother gets captured , but she also finds a clever way out of her dilemma . By now , this series is still quite silly , but it's pretty entertaining , especially in plot . The cinematic devices are still not used in any fantastic way , but the plot is getting a bit cleverer . Still a , but nearly an . Episode 4 : The Spectre - This one was a little confusing in its plot . I must have blinked at the wrong moment and missed an expositional intertitle . There's little of interest besides a decently directed and edited murder sequence in a train , good for its time , anyways , and Phillipe's reconnaissance of an office in which Irma Vep is spying , disguised as a secretary . Also , the final scene has a neat little thing in it : Phillippe and Mazamatte are talking on the phone , both of them present in the same shot . Between them is edited a shot of a bridge , a metaphor for the connection between phone lines . It's pretty dumb , but at least Feuillade was trying here . Conclusion for Episodes 1-4 : all in all , an interesting bit of early cinema , but The Vampires really doesn't hold up very well today . It's mostly just a rather flat series of crime stories , perhaps like the kind that might have appeared in a weekly detective magazine or something , filmed straight without invention or embellishment . Sure , it's still early as heck in the cinema , but by the end of the silent period the art form had gone light years beyond Les Vampires . I wish I were more familiar with D . W . Griffith . He's a contemporary of Feuillade's , and the few bits of his films that I have seen seem much more advanced than this serial . I don't want to make a definitive statement on the comparison between the two , though , until I see one of Griffith's films . Even the earlier films by the Lumiere Brothers , Georges Melies , and the Thomas Edison company seem a lot more amazing today than does this . I might see more of the serial if I ever get a chance to see it for free , but I doubt I'd pay any more money to rent them .
Yeah , Firefighters are great , but . . .	I don't think dramas about firefighters work . There's just too much tendency to heroize them . They probably deserve it , of course , but uncomplex , two-dimensional heroes are no fun to watch . The story follows the firefighting career of Joaquin Phoenix . We see him get in quite a pickle , and he flashes back to his first days on the crew as well as the meeting and the courting of his girlfriend / wife ( the gorgeous ? but somewhat uninteresting ? Jacinda Barrett ) . John Travolta plays the chief . The movie fades from memory as soon as the credits appear ( the ultra-cheesy " Wow , aren't firefighters grand ! " montage that ends the picture sees to that ) .
Sweet and nice , but not particularly memorable	A romance with a bit more intelligence than the average one , a little more heartfelt and one that has a very likable and non-stereotypical man at its center . He is played by Ryan Reynolds , most famous for his role as Van Wilder , but surprisingly good as a romantic lead , and the movie is about him telling the story of how he met his wife ( from whom he is getting a divorce ) to his young daughter ( Abigail Breslin ) . There were three major women in his life , and he changes their names so the daughter can't guess which one is her mother . The three women are played by Elizabeth Banks , Isla Fisher and Rachel Weisz . He falls in love with each of them at different times , but always at the wrong time . At times , this is a very sweet movie , and not very cloying . Unfortunately , it's never all that engaging , either . It offers some simple pleasures , but it was , overall , pretty forgettable . I also didn't care for the flashback structure much . Some of the stuff that is apparently being narrated to his daughter is stuff a girl of her age , who incidentally just learned the term " sexual intercourse " the same day at school , doesn't need to hear . When the girl has to stop the story to ask what a threesome is , your story might have gotten a bit too graphic . That gag was certainly more disturbing than funny .
Not terrible , but certainly forgettable	Fairly entertaining , but entirely unmemorable . Superman returns from exploring the wastes of his home planet , Krypton , to learn that Lois has a kid and a live-in boyfriend . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor has been released from prison and has invaded the Fortress of Solitude in order to steal Kryptonian technology . The plot from there more or less writes itself . Too bad it also doesn't edit itself , as the film lasts over two and a half hours . The cast is mostly generic . Brandon Routh seems weak , but that's probably not his fault . The screenwriters have written little for him to do . Kate Bosworth is pretty but doesn't strike me as the Lois Lane type . Only Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor gives anything close to a good performance . He pales in comparison to Gene Hackman , but he has some very good moments . I absolutely hate that little moppet who plays Lois ' kid . He's in desperate need of a haircut . The action sequences are mostly enjoyable , although they cross far into the territory of ridiculous . I read an article shortly before the release of the film that said the film pays closer attention to science than previous Superman movies . Perhaps ? the climactic sequence of the ' 78 Superman is one of the most ludicrous moments in cinema history . But the first action sequence , in which Superman saves a doomed plane and no one , given real world physics , would have survived , is nearly as bad .
	Bob le Flambeur is only of passing interest . With the kind of high art that exists in European film , this film feels superfluous . What is its use ? Is it an exploration of the crime genre ? An homage ? A parody ? If it is any of those , it is just barely . It seemed more to me like a standard heist film with a couple of peculiarities . One of those peculiarities , the musical score , I would rate as excellent . There are a lot of neat little things to hear on the soundtrack , like the tiny bells we hear at one point when Bob flips his coin . Once in a while the editing or cinematography or direction would turn up something interesting . I like the neat downward wipe from the old woman who plops down on her chair to Bob and Anne in Bob's apartment . Some of the camera angles were great . I liked the scene with Bob in his triangular kitchen . What Bob le Flambeur lacks , though , is any characters with whom to identify . None of them are well developed . The film actually has a pretty good first act . When I first met the characters , I liked them . But they never went anywhere . Bob , who is , of course , the main character , is given a somewhat built-up past , but his present character and his motivations were , to me , often vague . Whatever character I saw in him I must have , as I later ( during the film ) realized , inferred from other films that are either very similar or directly referencing this film . Polo should have been more well developed . He had no real history , and his actions seemed to do nothing in the way of his development , but rather were only useful for the advancement of the plot . Likewise Anne . She provided the best hook , since the actress who plays her is very beautiful , but her character is little more than a plot device . The little character that she had was squandered . Her situation seemed interesting , but it never went anywhere . All the other characters were more or less unmemorable . The detective was somewhat interesting , but I never got enough information to feel anything about him . Two other films were constantly swimming in my mind as I grew more and more bored during this film : Stanley Kubrick's The Killing and P . T . Anderson's Hard Eight . The Killing is one of Kubrick's least interesting films for precisely the same reasons that I dislike Bob le Flambeur : it is stuck in the genre of the heist flick , and comes nowhere near passing the boundaries that its genre sets up for it . The heist flick is actually more of a sub-genre , and the more " sub " you get , the fewer variations there are . I was sure all through the film that The Killing was made before Bob le Flambeur , but it actually came out a year later . Either it takes a lot from Bob le Flambeur or I am right : heist flicks have no ability for variation . The jury is still out on P . T . Anderson . All three of his films , Hard Eight , Boogie Night , and Magnolia seemed great when I first saw them , but they feel weaker every time I think about them . My opinion on the quality of each of his films changes often , and my opinion on which one is most valuable changes , too . Hard Eight may be his best film . I did not realize , though I should have assumed , that its plot was stolen from somewhere else . And that somewhere else happens to be Bob le Flambeur . It doesn't steal everything , though . In fact , I think the argument can be made that what is taken from Bob le Flambeur is actually improved in Hard Eight . Hard Eight contains a lot of the same elements of Bob le Flambeur's first act : a gangster whose age has demoted him to mere gambler has a young protégé . A young woman who is or is about to become a prostitute comes into their life , beginning to flirt with the older of the two , but ultimately " given " to the younger by the mentor . Also , there is a hot-shot young hood who tries to sell the older man out . This plot line occurs at the beginning of Bob le Flambeur and does not develop past the point where it effects the plot . Hard Eight does something a lot more interesting . In both films , the young woman and man make grave errors . In Hard Eight , these errors help strengthen the relationship of the young couple .
Starts off well , but the final act is unconvincing	I had a strange reaction to this film . Much like most Woody Allen fans , I don't expect much from him nowadays . That leads some to be easily impressed by a film by Vicky Cristina Barcelona . I wasn't , though , when I saw it last weekend . The good reviews unfortunately had gotten my hopes up , and I even threw his previous film , Cassandra's Dream , up on my Netflix queue . After watching VCB , though , I immediately lost interest in Cassandra's Dream . But I forced myself to watch it anyway . The thing was , at first my low expectations were a great asset . I was very much enjoying it . It was far from perfect ; Allen overexplained his themes and made some stuff way too obvious . But it was a good film about normal people who are forced into an impossible situation . The story in short : brothers Ewan MacGregor and Colin Farrell are small-timers who get in over their heads , with a girl and with gambling debts respectively . They beg their rich uncle ( Tom Wilkinson , pretty much wasted ) to help them out financially , and he agrees . He asks a small favor , though : murder a troublemaker who might inform against him . The film does a great job with the build-up to the murder . How would normal people feel in this situation ? Both MacGregor and Farrell are excellent ( though unconvincing as brothers ) in this part of the movie . Then , after they go through with it , the film deals with their guilt . This part of the film , I felt , Woody had not thought through as much . MacGregor's performance kind of falls apart as the character acts unconvincingly . The climax that follows is extraordinarily weak . So the enjoyment I was getting out of it at first was completely quashed by the end .
People actually prefer this to Carnival of Souls ?	First thing first : Carnival of Souls kicks this movie's butt so hard that its spine shoots right out of its skull and launches forward so far that it breaks the world record for javelin throwing . The first fifty minutes or so are really terrible , about as clumsily directed and written as anything I can think of . Romero can't think of anything for Barbra ( Judith O'Dea , whose look should prove without a shadow of a doubt that Romero had in fact seen Herk Harvey's film ) to do than sit around staring insanely . The other characters are just as bland and illogical , although it's nice to see a black hero . Duane Jones gives the film's only decent performance . The only way Romero knows how to move the narrative forward is with the television and radio news programs , which provide us with far too much explanation for what's going on . The movie starts to pick up when the ( far too many ) characters attempt to escape the house in which they've boarded themselves up . There are a couple of surprises along the way , and the dread does begin to build . But then the final twist is far too predictable . Whatever little it was building towards falls apart . .
The kind of film that I really wanted to like more , but just didn't	A good premise , a pretty good script , good performances , and fairly entertaining ? but for some reason The Matador just doesn't add up to much . A businessman ( Greg Kinnear ) , down on his luck , meets a lonely and mysterious man ( Pierce Brosnan ) in a bar in Mexico City . The two become friends and during an outing at a bullfight , Brosnan reveals that he is a professional hit-man . It takes a while for Kinnear to believe him , but even after he is convinced the two remain friends . They part ways , though , on a sour note . Several months later , Kinnear and his wife ( Hope Davis ) find Brosnan at their door looking for help . The film aims for low key , and I have a lot of respect for that . It's kind of neat to see a movie about a hit-man ( and bullfighting ) with absolutely no on-screen violence whatsoever . And I like the way it depicts two men becoming friends . I like the light comedy . Somehow , I don't really like the movie . I do have some affection for The Matador , but not much enthusiasm .
Better than the material deserves - thanks to Edward Dmytryk - but ends too abruptly	Silly , forgotten Universal horror film , now found on DVD in a Best Buy exclusive set . This one concerns a mad scientist with Nazi undertones ( John Carradine ) who kidnaps a circus gorilla and turns her into a human being ( played by Acquanetta ) . As a human , Acquanetta has an uncanny ability to control lions and tigers , and is thus employed at a local circus ( the one whence she , as the gorilla , was kidnapped ) to help big cat tamer Milburn Stone . If Milburn Stone looks familiar , it's because he became famous as " Doc " Adams on Gunsmoke . The movie is silly but fun , with Carradine hamming it up like he usually does . And , while Acquanetta does little acting , she has a hypnotic look with those giant eyes . Unfortunately , the film , like many of the Universal Horror movies , ends abruptly , with a weird narration about the Carradine character . The animal work is pretty stunning for the time , and the editing is mostly convincing that Stone and the big cats are in the cage simultaneously . I would credit director Dmytryk , who was far too competent to be directing this kind of crap ( the next year he would do the wonderful Murder My Sweet ) . If you love animals , you might be sickened at what is done to them . Lions and tigers are thrown into a cage and forced to fight each other . The one big fight ends with a fire hose , and the tiger , at least , looked like it was badly injured . The film is completely forgotten nowadays , but it did spawn two sequels .
Interesting in the development of a genius	Some geniuses are made , not born . Fassbinder , who has become one of my very favorite directors , did not begin his career making masterpieces , but clumsy art films . Katzelmacher is the story of a group of bored Germans , several men and several women , who spend their lives sitting , talking , smoking , and screwing each other ( often for money ) . They treat each other like garbage , though they are too lazy to do any real damage . However , when a Greek immigrant rents an apartment from one of them , their cruelty becomes more and more tangible . The women begin spreading rumors about how the Greek ( incidentally played by Fassbinder himself ) is sleeping with certain members of the group and how he has tried to assault a couple of them . The men call him a communist behind his back , and then right to his face , as he speaks almost no German . When the Greek actually begins dating one of them ( played by Fassbinder's most beloved actress , Hanna Schygulla ) , their threats no longer remain merely threats . It's a great story , really , and , if done in Fassbinder's more honed melodrama style , one of the most unique directorial voices we'll ever hear , it could have been a great film . But , in this early stage ( this was his second feature film ) , Fassbinder was more of an avant-guard artist , striving towards Brecht , I suppose , and maybe looking towards the French New Wave . The results are mixed , but mostly leaning towards the annoying side . The film plays like a 90 minute Calvin Klein ad , with the camera lingering too long on motionless , disinterested performers . One of the better scenes has one of the actresses singing an American song in a delightfully amateurish manner while dancing . Somehow this is very beautiful . There is a repeated scene where two characters will walk forward on the same street , arm in arm , with soft piano music in the background ( the only extra-diagetic music in the film ) . This gimmick didn't work very well . While there are some beautiful bits of the film ? besides the aforementioned dance , the relationship between Fassbinder and Schygulla is rather gentle and melancholy ? it pretty much fails . It's very worth seeing , however , if you're interested in the way Fassbinder's amazing career developed .
Retarded concept , but Stewart and Wyman are great	Maybe the silliest story ever to make it onto the silver screen . James Stewart plays a pollster looking for a town of such mathematical perfection that , whatever you polled its people , it would reflect exactly what the entire nation would feel about a give subject . He finds this place in Grandview , and there he takes his team . When Stewart finds local newspaper editor Jane Wyman trying to convince the town council to build a new civic center , he butts in . If the town were to change at all , its magical polling phenomenon could fade . Similar to The Music Man , Stewart develops a relationship with Wyman to keep the town as it is . Fortunately , it's less cynical and fake than the relationship between the two main characters of The Music Man , and , where Robert Preston's love still seems suspicious by the end of that film , Stewart's feels genuine quickly . He doesn't want the miracle to end , but he is utterly seduced not only by Wyman , but also by the small town . When the town discovers their perfect polling ability , they screw it up pretty much instantly ( 79 % of the population say they would vote for a woman president ! ) . The town goes down the toilet , and it's up to some faithful citizens , joined by the reformed Stewart , to save it . As ridiculous as the initial concept for Magic Town is , it gets even worse near the end . Stewart did this film directly after It's a Wonderful Life , and the small town sentiment is nearly identical in both films . While the first touches me , it's simply schmaltzy in Magic Town . The performances by Stewart and Wyman , as well as many decent supporting performances from many ever-reliable character actors , are better than the movie deserves . Stewart , in particular , is great . I've never seen this guy give a bad performance , and he throws himself behind this awful script with his full soul . He almost got me to buy it . Wyman's beautiful eyes enchanted me . But in the end , the story was just too ludicrous . .
Lena Horne's screen debut	This all black film was Lena Horne's screen debut . Made for black audiences , it was re-released after the cross-over success of her two great 1943 films , Cabin in the Sky and Stormy Weather . The Duke Is Tops is a typical film about stage performers , and it is certainly a B movie . Duke Davis ( Ralph Cooper ) and Ethel Andrews ( Horne ) are a songwriter / singer team . When Ethel gets bigger offers , Duke can't come with , so he breaks it off hard with her so she'll have no regrets . He travels to the South with an old friend who is selling cure-all elixirs from his wagon ; meanwhile , without Duke's behind-the-scenes work , Ethel is a flop in New York . It's all fairly mediocre . Horne would become a much better actress in her later films . Fans of the singer will probably be disappointed anyways , as she is only in the film for about 15 minutes . Cooper is the star . But there are several wonderful musical performances that make the film much more worth watching than it otherwise would have been . For a much better film of the same time , definitely check out Stormy Weather , which is probably the pinnacle of the all-black films of this era . .
Like a dull woman's sexual fantasy	Rather dull and disappointing . A man and woman meet and have a one night stand during a Parisian mass transit strike . It might be a tad more interesting if we knew a single thing about either of these people , but it's all kept very anonymous ( we know that the woman is moving in with her boyfriend , but we don't know anything about the guy , who embodies the physical stereotypes that won the French that offensive , amphibian slur ) . With such a paper-thin scenario , the film doesn't seem like anything more than the sexual fantasy of a very unimaginative woman . You know , meet a handsome stranger and have no-strings-attached sex during which the guy does all the foreplay stuff , takes his sweet time and after which he doesn't take you for granted . There are no real emotions in the story , so Denis lets the music pick up the writing's slack . The film-making is pretty good , but also fairly cliché modern European cinematics . Denis has yet to impress me much .
Interesting , but definitely unsatisfying	Feels sloppily cobbled together out of many disparate parts . It's a movie about street hustlers ( mainly River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves ) , and then suddenly something seemed familiar , the dialogue starts to get flowery and I realized I was watching an update of Welles ' Chimes at Midnight . I hadn't realized Keanu had embarrassed himself by trying Shakespeare before Much Ado About Nothing ( he plays the part of Prince John here ) . He starred the same year in the second and final Bill & Ted movie . Here he tries to graduate , but fails . The film jumps all over the place as Reeves and Phoenix look for Phoenix's long lost mother . The film doesn't work well at all . It looks very beautiful . Phoenix is very good . He died a couple of years later , and what a fine actor we lost .
Cute but forgettable	Michael Cera plays Nick , a rock musician who has recently been dumped by his girlfriend ( Alexis Dziena ) . The rest of his band forces him into the arms of a beautiful girl , Norah ( Kat Dennings ) who has showed up to their show . The film takes place over one night in New York City , and we watch the two kids fall for each other while some hip music plays over the soundtrack . The two leads are quite charming . We've seen Cera do this same role before , so Dennings is the real surprise here . She's stunning , and this movie's sure to make her a big star . The casting is quite off in this movie , though . It's the kind of movie where Norah is frequently chastised for being a nerd and ugly and sexually inexperienced , but she never comes off as such . Dziena comes off as far too sexy to have been dating Cera in any life . Jay Baruchel shows up as Norah's on-again-off-again boyfriend , and , if you're familiar with his career anyway , he's way too dorky and likable to be playing any sort of villain . Or even anyone cool . I did like the three gay guys who comprised the rest of Cera's band . Aaron Yoo is quite good . He was also in the underrated film Rocket Science last year .
Eh ( but I did get to see Varda in person ! )	Agnes Varda smiled at me ! The director was present at the showing of this film ( with her 1982 short Ulysse shown beforehand ) , and she described the historical background of Lions Love ( about two feet from my face ! ) . This was her only film made in America , and it's very much influenced by the cinematic court of Andy Warhol . Lions Love stars Warhol model Viva and two men , James Rado and Gerome Ragni ( the creators of the musical Hair ) as a spiritually linked threesome living in L . A . Filmmaker Shirley Clarke crashes at their apartment , having come to L . A . to meet with producers . To sum the film up , it's late ' 60s garbage . Sorry to say it , but it is . Mostly improvised , with a lot of goofy , goofy scenes . Warhol and his cronies are almost completely forgotten , at least the cinematic section of it . I would guess that this was just one of a hundred films made in a similar style during this period . My only point of reference is the 1972 film Ciao ! Manhattan , which depicts the toppling of Warhol's most famous protege , Edie Sedgwick . That film , I think , is a masterpiece , despite of or because of its cinema verite insanity . Lions Love is much less interesting , and it never reaches an emotional level like Ciao ! Manhattan does . Still , Lions Love isn't worthless . It may be garbage , but it is amusing garbage . This is probably due to my youthful interest surrounding the late 1960s , and most who lived through the era would probably find the film insufferable . And it does find a structural anchor , if not an emotional one , in the assassination of Robert Kennedy , as well as the attempted murder of Andy Warhol . If the film depicts the events factually ( and , from what Madame Varda seemed to imply , these things happened as they were making the film ) , those two events happened on the same day . .
Dull silent epic with some standout moments	Divided into two parts , the first half is okay , if generally unremarkable . It concerns a group of Polish people rebelling against the Russians , who are dominating them . The second half is mostly painful to sit through . The leader of the Polish rebels , Boleslas ( Pierre Blanchar ) , is disguised as an undefeatable robotic chess player , designed by Baron von Kempelen ( Charles Dullin ) , who is famous for his automatons . When the automaton faces the Empress of Russia , Catherine II , she cheats to see what her opponent will do . He responds by swiping the pieces off the chess board . The Empress finds it amusing , but orders the automaton to be shot . The film is way overlong ( imdb lists under 90 minutes , but the Milestone DVD runs 139 ) , and the story and themes are convoluted . Like a lot of overambitious silent films , its far too many characters are easy to confuse . I was quite bored through the film . There were several great moments , though . The battle scenes in the first half are exceptional . Bernard uses some sort of handheld camera to make it seem like the viewer is in the battle . It's a common technique nowadays , but I can't recall seeing it earlier than 1927 . This has to be at least one of the first times when this was done . The cinematography is generally good , and often great , especially in the first half . Although the second half is hard to sit through , there is an extended sequence where one character is caught in the middle of a group of Baron von Kempelen's automaton soldiers . I didn't even really know who this character was exactly , but it was a neat scene .
Dull	I enjoyed the first forty-five minutes of this film , wondering why it had such a bad reputation . Then I started to become bored , and more bored , until I nodded off . The story , which I kind of liked at first , hits a wall early on and the second half of the film is repetitive and very , very dull . Too bad , too , because I actually like the music of Al Jolson . I love his weird voice and bizarre delivery . The songs presented here do not represent Al at his best . While ' Tootsie ' and ' Blue Skies ' are wonderfully performed ( got to love the whistling in ' Tootsie ' ) , most of the other songs are bad . Most will probably cringe during ' Dirty Hands . ' And his rendition of ' Mammy ' at the end of his film is weak . I have a much better recording of that song . The blackface scenes are probably the least offensive I've seen . Most blackface numbers make fun of blacks . Jolson is only in blackface for two very short numbers . He doesn't even try to act black as most do ( see , for example , Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland in 1939's Babes in Arms ) . That doesn't make them good , of course . I don't see how Jolson even became a famous minstrel like this . It's hardly a blackface act at all ( mind that I'm not complaining , just finding it all interesting ) . The story has a very Jewish flavor , which I didn't know about and which provides some interest early on ( before the predictability and sentimentality sensors kicked in ) . .
I think I've come up with a useful description of Hou's style	It's cinematic masturbation ( my term ) . That's not the same as intellectual masturbation , mind you . It's not that his films are pretentious , per se . Cinematic masturbation is when the filmmakers have no real desire to share their ideas , thoughts , and motives with the audience . It's all done for their own satisfaction . This is opposed to most other filmmakers , who practise cinematic intercourse , by which they call for the audience to participate in their films emotionally and / or intellectually . Hou's not the only cinematic masturbator . Jean-Luc Godard is another one , though nowhere near the level of Hou . I love Godard , but he has a tendency not to let his audience in on what his motive is ( and , yes , artists , filmmakers most of all , should have a motive ) , especially in certain periods of his career . Tarkovsky's Mirror is another maturbatory film - it's far too incomprehensible to anyone who's not Tarkovsky . This is definitely a value judgement . Masturbation , especially on film , is extremely narcissistic . Frankly , it's unfair . Art is primarily for the audience , not the author . Otherwise , there is no point in it . Take Good Men , Good Women . It's not a bad movie , really . Certainly not Hou's worst . Its main claim to greatness is its excellent cinematography , with some sections in a high-contrast black and white and others in brilliant color . Hou also decides to move his camera a bit and film from different angles . He's finally caught up with D . W . Griffith , although he still falls back on his favorite compositions again and again . The narrative is often great - there are several great individual scenes - but it's ultimately too difficult to follow , which is the exact same complaint I had of my ( currently ) favorite Hou film , City of Sadness . The plot of Good Men , Good Women revolves around the life of a famous Taiwanese actress ( a real person ; the film is dedicated to her ) and , in the more modern section of the film , an actress who is apparently going to play this former actress in a film about her life ( her story is broken into two different time periods ) . This made sense after I read up on it , but it was really confusing when I was watching it . I assume the same actress played both parts . It's confusing because Hou doesn't want to stress anything : characters are introduced with their backs to us or when they're in shadows . How does he really expect us to recognize and latch onto his characters ? He just doesn't care . No , that's not it . It's that he doesn't want us to do so : some pretentious notion that a confusing movie is an artistic one . If I were to see this film again , I might find it better . It's still cinematic masturbation . If the audience , after reading up on it or seeing it several times , then understands it , well , it only becomes mutual masturbation . Satisfying , but wouldn't you much rather be fcking ?
You'd have to be interested in the era	Lethargic minimalist film about Louis XIV's rise to power in the mid 17th Century . I suppose if I had a greater interest in the time period or historical characters , I wouldn't have been bored . Case in point , several months ago I saw another of Rossellini's biopics from the same period , Socrates ( 1970 ) , and , as I am a classics scholar , I liked it very much . I know a lot about Socrates , but almost nothing about Louis XIV . Both are similar in style ( although Louis has much less dialogue ) . I guess Rossellini's point was to subtract the usual pomp and circumstance that surrounds the European royalty of this historical period , depicting everything in a very realistic light . I think I can make at least two legitimate criticisms against this film : 1 ) I think it takes too long with the first act , the Cardinal's death . It takes more than a half an hour of a 100 minute film ( actually , the Hen's Tooth video falls about 9 minutes short of that mark ) . We learn nothing much about what is actually going on during this half hour . 2 ) Jean-Marie Patte , who plays Louis XIV , seemed particularly passionless to me . I did like some parts , or at least I found them interesting . At one point , Louis designs his now-famous costume . He tells his subordinates that all nobles will be dressed in exactly the same way . In the following scene , they are . I also liked the meal scene , where we , as well as everyone else in his court , watch as patiently as possible as Louis eats course after course . The nobles in the court feign interest . What weird customs we humans have developed . I wouldn't suggest The Rise of Louis XIV unless you are interested in the period , or are a huge fan of Rossellini . .
Actually not that good at all . A weak satire , but do see it for the performances . Rob Lowe & Adam Brody should be nominated for Oscars ( though they certainly won't be ) .	Satire about a tobacco lobbyist ( Aaron Eckhart ) . I can't quite put my finger on why , but I really didn't think it worked . Admittedly , the tobacco industry is an easy target . It would be too easy to villainize Nick Naylor , so it feels kind of like they were trying not to villainize him completely . Which then feels like they were being too soft on him . I mean , isn't he a villain ? It always felt like director / screenwriter Reitman was pulling his punches . The film is moderately entertaining . I actually wish it were a tad funnier , but there are a few really funny moments . Nick's visit to Hollywood is the best part of the film . Rob Lowe as a Hollywood agent and Adam Brody as his assistant give the movie's most memorable performances , and also deliver all the best lines . I also liked Maria Bello and David Koechner as Nick's friends , lobbyists for alcohol and firearms respectively . William H . Macy is also good as an anti-smoking senator , but it makes me question Reitman's intentions that the satirical barbs at him stick much better than the ones against the tobacco industry .
Disappointing effort from Egoyan	Egoyan's weakest film , at least since he came to prominence with Exotica . It's actually a somewhat interesting mystery , but it has a lot of flaws . There is a death , possibly a murder , in the hotel suite of two famous comedians ( played by Colin Firth and Kevin Bacon ) , based on Martin and Lewis . That's the film's biggest flaw , that this completely fictional mystery uses Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis as a model . It's very distracting . The bulk of the story has a young journalist ( Alison Lohman ) writing the story of the two comedians , trying to solve the mystery . The film-making is pretty good , but Egoyan , except for The Sweet Hereafter , has always been a weak director when it comes to actors . Lohman , who was great in Ridley Scott's Matchstick Men , is awful here ( she does get naked and have sex with a woman , though , which makes the film almost worth seeing ) . Kevin Bacon , who gave his best performance ever last year in the still underseen The Woodsman , isn't especially good , either . Only Firth does a good job . The film is also overscored with some very cliché mystery music . Mychael Danna's scores for Exotica and The Sweet Hereafter were brilliant ; this one's a flop .
repetitive	This is a decent silent comedy , but I think that Keaton did better . I don't know how available it is , but I watched his Our Hospitality in a film class , and I laughed out loud , and quite hard . I think it's a lot better the General made me laugh quietly a couple of times . It's really repetitive , too . All the train scenes seemed the same . Plus , The General doesn't give us many close ups of Keaton's amazing face . Our Hospitality shows several hilarious reaction shots .
" Waltzing Mathilda " is such a beautiful song	And On the Beach is probably the only thing that could make one sick of hearing it . This film is about the impending nuclear destruction of Australia . The rest of the world is already gone . We spend the last few months of life on Earth in the company of a navy man and his wife ( Anthony Perkins and Donna Anderson ) , their sister ( Ava Gardner ) , a scientist with a guilty conscience ( Fred Astaire ) , and an American sub captain whose family died ( Gregory Peck ) . By the film's end , only one of these characters appeared human to me , the one played by Anthony Perkins . The rest seemed underdeveloped . Most of the fault rests in a morbid desire for melodrama . Just how many Gone With the Wind style kisses do we need to see between Peck and Gardner ? Little with the human characters rings true . And whatever power there could be in the film is absolutely ruined by the constant score . It never knows what it is doing , and it is too strong almost everywhere you hear it . Silence goes a long way , and the couple of scenes where there is silence , especially the scene where Perkins talks to his wife for the last time ( although the music does eventually crop up there , too ) , are powerful . And it's not just that the film is dated . I can deal with dating . It's just not a very well made film to begin with . All the great films that deal with this subject are science fiction , and I suppose that , since sci-fi is never taken seriously enough , this was provided as an alternative . Dr . Strangelove does a lot more to show us the absurdity of nuclear war . Maybe the best anti-nuclear sci-fi was made before this , The Day the Earth Stood Still . The best film that shows both the absurdity of nuclear war and the absurdity of the human race in general would not come for 9 years , but when it did it would be called Planet of the Apes , a much maligned film which ought to be considered one of the best ever made . On the Beach should not .
Loud , obnoxious and jingoistic - certainly not among Wilder's best works	Made in West Berlin while the Berlin Wall was being erected and dealing with the Cold War while it was escalating dramatically , there is no shortage of historical interest in this Billy Wilder comedy . However , as much as I don't want to be put into the position of defending the U . S . S . R . , One , Two , Three comes off as painfully jingoistic and the same kind of propaganda that it itself is deriding . It's also guilty of being wildly obnoxious and loud in its comedy , which is , at best , hit or miss . James Cagney plays Coca-Cola's man in West Berlin , on the brink of getting the drink behind the Iron Curtain , for which he expects to get a promotion . His boss scoffs at the idea of commies drinking America's favorite beverage . A different possibility for promotion arrives when Cagney welcomes the boss's 17 year-old daughter ( Pamela Tiffin ) to stay with him and his family . If he does a good job , keeps her away from trouble , he could get out of Germany , whose population reminds him of the war with their boot clicking and militaristic habits ( played as a joke , of course ! ) . Unfortunately , Tiffin is kind of a tramp , and immediately sneaks through the Brandenburg Gate and marries a communist ( Horst Buchholtz ) . Cagney is at his worst here . His character is a mean , petty , unlikeable jerk who yells and throws around his superiority to everyone else constantly . But as annoying as he is , he's nothing compared to Buchholtz , who spouts communist mantras and anti-American slogans at the top of his lungs every time his lips part . Yes , yes , Billy , we get it ! He's indoctrinated ! Now , please , hand me the aspirin ! Add to those two the horribly lame wisecracks of Cagney's wife ( Arlene Francis ) , and we have a triumvirate of the unfunny . The movie does have its pluses , of course . I thought Tiffin was hilarious ( she's not offended at the " Yankee Go Home " balloons because where she comes from , Atlanta , everyone hates Yankees ! ) , and I also liked the hot young secretary ( Lisolette Pulver ) with whom Cagney is having an affair ( after the unsubtle sex of The Apartment , it's no longer believable that Cagney's not sleeping with this woman ) . I also liked the three Russian boobs with whom Cagney is negotiating . Perhaps the best scene in the movie is the one where Cagney tries to sell them Pulver by having her dance on a table in front of them .
Quite likely the most original American film of 2006	With that and the excellent performance given by Paul Giamatti , I have to have at least a bit of affection for the film , which is otherwise kind of a mess . Not to mention very silly . Giamatti plays an apartment building superintendent who discovers a strange woman living in the bottom of their swimming pool . She is apparently some kind of water nymph who is being hunted by a grass-furred wolf . If she can get past the beast , a giant eagle will lift her into the sky and bring her home . Hopefully the three giant twig monkeys , along with the uniquely purposeful residents of the apartment complex , can guard her from the grass wolf monster . Seriously . Oh , and the director , M . Night Shyamalan , plays a man who , in the near future , will publish a book that will , Wyld Stallyns style , bring about world peace . And there's a film critic character , played by Bob Balaban , who is ruthlessly ridiculed in the script . I think the thing , as ambitious as it is , could have worked with a few more script revisions . I swear there must have been some important exposition missing near the beginning of the film . And the nymph character , played by Bryce Dallas Howard , is awful . As The Onion put it , she comes off like she's the product of a drunken one night stand between Darryl Hannah in Splash and ET . I do want to rewatch it someday , as I was quite tired when I saw it . If it is as sloppy as it seemed , I think it'll be due for a remake in a decade or two , possibly even by M . Night himself , if they'll let him work after this debacle , as many have dubbed it .
A curio from Chow	Stephen Chow follows up his sensational martial arts comedies Shaolin Soccer and Kung Fu Hustle with what I can only hope will be a curio in a long and illustrious career . CJ7 is not a terrible film , per se , just a small and unsatisfying one . Kind of a rip-off of E . T . with a heavy dose of maudlin , Chaplinesque comedy . Oh , and doggy doo . The story is about a poor boy ( played by a girl , Jiao Xu ) and his father ( Chow ) . Chow is a construction worker who lives in abject poverty because he spends every dime on a high-class school for his son . One might think that gigantic cockroaches and rotten apple dinners might detract from such an education , but not this father . Chow often brings stuff home he finds in the dump for his kid , and one day he finds a glowing green ball . It turns out to be an alien dog-like creature , which the kid names CJ7 . The Chinese may be moving ahead of us at green technology production and cheating in gymnastics , but we can be assured that they will never surpass out ability to create CGI that doesn't totally suck . CGI always kind of sucks , but you learn to appreciate the cartoonish Incredible Hulk after you see CJ7 . It's the kind of special effect that's meant to be cute , but at best looks creepy and at worst , which is most of the time , it just looks fake . Anyway , Jiao Xu soon discovers that CJ7 has magical powers , and it helps bring him and his father closer together . Pretty lame . The film does have some positive points , though . Chow is an excellent director . I have no idea what possessed him to make this movie ( he is credited as a screenwriter , one of six , but I don't know to what extent this movie is " his " ) , but he comes up with some fine set-pieces . There are at least two sequences which include classic Chow kung fu . I really liked the scenes where Jiao Xu is at school . It would have been nicer if these had been developed even more , or maybe even if the entire movie had been about Jiao Xu's experiences at school . IMDb doesn't have the child actors credited beyond Xu , but I love the kid who plays Johnny , the school bully . There's also a giantess who falls for Xu . The goofiness of Chow's earlier films is still prevalent . Sometimes it's just weird , as in the Rube Goldberg-like climactic sequence which ends in a semi-comic tragedy , but it's as often charming .
Entertaining enough most of the way through , but certainly not great	Okay , I'm pretty much of the generation to which this film is aimed . I was a kid when this show was on the air . I wasn't a huge fan myself , though . I was more of a He-Man kind of guy . I only barely remember watching Transformers . My parents were unwilling to buy me the toys because they were too expensive and they broke easily during their transformations . I really wasn't at all interested in seeing this movie , except maybe on video to see how bad it was . But I'd heard a lot of good word-of-mouth reports and my friends wanted to see it , so I caved in . A one word review : Meh . A little more : it ain't terrible , certainly a lot better than I expected . The film sustains itself with a beleaguered and just plain weird sense of humor that , if not hilarious , is undeniably amusing . In general , there's just too much going on . There are like fifteen different plot threads . The story isn't too hard to follow and mostly makes sense , but a lot of it could be cut out ( for instance , the second most important piece of female eye candy , Rachael Taylor , and her hacker buddy played by Anthony Anderson ) . The action is quite fun most of the time , but the giant final battle has so much going on that it gets more than a little difficult to follow . I might have actually given the movie a passing grade if not for the quick and unsatisfying final battle between Optimus Prime and Megatron . Transformers is pretty close to being worthwhile , but in the end it's too big , exhausting and disappointing to really recommend .
Half a movie	The first time I saw this movie , I walked in on a bunch of friends watching it in a small dorm room . I was bored , so I sat and watched it . I asked somebody how much I had missed , and I was told not much . The first image I saw was a gung ho soldier running towards a giant insect screaming at the top of his lungs , only to be picked up and ripped in half . All right ! ! ! And the violence only got more grizzly and horrific and , thus , comic . The dismemberments ! The decapitations ! Disembowlings ! Brain eating ! Rule ! After an hour and a few minutes , the movie was over , and I had a buzz . It was the kind of fun movie even a seasoned film lover can enjoy . About a month later , I went home and my brother had rented the movie . I told him that I had really liked it , so we sat down and watched it . After all , I had missed a bit of it . Or so I thought . The movie is about two hours long , and it is split right in the center . The second hour is what I saw : the ultra-violent bug warfare . I had missed the first half : the military training . Ugh ! ! ! Sitting through the first half of that movie soured me entirely over the film's entirety . They spend an hour training to fight against human beings , then they spend the second hour not using any of that training . The first half has some sporadic violence and nudity , but it is not worth it ( well , one thing I can ; t argue with is that this is the movie that ( for almost everyone ) introduced Denise Richard's chest to the world ) . Overall , I can only give the movie a . That's how bad the first half is . I would have given it a 9 if it were only an hour long . I recommend watching only the second half of the movie .
Godzilla stumbles around drunkenly , gets the crap beat out of him by a giant moth , then gets even more crap beat out of him by its larvae	I'm not a huge fan of kaiju movies , but I do enjoy them to a certain extent . This one has some fun stuff . I love that Godzilla just gets his butt handed to him throughout the whole movie . He destroys stuff , but almost by accident . He crushes a giant building at one point , but only because he steps on the edge of a ledge and trips into it . His reaction to Mothra is priceless , something like : " AH ! Help ! Giant bug ! Ah ! " flailing around senselessly . As with pretty much all the Godzilla movies , the human element is dull and idiotic . Yuriko Hoshi , playing a photographer , is a cutie , though . I swear , people who think Ishiro Honda is a competent director don't really watch these films .
Noble effort , but dull film	An attempt to film a Greek tragedy as the Greeks would have seen it , or at least somewhat so . It's intentions are noble , but it doesn't really have any ideas of its own . This is one dull film . The monotonous chanting might have worked for the ancient Athenians , but it cancels out the greatness of the play for modern viewers . Watching this version , Sophocles ' play feels entirely irrelevant to us today . Even though I'm a classics scholar , I've always disliked adaptations of the tragedies ? I feel that we could never really capture what they meant to their original audience , simply because we are so vastly different from them . Fortunately , on a very rare occasion , someone gets it right . Skip this and see Pasolini's 1967 version of the same play . On a side note , William Shatner , in his second feature film performance , plays one of the chorus members . You can't see him , however , on account of his mask .
Nothing special	This film strikes me as little more than typical Oscar bait . A man disabled with cerebral palsy grows up in a poor Irish family . His father is hard and critical and his mother is loving and shoots words of inspiration at him at measured intervals . The film shows us that the disabled can do everything a normal person can do , like play soccer and get into barfights . Eventually he grows up to become a respected artist and author . Of course , the story is true . It's been done a million times before and since , and I swear it's won an Oscar every single time . This one won two , both for acting , one for the actress playing the mother ( Bredna Fricker ) and one for the lead ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) . I'm a big fan of Day-Lewis . And , honestly , his depiction of cerebral palsy is spot-on . But so what ? I don't particularly think playing a disabled person is difficult , and the actor has done much better elsewhere . In fact , he's no better here than the actor who plays him as a boy . Sheridan's direction is so hacky ; he deserves to be making phony biopics for rappers who won't be remembered five months after the picture comes out .
Eh	This film has a pretty promising beginning ( although that promise is camp ) , it's slack pace makes for a very dull experience in the long run . The only good part ( although it is also lame ) is when Charles Bronson ( who seems miscast ) and David Frankham are left to hang below the airship tied to ropes . It is a bizarre scene , but it is amusing . I give the film a . See the much better The Time Machine , a similar film made in 1960 from the H . G . Welles novel . It is much more profound and is , thank God , not lame .
SPOILERS	I can't believe Paul Schraeder had anything to do with this . I'm kind of wishing they just credited him because the film shares many similarities with Taxi Driver , but it's too different to be considered plagarism . The film starts off very well . William Devane plays a POW just returning home from Vietnam . The performance is very good . Devane really captures what it must be like to return to a world that has more or less forgotten him . His child , a newborn when he was shipped off , has no idea who this man is . He's eager but afraid to spend time with his father , and the father feels much the same way . His wife has since found someone new ( James Best , in fact , from The Dukes of Hazzard ) , and she must walk on eggshells . At first , the unfaithful wife is very tastefully treated . She's shown sympathetically , which I didn't expect . And Devane's attitude to her is also well done . He's obviously hurt , but , in a way , it's like he never believed that he could relate to her anymore anyways , and , in a way , there's a bit of relief that she's not his responsibility . Likewise , James Best isn't ( initially ) made into a jackass or anything like that . But then the writers seem to get bored with this very touching and very human re-adjustment story . Not enough shooting , I guess . Here comes the revenge element , in the stupidest way possible , and the whole film starts to feel like it was written by a Vietnam veteran who had a big chip on his shoulder and needed to congratulate himself for all his underappreciated suffering . Which might be interesting if that were actually the case , but I'm pretty sure it's not . Devane is given some $2 , 000 worth of silver dollars at a public ceremony , and a couple of days later he is confronted by about six big men who want to steal it from him . One has to wonder why any one criminal , let alone a gang of them , would want to rip off a recently returned POW for a measly $2 , 000 . And their stupidity doesn't end there . Not only do they steal Devane's chump change , but they whack his ( soon-to-be ex - ) wife and ten year old son and then they cut off his hand ! You'd think one out of the half-dozen thugs would think to himself , gee , we should probably murder this soon-to-be-insane-with-rage Vietnam veteran , too , but no . They leave him alive , apparently without caring whether or not he'll report the incident to the police . I mean , he did see their faces and almost every name among the criminals was mentioned during the robbery . Or maybe they knew that he was too macho to involve the police . But in that case they didn't think far enough ahead to realize he'd be coming after them a couple of months later when his hand has healed and after he's gotten used to his new hook hand ( and sharpened it ) . The film gets more and more offensive by the minute . All the good work from the beginning is squandered , and it feels like that was done on purpose . Each and every bit of ambiguity from the first half hour is systematically psed on . The most telling moment comes when Devane finally confronts the lead villain and , right before he blasts him , says , " This is for my son , " leaving out his unfaithful wife . It's very pathetic , and so very disappointing considering that there had to be a few smart people who worked on the movie . The first half hour or so , like I said , is excellent . The acting throughout is excellent . The actors did their jobs , creating multifaceted and interesting characters , even when they're doing uninteresting things . Tommy Lee Jones is also in it , and his character , though only in the film a little bit , is extremely interesting . A late portrait of his loving family shows just how much a couple of people cared about making a compelling film . .
Joseph Cotten & Alida Valli reunited	Ever wonder what happened after Anna walked past Holly Martins in the final shot of the 1949 masterpiece The Third Man ? Well , apparently , Holly followed her and broke her legs . . . In Walk Softly , Stranger , Joseph Cotten plays a crook who assumes a new identity in a small town in order to start a new life . Gangsters whom he robbed are after him , and with the money he stole he believes that he can live a peaceful life . In this town , he meets a young paraplegic woman played by Valli . She was also a gambler , but her wild days were over after she took a tragic spill while skiing . The two begin to fall in love . It's probably the only time a disabled character ever had a major role as a love interest in classical Hollywood . Heck , if someone were to play the same role today , she'd probably win an Oscar ! Soon , Cotten's old partner turns up in the town broke , begging for more money . He accidentally let spies track him . The film is very low-key . In fact , it may be too low-key . The romance between Cotten and Valli is effective . It's difficult to know whether or not he is just taking her for a ride for a long time ( she's wealthy ) . The dialogue is sometimes quite clever ( and , then again , it's also sometimes too clever ) . It's the crime part of the picture that's particularly pedestrian . And the end is kind of lame . All in all , it's only 80 minutes long , and it's entertaining enough to maybe sustain that . Valli and Cotten were so much better in The Third Man , but fans of that film might delight in seeing the two as a couple here . Still , with the way that The Third Man ends , it's actually a little disappointing seeing the two actors on screen . The final scene of that film should have been the final word . .
Weak Keaton flick	Easily the least good Buster Keaton film I've ever seen , made after he gave up his status as an independent . It is his last sound film and he is working with director Edward Sedgwick , who directed several of his sound films . I've seen three of those , Sidewalks of New York ( 1931 ) , The Passionate Plumber ( 1932 ) , and What ? No Beer ! ( 1933 ) , which were all huge box office duds , but they're very good and underrated films . I don't know what exactly went wrong with Spite Marriage . It's just very weak . There are a few good moments , but none of them great . The best scene involves Buster trying to get his wife , passed out from too much wine , into bed . The final sequence has a lot of good stunts , but it isn't especially funny . It's only 80 minutes long , so it's worth a watch if you're a Keaton fan . If you aren't , definitely skip it . .
Sloppy .	This film flies all over the map , and equals little by its conclusion . The film's main foci are two sets of a mother and daughter . One is made up of Lora and Susie . The father has just died , and Lora is trying to make it as an actress . This is one of the oldest plots in the book , and it gives us little or nothing we haven't seen better elsewhere . The other pair is much better , Annie and Sara Jane . Annie is black , and her daughter's father was mostly white . Sara Jane despises the fact that she is part black , and tries to pass herself off as white all the time . Because of the interesting racial angle , this film is worth watching . It's too bad it works adversely to the way it wanted to , for , although the film desperately wishes to be seen as progressive ( and it succeeds probably more than most films of that era , by making Annie such a potent character ) , it keeps relegating Annie to the status of a maid . She's little different than Hattie McDaniel in Gone with the Wind . McDaniel may well have won an Oscar , she also very well may have deserved it , but she still was nothing but a Mammy . Annie is also so . While the script is trying to come in from the " you should always be yourself " angle where Sara Jane is concerned , it is being tremendously racist . Sure , she should be herself , but all of the characters keep trying to convince her that " to be yourself " = " to be black . " Sara Jane eventually flees and tries to build a life elsewhere as a dancer . There are plenty of powerful scenes involving her character , and , indeed , she was the only character who was exceedingly interesting . As for Douglas Sirk , I really loved Written on the Wind , and kind of liked Magnificent Obsession , but I disliked this one for the most part . His exuberant style in Written on the Wind made that one a masterpiece , but he is too straight-edged with Imitation of Life . It's too much just a soap opera with few signs of subversion or parody . The only one I can see comes with a MAJOR SPOILER : Annie's deathbed scene and funeral are horribly ridiculous . Her deathbed speech goes on for something like 10 minutes , and her funeral is more lavish than Princess Di's .
Bahrani doesn't impress me much	I remember finding Ramin Bahrani's first film , Man Push Cart , a fairly good debut , but one that lacked any real depth . He hasn't grown much in his sophomore feature , Chop Shop . It also focuses on the urban immigrant poor . The main characters of this film are homeless Hispanic orphans , Ale and his teen sister Izzy . Ale is employed at a junkyard , and he gets his sister a job with his boss's wife . The two plan to save their money to buy a food delivery truck , on which Ale has been told he can get a good deal . The film has one conflict that gives it a little energy , when Ale learns that his sister is working nights as a prostitute . It's at its strongest when it's concentrating on Ale's anger and confusion . He begins to act out by committing crimes , which get progressively more serious . The film doesn't have a lot going on , but with this plot point giving the film a mild psychological complexity , it's a decent watch . Unfortunately , the film craps out at the end with a lame , forced plot twist that so ridiculously echoes the one at the end of Man Push Cart that Bahrani should be embarrassed to have went with it . And that final shot is pseudo-poetic trash . Well , it impresses Roger Ebert , anyway .
Decent , but doesn't hold a candle to Yojimbo	A Fistfull of Dollars has its moments , but the original film , Kurosawa's Yojimbo , was much better . Clint Eastwood , though very good , is no Toshiro Mifune . Mifune's nameless man had much more of a character and a personality than his ever-scowling counterpart , Eastwood . The supporting characters were much more interesting in Yojimbo , also . The gunslinger in that film was much cooler than Ramone ( whom I believe to be the counterpart in A Fistfull of Dollars , but I'm not sure ) . Even Christopher Walken in Last Man Standing , a pretty terrible movie , was more interesting than Ramone . Also , the bell ringer , the undertaker , and the bartender were all more interesting in Yojimbo . Fistfull is also not as much fun as Yojimbo . That one was more playful . This on is more gruesome . The music was great in the original , and the score here is a tad bit annoying and overused . The story is basically identical . I actually found them both kind of confusing . Overall , Fistfull gets a from me .
Too loose and random for my taste	The film for which director Dusan Makavejev is best known . It's similar to his later Sweet Movie , which I watched last week , in that it's made up of a bunch of disparate parts edited together . The most prominent thread is a documentary about sexual psychiatrist and ( pseudo - ) scientist Wilhelm Reich , a refugee from Nazi Germany who fled to the United States , where he was ironically persecuted and imprisoned when the government became suspicious of his work . A second thread is fictional , set in Eastern Europe , and is about a sexually liberated woman ( Milena Dravic ) promoting sexual freedom in Communistic language . There are other smaller threads about Andy Warhol's transsexual protégé Jackie Curtis , a hippie with a gun who runs around New York City , a woman who makes dildos and probably a couple of other ones I'm not remembering . The film covers some interesting areas , but it's too loose and not interested enough in any of these things to engage in them . The separate bits began to fall apart , for me at least . Sweet Movie was kind of a mess , but it was a well-structured masterpiece in comparison to WR . I liked Sweet Movie a whole lot more .
A goofy piece of WWII propaganda	A black boy , obsessed with buying a horn at a local pawn shop , tries to earn the final $2 he needs by shining the shoes of rich white men . They are musical scouts , and when they find out that he wants the $2 to buy a horn , they ask him to demonstrate his abilities . He does so in a wonderful musical number . When they offer him a million dollar contract , he becomes upset and says he can't possibly do that . His family would be devastated . The white men are perplexed , but the black boy reveals that he wants to horn so that he can be the bugle boy in the U . S . Army . One of the white men then gladly hands him $2 and delivers the amusing line : " Blow one right in Hitler's face for me , kid ! " I saw this between movies on TCM tonight .
Warner Baxter is great , but the film is only so-so	Not among Ford's best films , unfortunately . Warner Baxter is excellent as Dr . Samuel Mudd , the doctor who set John Wilkes Booth's leg after he broke it jumping from the balcony in which he shot Abraham Lincoln . Like most Hollywood films , it completely ignores history . It's not generally believed that Mudd was a conspirator against Lincoln , but the truth was a lot murkier than this film presents . The beginning of the film is pretty good , with the assassination and Mudd's arrest and trial . Strangely enough , I thought it got much less interesting when it moved to the titular island , Dry Tortuga in the Florida Keys . I don't exactly know why , but I lost interest during the latter half of the movie , despite the wonderful presence of John Carradine at his hammiest . Love that guy . The bug-eyed Negro characters are pretty annoying in this one , although I thought the character of Buck , a former slave of Mudd's who aids him in prison , was one of the more positive characters of that type I've seen . Not that the depiction isn't fairly racist , but at least he's kind of a hero .
I'm that guy who doesn't like Hou Hsiao-Hsien	Eh , I thought this was slightly above average for Hou . Which means I still didn't care for it much , but I didn't exactly dislike it , either . As far as the ( non - or possibly anti - ) story goes , it's probably his slightest yet . A young woman is newly pregnant . She wanders around , rides the trains , hangs out with a friend , has half-heard conversations on a cell phone , eats , drinks milk , eats some more and generally avoids the issue of what's in her belly . So , yes , it's pretty dull . But Hou does capture an ambiance that is pleasant , at the very least . I have in the past likened Hou's work to sitting on a bus and eavesdropping . Funny , as one of the main characters in this film enjoys recording ambient noises on passenger trains . At least in this film you get to hang around a pretty Japanese girl and Tadanobu Asano , star of such great Asian flicks as Ichi the Killer and Last Life in the Universe . I loved the last sequence and the final shot .
Hardly terrible . It might qualify as stupid fun if it were just a tad more fun .	I should begin by saying that I am overly forgiving toward films of the sci-fi genre . I generally enjoy even the worst sci-fi flicks . According to most , Ultraviolet is one of the worst ( current IMDb rating : 3 . 7 ) , but I didn't think it was that bad at all . Not good , either . Just rather mediocre . If you're looking for a big dumb action movie , you could do a lot worse . For much of the film's run , Ultraviolet ( Milla Jovovich ) runs around slicing people up with little in the way of plot ( what there is is fairly confusing ) . Yeah , the action sequences are laughable , and they do get repetitive , but they're enjoyable in a stupid way . It's only when the film decides to act as if it had a human level that it gets really weak . None of the drama works , mostly because it's difficult to understand what has already happened and what is presently happening . Plus , the action up to a certain point moves at breakneck speed , so it's pretty dumb to slow things down so the characters can actually speak to each other . Less speakie , more killie ! Perhaps the movie's worse flaw is a difficult-to-follow climactic sequence . Like most bad sci-fi films , Ultraviolet's main draw is the visual design . However bad everything else might be , the movie looks awesome . It's mostly done with computers , like Sky Captain and Sin City . Some of the movie plays as if you were watching your friend enjoy a ( fun ) video game . Not especially recommended , but it's better than people have said .
Unsatisfied with this acclaimed drama	Strange , unsatisfying drama with a tinge of quirky comedy . I don't know , it didn't do too much for me . At first , I was infuriated . It felt forced and the dialogue felt so utterly written . It almost felt like the actors were reading the book out loud . I half expected Kathleen Turner to end some of her sentences with " she said " . It does have an interesting message , one that everyone needs to take to heart , that it's very easy to get addicted to routines and never change your life , even when it might be much better to change it . I started to warm to it after a while , but I never crossed the line into liking it . There was one aspect about it that I really liked , though : the musical score by John Williams . Very subtle , not overused . Everything we generally wouldn't expect from John Williams .
I feel exactly the opposite way of this film's first commentator below	I did not find Fassbinder's filmmaking static and boring . I found it brash and exciting . His style is superb . HOWEVER , I have to say that I found the story , with which I am unfamiliar , incredibly bland . How many 19th and early 20th Century novels have this exact same plot ? It's the simplistic " fallen wife " scenario without a spark of invention , it seems to me . In that way , I could not stand this film and was trying hard not to pass out . However , Fassbinder's miraculous filmmaking , cinematography , mise-en-scene , direction , music , even the acting , kept me at least interested . I give it a .
Below average Altman , but still interesting	This film , generally considered one of Altman's greatest follies , is not all that bad . Unfortunately , it's not all that good , either . The director , along with his production team have created a unique and amazing world in Sweethaven , populated by bizarre and amusing live-action cartoon characters . It's an awesome film just to look at . Unfortunately , the script is very weak . I wonder if Altman insisted upon his regular method of film-making , in coming up with a lot of it on the spot , having his actors create the scenes . It feels like there was at least some level of improvisation , and it doesn't work because these characters are all two-dimensional cartoons . Neither Altman nor the actors are ever able to convince that these people are real , even in their fantasy world . When asked to improvise , I imagine the actors had a hard time imagining what their characters ' motivations were , as there's not much psychology in your average Popeye cartoon . A lot of the characters ' interactions consist of moaning , shouting and jumping up and down angrily and it gets annoying . The film might also have worked better if the music were better . Harry Nilsson's songs are almost all poor , except for the two performed by Shelley Duvall , perhaps only because Duvall's Olive Oyl voice sounds so good in song ( remember how brilliantly P . T . Anderson used the song " He Needs Me " in Punch-Drunk Love a few years ago ) . The movie must work in some capacity , though : I absolutely adored it when I was a kid , and watched it numerous times on television . This isn't the disaster it's often touted as , but it's definitely one of Altman's failures .
The least successful Godard film I've seen , and I've seen more than a dozen others	Although it was a critical success when it was released , and it still has strong supporters today , I personally found Two or Three Things I Know About Her a very weak film . It represents a day in the life of a prostitute / housewife , though that itself is difficult to tell . The film is rather amorphous . Maybe that's a word that many would use to describe the whole of Godard's films . But almost all of his other films , with the possible exception of Alphaville and Contempt ( both of which I need to see again , having not seen them for a few years ) , have a little more internal structure and , what is especially missing from Two or Three Things , a pace . Other films of his are also more biting in their satire or drama , depending on what Godard is going for . Two or Three Things is dead in the water . Think of the giddy quickness and insanity of Pierrot le fou or Le Week-End , or the frightening images of Le petit soldat or Vivre sa vie . This film is not worthless , however . I've never seen a Godard film that I would call bad . And it is , like all of his films ( I also haven't seen one that any fan should miss ) , important in his development as a director . You can see Le Week-End about to burst out of the screen . Two or Three Things contains a couple of remarkable scenes , including the coffee scene . Godard narrates in a whisper , philosophizing over his own role in the universe , as creme swirls in a cup of coffee and clusters of bubbles rotate and pop ( the camera is so close that you can't see anything but the coffee in the cup ) . The cinematography in general , by Godard's frequent collaborator Raoul Coutard , is quite good . I especially like the shots of construction equipment , cranes and such . They're kind of like the opposite of Yasujiro Ozu's pillow shots . .
Not entirely successful late Godard film	The films in Godard's late ( and not yet over ) period present some of the greatest challenges to cineasts . Detective is no exception . It is extraordinarily complex in narrative ( or , more precisely , anti-narrative ) , visual composition , and editing structure . Unfortunately , I don't think it's worth it . It's kind of a parody of a detective film ( the one in this film is a hotel dick ) , but it's nearly impossible to figure out what's going on . It can be quite beautiful in its visuals and editing patterns , but never beautiful enough to make it worth seeing . It's not terrible , but , then again , it's not good , either . P . S . First off , yes , the little girl IS Julie Delpy , in case you were wondering . P . P . S . Remember when Martin Scorsese made his version of Cape Fear for MGM because they allowed him to make the highly personal The Last Temptation of Jesus Christ ? Well , he may have gotten that idea from Godard . Detective was made as a straight commercial offering to the studio that produced his highly controversial Hail Mary . It's strange to think of Detective as a commercial venture , though !
Watch if you like the music . . .	but skip it if the main reason you wanted to see it was for Chappelle . I quite like Dave Chappelle . I have since long before he got really famous with his Comedy Central sketch show . That is perhaps why I wasn't especially impressed with his film . He's not the focus . He's engaging when he is on screen , but most of the movie is dedicated to the musicians who play at his block party , among whom are Kanye West , Erykah Badu , Mos Def and the Fugees . While I liked all the music that was showcased , I'm not a particularly big fan of any of it . If you are a fan of any of these musicians , then I imagine the film would appeal to you much more than it did to me .
A moderate failure ; still worth seeing	Michelangelo Antonioni is one of the major figures of cinema history , even if most people haven't heard of him . He was nowhere near as prolific as filmmakers such as Fellini , Godard , Bergman , Kurosawa , or Truffaut . And his films now are difficult to procure . There are only a few readily available , and I have seen all of those but one ( Il Grido , which has recently been released on DVD by Kino ) . Four of the five Antonioni films that I've seen , L'Avventura , Red Desert , Blowup , and The Passenger are among the best films ever made . One other that I've seen , L'Eclisse , I think probably is also to be included among them ; if only the video that I saw would not have been so horribly defiled ! Now I have seen Beyond the Clouds . I had always heard that it was a great failure , but it was difficult to lower my expectations of Antonioni . Wim Wenders ' presence did not help , either . Throughout the film , there were many things that annoyed me , and also many things that I loved . I think a pros / cons list will help here . Cons : 1 . The writing seems weak . All the stories told have little depth , it seems , and we find out almost nothing about anybody we meet in the picture . Usually , Antonioni's writing can be used to show just how well a film can be written , and his characters are the definition of " complex . " But in another way I can also see the style of writing presented here in a more positive light , which I'll comment on later . 2 . The acting is really weak . I cannot in any way defend it . There is not one performer who isn't subpar here , and most of the actors are second-rate actors in the first place ( Irene Jacob excepted ) . John Malkovich is one of the hammiest actors who's ever lived . The only thing I ever liked him in was Being John Malkovich , because that film delightfully ( and , apparently , unnoticeably , at any rate by Malkovich himself ) mocked his very pretensions , which are in full force in this film . 3 . Casual nudity - okay , no one on Earth wants to see John Malkovich buck naked . Fortunately , if you are a fan of female nudity , nearly every woman in the film , including Bond girl Sophie Marceau , appears naked from head to foot with everything in between ( sorry , Irene Jacob fans , no nudity from her ! ) . I myself don't mind nudity when it is called for , like in Last Tango in Paris , but the rampant nudity in this film makes it seem like European softcore along the lines of Emmanuel . Actually , the softcore it really reminded me of was Red Shoe Diaries . The light jazz by Van Morrison just adds to this effect . Antonioni was once a proto-feminist . Many of his most famous films were from a distinctly female point of view . And when men did take over in his films , they were very unlikable . Here , the women are often exploited . Pros : 1 . Cinematography - okay , we have two of the best visual directors of all time working on this film , the cinematography ought to be outstanding . It is , generally . There are a couple of visual moments that are absolutely spectacular , some of the best I've ever seen . This includes an ethereal scene where Malkovich explores a deserted playground on a beach . He sits on a swing , spins around in it with a shot that involves a beautifully moving camera , and then we watch a strong wind blow sand around on the beach ( Antonioni loves showing the wind in his films ) . Another great visual scene involves a camera gliding about a spiral staircase near the end of the film . 2 . Mood - The nonchalant flow of the narrative actually adds a lot of mood . The title of the film is entirely appropriate . You do feel as if you're witnessing something beyond the clouds . Certain stories are left in suspension , never to be resolved , and it feels right . By the final scene , Beyond the Clouds had nearly won me over . Still , there were too many things wrong with it to suggest it to non-Antonioni fans , but Antonioni fans owe it to themselves to see it once .
Ridiculously overrated , but Laughton and Lanchester are excellent	Typical of Billy Wilder films , Witness for the Prosecution is mediocre and overrated . I don't know how his fans defend him so passionately . Sure , he made a few great films , but looking at this courtroom drama , one of his more popular films , how can anyone deny how hackneyed , predictable , and often just how plain stupid it is ? I hate courtroom dramas , but this one is particularly laughable in its depiction of courtroom activities . Fortunately , it does contain two brilliant performances by Charles Laughton and his wife , Elsa Lanchester . Laughton plays the lawyer who defends alleged murderer Tyrone Powell ( in his last performance , and what must be one of his worst ) . He has recently suffered a heart attack , and is advised to take it cool for a while . Elsa Lanchester is his pesky nurse . Their chemistry recalls their great performances in The Private Life of Henry VIII from a quarter of a century earlier . These two keep this sinking ship of a movie from becoming totally sunk . In fact , with the clever twist at the end , I was almost ready to say I liked it ; the three good points , Laughton , Lanchester , and the twist made the film a somewhat pleasant waste of time . But then there is a second twist which is utterly forced and utterly idiotic , so my final verdict must be a slight disapproval . Still , if you haven't seen it , Laughton and Lanchester are worth the time . .
Predictable , with the depth of a mediocre TV Western teleplay	Three criminals wander into a Western town to wait for the 12 : 00 noon train to arrive . Their leader , Frank Miller , will arrive on it and together they will get revenge for Miller's jail time ( he was supposed to be hanged ) . The man who put him in jail is Will Kane ( Gary Cooper ) . He has just been married ( to Grace Kelly ) and is about to leave town , but he figures he can't while those criminals are there to start trouble . He goes back to raise a posse to take the outlaws before they can do anything . No can do , though . Everyone else is out for him / herself , and they all either refuse or ignore Kane when he asks them to be deputees . High Noon telegraphs its every move ten minutes in advance . There's nothing special about it , and its themes are rather trite . It would be passable if any of the performers were good . It's actually kind of depressing , considering how good some of them are elsewhere . I loved Gary Cooper in Meet John Doe , but he seems really uncomfortable in High Noon . We never really learn anything much about Kane , and Cooper only helps us know less . Grace Kelly is particularly bad . To tell the truth , she was never a great actress . One year later , in John Ford's Mogambo , she gave an equally neurotic and unbelievable performance . Only in Hitchcock's films , in particular Rear Window , did she shed that nervous quality . Lloyd Bridges - well , maybe it's just me , but I can never find him effective in a drama . He was so much better when he got older and started to do comedy like Airplane . Perhaps the only one on par with the rest of his career is Thomas " Doc Washburn " Mitchell . The villains are particularly pathetic in High Noon . I know , the " real villains " are those who refuse to fight , but the film would have been infinitely stronger if Frank Miller and the other three thugs had some personality . When a movie talks about a villain for of its run , and then he appears without any bells or whistles , it's sure to disappoint . When the obligatory gunfight arrives , it's nothing if not boring . I longed for the dramatic effectiveness of the shootout in My Darling Clementine . High Noon is a film made with some skill . The cinematography is good . For some reason , it always got really good when they would cut over to the three outlaws waiting for Frank Miller . Those three actors always seemed to be standing in some clever composition . The only thing about High Noon that I would rate as exceptional would be the music . It's quite good , if a bit overused ( especially during the gunfight sequence ; again , I think back to the beautiful and harrowing silence of My Darling Clementine ) . Overall , I don't hate High Noon , but just feel it is weak and definitely overrated . .
Yes , it is bad , but . . .	I think it qualifies as a must-see film for all true scholars of the cinema . That is not to say that it is a good film . It is most certainly not . But this is really a perfect film in which to study the biggest change that this artistic medium ever experienced , the change from silence to sound . The whole film comes off as so , so awkward . It doesn't help that the script is awful . The film is actually over-ambitious , trying hard to cover the entire life of Abe , from birth to death . However bad Abraham Lincoln is , though , I myself found it more than watchable and always fascinating . .
Weak mystery / thriller with mediocre direction by the man who made City of God	Disappointing followup to the exhilarating City of God . I can appreciate some of what The Constant Gardener tries to do . It wants to put a spotlight on the way the West exploits Africa . But it gets too bogged down in an overcomplicated and only moderately interesting mystery-thriller . I'm not too big on mysteries or thrillers myself , and I often find movies with this much plot entirely boring . And I was fairly bored during most of The Constant Gardener . It's just too busy moving . Yes , it is good once in a while when it concentrates on the protagonist's character , but those moments are few and far between . Ralph Fiennes is a remarkable actor , but his talents have not been used to their full since The English Patient . He brings as much to the lead as he can between all the shaky camera-work . And even when I said above that I like what it is trying to do with Africa , I kind of lied . Well , I do like what it is attempting to do , but it is mostly unsuccessful . The film still depicts the Africans as less important than the Europeans , I think . Every time Ralph Fiennes lands in a new African country , Meirelles has to have the natives dance and sing for the whites . Anyway , the film is not entirely worthless , but it isn't very good , either . What it certainly is is forgettable .
Mediocre	Opinions have been all over the map on this film , some calling it a masterpiece , others one of the worst of 2006 . I'm pretty much exactly in the middle : I just think it's distinctly mediocre . It's hardly terrible , but I can't for the life of me see anything special about it , either . I really appreciate the low-key style , and it's cool to watch . But then , it feels like that's all it is , cool for the sake of coolness , with a heck of a lot of sexy people posing but not doing anything interesting . The plot is pretty much cliché undercover stuff and the characters and the performances are universally beyond dull , with the one exception of Gong Li , who doesn't exactly deliver one of her better performances , but who is constantly engaging , for her beauty if not for anything else . Colin Farrell ( a dead ringer for Billy Ray Cyrus ) and Jamie Foxx made me long for Don Johnson and Philip Michael Thomas , something that I never thought I'd hear myself say . I suppose the point is to show these two undercover cops beaten down by their difficult careers , but that doesn't make any sense . They're posing as professional drug smugglers and the like , they should have some sort of personality . Since the film is stretched out to 2 hours and 20 minutes , it feels especially dull . The only thing I'm especially thankful for with Miami Vice is it made me admire the skill of Martin Scorsese . I've complained about his tale of undercover cops ( and criminals ) , The Departed , often enough lately , but that's only because I think people are overrating it . At least there , there were interesting characters in whom I actually had a vested interest . And it was a hell of a lot more fun , to boot . In The Departed , you can see how the undercover work is weighing on Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio . While Colin Farrell and Jamie Foxx just stand there , posing sexily .
Not bad , but too predictable in the end and it has a terrible score	Anthony Minghella's sophomore feature , and easily his least well known film . It's not too hard to see why . It seems like a pretty generic romantic comedy . I would say that's being unfair , though , as the characters are a little better written than you would expect from the genre , and there is a little more emotional connection , too . But , in the end , it opts for formula instead of trying to figure out a more believable solution . It should be mentioned that this is the only film Minghella directed in which he didn't have a hand in the screenplay . The film stars Matt Dillon and Annabella Sciorra as a divorced couple . Sciorra relies on alimony payments to live , and Dillon is unable to move forward in his current relationship with Mary Louise Parker or to invest in a bowling alley which his friends want to buy . The solution : find a suitable partner for the ex to marry , thus ending alimony . For a long time , it didn't seem like the movie was lame enough to have Dillon fall for his ex-wife , but , alas , that's what eventually happens . Personally , I was so smitten by Mary Louise Parker that I was especially disappointed . Then again , Dillon does come off as kind of a jerk , so I guess I didn't really care with whom he ended up . It's still moderately entertaining , but the straw that breaks the camel's back is the transcendently awful smooth jazz score . Apparently , the composer isn't even listed in the credits ( at least IMDb doesn't list who wrote it ) , but this person deserves to be beaten .
Some fun to be had , but it disappoints in the end	Often a lot of fun , but also often really annoying . The fun is more prevalent , but the bad stuff tends to weigh the good stuff down , so that , in the end , my feelings about it are leaning more towards the negative . It's a goofy late ? 60s look at the 1920s and the flapper fad . Julie Andrews stars as the title character , who dresses in the style of the day , which is sort of mannish ( she hates that she isn't flat-chested , because her long pearl necklace is distorted by her breasts ) . Andrews is awesome , as always . She's so much fun , and she's so beautiful in an odd and intriguing way . Mary Tyler Moore plays a woman who has come to New York to pursue an acting career . When the proprietor of the boarding house in which they live finds out Moore is an orphan , she attempts to abduct her and sell her into prostitution in China . This is a big subplot in the film , and it doesn't work at all . The Chinese are depicted in a very hateful manner in the film , and I would imagine it would even be offensive in 1967 . The romantic plot is where the film more or less succeeds . Millie wants to find herself a single boss so she can hook up with him and be married . Unfortunately , her boss ( John Gavin ) , thinks of Millie as a man ( which she misses at first ) and he falls in love with the more girlish Moore instead . Meanwhile , another guy is courting Millie , a dorky guy named Jimmy ( James Fox ) . One big part of the film that annoys much more than it pleases is Carol Channing's obnoxious role as a playgirl millionairess . It's hard to believe that she was nominated for an Oscar for this painful performance . There is a ton of silly humor , some of which doesn't , some of which does . The film begins as a musical , and there are a couple of great musical numbers near the beginning , but it's almost as if this part of the movie is completely dropped in favor of broad , campy humor . Thoroughly Modern Millie has so much going for it , it's sad that it fails in the end . It's especially sad for Julie Andrews , as this might have been remembered alongside The Sound of Music and Mary Poppins as one of her signature roles . .
Interesting failure	Two vaudeville performers touring South America get involved in a revolution . It's somewhat similar to Woody Allen's Bananas . These two women are played by the impossibly gorgeous Brigette Bardot and the eternally pensive Jeane Moreau . The film is an action comedy , or at least that's what it's going for . But Louis Malle is definitely not up to it . He's actually one of my favorite directors of all time , but he has little idea what he's doing making this film . It must have been the most expensive French film at the time . Malle's previous film , The Fire Within , was a study on suicide and had about , I don't know , ten characters at the most . Viva Maria ! has a billion extras and a ton of speaking parts . It also has elaborate action sequences . The whole picture comes off sloppy . The comedy is especially poor . Almost nothing hits , nearly everything misses . The jokes are very poorly timed . I think I laughed at one of them . Viva Maria ! is worth watching though as a curio . Except for the comic moments , Malle's direction isn't bad . And Bardot and Moreau are always fun to watch . If for nothing else , watch it for the many strip teases they do near the beginning of the film . There are also a couple of very bizarre but wonderful scenes , like the almost Persona-esque " Lady in White " scene , where Moreau and Bardot ( with a little magical help from the editing machine ) dazzle , dizzy , and confound a Mexican baron . The color cinematography is also quite beautiful . It's worth a watch if you have nothing better to watch . .
Great first act , great third act , but the middle is so weak that the film buckles under its own weight	And it collapses . While there is plenty of good material , and even some moments of greatness in In the Bedroom , ultimately it is a failure . Because of the vast amounts of SPOILERS in the remainder of this review - yes , even more than was spoiled by the Academy Awards - I'll say right now that I give this film a . SPOILERSIn the Bedroom takes its structure from The Bicycle Thieves ( immediate SPOILERS for those who haven't seen that film yet , too ; skip onto the next paragraph ) . Based on a story called Killings , that plural marker is as important as the plural in The Bicycle Thieves , which is more often translated incorrectly into English as The Bicycle Thief . There are two bicycle thieves . The protagonist of that film is transformed into the antagonist in the film's climactic sequence . Likewise , Tom Wilkinson's character in In the Bedroom becomes exactly what he is so vexed at : a killer . Todd Fields should have kept that original title actually . The present title , " In the Bedroom , " refers to the lobster traps at the beginning of the film , and presents us with some very pedestrian symbolism . Moreover , it is symbolism which does nothing for the film but make those in the know giggle over its worthlessness . Like I said above , the film has an excellent beginning , with great performances from all sectors . Although the Oscar telecast probably ruined the climactic sequence of the beginning of the film , it still manages to be very powerful . I liked the first act so much that I really wished that the film was only about the relationship between the son and the single mother . The actor who plays Richard Stout , the killer , gives perhaps the film's best and most complex performance , especially when he is brought back near the end . There is one big problem with the end of the first act , though . Hank , the son who gets killed , dies very heroically . This isn't a problem at this point , but when the parents begin blaming each other , and when the Marissa Tomei character is so poorly treated , the audience is wondering how she could possibly be to blame . Well , it's believable on the mother's part . She's such a royal bitch it's impossible to really sympathize with her ever in the film . Well , we'll get to that a bit later . Anyhow , if Hank weren't there , Richard may well have killed her . We're obviously meant to believe that he was in love with her , and his death is tragically romantic . After Hank's death , the film moves onto a funeral scene followed by the first few days afterwards . This is still good , especially the short , wordless scenes that end with a heavy fade . But after these few scenes , the film lapses into endless repitition . Every single scene in the first act is brought back in maddeningly shallow ways . We saw the father and son play poker with friends one night . After his death , we see the same group , sans son , play poker with an uneasy air about them . The father and son listen to rerun Red Sox games on the radio . We see later the father listen to the same program . The father and son went lobster fishing . The father later goes lobster fishing alone . The father loved to visit his son at the dock during his lunch break . Later there is a scene where the father is at a loss for what to do during his lunch break . I'm sitting there screaming in my mind , " OKAY , WE GET IT ALREADY ! " With Spacek , it isn't so much the reminders as it is the smoking . This is the second Best Actress nominee who is forced to smoke to show emotion , Halle Berry being the second . And then we have the obligatory argument scenes and dish smashing scenes ( only three among the five Best Picture nominees this year ; that's not bad ! ) . First off , I would be surprised if anyone in the audience didn't hate Sissy Spacek's character . In fact , I was thinking that her performance was way overblown during a lot of her most passionate scenes , but now I realize that there are people a lot like her . She was realistic , but I despise that kind of person . For instance , who wouldn't cringe and want to smack her when she shouts at her husband that he only allowed their son to date Tomei because he himself wanted some of that action ? I was hoping that the film would end with Wilkinson booting Spacek out of the house , divorcing her flat . The thought also ran across my mind several times that Todd Field might hate his own mother . I've read interviews where he mentioned his mother as a part of the inspiration for that role . Tom Wilkinson's performance I could get more into . He's great all through the movie , except for that second poker scene , where he kind of fumbles . And I'm not entirely sure I believe the murder sequence at the end . Perhaps , but it's a stretch . It's unfortunate that so little works in the film's middle . What I'm most shocked at is how many people didn't notice how little meat it had in the second act . Film critics are getting much sloppier , knowing less and less about their own subject . Todd Field definitely has talent , both as a director and as a screenwriter . I hope next time someone either collaborates with him on the screenplay or at least he allow it to go through a couple of rewrites . The beginning and end of In the Bedroom are so strong that it really is a pity .
Second Funniest Movie my Butt	I have never understood the popularity of this film . Perhaps when it was made in the early 80s it was considered original or daring . To me , it seemed extremely laughless and predictable for most of its running time . Nothing that I saw made me laugh all that much . Nothing surprised me at all . The only person who made me laugh in the entire movie was Bill Murray , who perhaps gives the funniest performance he has ever given in this film . Never , never will I understand why people think this movie is one of the best films of all time . Somebody sold their soul for its popularity , apparently . I give it a .
Ought to be better	Has great promise , but delivers too little . It's always amusing , but I wish it would be more than just amusing . The production design is absolutely fantastic . It's the selling point of the film . Jim Carrey is very funny , and I like at least two of the three child stars . Emily Browning is sure to be the next Christina Ricci . Liam Aiken is also very good . The third child is just a baby , so who can tell whether she can act or not . What I do know is that the character of Sunny was by far my least favorite thing about the film . I did not like the cheap subtitled joke lines that she delivers constantly . The film would have been much better if that character would have been run over by a dump truck . There is an extraordinary animated sequence during the closing credits . This is , in a way , unfortunate . As soon as the film was over , everybody got up and started walking out . The audience did that thing when , as soon as something interesting appears over the closing credits , they all stop standing up , or try to push those who are still sitting down out of their way . That's horrible , but what's worse is that the three people I was with insisted on going . And the worst of all is that the theater rudely turned on the lights so that they could clean . I was forced out ! People worked damn hard on that sequence , probably much harder than the screenwriter or director did . They really ought to have had that open the film , instead of the stupid little clay animation bit that does begin it .
I laughed more than anything else . SPOILERS	Most people thought this was the biggest cinematic disappointment that they had ever seen , that is , until Star Wars : Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace was released two summers afterwards . I write this right after having come home from the third installment , Jurassic Park III , and I can safely say that JPII is the worst of the first 3 ( apparently they're going to make one more , at least ) . Still , I didn't despise it as much as the majority of people . The Lost World : Jurassic Park is the king of unintentional comedy . I've seen honest-to-God Godzilla movies that were less corny than this film . I had sat through the first half-hour , 45 minutes getting more and more irritated , but then came the scene where the trailer was dangling from a cliff . The characters are all hanging onto a rope on the inside of it , and , when it falls , everyone miraculously is able to hang onto the rope and keep it steady so that , say , a door didn't knock them off . My friend sitting next to me shouted " Bull Sht ! " I laughed . After that , it all became a laugh-fest . Whether it was Peter Stormare being devoured by tiny dinos or a little black girl ( from the where - the - heck - did - you - come - from files ) spinning around a randomly placed bar and kicking a raptor in the head ( Jeff Goldblum's immortal unintentionally funny line : " So you failed the gymnastics test , huh ? " ) , I was almost on the floor at times . The best scenes result when , King Kong-style , the characters idiotically haul the T-Rex back to San Francisco , where she can munch on dogs and Japanese people ( I've heard a rumor that the Japanese fellow it devours says : " Why does this always happen to me ? " in Japanese , although that sounds like a tall tale to me ) . Yes , this is a terrible movie , but it is one that contains as many laughs as 90 % of the comedy being released nowadays . . Heck , if it weren't for the fun-killing acting of Jeff Goldblum and Julianne Moore ( easily the lowest point in her otherwise shining career ) , I would recommend this movie .
Hong seems to be making the same film again and again	Hong Sang-Soo reminds me a lot of Eric Rohmer , which seems to be a comparison many have made before . But I would definitely rank him quite below Rohmer . I've seen four films by Hong now . I liked the first one I saw , Woman Is the Future of Man , a lot , but the other two , besides the one about which I'm currently writing , I only barely recall . Woman on the Beach seems far too similar to Woman Is the Future of Man for me to like it a lot . I didn't hate it , by any means , though I did eventually grow tired of it . I liked the initial conflict , where a man brings along a woman whom he thinks of as his girlfriend on a trip with a film director friend of his . The director is kind of a jerk , and the girl is immediately attracted to him ? either that , or she is so bothered by the meek guy that she just wants to spurn him . Later on , she discovers that the director's jerkiness is a pretty clear character trait . Well , duh . Much as I remember from Woman Is the Future of Man , Hong's major insight seems to be that men ( particularly film directors ) are jerks , and that women like jerks , but also think they can change them . It's a pretty trite observation , really , and , in the end , kind of hateful toward both sexes . It doesn't help that the woman becomes a completely jealous shrew . If I'm remembering correctly , I liked the woman of Woman Is the Future of Man much better . She seemed , in the end , better and stronger than the men in her life .
Interesting concept , but I don't think it worked	Great concept , so-so execution . An interviewer and his cameraman sit down to interview a long-retired actress who's been shunning other reporters for years . The interviewer brings her a gift , a key that she lost long , long ago . It opens up her memories of a man whom she helped in her youth , in the era before WWII , and we see those memories entangled in her film career . These melded flashbacks are a beautiful idea . Unfortunately , for some reason the interviewer and his cameraman come along for the trip , filming the events inside the actress ' head , and eventually even participating in them . This conceit never works , and in fact the film pretty much fails just because of it . It doesn't at all help that both of these characters are constantly used for unnecessary comic relief ( especially the cameraman , whose reaction shots I'm guessing Satoshi Kon found hysterical , as they're in there so frequently ) . If Kon had left these two characters out of the fantasy , the film might have been great . Even so , it still would have been far away from a masterpiece . The central story of the girl looking for her lost love through her memory is great , but I didn't feel like I knew her well enough to care either way .
Wait to rent , for sure	This looked like it might be a genuinely good exploitation / horror flick . It almost is . It's a pretty horrific serial-killer-on-the-lam story , but it's undermined by weak performances from a couple of the main characters , a ripped - from - the - classic - rock - station song score , and some very incompetent direction by Zombie . This is said to be an improvement for him after House of 1000 Corpses , which I didn't see ( because everyone warned me not to ) , and to which The Devil's Rejects is a sequel . If it is an improvement , House of 1000 Corpses must be really slovenly . Exploitation fans will be pleased ( or disgusted or made to squirm in a good way ) by much of the movie . It often works as rednecksploitation . The one thing that always works is Sid Haig as the Marx Brothers-named Captain Spaulding , one of the freakiest looking clowns ( " clown " meant literally ) ever . Bill Moseley plays his psychotic son , but , while his look is pretty frightening , he sounds like a dork whenever he talks ( he's not even threatening when he's slaughtering his victims ) . The weakest link in the film is Zombie's wife , Sheri Moon Zombie . Her performance is pathetic . She's never convincing as a psychopath , in a performance completely ripped-off from Juliette Lewis ' enormously disturbing Mallory Knox from Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers ( an infinitely better and more intelligent film ) . And I've never seen such shameless exploitation of a spouse by a director . Note to Rob Zombie : your wife has a nice butt , but she's not even that hot . You could find a dozen women who look like Sheri Moon Zombie at any bar , and would probably easily be able to pick one of them up long before last call . The penultimate sequence , where the cop who's been chasing them through the whole film ( played by William Forsythe ) tortures the murderers , is actually very good . He ends up giving the murderous family their just deserts . You can almost see that the three have finally felt the kind of evil that they are so accustomed to inflicting on others . Unfortunately , the film ends with a Butch Cassidy-esquire sequence that's just embarrassing .
Oh please !	To me , Ishiro Honda is Japan's answer to Ed Wood . It's true , he's not quite as bad as Wood , and his films were actually hugely successful . Still , Honda shows almost no artistic abilities when it comes to film-making ? it all moves too slow , half the film is stock footage and the miniatures never look like anything but miniatures ? and absolutely no abilities when it comes to writing ? every theme the film has is spoken out loud by the film's characters . Even the famous monster looks like total crap ? grade school kids could have come up with a less turd-looking dinosaur with a stack of newspapers and a bucket of glue . Much like Wood , Honda loved making movies and really had good intentions while doing it , even though he was largely clueless . I can't believe some people take him seriously as a director . The only really good part of the film is its score , by Akira Ifukube . This original version plods along and is dead serious . The cheesier later Godzilla films are much more fun . I wouldn't say it's a total waste of time , though . It's kind of fun in the same way that Plan 9 from Outer Space is . P . S . Be sure to rate my review as unhelpful because you disagree with it !
I'm that guy who doesn't like Hou Hsiao-Hsien - but I actually did like at least one part of this film	A triptych film about love in different time periods . The first segment takes place in 1966 , the second in 1911 and the third in 2005 . Like all multiple-segment movies , the segments are of varying quality . People will of course prefer different segments . The first segment is simple and sweet . A man , about to embark on military duty , meets up with a girl who works in a pool hall . He falls in love with her , and writes her after he leaves . When he returns , he searches for her desperately , and they spend a too-short evening together . It's nice , but it doesn't amount to much . The 1960s American love songs strike me as completely antithetical to everything Hou has stood for in the past . I would be surprised if someone saw this and didn't call to mind Wong Kar-Wai . To be perfectly honest , I had a damn tough time paying any attention at all to the second segment . The story works within historical , cultural and political contexts that are not always easy to understand . For some odd reason , Hou decides to convey the dialogue as if it were a silent movie . It's a strange and pointless gimmick . 1911 is a tad too early to be thinking of any well-known silent cinema . I'm guessing that China had barely seen the technology yet . Plus , the segment is filmed just as the other two are , in splendorous colors ( the photography is drop-dead gorgeous throughout ) . I'm not big on Hou , and I'm not especially big on silent cinema , either , so the cocktail did absolutely nothing for me . Oh , and that awful upscale-hotel elevator music is just unbearable ! The third segment is by far my favorite , and probably my second favorite thing Hou has ever done . Possibly even the best ; I'd have to re-watch Flowers of Shanghai . It's quiet and subtle , like all of Hou's films , but , as rarely happens with me in his cinema , I actually connected with the characters and the story . I don't know if I would have liked it if it were an entire feature , but at this length it worked quite well . Oh , and Shu Qi is a babe . She was also in Millennium Mambo . Kind of wish Hou would have let her make out with that girl in that last segment . Damn you Hou Hsiao-Hsien !
Not good . Duvall is especially bad .	Based on a William Faulkner story to be found in the collection Knight's Gambit , possibly his best work written after WWII , Tomorrow is the story of a dull Southern man who falls in love with a pregnant woman whose husband has run away and then raises the child . The script , written by Horton Foote ( who won an Oscar for his screenplay for To Kill a Mockingbird ) is decent , but it straightens out Faulkner's labyrinthine plot ( told only in about 14 pages ) in such a way that it erases a lot of the emotional complexity . It's so straightforward that it becomes sort of dull after a while . The framing story seems like it is retained in the film because it wouldn't make much sense without it , but it isn't retained very well at all . The film also does not have much of a Faulknerian mood , either . Faulkner's world is a sad place , but it's not cold . The sparse black and white photography in the film is wrong for the mood . It seems very inspired by Carl Th . Dreyer - I'm almost positive of it . Several shots especially reminded me of Day of Wrath and Ordet . However , it all may have worked if not for the performances . Usually when you hear of Tomorrow , you hear how amazing Robert Duvall is in the lead . But for my money , this is easily his worst performance . One of them , anyhow . He displays his emotions well enough through his movements and facial expressions , but , for some unknown reason , he comes up with this way of speaking that is simply grating . It's cartoonish . And you've heard this voice if you've ever seen Billy Bob Thornton's 1996 film Sling Blade - Thornton stole the voice straight from Duvall . It was kind of annoying in Sling Blade , but at least that character was mentally handicapped . Duvall's isn't , but you might think he is . It's an execrable performance . It's also a very stage-bound performance ( the adaptation is tertiary , and was a play before it was a film ) . Olga Bellin , who plays the pregnant woman , is not nearly as bad , but her performance also seems false . She talks endlessly ( the character never really appears in the short story ) , and is very annoying with her affected accent . In fact , even counting the supporting players , I've never seen a film with such affected performances as Tomorrow . The only natural performance in the film is from the young boy , Johnny Mask . Tomorrow is worth a look , especially for Faulkner aficionados , but it is a failure . .
Rarity from Hou's commercial period ( but you're not missing much , even if you're a fan )	It's not a good movie , but not a terrible one , either . I think this was actually Hou's most profitable film in Taiwan . I know it was successful , anyway . It's certainly more commercial than any of his other films that I've seen . It stars a famous pop singer of the time , Kenny B ( and , let me tell you , if this guy could be a pop star in Taiwan , YOU could just as easily ) . The press release said it was supposed to be a musical , but that was misleading . I was looking forward to it for that reason ( a Hou musical ? The thought intrigued me ) , but , alas , all I got was one terrible song in which Mr . B popped in once in a while , a teacher singing a song to a class ( both of these are the same song , and it was about sharing cola ! ) , and two songs performed by children at a school play near the end of the film . The plot concerns a teacher ( Kenny B ) fighting to get a law passed to protect the local stream , in which a couple of people have been spotted either poisoning fish or electrocuting them . Let me cut to the point : every scene that does not concern the kids who co-star in the film sucks . The kids are wonderful , just as they were in A Summer at Grandpa's , which Hou made the next year . They are a little less realistic than the children in Grandpa's , and a little more cutesy , but they are remarkable actors all of them . The screenplay is often horrible , but , all in all , it wasn't too bad . I will admit that it is not nearly as important or artistically accomplished as many of the Hou films that I enjoyed less than it . .
A poor movie with a couple of great bits , especially Cyd Charisse's two numbers	Thin and fairly dull Esther Williams vehicle , with Peter Lawford as her love interest . Williams and Lawford are both boring , and have no chemistry together . They are upstaged by just about every single other person in the cast , Cyd Charisse , Ricardo Montalban , Xavier Cugat , Jimmy Durante ( whom you'd think was the star of the movie as much as he's in it ) , Kathryn Beaumont and even a chihuahua . Williams does have a good swimming number near the end , and she wears some fantastic costumes . I can't say anything good about Lawford . Recently departed dancer Cyd Charisse has the two best sequences in the movie , an erotic dance with Montalban and , the best scene in the movie , her dance on the stairs , aided by a group of masked natives . The Technicolor cinematography is beautiful throughout the movie , but it's downright dazzling in that number . At first I thought this was going to be a poor choice in honoring Charisse , but it turned out to be perfect . Child star Kathryn Beaumont went on to provide the voices for Disney's Alice in Wonderland and Wendy Darling . The DVD for this was stunning .
The first half promised a masterpiece that the second half couldn't deliver	I've had this DVD in my collection for several years now , having picked it up cheap at a Black Friday sale . Deborah Kerr's unfortunate passing finally got me to pull it out . Should have went with my first choice , Black Narcissus , instead . An Affair to Remember starts off fine , with Cary Grant and Kerr , both engaged to be married , meeting on a voyage across the Atlantic . The first half of the film follows them as they try to avoid each other , but end up falling in love anyway . As they are about to part ways , they agree to meet each other in six months at the top of the Empire State building . So far , it's lovely . Unfortunately , there's an hour left , and , where the first half was a lovely romantic comedy , the second half is all dull melodrama . When Cary and Kerr are apart , the sizzle between them burns out pretty much instantly . And then the film inserts a bunch of precocious children , whom Kerr teaches to sing . There were a couple of fine child actors in classic Hollywood , but the vast majority of them seem like they are being fed lines two seconds before the camera comes on , and then they just repeat it out of rote . If there's a Hell , I'll be surrounded by kids who appeared in classic movies .
Maybe worth renting ; definitely a weak film with some terrible moments . Some good ones , too , though .	Like all the De Palma films I've seen at least , The Black Dahlia is all style and flash and no substance . Hey , that's cool when the results are fun to watch , as in Sisters , Carlito's Way or Femme Fatale . It doesn't work here , though . It's a busy , hard-boiled police investigation flick that doesn't make a whole lot of sense in the end . De Palma , as you might imagine , goes way over the top in a lot of places , but it just turns out to be embarrassing . There was a lot of inappropriate laughter in the theater . The performances are modeled after old Hollywood , and it just feels like everyone's playing dress-up . The film doesn't offer much to its performers . I was slightly impressed with Hilary Swank , just because her two most famous roles have molded her image into that of a tomboy or butch lesbian . She actually has some lesbiana to deal with here , as well , but she gets to be a femme ( of the fatale variety ) . I've never thought of her as attractive , but she out-sexes Scarlett Johansson in this one . The only truly good performance in the film belongs to Mia Kirshner as Elizabeth Short , the murder victim . You may remember Kirshner as a teenage stripper in Atom Egoyan's Exotica . I didn't know she was still around , but she's very good here , seen only in screen test footage . The characters are all two dimensional , and the screenplay is generally poor . I grew bored fairly quickly . All in all , as disappointing as it may be , it would probably be worth seeing The Black Dahlia . De Palma's camera is as impressive as always . Maybe rent it .
Great performances augment a film that is , in reality , quite awful	Note to Niki Caro : tone it down , just a little . I believe it had to be bad for women in this situation , but , even if it's true , it's difficult to buy that men would break into the women's locker room and smear feces all over the walls . There's more than a fine line between misogyny and insanity . And even if I could believe that , it's difficult to believe that human resources wouldn't side with the victims of a crap-smearing , even a little . I tried to like this piece of Oscar bait , and I did , to a certain extent . Charlize Theron is definitely great in the lead . This is a better performance than the one she won an Oscar for a while back . A lot of the supporting cast is excellent , as well , though they didn't need to give Frances MacDormand Lou Gehrig's disease to get her an Oscar nomination . Caro gets so schmaltzy it makes you sick . The courtroom scenes ( and , lord , do I hate courtroom scenes ) are ridiculous . No lawyer would be allowed to go on with what Woody Harrelson gets away with near the end . And the I-Am-Spartacus climax made me want to throw things . Most of the film is decent , but moments like this kill it dead . My rating is only as high as it is for Theron's performance .
Tsukamoto's most conventional and probably his least good , but still a pretty decent flick	Probably the most conventional film Shinya Tsukamoto has directed . Really , it would only take a couple of tiny clichés for that to happen , since every other film he has made is so utterly unconventional . Nightmare Detective is sort of a police procedural . Detectives are investigating two apparent suicides that seem to have killed themselves while dreaming . It turns out both of these people had called the same number shortly before they died , and the detectives believe that the owner of this number , known as 0 ( zero ) , may have had something to do with the deaths . The detectives , through some huge logical jumps , also seek out a man known as the nightmare detective ( Ryuhei Matsuda of Taboo ) , who has the power to enter dreams . The killer ( Shinya Tsukamoto ) also has this power . The major cliché that bothers me most is that of the hot , young female detective , played by a relative newcomer known only as Hitomi , who has to prove herself to her male co-workers . It's very boring , and , as cute as she is , Hitomi isn't a very good actress , at least not here . My educated guess is that Ms . Hitomi started her career as a model , and was later drafted into acting . There's also the whole cell phone angle , which has already been done by Miike in One Last Call . I admit I have skipped out on that one even though Miike is one of my favorite directors . It's just corny . It also doesn't help that both the hot detective and the cell phone-inspired deaths instantly bring to mind the recent comedy Forgetting Sarah Marshall , which used both of these themes to provide major laughs . And I'm sure no one who made that movie had ever seen Nightmare Detective . Still , even having written a mediocre script , Tsukamoto could never lose his talent for direction . And the direction is very Tsukamoto . When Tsukamoto attacks in the nightmares , he appears as a deformed monster that is only half-seen . The visuals are eerily beautiful and I really liked the music , too . All in all , it's a pretty good horror flick . It's the first part of a trilogy , the second of which should be released in Japan later this year . Hitomi is not a part of it , so I'll keep my hopes up .
Not as good as I was hoping	Such interest in Fitzcarraldo was sparked in my mind that I was compulsively forced to purchase the DVD version of it . It was fascinating , a near-masterpiece , I would say . And I desperately wished to see the documentary about its making , Burden of Dreams . Well , probably a year after I first saw Fitzcarraldo , I came home one night to find Burden of Dreams on the Sundance Channel ( praise god for this station ! ) . I had missed about 8 minutes , but , oh well , I sat down to watch the rest . Unfortunately , it did not reveal much about Fitzcarraldo . I had read about the problems Herzog had during the filming , and this is basically what Burden's focus is . The documentary does not go deep enough , though . I would say about a quarter of it ( its running length is just over 90 minutes ) is made up of actual scenes from Fitzcarraldo with maybe a short paragraph to describe the setting and maybe some small bit of behind-the-scene narrative . Another section of the film is made up of interviews with the cast and crew . This should have been the lifeblood of this documentary , but it was not . Herzog's own interviews were interesting , but it is more or less him complaining because things are not going his way ( which he has a right to complain about , but it isn't all that interesting to watch ) . He has this very silly monologue where he complains about how the jungle symbolizes the death of the world , when really the only thing symbolizing death is his dying film . Very disappointing is the documentarians ' inability to get interviews with the cast . I was seriously hoping for some of Klaus Kinski's patented insanity and also at least one interview with the great Claudia Cardinale . There was one tiny interview with Kinski where he complained about having cabin fever for being stuck in the cast camps for weeks at a time , completely justifiable , I would say , and there are no interviews with Cardinale ( although she may have been interviewed before I started watching ) . It made me feel a little disappointed that no documentarians had been there to film Aguirre , the Wrath of God , where Kinski absolutely flipped out ! Never fear , though . There is one very good part of this film : it serves as an ethnographic document for the Indians of South America . Herzog rightly claims that their parts in Fitzcarraldo itself were not sufficiently ethnographic , since they were just doing what he was asking of them . But in the documentary , we see the Indians making masato , an alcoholic drink made of yucca and saliva , we see them playing games such as arrow catching , we even see an attack from a different tribe that believes that the Indians who are working on the film have come to attack them . All of this is extremely interesting .
Not among Kurosawa's better films , but certainly interesting	An interesting film in Kurosawa's canon : it deals explicitly with the WWII era and , alone amongst the man's films , has a woman as the protagonist ( played by Ozu's favorite star , Setsuko Hara ) . Hara plays Yukie , the daughter of a college professor who is fired after expressing leftist ideas . This plot catalyst is based on real events , which happened in Kyoto in 1933 , but the film is entirely fictional . Yukie is caught in the middle of the affection of two of her father's students , Noge and Itokawa , who both follow her father's ideals and both protest on behalf of academic freedom . The film spans from 1933 to immediately after the war , in 1945 . We follow Hara's hardships as she moves to Tokyo and later on to the country , where she must toil in the rice paddies to make a living . It may be blasphemy , but I'm not the biggest Setsuko Hara fan . In Ozu's movies , I sometimes find her smug and annoying . This is especially true for her most famous performance , in Tokyo Story . She's one of the big reasons I couldn't warm to that film . I think she challenges herself more here than she does in her Ozu roles . Sure , it's a more showy performance , but what Hara shows is the skill to depict transformation . At the beginning , she's kind of a brat , and we see her become a full-fledged woman . Unfortunately , the film itself is not great . Probably for political reasons ( United States censors were keeping an eye on the movie industry , of course ) , but also because Kurosawa might not have wanted to drag an already war-bedraggled audience through more mud than he had to , the film is often historically vague . There's some talk of Japan's actions in China , but nothing explicit talked about . Yukie notably leaves Tokyo shortly before America bombed it to oblivion , killing over 50 , 000 civilians in their campaign . She might be suffering in those rice paddies , but honestly she survived the war fairly easily . Kurosawa doesn't handle the whole love triangle thing very well , or maybe it's all just a little trite and boring . Both Noge and Itokawa are rather bland characters . If not for the particularly strong final third , where Hara becomes a peasant farmer , I would probably have called it the director's weakest . But Kurosawa really does shine in that part of the film ( as does Hara ) . The melodramatic montages of toil and suffering seem much more up his alley than the earlier scenes .
Worst musical ever ? Maybe !	Infamously bad musical , often considered the worst movie of that genre . This film is a treasure for bad movie lovers . It's just transcendently awful , an assault to the ears and eyes . Ed Wood-level auteur Menahem Golan , who produced such classics as Over the Top , The Forbidden Dance , the Breakin ' movies , American Ninja , Ninja 3 : The Domination , Superman IV and Masters of the Universe , directs this futuristic retelling of the story of Adam and Eve , set in the distant year of 1994 . Mr . Boogalow is a record company executive who is symbolically the devil . Catherine Mary Stewart and George Gilmour are two Canadian ingénues who try to revive the long-dormant art of the love song ( so 1970s ! ) . Mr . Boogalow quickly puts a stop to that by tempting Stewart to the disco scene . The movie pretty much hits its record industry target , and predicts American Idol ( except that , instead of soulless disco songs , for the most part the contestants on that show sing soulless ballads ) . It's not the stupidest movie in the world . On the other hand , it is one of the most garish imaginable , with its goofy futuristic clothes ( people in the future always tend to like shiny things a lot ) , and the songs are beyond horrible . Well , at least they're laughable . The whole film is , very much so . And I honestly enjoyed it in a masochistic sort of way .
I think I should watch it once more	A frustrating film in a way . I was hugely disappointed in it for a long while , but as the film progressed I kept wondering if my disappointment was merely a product of my unfair expectations . That's probably the case . I expect a daring comedy from the Brothers Farrelly , but Shallow Hal is surprisingly low-key . It doesn't go for easy laughs , as it easily could have done . The plot concerns a looks-obsessed guy ( Jack Black ) who is hypnotized into seeing the inner beauty of others . He falls in love with a fat woman who appears to him as Gwyneth Paltrow . When the film came out , a lot of people complained that this was terrible ; he only loves her because he is attracted to Gwyneth Paltrow , not the fat incarnation that appears in only a couple of shots in the first 90 minutes of the film . But these people didn't really stick around for the payoff in the third act . What's so surprising about this film is how emotionally involving it is . A lot of this is due to Gwyneth Paltrow , who actually gives one of her best performances . But fans of the Farrelly Brothers , as I am myself , will not be shocked to find that emotional center . It was there in both Kingpin and There's Something About Mary . It's just as fun when the Brothers are mean-spirited , however , as they were in Me , Myself , & Irene and , even better , the unfairly maligned Dumb and Dumber . The serious themes are really on full display here , though . The Brothers have a true and touching affection for physical outsiders . I still wish that they wouldn't have forsaken comedy so much , though . I suppose the only jokes would have been fat jokes , but maybe not . Jason Alexander provides almost all of the good laughs . We wonder why he and Jack Black are so mean about the looks of others when they aren't especially gorgeous themselves . Some people are still asking how such a man as Jason Alexander can be so shallow in this film , but they , as I've said before , didn't stick around until the end . This film may improve on repeat viewings , as it was bothering me for a long while . .
Entertaining . Just don't expect too much	And if you're a fan of the Final Fantasy video games , you certainly will be expecting too much . I , like many , have been really excited about this movie for four or five years now , drooling at every little pic or clip we were given by the film's web site . The finished product is , unfortunately , little more than a popcorn movie . Still , as far as popcorn movies are concerned , it is a very good one . Ealier this summer , I had a lot of fun at The Mummy Returns . Final Fantasy was more fun and , by the end , it was somewhat emotionally involving . SPOILERS ( also for the games Final Fantasy 6 & 7 ) Story : the script is probably the film's weakest point . It's not bad , but it is disappointing . The reason for this comes mainly from the comparison between the film and the video games , specifically Final Fantasy VI and VII , easily the two best role playing games ever made . Those who haven't played the video game might scoff , but both of those games were enormously powerful in their emotions . The characters of both of those games were as complex as any in a good sci-fi / fantasy novel . I know plenty of people who cried their eyes out when Aeris was killed . Ditto when Shadow dies in FFVI . I have always thought that those two games could make awesome television series . They're too long for feature films . Final Fantasy : The Spirits Within should not have been written by American writers . The film is too imbued with action / sci-fi cliches , and it borrows heavily from Aliens . The antagonist is particularly weak . They give him a reason for his actions , but I never felt it . That explanation felt more like an excuse that the writers gave him . The main character , Aki , is decently well developed , as well as Dr . Sid and Grey . I wish they all had a little more background , but what they have gives them some dramatic weight . Of the three supporting soldiers , only Neil , voiced by Steve Buscemi , has a character ( which has a lot to do with who is voicing him ! ) . The other two , Jane and Ryan , are far too much like cognate characters in Aliens to be worth much . The Phantoms are an interesting invention . Their motives are pretty original . It's not cliche , anyways . Animation : well , it takes the cake as far as computer animation goes . It exposes Shrek's animation for the mediocrity it is and should be recognized as . The humans look a lot like humans . You can even see the veins on the back of Aki's hand . Unfortunately , the human characters ' expressions are nil . They almost don't exist . Only one character ever smiles , and the animators ' inability to make the character do this convincingly provides the screenwriters a good excuse to make all the characters dire and depressed . These computer animated characters just cannot express emotion in their faces . I am not sure that they ever will . Anyhow , that has to be the next big step in computer animation . Gestures also have a penchant for being choppy and stiff and , much like the realistic video game computer animation that has been produced in the last couple of years , heads bob unnaturally while speaking . Still , go see the film , especially if you have a great theater showing it . It's exciting and fun . Just buy a big bucket of popcorn and enjoy the show .
The young cast really makes this movie	I famously predicted that this movie would bomb in the theater , but I was incredibly wrong . It's actually one of the top-grossing films of the year . When I was fumbling for an excuse as to why it was so successful , I guessed that the film's Disney Channel alumni had brought in a younger audience and recaptured them for repeat business . Well , I think I happened to be right on that account . The film itself isn't anything special . It's quite enjoyable overall , but it doesn't break any artistic ground as compared to John Waters ' original flick . It subtracts some of Waters ' best moments ( my favorite loss being the scene where the characters meet up with Pia Zadora as a beatnik ) , and adds a worthless subplot just so Edna and Wilbur Turnblad can share a duet . It's not even funny how bad John Travolta is in this movie . They might as well have filmed him peeing on Divine's grave . He cannot produce a plausible woman's voice whatsoever , and when he sings it's ten times as grating . I don't even think Travolta was this bad in Battlefield Earth . Christopher Walken brings nothing into his role , which , as far as I remember , has been expanded far too much from the original film . Queen Latifah also brings almost nothing to the picture , except a decent singing voice . Too bad there's hardly a memorable song in the entire musical . I should mention that among the adult cast , James Marsden and especially Michelle Pfeiffer are quite good . So there , I've trashed it as much as I'm going to . There are some things I really didn't care for in the film , but , I must say , the film's young cast , to which I attribute its enormous success , makes it well worth watching . They're all fantastic , without a stinker among them . Nikki Blonsky , Amanda Bynes , Zac Efron , Elijah Kelley , Taylor Parks , and Brittany Snow are all outstanding . They are the equals , if not the betters of the original film's cast . They make the movie , really .
	Good but mostly cliché WWII film about the storming of Iwo Jima . The soldier characters are rather forgettable , and the whole film frankly looks bad after seeing Wellman's superb Battleground , made the same year . When you see Battleground , it gives you a feel of how horrible it would be to have been in combat . Iwo Jima is much lamer . It's the kind of movie where , when someone gets shot , they stand straight up , hold their stomach , say ' UGH ! ' and then fall backwards . One wonders why Iwo Jima is the better remembered of the two films . If it weren't for the fine acting of John Wayne , the film would probably be completely mediocre . Yet even Wayne had a better performance in 1949 , one of his best , doubtless his best up until that time , in Ford's She Wore a Yellow Ribbon . It boggles the mind that the Academy would nominate Wayne for Best Actor for Iwo Jima instead of Yellow Ribbon , but I guess Westerns were already passé .
Good ; surprised Carruth hasn't gotten any other jobs yet	Famous for being made for $7000 , this is a sci-fi flick about a couple of engineers / inventors who stumble upon a way to travel back in time . While it's pretty clear how this could be made for so little money ( location , location , location ? it was probably made in the director's garage and stuff like that ) , it never really looks cheap . Actually , the photography is quite good . Also , the actors , among whom are the director , Shane Carruth , are not at all bad . The problems that the film does have all come from the script , although it has its positive aspects . I'm not really sure if the script is above my head or if it's just pitched in such a way that it feels above my head . The science described in the film sometimes sounds so technical that you want to believe it , but it also sounds so vague that I was wondering if all the dialogue was pretty much meaningless . I suppose I should credit Carruth for making me think his script might actually be really smart , instead of just dismissing it out of hand . That takes talent in itself . But then the vagueness of it is also distancing , and eventually I grew a little bored of the film . Still worth seeing . I have to wonder why Carruth hasn't been tapped by Hollywood yet . He clearly has talent in both the writing and directing departments , and maybe as an actor , too .
It starts off pretty well , but then hobbles itself with its cliché baddies	The latest cinematic adaptation of the Richard Matheson novel , and the first one to use its real name . The other two are The Last Man on Earth , starring Vincent Price , and The Omega Man , starring Charlton Heston . Haven't seen the Price version yet , but The Omega Man is a sentimental favorite of mine . Cheesy and fun , loaded with the trappings of its time ( 1971 ) . Lawrence's version is more serious-minded . He wants to make the audience feel what New York City would be like if you were the only person there . And he succeeds very well . It looks brilliant . Will Smith is capable as the only survivor in NYC . This is more of a horror flick than The Omega Man , and it works well as that . My biggest complaint , though , is that this film really rips off 28 Days Later . The mutants of I Am Legend are pretty much exactly the same as the rage infected people of that film , mostly mindless zombies who roar a lot and hunger for human blood ( The Descent also came to mind a lot , especially with the aversion to light the baddies have ) . With the monsters seeming so much like they did in that one , and with the post-apocalyptic setting being pretty much exactly the same , it feels more like a remake of that than it does of The Omega Man . And frankly , 28 Days Later didn't need to be remade . Not so soon , anyway . Heck , the sequel to 28 Days Later , 28 Weeks Later , did a much better job differentiating itself from its predecessor than this film does . Still , the film is quite entertaining , and one of the better blockbusters of the year .
Brutal but good	Holy crap ! It's kind of silly that they even brought this character back after so much time . I mean , he was a relic of the Vietnam War and , while that's not forgotten , not even in the political spectrum , the political arguments those original films moronically made are pretty dead . The new Rambo doesn't even mention Vietnam . It takes place in nearby Burma , a country of great social strife and unending violence . Believe me , Rambo doesn't help matters much as far as the violence is concerned . When a group of Christian missionaries which he helped get into Burma is captured , Rambo joins a band of mercenaries to try to extract them . It's the most brutal mainstream American film ever made , no doubt . Brains splatter , heads roll and limbs fly off . The worst thing is , this kind of carnage is happening in a lot of places on Earth every day , although probably not instigated by a 62 year-old Vietnam vet . Surprisingly , the film doesn't take this lightly at all . It wants the audience to feel bad . It's hard to recommend this to anyone , because it really is disgusting . It is , however , undoubtedly gripping , as well , if you can stomach it .
Don't give up	Looking at the number of imdb voters for both the I Am Curious films , it seems that few who watch the first end up watching the second ( there are 194 votes for Yellow , and 46 for Blue ) . That's not surprising . Four hours of near-randomness is surely a bit difficult to sit through . And the four hours provide limited rewards . Yet , as one of the few who actually did finish both films , I hardly feel unrewarded . In fact , I think , having seen it all , the sum is greater than the parts . Sjöman does present a kaleidoscope of emotion and thoughts , all very fragmentary , of course , but the fragments are currently drifting around in my mind . I Am Curious might not be a ton of fun to sit through , but I think the films will be a part of me for longer than I might have originally guessed . As a closing note , I must say that the films ' lead actress , Lena Nyman , gives an extraordinary performance , which is another aspect that isn't very obvious if you've just seen Yellow . She runs the entire gamut of emotion . As an actress who is certainly being horribly objectified by her director , she ends up coming out on top of it . If there's one thing I'll take out of the films , it's the sight of her dark , sad , curious gaze . She went on to better things , for example , Ingmar Bergman's Autumn Sonata . Bergman surely realized her talent . I don't remember much in that film besides the two lead performances , who , even if there were a thousand other talented performers in it , would have drawn every ounce of attention towards themselves . I'll have to check it out a second time some day to find Nyman . .
Good for this genre	Often considered the best kaiju film ever made , or at least second best after the original Gojira . I would perhaps concur , though I myself don't consider that title to be particularly difficult to win . But Gamera 3 does have a script that goes a bit deeper than all the others , and the special effects are almost as good as those found in American action movies . And thankfully the monsters themselves are only ever partially created by CGI . They are mostly puppets , I think ( maybe there are guys in suits ) . Gamera is the savior of Earth . Unfortunately , he is so big , and his enemies are so big that their fights cause a huge amount of collateral damage . The story concerns a young girl whose parents were killed by Gamera when he was defending Earth . A few years later , she discovers a baby monster , which she names after her cat Iris ( also killed by that bastard giant turtle ) , and attempts to raise it with the hope that it will someday rival Gamera . Unlike any other kaiju film I've seen , Gamera 3 doesn't glimpse over the fact that if anything actually happened like this , many real people would die horribly . During one scene , we see corpses launched by a huge explosion . I suppose that's an interesting angle , but , honestly , I don't think this genre really needs to take itself so seriously . Sure , Gojira was invented as a symbol of nuclear weapons . But the genre it spawned quickly lost any meaningful subtext . They were cheap to make and cheesily entertaining . Every kaiju film I've watched as an adult has looked lame , but I really did enjoy them as a kid . Gamera 3 doesn't make me feel particularly guilty for enjoying Godzilla stomping on an obviously fake Tokyo when I was a lad . The deaths that it shows rather graphically are somewhat counterproductive . This stuff never really happens , after all . As for flaws in the film-making , the story is somewhat convoluted . There are some annoyingly clichéd characters ? notably the psychic woman and the dandy fop who philosophizes that Gamera and his enemies keep the Earth in balance . The worst thing is that , like most kaiju movies , most of the scenes not involving monsters are extremely boring . This one drags a lot during its first half . I nodded off at least once . But those are just some complaints . Overall , I rather liked the film .
No , it's not a great film , but it's better than you may have heard	The Great Moment , as I'm sure you know , is not a typical Preston Sturges movie . It is a historical drama with a few comic moments , all of which are clunky ( although a couple of the stranger ones are so bizarre they're entertaining in a way , especially when Morton tries to knock out his dog with ether ) . The film might actually have been quite great if the comedy were subtracted completely . Yeah , I know , we're talking Sturges here . But Sturges was a great dramatic director , too . See The Great McGinty if you don't believe me - the comedy there is less than in many of his other films , and the drama is more pronounced . Most often , Sturges was a master of mixing both dramatic and comedic moments . All of his films were like that . The Great Moment has an excellent story at its core . A dentist - he was in medical school , but he ran out of money and had to earn his living as a dentist - wants to find a way to knock out his patients before he pulls teeth . He does so with ether . He also has aspirations to introduce the use of ether into the medical profession . These intentions are noble , but his patent hasn't come through and he feels the guilt of every painful operation . You see , the AMA will not allow doctors to use Letheon ( his name for it ) unless they know exactly what it is . But as soon as he tells , everyone will know , and his discovery will go unrecognized . The film actually has a very good structure . It begins in medias res , with Morton ( Joel McCrea , who is very good in the film ) being advised on how to proceed legally to attain a patent . In taking these steps , he ruins his career and reputation . The rest of the film is the buildup to the loss of his secret . The final scene is very powerful . . One other small reason you should see this : Franklin Pangborn has the funniest facial hair in this film ! Grady Sutton also has a really funny scene .
Often hilarious	" Documentary " about the world's filthiest joke , as told by dozens of famous ( and not so famous ) comedians . The joke involves a man describing a family act to a talent agent . The act includes any scatology a comedian can invent in his or her head , but normally involves feces , blood , sperm and urine , at the very least . Anyway , the joke isn't funny in itself . It's all in the telling . Which is why the film is somewhat uneven . Not everyone's version is equally funny . It's also uneven because the editing is kind of lousy . They like to cut up a comedian's segment and insert clips of others talking about why the joke is or isn't funny . But then you get a particularly funny person telling the joke , and , bam , this film is absolutely hilarious . And then , after we've heard the joke a dozen times , we start to hear hilarious variations on it . The best part of the film in my mind , is when , after we all know the joke well , we see a mime tell it . I almost died it was so funny . Recommended , especially on DVD . I wish I had had more time to watch the extras .
Fun , if you like the show . God knows what you'd make of it if you haven't seen it .	Hmm ? what to say about this movie ? The first question one must ask is why they bothered to release it to theaters . Perhaps to make the title make sense ? That is , if you can make any sense out of the title . The people I feel most sorry for are all the film critics with unwarped minds who were forced to sit through it . Fortunately , my mind is warped and , while I certainly acknowledge that a cartoon that usually runs for 11 minutes an episode stretched out to 80 + minutes is way too long , I still enjoyed it . It's hilarious often enough , and always at least giggle-worthy . The best part comes right at the beginning of the film , with a parody of the old " Let's all go the lobby ! " ads . The nice snack food items are interrupted in the middle of their song by unruly , death-metal thrashing snack items threatening the lives of the audience if they talk or try to pirate the movie . And they promise that all the money the creators of this film made will be going to drugs . That I don't doubt .
I prefer Spider-Man 1	Good action movie , but I much prefer the first installment . 2 has arguably the greatest comic book villain of all times , Doctor Octopus , which kind of makes the movie a disappointment since , after him , it's rather forgettable . It really should have been better with such a cool bad guy . Unfortunately , it really drags during the dramatic segments . The film makes no points that weren't made in the first one : can Peter Parker exist without becoming Spider-Man ? Will his being Spider-Man always put his loved ones in danger ? We've been over all this before , so , at its worst , 2 seems like a simple retread of the first , which I actually found fairly poignant at times . Besides the action sequences involving Doc Ock , there aren't any images as memorable as those of the first , which we are reminded of by a nice opening credits sequence where those famous images are presented as drawings . There are some pretty great comic sequences , fitting well into Raimi's varied career . Bruce Campbell has a hilarious cameo , and , once again , J . K . Simmons as J . Jonah Jameson gives the best performance in the movie . .
Worth a watch	Fuckland is an interesting film . I personally love the Dogma movement . I wish it had lasted longer . It seems to have already died . Many critics tried their damndest to shut it down . I don't know why . It's the most interesting movement to happen in the cinematic world since the French New Wave . Besides Fuckland , I've seen the first three in the series , Festen , Idioterne , and Mifune . They were all great , Festen being a masterpiece , in my opinion . Fuckland isn't up to those others . I was just fascinated with the filmmaking . It's played as if it were a real documentary , with a real person who was so obsessed with his camera that he refused to put it down . At a few points in the film , it becomes clear that it is a work of complete fiction , but that illusion was protracted for an amazing amount of time . I wish that the filmmakers would have come up with something a bit more interesting to put onscreen . It is basically about this guy , Fabian , who is an Argentinian visiting the Faulkland Islands . Argentinians were only in the last couple of months allowed onto the islands , and Fabian plans to impregnate the women with Argentinian children . He sets his eyes on one , and most of the movie is spent on her seduction . The two actors are very natural . Camilla Heany only kind of hints that she is an actress . Fabian Stratas seems completely real . The politics of the film are somewhat confusing to me , since I have only an inkling of the situation surrounding the island and its recent history . I was 3 , I think , when the Faulklands were invaded . The final bit of the film doesn't work at all . I don't get what the filmmakers were going for there . Still , Fuckland is an interesting Dogma experiment . It does break some Dogma rules , though , notably the no extra-diagetic music rule . There is a lot of that . .
Not great , but it ends up being pretty funny by the end	Amusing , if obvious comedy . It pretends to be one of those wry , British comedies , but the laughs come mostly from cheap jokes involving drugs , sex and poop . But , hey , I can't complain much because there are some good laughs . The cast is good . I especially liked Andy Nyman as a hypochondriac . Alan Tudyk of the show Firefly is also funny ( if certainly not British ) as the guy who accidentally drops acid . Peter Dinklage , the little person from The Station Agent , is also in it as the man trying to blackmail Matthew Macfayden at his father's funeral . This would have been a better movie if it had gotten off to a quicker start . The film is worth seeing , but wait for video .
Decent short , but more of a curio for Tati fans	Wow , Tati was a young man . Here he plays someone's young son , 17 years before M . Hulot's Holiday . The action centers around a boxing match between a champ and Tati , who knows nothing about boxing and has to consult a manual during the fight . It sounds funnier than it really is . Chaplin's boxing match in City Lights is much , much better . The editing of this film can be confusing . Still , it is funny . It's worth a . See it on Criterion's M . Hulot's Holiday DVD , recently released .
Jeeze , RKO really was a factory , wasn't it ?	This film is nearly identical to one of those Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers movies , except minus music , in place of Astaire is Gene Raymond and in place of Ginger Rogers is Ann Sothern . The supporting characters are taken right from Top Hat or Swing Time . Helen Brodericik , Eric Blore , and Erik Rhodes are all in top form in identical roles from the Astaire / Rogers movies . This particular film is pretty funny , though , mainly because of Eric Blore's power trip when Gene Raymond , his boss , has him pretend to be HIS boss . Blore , always the servant , is hilarious as the pretend-boss . Also , the climactic scene is so bad it's funny . Raymond pretends he's about to commit suicide so that Sothern will prove her love for him . Odd , but charming all the same . .
A little slow to start , but that last half hour is excellent	One can't talk about this film without ruining a long-held secret . Then again , I'm not sure that not knowing would help one to enjoy it , either . Without knowing the film's sense of purpose , it would be easy to get bored , I think . It's not that hard even if you do know , unfortunately , but it might be excruciating if you didn't . So here's the secret ( SPOILERS , duh ! ) : the girl , played by Luisa Williams , has been drafted to execute a suicide bombing mission in Times Square . We never know who the girl is , we have only tiny clues as to why she would agree to do this , and we never know why the mysterious organization , several of whose members we meet , wants this mission carried out . In a way , the film reminded me of last year's Old Joy , and it is similarly frustrating . There's so little information , and the style is so minimalist , that it's hard to care . I liked both films to an extent . I think I slightly prefer Day Night Day Night . It had a hypnotic rhythm about it . Luisa Williams is a very good actress . Plus , the final half hour is quite tense , and worth the wait . The writer / director's decision to completely depoliticize the situation pretty much subtracts any real meaning . The terrorist organization is hilariously diverse . I half expected a Native American in a wheelchair to show up at some point . Loktev's direction is strong . The way she uses sound during that last half hour is impressive .
No Lord of the Rings , but probably a tad better than the first Chronicle of Narnia	I went into this with low expectations , and they were exceeded . I liked it quite a bit , perhaps more than the first film in this series , The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe . I think it's because the religious allegory is much more subtle . I also liked the plot line of royal intrigue and power struggles , which is always a favorite subject of mine . The first time around , I said that the film's main success was the casting of four kids who could act , and that statement holds up perfectly here . Georgie Henley , Skandar Keynes , William Moseley and Anna Popplewell are all great as the Pevensie children , and each of them has their moments to shine . Ben Barnes is the newcomer , Prince Caspian , and is not nearly as successful . He's a pretty but dull boy . Sergio Castellitto makes a good villain , though , and Peter Dinklage and Warwick Davis are good as Narnian dwarfs . There are at least two set-pieces that beat anything from the first film , the night raid on Castellitto's castle and Caspian's attempt to summon the Ice Witch ( Tilda Swinton , in a brief cameo ) . The story ends kind of weakly , with an almost literal deus ex machina . And the fact that Caspian's subjects are overjoyed at his return , despite the fact that their families have been decimated by him in the previous day's battle , bothered me . The next installment of the novels , The Voyage of the Dawn Treader , was my favorite of the seven , so I hope they continue to improve .
Good , not great film from the Japanese New Wave	The story involves four people whose work is blackmail . They're successful in their " business , " but their eyes eventually get too big for their stomachs when they think they've found a way to rip off the yakuza . The job proves harder than the easy money it initially seemed . While it is generally well done , its techniques reminded me a little too much of the annoying modern style with a lot of unnecessary freeze frames , chronological jumps , and shifts from black and white to color . I also felt that the characters ought to have been more well developed ; the story is good , but the style overwhelms possible substance . My favorite part of the film is the fact that the characters whistle the theme tune to Suzuki Seijun's Tokyo Drifter , which means that Suzuki had to have had some popularity if his work was quoted like this . .
Good , but far from my favorite Zhang Yimou ( or Gong Li ) film	Probably my least favorite Zhang Yimou film . Oh , it's not bad . It's pretty good , to tell the truth . But it's the kind of film where you get the point right away and you have to spend 100 minutes watching the filmmaker stumble toward the foregone conclusion . Gong Li plays the title character , a hugely pregnant woman . Her husband just got kicked in the nuts by their farming community's chief , and Qiu Ju wants an apology . Unfortunately , none of the officials she takes the case to can actually force the guy to apologize . They can make him dole out monetary compensation , but that's not good enough for Qiu Ju . Every time she doesn't get the results she wants , she attempts to go to a higher level of authority . It's an amusing situation , but the film kind of plods along slowly . I won't demand Zhang Yimou stick to his wonderful visual talents , but it is disappointing how mundane this film looks and feels . The worst crime perhaps is that Gong Li isn't given much acting to do . I love the final look on her face when the film ends , but I think pretty much anyone could have played Qiu Ju . I know , it sounds like I hated it , but I didn't . I just wasn't overly impressed with it , despite its obvious qualities .
Probably wouldn't crack my top 50 of 2004	I don't understand all the praise . Sure , it's a pretty good movie , but it's flat , obvious , and not at all memorable . Eastwood's last film , Mystic River , was ten times better . Hilary Swank plays a boxer who persists in trying to get trainer Clint Eastwood to make her his student . He finally does accept her , especially after his friend , Morgan Freeman , who works as a janitor in his gym , convinces him of her talent . Most of the movie is a pretty straightforward boxing drama . Swank and Eastwood become each other's surrogate father and daughter , both making up for lost loved ones ( Swank's father is dead , and Eastwood's daughter refuses to talk to him ) . The final act adds a tearjerker . There is also a poorly developed subplot about a few of the regulars at Eastwood's gym . It's slow , but mostly entertaining . Swank is good , but nowhere near the level that she hit with Boys Don't Cry . It's impossible to believe that Eastwood got nominated , especially over Paul Giamatti for Sideways . His direction is fine , but he can barely speak . Plus , he's so old it looks like his skeleton is trying to escape from his body . Morgan Freeman isn't especially great in his supporting role . He can't speak clearly , either . He narrates the film , and it can often be very hard to understand him . Million Dollar Baby is worth seeing , but it certainly isn't award-worthy . .
Good acting and good script bogged down by a courtroom ending	This film is based on the Leopold / Lobe murders , which was also developed into an earlier film , Alfred Hitchcock's magnificent Rope . Now , Compulsion is a good film , but it pales in comparison to Rope , so I would definitely advise people to watch it over this . Leopold and Lobe were two homosexual college students who decided to murder for the intellectual stimulation it would give them . Rope , like most code movies , never mentions that its characters , masterfully played by Jonathan Dall and Farley Granger , are homosexual , but , if you are familiar with the conventions that arose under the code , it is clear that they are . That film works well at setting the two murderers in the roles of outcasts , people who are bitter with the way they are treated in the world . There is a clear homosexuality vs heterosexuality theme in that film ( also note that Rupert , played by James Stewart , was supposed to be gay , also ) . Compulsion , on the other hand , pussyfoots around the issue too much . The way the script establishes the two as homosexual is heavy-handed and obvious , yet , when it comes right down to it , i . e . , in the investigation , interrogation and courtroom sequences , not even a hint of homosexuality comes up , except for a private conversation the boys have with their lawyer . The main fault of the screenplay is this final courtroom sequence . Rope intelligently ended right as the boys were caught . It is implied that they will be executed ( you know it was against code to have murderers survive ? I have no idea what happened in the real case . ) . Compulsion turns into a run-of-the-mill lawyer movie . Fortunately , the lawyer in question happens to be none other than Orson Welles , one of the best actors of all times . And he is great , but the material is not up to him . That summation speech , a requirement of all lawyer movies from To Kill a Mockingbird to My Cousin Vinney , is , without a doubt , the most rambling , repetitive , and boring one I've ever heard . Welles acts it well enough , but when the judge was choked up after he finished , I laughed , thinking that the little stutter he gives could be attributed to his nodding off , too . Before I finish , I do have to commend the cinematography and the excellent performances of Dean Stockwell and Bradford Dillman , the two murderers , and E . G . Marshall , who is excellent as the D . A . I'd also like to ask if anyone else noticed the similarities between Judd ( Stockwell ) and Norman Bates of Psycho ? Hitchcock must have seen this , because the crow in Bates ' office was posed and angled in an identical way with the one in Judd's bedroom . .
Nice ; maybe a bit overrated	A fun swashbuckler starring Errol Flynn . It's not especially great , but Flynn himself elevates it to a level far beyond what it would have been without him . Really , he's in full form here . The only other Flynn vehicle that I've seen is The Adventures of Robin Hood , which is a far better film . Still , I think Flynn is even better here . He's got such verve and personality . It's certainly not hard to see why he was such a monumental success with the opposite sex ! As for the rest of the cast , I liked Ross Alexander as Blood's somewhat homoerotic friend , Jeremy Pitt , and Basil Rathbone has a nice small role as a partner and rival pirate . I really disliked Olivia de Havilland , however , whom I have liked elsewhere . I didn't even recognize her in Captain Blood ; her character was too dull to deserve any attention . The dialogue is quite good , but the plot and structure of the screenplay are poor . I actually liked the first half , in which Blood has to fight for his freedom from the cruel slavery forced upon him by King James , better than the swashbuckling second half . I found myself yawning a bit at the sword fight and the sea battle finale . Still , it's a film worth watching . .
Decent	An okay international intrigue picture , in the same vein as The Maltese Falcon , but not nearly as good . It's very flawed , and only moderately good . One pro is that Peter Lorre is ( arguably ) the film's star . How often did that happen ? He plays a mystery writer from Holland who runs into a great story while he's in Istanbul . A man named Dimitrios Makropoulos ( Zachary Scott ) , an infamous , international criminal , has died , his bloated corpse found on the beach . Lorre attempts to follow the man's life and exploits , and meets up with several colorful characters who provide Dimitrios ' backstory . Chief amongst them is Sydney Greenstreet , who tries to pull Lorre along on a scheme . It's somewhat entertaining . Lorre is good , Greenstreet is great . Zachary Scott is a disappointment , as is his character . To me , Dimitrios ' story never seemed especially interesting . I never really believed that a writer would spend so much time ( not to mention money ) following this guy's career . This was apparently Scott's first role , but , to tell you the truth , I've never heard of the guy . Whoever he is , he just sleepwalks through the film . If Dimitrios had been more interesting , the film might really have been something . Besides Lorre's and Greenstreet's performances , the film is worth watching for its nice black and white photography . It also has a rather good finale , although Lorre hits a couple of unintentionally funny moments during it . .
Brief review	Trippy Japanese animé that mixes dreams with reality . You never really know what's going to come next in this picture . It's very entertaining , but only up to a point . It never establishes its own reality , so the constant surrealism does grow tiring after a while . And the characters are thin . A movie with such fantastic imagery shouldn't be as easily forgotten as this one is , and if I cared more about the story and the characters , that wouldn't be the case . I love the drawings themselves , but the animation is choppy , certainly much more so than a Ghibli film . My only other experience with Satoshi Kon is Tokyo Godfathers , and I do prefer Paprika to that for sure . It is quite fun . Certainly worth renting , if not going to the theater .
a good follow-up to the smash hit The Sixth Sense	MAJOR SPOILERSThe fundamental flaw of Unbreakable is that Shyamalan clings tenaciously to the structure , pace , themes , characters and mood of The Sixth Sense . That film was the surprise blockbuster in August of 1999 , so it only makes ( financial ) sense for him to emulate it , and the studio to approve it . Alas , although Unbreakable made a large chunk of money at the box office , that success was far below analysts ' estimates and was technically a flop . I had planned on seeing it , but a couple of friends had told me that it wasn't as good as The Sixth Sense . One friend told me that it was the worst major motion picture that he had ever seen and begged me to swear an oath never to see it . I told him that , just based on the artistic success of The Sixth Sense , I had to see it no matter how bad it was . I promised I wouldn't " waste my money " at the theater and waited until it came out on DVD . Heck , I didn't even rent it myself , but watched it after my brother had rented it . And I found it rather good . Like I said , its major flaw is that it wants to be a second The Sixth Sense in every way . I wish the style would have been altered a bit . I would have especially liked it more if it were not so self-serious , for , unlike The Sixth Sense , which was easier to take seriously ( my imagination can accept ghosts without much problem ) , Unbreakable is about the real-life existence of an invincible man , a super hero . I may have liked it even more if it were a bit more clever about its absurd reality . David ( Bruce Willis ) is an ordinary man , and his burgeoning super-hero identity is interesting to watch . It gives his character layers . However , Mr . Glass ( Sam Jackson ) is such an eccentric individual that it is hard to accept him in the sort of realistic setting Shyamalan puts him in . I'd like to talk about the " surprise ending " in this paragraph . This is another misstep of sorts for the film . I think that the surprise ending of The Sixth Sense both clinched its success and harmed the artistic integrity of the film . Most of the audience couldn't give a damn about artistic integrity , let alone plain old integrity , and most of them rushed home to tell all their friends that they never saw that surprise coming and that they have to go see it again to figure out what they missed the first time . I knew a lot of people who thought that that film was bad on subsequent viewings . That is because , despite the makeup of the audience ( and despite the presence of Bruce Willis ) , The Sixth Sense was actually an art film . It was very slow-moving compared to your average blockbuster ( consider the only film that beat it in the b . o . that year : Star Wars , Episode One : The Phantom Menace ) , and the focus was on the characters and their relationships . In Unbreakable , unlike in The Sixth Sense , the surprise ending is so clearly telegraphed that you would have to be completely not paying attention to miss it . However , I did not disapprove of it as much as I did the ending of The Sixth Sense . Unlike that ending , it doesn't force you to go back over everything . That film even had a montage sequence showing earlier scenes . In fact , I was sort of disappointed at the loss of an excellent opportunity with the ending Shyamalan chose . It is sort of like Primal Fear , where Richard Gere stumbles outside , dumbfounded . What I think should have been done here was to actually elevate it to the level of a comic book , actually make Mr . Glass a real super villain . It's as if Shyamalan had no clue what to do here . And all I've talked about was the story . Shyamalan more than proves his worth as a director . His style is perhaps even more polished here than it was in The Sixth Sense . I really loved how he did the climactic sequence , especially the scene where David fell into a pool . I hope that he'll stop trying to ape his one hit and move onto more original projects . Lord knows he has the talent .
Don't go too far in your praise : it's merely okay	I have , for a long time , been skeptical of whether Quentin Tarantino was a worthwhile talent . Certainly Pulp Fiction was a seminal film of the 1990s , for better or worse , and Reservoir Dogs and Jackie Brown were at least worthwhile . But it was my burgeoning opinion that his style of goofy , self-referential filmmaking was already irrelevant , and that the cinema , even American cinema , had moved beyond anything he could accomplish . And , watching Kill Bill : Vol . 1 , I realized pretty quickly that I was absolutely correct . With a new crop of young proto-auteurs that has been born since QT made Jackie Brown in 1997 , Kill Bill seems awfully trite . I predicted a while back that , if Tarantino didn't make a masterpiece this time around , it would be the end of him . Well , now I think I was wrong about that . Kill Bill is far , far , far from a masterpiece , but it's not a disaster . It's somewhat mediocre , but entertaining enough that I will see its second installment ( and the fact that it comes in two parts doesn't annoy me at all , in fact , as I believed it would ; it ends very well ) , and probably the next movie Tarantino decides to make . As for the film , it's all style , no substance . I spent most of the movie wondering whether I liked it or not . And there was plenty in the film that I didn't like . The story is very poor , not compelling in the least , and the characters are dreadful . The pacing is way too slow , and the dialogue is extremely awkward at times . But the action sequences are fun , if too bloody ( I'm not that big a fan of violence , to tell you the truth ) . I , very unfortunately , had to go to the bathroom during the longest action sequence . I don't think I will ever see this movie again , but I might just to see everything in that balletic melée . But what tipped me over from dislike into indifference was mostly the technical stuff . The costume design is fabulous , as are the cinematography and music . And the production design is some of the best I've seen , a shoo in for an Oscar nomination . Some of the editing during the fight sequences was annoying ( this certainly doesn't compare to real martial arts movies , so the Shaw Brothers logo at the film's opening is a huge tease ) , but a lot of it was very good , too . While the shifting in time wasn't necessary , it worked well . What pushed me from indifference into approval was the animated sequence . It is the only exceptional thing in the film . It reminded me a lot of Peter Chung's work ( he created Aeon Flux , which is perhaps the greatest work of animation in the last decade ; this sequence seemed particularly influenced by the silent Aeon Flux cartoons from Liquid Television ) , but my theatergoing companions did not allow me to stick around and watch the full of the credits . I did see that it was animated in Tokyo , but any other info would be much appreciated . So , in full , Kill Bill is very worthwhile , hardly great ( I'd already call it extremely overrated ? some of the reviews I read last week I find a bit embarrassing ) , but a decent , Sunday afternoon entertainment . You might even want to wait for DVD , as you'll most likely get to see both installments as one long film ( although I have doubts that it would even work as one movie , considering that this first part is nearly two hours long as it is ) . .
Extraordinarily silly , but pretty fun	This afterthought , coming a full 12 years after the third Die Hard movie and 19 years after the original , was destined to be not as good as its predecessors . I mean , after the first one , the people responsible for the sequels were obsessed with packing them more and more full of action . In the new one , the strategy of its filmmakers is to make a movie about 100 times as action-packed as the original . With this much augmentation , the action sequences cross the line from gripping to just plain ridiculous . In this one , guys shooting automatic weapons at John MacLane are just a joke . Easy stuff , really . The only challenge there is to keep the computer hacker ( Justin Long ) he's protecting alive , and even that's not much of a challenge . It only gets decently difficult when a jet fighter is chasing him , firing missiles and super-duper machine guns at him while he drives along crumbling elevated highways in a lumbering semi . Yeah , it's silly . But that doesn't make it bad . It's at least amusingly silly . Bruce Willis hasn't lost any of the charisma he brought into the first three movies . Justin Long is the comic relief , and at first I thought he would be really annoying . But he's fairly funny most of the time . I absolutely loved the main henchman and lover of the villain , played by icy half-Asian Maggie Q , last seen in Mission : Impossible III . There's also an amusing cameo by Kevin Smith . I'm not sure what to think about the villain , played by Timothy Olyphant . At first , he bugged me , but as the film went on , I started to like his demeanor and shiny white teeth . I think he was suitably creepy . However , I think they missed a golden opportunity to make a better movie : since Justin Long is probably best known as the hip kid playing the Mac guy in a series of entertaining television commercials , they really should have cast the PC guy as the villain . Sure , it would have been ultra-jokey , but the film is already so silly , I think it would have been especially awesome .
Well made , but too familiar	Ridley Scott is one of those directors who has built up a lot of good will from audiences , including myself , over the years . But as each successive film of his is released , I find myself wondering why that is . Two of his movies , Alien and Blade Runner , are arguably masterpieces . Does he have more than maybe a couple more that are even good ? Granted , I've missed a couple of well-liked works , notably Black Hawk Down , but the guy also has made Kingdom of Heaven , Hannibal and A Good Year . He's incredibly uneven . His newest film is a gangster epic . It's good , very classically made , respectable , entertaining enough . But it's nothing special . There is not even one moment in it where I was thinking " wow " . Its best sequence , the raid on the drug lab , is easily topped by the similar scene in We Own the Night , which opened last month . Denzel Washington's performance isn't anything we haven't seen him give before , and Russell Crowe's is too methody to be considered very good ( he was better in 3 : 10 to Yuma , but he was methody there , too ) . And it's a huge sin to waste Chiwetel Ejiofor this badly . The story is your basic criminal rise and fall , with a side story of the hard-working , honest cop . The film offers no insight into the situation . There are about seven montage sequences set to era-appropriate pop music . The honest truth is , I barely remembered I saw this movie four hours after it ended . If you've seen The Godfather or Goodfellas , you don't need to see it . On the other hand , if your options are this , Scarface or Blow , you'd be best off with this . Just don't pay too much for it . A rental , at best .
Weak with a couple of great set pieces and one great performance	For a long while , I've described Ben-Hur as the biggest film that I had not yet seen . Now I have . This is one of those classics whose status has been fading with time , and it's no wonder once you've seen the film . Sure , there are a few scenes that are very memorable , and have become part of our common culture . Who can forget the scenes where Judah Ben-Hur is a slave in the galleys , rowing fiercely as the weaker slaves collapse around him ? The music in this scene is what I find particularly memorable . And then there's the chariot race , which I think cements this film as one that is worth seeing more than any other . I also like how the story is constructed , as a side story to the life of Jesus . Christ pops up every once in a while . Early in the film , there is a memorable scene where Christ defies a Roman soldier and gives the parched Ben-Hur water . When the soldier tries to reprimand him , a quick look from Jesus silences him completely . Unfortunately , a whole hell of a lot of the film is very forgettable . Each scene seems to take 25 % longer than it really needs to ? not only are the scenes protracted far beyond their limitations , but the actors stumble slowly through their lines , as if each and every syllable was carrying the cross on its back . It gets old , and quick . The film has very little passion as it lumbers along . Most of the direction seems lackluster . Big , but mostly lacking heart . William Wyler directed one of the most emotionally touching films of all time , Mrs . Miniver , an utterly intimate affair that will stay with me forever . Ben-Hur often just sat there without trying to connect to the audience at all . The acting itself is generally weak . Charlton Heston's performance is certainly not among his best . I actually like him as an actor , but I don't think it's very good here . To be fair , his performance gets better as the film moves along . Ben-Hur's moral dilemma is intriguing , and as his desire for revenge and violence did ultimately touch me . Many of the other performances are just bad ? the one that comes immediately to mind is Haya Harareet as Esther , the slave girl whom Ben-Hur loves and later marries . Martha Scott and Cathy O'Donnell , who play his mother and sister respectively , are too dull to really care too much what happens to them . And I'm disappointed in Sam Jaffe , whom I love as an actor in films such as The Scarlet Empress and Gunga Din . I didn't even recognize him , he has so little energy in this film . Hugh Griffith won an Oscar for playing a sheik , but his character is not memorable at all . The only actor who really hits a home run is Stephen Boyd as Messala , Ben-Hur's childhood friend , now his bitterest enemy . He really projects his inner turmoil . Overall , I say that I am glad that I saw this finally . It may have not worked very well , but I was generally entertained . Not moved at all , but it was nice to watch ( and a lot more fun to criticize ! ) . Only the chariot sequence and a couple of Messala's scenes did anything more than that for me . .
A little thin , but good for children	THIS COMMENT DEFINITELY CONTAINS SPOILERSI read the book by Katherine Patterson way back in grade school . I remembered nothing about it but that the little girl died . It's a charming little story about imagination and friendship , and for kids it's mostly excellent just because it's so easy to recognize one's own life . But , yeah , it's memorable because it was the first book I ever read where one of the main characters died unexpectedly . And even if it's sad for kids , it's important to know about death . The film itself is decent , if unremarkable ( in all honesty , the book is probably not as good as it seemed when I was 10 ) . It has fantasy elements , but they are so ( thankfully ) sparse that they feel like they were invented just to put them in the commercials . They aren't ( very ) annoying when they're there . I'll bet that , for the same reasons that I remember it , it will become a beloved classic among the current crop of kids .
Good but very flawed film	Now , Voyager begins excellently : Bette Davis plays Charlotte Vale , the youngest child of an affluent Boston family . In fact , she was a " late child , " had late in her mother's life . She was not planned , and the doctor who delivered her comforts her mother by telling her that a late child would be a great companion in old age . In the present day , Charlotte is her mother's slave . In fact , it might be best to call mother " Mother , " a prototype for the unseen mother in Hitchcock's Psycho . She is simply cruel and oppressive towards Charlotte , who , because of it , is having a nervous breakdown . Most of the film concerns Charlotte's recovery and the aftermath . Many scenes are great , some are unsuccessful ( for instance , the cab driver in Rio de Janeiro , who is played for gross comedy , is completely unfunny ) . When Charlotte finally goes back home , there are many scenes of the battle between her and her mother , which are all rather good . But there are also a lot of bad scenes where Charlotte's family and acquaintances stare at her in wonderment . The final scenes , where Charlotte takes on a protege at her old mental hospital , are quite a bit too much . The young actress who plays Christina is awful . The film meanders and becomes very silly . The final scene is supposed to be romantic or bittersweet but comes off as almost psychotic . The final line is good , though . It's still worth seeing , but I don't think it will stick in my mind for more than a short while . .
Hardly a classic , but a good piece of entertainment	A major piece of modern pop culture that I had not yet experienced . Now I can finally get all the references , parodies , rip-offs and trivia questions . And I can finally put Lethal Weapon 4 , which for some reason I watched back when it came out on DVD , in context . Maybe I should give it another watch now , but my intuition tells me it still sucks . Truth be told , Lethal Weapon 1 isn't an especially good movie , either , though the final installment ( so far ! ) makes it look like a masterpiece . Mel Gibson and Danny Glover play chatterbox cops who are total opposites in life and style but , of course , are made partners . This probably wasn't the first buddy cop movie , but it is the most influential . Shane Black , who later went on to write and direct the superior Kiss Kiss Bang Bang , wrote a sometimes witty script which is also often ridiculous , repetitive , convoluted and just plain dumb . Richard Donner is one of the best popcorn directors , but a lot of Lethal Weapon feels overstuffed to me . There's just too much going on in many scenes , and the exaggerated performances of the two leads , along with their rapid-fire and frequently incomprehensible dialogue , I was getting a tad annoyed . But never that annoyed . With all its flaws , Lethal Weapon is nothing less than a good bit of entertainment . It's not a film you want to think too much about , but it's also not a film that really invites you to think about it too much , either .
A bit overrated	A very sweet musical starring Judy Garland . The plot concerns a family living in St . Louis whose patriarch has accepted a job in New York City . His family is devastated . The two oldest daughters both have beaus , and the oldest son has a girl as well . The plot is passable . If it weren't for the exceptional songs , the film would have been almost entirely forgettable . Even as it is , I doubt I'll remember much beyond " The Trolley Song " tomorrow morning . It shoots itself in the foot ; all but one of the songs are front-loaded onto the first half of the film , with only one ( albeit a great one , " Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas " ) occurring in the last fifty minutes . Because of this , the film often seems uneven . Although Meet Me in St . Louis is one of the best remembered of the classic era of musicals , Minnelli made many better films . He's only able to pull a couple of non-musical rabbits out of his hat . As for the acting , it's decent . Judy Garland is as beautiful as ever , but I found her character fairly uninteresting . Just another one of those musical heroines who wants nothing more than to be courted . The biggest joy of the film comes from the two youngest daughters , played wonderfully by Joan Carroll and Margaret O'Brien ( the latter won a special - and much deserved - Oscar for best child actress of the year ) . Together they have a morbid fascination with death and murder , a touch that might have been more at place in a Hitchcock film . Well , it still works wonders here ! .
It's good , but nowhere near as good as the reviews would have you believe	I had unsurmountable expectations for this one , and , alas , they remain unsurmounted . It didn't even come close . It is an entertaining film , but , as a whole , it feels half-baked . Near the end of the Spanish Civil War , a little girl , Ofelia , is taken with her pregnant mother to an old mill , where her new husband , a sadistic army captain , awaits . At the mill , she meets a fairy who leads her to a faun , who asks her to perform three tasks so she might take her place as princess of a magical kingdom . It's less a fantasy film than a fairy tale . In that way , I suppose I'm obliged to forgive that its fantasy world goes completely unrealized and remains paper thin throughout . Honestly , except for a couple of sequences , there really isn't a fantasy world . Most of the film takes place in the real world , where the Captain is trying to rid the area of some pesky rebels and Ofelia's mother is struggling to survive her difficult pregnancy . What is much harder to forgive , though , is that Guillermo del Toro extends the two-dimensionality to the Spanish Civil War setting . The Captain is a completely cartoonish bad guy , and the situation is seen completely in black and white . I mean , we're talking about a real conflict here where many people died . It's kind of insulting . If this were an American made film , people would be railing against it . It's also insulting to Spirit of the Beehive , on which del Toro has said he based the film . Where Spirit is a gentle yet effective study on the nature of human cruelty , Pan celebrates human cruelty with extremely violent sequences which are meant to be enjoyed as they are in action films ( the director did , of course , previously make Blade II and Hellboy ) . Wow , it sounds like I hated this film ! I didn't , really . I have some ideological problems with it , obviously , and I wish it were better than it is . But it is an enjoyable little horror / fantasy film . You could do better , but you could do worse , too .
Minor Archers , in my opinion	Newly released by Criterion , The Small Back Room was made by the Archers right after The Red Shoes . I had never even heard of it , and it's definitely a less well known film by the directors . In my opinion , it really is a lesser Archers movie . It reunites two of the stars of Black Narcissus , David Farrar and Kathleen Byron . Farrar plays an explosives expert during WWII who works for the government as a scientist . He and his team are on the case of a booby trap that's being dropped by the Germans from planes . He has lost his right foot in an explosion , and he's being driven crazy by phantom limb syndrome . He's also a recovering alcoholic . The only thing keeping him away from the booze is the love of his girlfriend , played by Byron . The love story is involving , and the bomb stuff is quite suspenseful . Both of the lead performances are excellent ( although Byron is definitely the kind of actress I have a hard time separating from her most famous role ? the sharpness of her features definitely gives off a wicked vibe to me ) . So why was I not blown away by this one ? The major reason is that it's just too talky . There are sequences where the dialogue just goes on and on , and I found my attention wandering . There are many sequences where I could tell there were experts behind the camera , but not a lot jumped out at me . Sure , there's that one fantasy sequence with the clock and the bottle , the showiest bit of the movie , but that felt to me a bit amateurish . It's also reminiscent of two famous dream / fantasy sequences from famous movies that had been made in recent years , Spellbound and The Lost Weekend ( and I would also call those sequences in those two movies overly showy , as well ) . The best sequence in the movie is when the scientists get a visit from a governmental minister in their lab . They hope to show him all the exciting projects they're working on , but he becomes obsessed with their calculator . All in all , I'd say this is a good movie , and one that any Archers lover will want to get a hold of , but it's a lesser work , for sure .
Rather entertaining , but there are way too many subplots	Not a great movie , to be certain , but at least I can say it is ambitious and original . Kevin Costner plays a CEO who is driven by his imaginary friend ( played by William Hurt ) to murder people . On what was supposed to be his last murder , a man from across the street ( Dane Cook ) witnesses him . Instead of turning him in , Cook blackmails Costner into letting him come along on the next killing . Meanwhile , a millionairess cop ( Demi Moore ) tracks Costner , and , in another subplot , Costner suspects that his hot , pregnant , 18 year-old daughter may have inherited his murderous tendencies . And then there are two sub-subplots involving Moore , one in which her second husband is taking her to the cleaners in divorce court ( remember , she's a millionaire ) and another in which an escaped serial killer is trying to get revenge on her for putting him in jail . So , yeah , the film's major problem is that there's way too much going on . It's surprising how well the writers keep it together , though . I would certainly have reduced Moore's character to almost nothing . The whole millionaire cop thing is ridiculous , even more so than the millionaire serial killer ( I mean , we can at least imagine someone like that having an unhealthy lust for power of all types ) . It doesn't help that Demi Moore is a less than mediocre actress in the first place . It's sad to say , in a film co-starring Dane Cook , that Moore gives by far the worst performance . That said , I would also have not cast Dane Cook . He's a spazz , which works okay in the role . But he can't act , and a real actor might have sold it a bit better . Kevin Costner , who seems to be improving with age , is very smooth in the lead . And Hurt is perfect in the role of the devil on Costner's shoulder .
Slightly better than the first	A worthy sequel . In fact , I think it's a bit of an improvement , with tighter plotting and more kinetic action sequences . I also liked , to my surprise , the addition of Joe Pesci as a witness Riggs and Murtaugh are protecting . Yes , he's more than a tad annoying , but he's annoying in a mostly funny way . I also very much liked Mel Gibson's love interest , played by the cute Brit Patsy Kensit , who unfortunately never made it very big . The sequence with the bomb attached to Murtaugh's toilet is classic , and the shot with the woman cop getting blown off her diving board is ( unintentionally ) hilarious . Also side-splitting : the aging henchman played by Derrick O'Connor , who becomes a master of kung fu whenever the shot gets dark enough for a stunt double to take his place .
Emotionally draining , if at times overly simplistic	A classic " through the eyes of childhood " story about the Holocaust . Asa Butterfield plays Bruno , a German 8 year-old whose father ( David Thewlis ) is the officer in charge of a concentration camp . Bruno has no clue what goes on at the camp , which he initially thinks is a farm where the weird farmers wear pajamas all the time . He sneaks up to the fence outside of the camp and meets a Jewish boy , whom he befriends . Slowly , he comes to realize that something awful is happening , and that his father is partly responsible for it . It's a great concept . It's not a great movie . I'm unsure if the fault lies with the original novel or the screenplay ( by director Herman , best known for a couple of ' 90s indies , Little Voice and Brassed Off ) , but the story eschews interesting moral philosophy in favor of a more base emotionality . This is especially true in the ridiculously forced climactic sequence , with its swelling music and completely illogical cross-cutting . There's an earlier sequence in which Bruno informs on the Jewish boy in order to get out of some trouble . This should have formed the climax , similar to Louis Malle's Au Revoir les Enfants . It's impossible to deny that The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is powerful , but it should have been better .
Good , even if it pales in comparison to Capote ; it wouldn't have been popular even if Capote never had existed	This film had the unfortunate luck to open only slightly after a film about the exact same subject appeared and won a bunch of awards , but , honestly , it would have been overlooked in any case . It's notable for some of the acting , and mostly because actor Toby Jones is a dead ringer for Truman Capote , but it doesn't dig deep into the complexity of the situation or the characters . McGrath also makes a myriad of bad choices throughout . The interviews with people who knew Capote , first and foremost , feel very pedestrian . It allows McGrath to tell us everything we need to know , instead of showing us . It ends up feeling like we've just heard the story , instead of being able to experience it . It's also a little too jokey in its manner . I especially hated the jaunty musical score that played over every " Truman has fun in New York Society " scene , even up until the end . The film also speculates that Capote did have sex with murderer Perry Smith , which is very unlikely and unhelpful to the story . I also think , though most of the cast is quite good , Daniel Craig is miscast . I suppose it's a prejudice that can't be helped after seeing him in Casino Royale , but he doesn't work as Perry Smith the way Robert Blake or Clifton Collins Jr . did . Craig just comes off as too powerful . He's not very good at suggesting Smith's vulnerability . He's always the scary version of Perry . I don't think there's a single scene between Smith and Capote where Smith doesn't freak out at him . Especially embarrassing and cheesy : that song that Perry sings played over his execution . McGrath should be smacked for that ! The 2005 film Capote really looks good compared to this ( it was my favorite of last year's Best Picture nominees ) .
Nothing special	I don't understand the enormously positive reaction this film has had . I mean , yeah , it's a decent flick , quite entertaining , but it's nothing all that memorable . The story is generally a good one , and pretty original . It does have some major flaws , though . I didn't buy it when Max and Herman began warring against each other . It seemed false to me . As for the acting , I seem to think against the grain here . Common knowledge tells you that Billy Murray gives the performance of a lifetime and that he was absolutely robbed when it comes to Oscar nominations . Often , I hear that Murray's failure to get nominated is the fault of Jason Schwartzman , who plays Max , the main character of this film . Supposedly , his character was thought so unlikable by many critics and , apparently , Academy members that Rushmore was ignored . In my opinion , Bill Murray gives a particularly forgettable performance ( he has been so much better in other films ) and it is Jason Schwartzman who makes the film at all worth watching . I give the film a , but to say that it is one of the best films ever does nothing but show just how few films you've actually seen .
Dull , but the story's not bad and the performances are good	The latest Woody flick is set in Spain , where friends Vicky ( Rebecca Hall ) and Cristina ( Scarlett Johansson ) both get involved with an artist ( Javier Bardem ) . Both women sleep with Bardem , but eventually Johansson ends up with him . Hall goes back to her boring finacé , though her brief affair has distorted her view of her life . Meanwhile , Johansson has to deal with Bardem's crazy ex-wife ( Penelope Cruz ) , who is invited back home after a suicide attempt . The story , though perhaps overcomplicated , is a good one . Unfortunately , Allen kind of spoils it by including a bland voice-over narration that over-explains the plot . The narration distances the audience from the action , and the film started to drag for me . And in the end , it felt like nothing much had happened . I didn't care and I doubt the movie will remain long in my memory . However , that's not to say that it's a bad movie . It's a moderate failure for the long-suffering Allen , but it's a success for most of the actors . In particular , I think Penelope Cruz's performance should be considered award-worthy . It'll probably be worth catching on DVD , but I wouldn't especially recommend you be in any rush .
Pretty good , but somehow failed to move me	Clint Eastwood's curiously unaffecting WWII picture about the famous picture of the flag raising on Iwo Jima , and what happened to the three men who survived the rest of the battle ( the flag was raised on the fifth day , and the island wasn't taken entirely until a month afterward ) . Well , " unaffecting " is a bit harsh . I just wish it had done more . I wonder if it's simply a case of been-there-done-that . So many WWII pictures have been made over the years , is there really anything left to say ? The three characters in Flags of Our Fathers are sent home to campaign for war bonds . While constantly being called heroes , they have to question that assessment after having watched so many friends get killed on the island . The film follows a staggered chronology , so popular nowadays ( it was also used in The Prestige , which was released concurrently ) , and it often flashes back to the battle , both the taking of the hill on which the flag was erected and the protracted one afterward . It also follows one of the men's sons as he interviews veterans about his father and the other two men . Eastwood's direction is generally pretty subtle , and I love the minimalistic score that he wrote ( partly based on " America the Beautiful " ) , but with screenwriter Paul Haggis in tow , we get some laughably over-the-top scenes . My two favorite Haggis-isms in the film were the dessert in the shape of the flag raising which gets strawberry sauce poured over it and a scene late in the film when some yokel tourists assault Ira Hayes for a photo ( you should remember him from the famous Johnny Cash song " The Ballad of Ira Hayes " ) .
Fun enough	A cinematic sinner am I , as I have only seen one James Bond film not starring Pierce Brosnan , Dr . No , and I have seen each of the films starring Mr . Brosnan ( although I've never seen Goldeneye in its entirety ) . I quite loved Dr . No , and I have no good excuse for avoiding all the ones between it and the Brosnan Bonds other than I have a feeling I would get bored with them after two or three . I know I'll have to check them out someday . The four Brosnan Bond films are so incredibly formulaic that one can guess each plot development half an hour early . I always go through the exact same cycle of emotions when watching them . Step 1 ) This is dull . 2 ) Eh , it's getting better . 3 ) Hey , that was pretty neat . 4 ) Ugh ! What an awful double entendre ! 5 ) Hey , that was really neat ! 6 ) Hey , this rocks ! 7 ) Oh no , not another double entendre ! It always takes far too long to start rocking , but when it does , it does seem like it was worth the price that I paid to watch it ( I watched the movie for free ) . Die Another Day takes much longer to get good than the previous two Bond films ( does anyone really care what they were called ? ) , but it has one enormous saving grace : the villains are extraordinary . Toby Stevens as Gustav Graves and Rick Yune as his main henchman Zao are great characters , well designed and with nicely developed personalities . I can't even remember the names of any of the other villains in the Bond series , except that the last one was played by that guy from The Full Monty . The stunts in this one are quite often remarkable , especially the extended car chase late in the picture ( you'll find that I go out of my way to praise car chases twice this week , which probably labels me as a something or other ) . I really look down on the couple of scenes where computer animation replaces the actors , most notably the parasurfing scene . That was quite obvious , and quite embarrassing . I also find the Matrix effects groan-inducing . Hopefully we're done with those after the monumental failure of The Matrix Reloaded .
Good but sloppy	After falling in love with Tamara Jenkins ' sophomore feature , The Savages , a short while back , I have finally caught up with her debut . It's pretty obviously a first film . Jenkins has created some memorable characters and some good situations , most certainly culled from real-life experiences . But the story arc is pretty weak . The film is at its best when concentrating on its protagonist , Viv , played by the wonderful Natasha Lyonne . She's a great character , the kind that reminds me of how few well developed female characters there are in movies . I also liked Marisa Tomei's character , too , for the same reason . The men are considerably less interesting , and there are almost too many of them . I've never been a fan of Alan Arkin , so it was hard to overcome that prejudice here . He's kind of a despicable character , and it was hard for me to sympathize with Viv's unconditional love for her father . It doesn't help that Jenkins fails to resolve the father character's major transgression in the last part of the film , instead just dismissing it . Jenkins also bombs most of her set-pieces , and a lot of the scenes she tries to end on laughs are duds . And the jaunty score really needed to be dropped . The movie is not nearly as cheerful as the music seems to think it is . Overall , I liked the movie . But I am impressed that Jenkins could create the perfection of The Savages after a sloppy debut and nine years off . That makes her sophomore feature even more impressive .
Nice colors , slow story , great climax	A samurai falls in love with a woman whose life he saves . He is offered a reward for his bravery , and he asks if he can be married to that woman . Unfortunately , she is already married and the samurai's request cannot be fulfilled . He is steadfast in his desire , and tries forcibly to take her from her husband . The elements of many cheap thrillers exist in that scenario . Gate of Hell doesn't do too much to distinguish itself , although it's certainly not a thriller . Basically , the whole film is an excuse for its admittedly great climactic sequence , where the samurai invades the home of the woman and her husband at night . I really like how this sequence ends , but there are some questions left unanswered - annoyingly so . The husband even asks them aloud , and there really isn't a satisfactory explanation . Other than that sequence , most of the rest of the film is kind of tedious . Fortunately , the absolutely beautiful cinematography - was this Japan's first film in color ? - always manages to be impressive . The costume design actually won an Academy Award , a much deserved one , if I may say so myself . It also won an honorary Oscar for Best Foreign Film , the year before that category was made official . Furthermore , it was the first Japanese film to win the Palme D'Or at Cannes . .
Good but very flawed film	This isn't one of those classics that you just have to see . In fact , you could live the rest of your life very happily without ever having seen it , even if you are a major film buff . There are plenty of other films you could see in its stead , and , with the time you would save by skipping this 3 hour and 20 minute opus , you could watch two better films . SPOILERSStill , Doctor Zhivago is worthwhile . It is very well directed , as you can only expect from David Lean . The score is justifiably famous . The cinematography is also quite glorious at times . I wish I could say the same for the writing . The film's dramatic angle revolves around an affair between Yuri Zhivago ( Omar Sharif ) and Lara ( Julie Christie ) , a woman , not his wife , whom he meets and grows to admire during medical services for WWI . Unfortunately , the film never really develops their relationship . I never felt any dramatic weight when the two were separated or when they found each other after long lapses . I am a definite weeper when it comes to romantic epics , but I didn't come anywhere close to shedding tear one during this film . In fact , I was always disappointed that the screenplay ( or novel , really ) kept pushing Yuri away from his wife , Tanya ( Geraldine Chaplin ) , who always seemed better to me . Besides , as I have said , there really is never a reason why Yuri would abandon Tanya . Most of these feelings come from the poor character development . Yuri himself is developed decently , but some of his decisions seem unrealistic and forced . The two women in his life are the biggest problem Tanya seems left cold by the writers , and I suspect she is this way just so we end up not sympathizing with her , or at least so we end up wanting Zhivago to go to Lara . But Lara is not well developed either . Her situation at the beginning is very interesting , but after we meet up with her again during WWI , she doesn't really seem the same . Worse yet , the man whom she originally married , Pasha , is swept away during the war to live a different life . We meet up with him a couple of times along the way , but he is only a plot device . Lara never seems affected by his loss . The two characters who do register are supporting ones , Yevgraf Zhivago ( Alec Guinness ) ( Yuri's half-brother whom he hardly knows and only meets a couple of times ) and Komarovsky ( Rod Steiger ) . A lot of the difficulty in character association is the fault of the actors , though . Omar Sharif is good as Yuri , but not great . Geraldine Chaplin , a very underrated actress indeed ( she was the daughter of Charlie Chaplin , and , if you wish to see her act in a film , see Nashville , made a decade later ) , is cruelly underutilized . It is her remarkable acting skill that allowed her character to live at all and that made me identify with Tanya rather than with Lara . And Guinness and Steiger steal every scene they are in , both great at playing characters with ambiguous morality . In fact , I have to lay a lot of the blame on the general failure of the film on Christie . She is a great actress elsewhere , but she fumbles here . Big time . She plays Lara as someone with deep stares . But those stares , meant to exhibit longing or profundity or whatever come off more as blank and thoughtless . Christie clearly doesn't know what to do with the part . I don't know how early this was in her career , but she was definitely not ready for it . Her character , though underwritten , could have at least seemed passionate towards Yuri , but there is never an ounce of chemistry involved . If you want to see her as a mature actress , catch Robert Altman's McCabe and Mrs . Miller , where she plays the titular Miller . She's riveting there . Besides these major flaws , I'd still recommend it to anyone who loves David Lean or epics or even Alec Guinness or Rod Steiger . It is worth watching just for Guinness ' subtle performance . But be prepared to sit for a prolonged period of time . If it gets boring , just concentrate on the pretty pictures and music . However , if you want to skip onto some of its descendants , see Warren Beatty's Reds or Philip Kaufmann's The Unbearable Lightness of Being . They both have some similarities in theme and setting with Doctor Zhivago , and they are much more thought out and beautiful . .
Great idea , so-so results	In a 1950's style America , humanity has survived the zombie apocalypse , which happened much as it did in Romero's Night of the Living Dead , and is now living safe inside fenced-in safe zones . There is an invention , a collar of some sort , that is able to quell the zombies ' hunger for human flesh . Now they are used as servants , or , in some cases , pets . Fido is the Lassie of zombies . He even belongs to a boy named Timmy . Unfortunately , as tame as the zombies are , the collars don't always work so well . Timmy and Fido get into trouble when the collar gets turned off , and zombie mayhem begins . The concept is gold , but I don't think co-writer / director Andrew Currie produces anything that interesting . His film-making is often sloppy . It sometimes feels like he spent all his budget on some vintage autos and an unnecessary helicopter shot . The zombie makeup looks terrible , which is always distracting . And the zombie actors are generally awful , probably on account of Currie's direction . They all seem too expressive in their faces and eyes . There are a lot of interesting aspects of this post-apocalyptic society , but the world and its rules are never adequately explained . To boot , it's difficult to understand some of the backstories , especially that of the father ( played by Dylan Baker ) . I'd still give a slight recommendation , just because the idea is so fantastic . And it's an amusing picture , even if it disappoints .
Unfairly Maligned . Far better than people give it credit for	And that's not saying that it's great either . It is not . But it's tremendously low imdb rating makes me wonder who the heck is voting here . Pret-a-Porter is a pretty good Robert Altman film that is no better or worse than Short Cuts , which , while I feel it is a good film , I also think it is overrated . This one is , however , heavily underrated , and they both got the same imdb score from me : = stars . This is another attempt to make another Nashville . There's a humongous ensemble cast of actors , some of the best on the planet , a couple of the best who ever lived . The screenwriter doesn't connect it all very well , and lots of the characters seem superfluous or underdeveloped , unlike in Nashville where even the characters who are only in a couple of scenes are as familiar to the viewer as a close friend . I would particularly have liked the Danny Aiello / Teri Garr section to have been removed . It falls pretty flat . The Sophia Loren / Marcello Mastrioanni section , the section that most film buffs are going to be excited for , also plops by its end . And Kim Basinger , a good actress , truly deserving her L . A . Confidential Oscar , is not very good as the Southern U . S . reporter : her accent is difficult to get around , and her character is often annoying , too . Sometimes , though , her pieces succeed . Many other of the vignettes succeed quite well , although there are never any fireworks about to shoot off . The Tim Robbins / Julia Roberts plot is very funny . The three publishers , Sally Kellerman , Tracy Ullman , and Linda Hunt's attempts to sign photographer Milo ( Stephen Rea ) to their magazine are all very humorous . The love quadrangle between the two designers , Forest Whitaker and Richard E . Grant , and their lovers is very good , also . Anouk Aimee's section is also great , maybe the best part ( Rupet Everett is good , also ) . I loved her so much in La Dolce Vita and 8 . I was aching for her and Marcello Mastrioanni to interact . The ending is truly fantastic . It is very well directed and filmed . It's a good film .
Perhaps not entirely successful , but definitely good and well worth seeing	A small project wedged between his first two more mainstream products , The Adjuster and Exotica , Calendar stars the director and his wife , Arsinée Khanjian as a photographer and his wife . They are traveling to different Armenian churches in order to photograph them for a calendar . Both of them are Armenian by heritage , but he is disconnected from it , while she speaks the language ( and acts as translator ) . During the trip , their Armenian guide begins to grow closer to the wife . The film actually takes place much later , as Egoyan , now no longer with his wife , is trying to duplicate her by holding " auditions " with women , presumably re-enacting the first meeting with his ex . It's all rather confusing . I never quite figured it all out . I'm not sure the film works . I liked all the stuff about the Armenian churches ( some beautiful images here , and the film's style in these scenes is great ) , but the whole narrative about the dates never seemed to come to fruition . However , it is an extremely interesting film , and it's rather haunting at the end . Calendar itself may feel somewhat incomplete , but Egoyan is definitely a fully-fledged artist here . The only earlier film of his I've seen , Speaking Parts , did not communicate his talent . This is definitely worth seeing , especially as it only runs at 75 minutes .
Great story and acting , but needs a shot of adrenaline	Frailty has a hugely innovative script . Perhaps it should be remembered when Oscar time arrives at the end of 2002 . And Bill Paxton and Matthew McConaughey are very good as well . Paxton especially , who also directed , gives one of his best performances . His best , in my opinion , was in A Simple Plan , but this is nearly equal . And I never cared for McConaughey , but he's pretty good here . Matthew O'Leary , who plays the younger Fenton , is a find . He creates a very believable character . Jeremy Sumpter , young Adam , is nearly as good . My major criticism of Frailty is that the film doesn't generate enough dread in order to make it into a really successful horror film or thriller . As it stands , it's just an interesting serial killer drama with some good twists at the end . There were maybe two spots that made me jump . I never felt frightened at all . There was hardly any real suspense . Still , Frailty is well worth seeing for its original plotline . .
For fans only	Not one of Fassbinder's best , but certainly worth a look for those interested in the man's work . In mood and style , it's reminiscent of Godard's Alphaville , and my reactions to both films are similar : I am intrigued , but a bit bored . And I don't think either succeed in the end . The American Soldier concerns a haughty German-American soldier , fresh from Vietnam , who struts around killing people for reasons which are kept mostly obscure ( he's some kind of gangster or hitman ) . The police are after him , though the police seem just as wicked . I didn't care much about what was going on ? no compelling reason was ever given for me to care . However , many elements of the film impressed me . Fassbinder's idiosyncratic sense of pace and mood pervades . The performances are pretty good . Fassbinder himself appears in a small role and , as usual , he delivers a remarkable performance . He has to be the best actor / director of all time . Peer Raben never seems to write a lot of music for Fassbinder's films . Instead , he just writes one theme that is used several times throughout the given picture . They are always exceptional , and his theme ( and also theme song , which is the same tune with lyrics added ) is excellent here . And then there's this ending . Fassbinder has a talent for unique and notable endings , and the end of this film is one of the weirdest and most remarkable I've ever seen . .
Slight but occasionally hilarious	After seeing The TV Set earlier this week , I was especially interested in seeing the followup film from director Jake Kasdan and producer Judd Apatow . The biopic is definitely a genre in much need of a spoofing , and I figured Kasdan and Apatow , with the often brilliant John C . Reilly in the lead , would produce a spoof with perhaps a little more depth than other films of the genre . But , alas , Walk Hard walks about the same line as the Hot Shot movies , somewhat below The Naked Gun and somewhat above Scary Movie . It's funny for the most part , but painfully two-dimensional . It does have some nice jokes concerning the history of pop music that might bypass the younger generations . I especially loved when Dewey Cox went through his Brian Wilson period . The recording session of his Pet Sounds-like album is just great . " I need an army of didjeridoos ! " Perhaps the funniest joke of the film are the various music stars of the era whose personae are occupied by celebrities in cameos . I actually wish they had gone even further with this , covering as many musicians as they could . The moment of the film that made me laugh the most is when Frankie Muniz , the kid from Malcolm in the Middle , appears as Buddy Holly . The casting is truly inspired , and I just love the way every phony celebrity is called by both their first name and last name every time they are mentioned , like , " Well hello , Buddy Holly " or " How are you doing , Paul McCartney ? " The entire sequence where Cox meets The Beatles in India had me holding my sides . That could have gone on for longer . There are a lot of other jokes that cracked me up , as well . The entire first sequence , where we see the obligatory tragedy that sets Cox's life in motion , is hilarious . The recurring joke where , whenever Dewey gets especially upset , he finds the nearest bathroom sink , rips it out , and smashes it on the ground is one that is close to my heart . It seems that there are at least two Oscar clips of actors or , more commonly , actresses , smashing dishes on the ground when they are angry . And , if you want to see something extremely rare , Tim Meadows is hilarious in another recurring joke , where Cox walks in on him doing drugs in a back room ( a direct parody of Ray ) and then joins him . So , yeah , there are some great gags . But then there are long dry stretches . And , as I said , the film is very shallow . It's content to be just a spoof , so , in the end , it's not all that memorable . But it's well worth watching if you're looking for some quick , easy laughs .
Has heart , but it's only moderately funny	Reminds me of the Farrelly Brothers ' last few films . It's a comedy that wants to come off as really touching and thoughtful , one that doesn't want to use its pathetic characters for laughs , but then forgets to be especially funny otherwise . The 40 Year-Old Virgin is funny often enough to make it worth seeing , but the laughs are rarely belly laughs . I just never felt satisfied even after its best jokes . It seemed to be pulling some major punches . Scenes go on for a long time without payoff , and other scenes that seem to have golden setups get cut way too short . For example , in one sequence the title character's friends set him up with a prostitute . It becomes obvious from the outset that it's a man , but as soon as that's established , the movie cuts to the next scene . We don't see the virgin try to get out of the situation . We don't see the hooker try to do anything . There's a lot of potential for great comedy there ; it doesn't have to be that dirty , either , to be funny . God knows we don't need a second Deuce Bigalow movie in the theaters this weekend . Steve Carell is very good , and all the characters are quite well fleshed out . I wish they would have done maybe a little more with Catherine Keener . She seems like she might be more interesting if we knew more about her . The movie's worth seeing , but wait for video .
Okay	A fun and charming film , but pretty forgettable . I watched it as the first part of a double feature ( the second film being Mildred Pierce ) , and I hardly remember a thing about it . The story concerns the people of Flanders who have to deal with a Spanish invasion ( the year is 1616 ) . They are peaceful people and the Spanish are not . The mayor and other regents of the city are sure that there will be rape and bloodshed everywhere . Most of them want to flee . The mayor's wife and the other women don't like their husbands ' cowardice . They try to think of a way to avoid violence . When the Spanish arrive , the men are mostly hiding and the mayor is playing dead . The women charm them . The Duke of the Spaniards is attracted to the mayor's wife . Meanwhile , there's a cute little love subplot between an artist and the mayor's daughter . Her father wants her to marry a man of higher class , but her mother perfectly loves the romantic artist . Through the film , she contrives a way for the two to get married without the mayor's approval . There are many better films to search out and watch , but if you think you've seen everything else , I guess this is okay to see . .
On DVD , the Criterion Berlin Alexanderplatz set , disc 7	Located on disc 7 , the extras disc , of the new Criterion Berlin Alexanderplatz set . This is well worth seeing if you've just gotten your way through the 15 . 5 hour version . There's also a 23 minute long lecture on the original Alfred Döblin novel and its adaptations over the years that is a must-see , as it helps put it all into perspective . If not for the inevitable spoilers , I'd almost recommend watching that extra before you attempt either the film or the series . This original film , adapted with the help of the novelist , is apparently quite different from the novel , to which the Fassbinder series sticks pretty closely . The character of Franz Biberkopf is much more likable here . He's still kind of dumb , but he's not strictly to blame for the ills that befall him and those around him . This was because the star of the film , Heinrich George ( Metropolis ) , probably didn't want to be depicted as an unthinking jerk . It's amazing that the writers are able to whittle the enormous plot into an 83 minute film , and for the most part , I was enjoying it . It's just when the character of Mieze is introduced that it begins to fall apart . She just shows up too fast , and doesn't have time to win the audience's affection . She almost feels like an afterthought here . I did think Maria Bard was very good as Cilly ( who is a composite of all of Biberkopf's girlfriends up to Mieze , including Eva ) .
Kevin Smith's worthy diatribe over organized religion	Dogma is probably Kevin Smith's best film so far . It is extremely funny in the same vein as his previous films , and it does a rather good job discussing the confused state of Christianity today . I believe he comes up with a very good synopsis of the situation . The film , though , has some problems . The clashing of serious religious issues with both dirty , sometimes tasteless jokes and hardcore violence was severely jarring . Another problem is that the antagonists and their situation are more interesting than the protagonists . We've seen a lot of stories about people who had to rely in their faith as they are simultaneously losing it . Harvey Keitel's role in From Dusk Till Dawn , for example , was like this . There are also too many protagonists . What the heck did they even need Selma Hayek in the movie for ? She plays a Muse , a deity which isn't even Christian . Her character accomplishes little in the way of plot . The angels were much more interesting to me , and the film cuts away from them right when Bartleby , played by Affleck , and Loki , Matt Damon , both have vital character changes . They basically switch personalities , and the movie actually cuts to a standard scene where Linda Fiorentino questions her abilities ( the scene reminded me of the one in the Muppet Movie where Kermit the Frog went off from the other Muppets to ask himself if what he was doing was right ) . Also , the ending goes on for way too long , with six different characters each having their own reconciliation with God ( who actually contributes to the soundtrack ) . It goes on for so long , Smith had Jay and Silent Bob do something funny to keep the audience from growing restless . The biggest problem the movie has , though , is the abundance of explanation . Smith introduces so many different bits of Christian politics and beliefs that nearly a quarter of the entire film consists of characters explaining these things . I can appreciate the amount of detail that Smith included , but it detracts a bit from the film . Although I have a lot of complaints , the film did succeed in passing on its point , and it especially succeeds in being hilarious . If you did like his previous efforts , you will like this . And if you like Jay and Silent Bob , this is the film out of Smith's four that they figure the most prominently . There was a little disappointment in that Silent Bob did not give us any nugget of wisdom as he does in Clerks and Chasing Amy ( and Mallrats , if you count the blurb from The Empire Strikes Back ) . His two lines are pretty dumb . Anyway ,
Overcomes its weak script	Girlfight is , in fact , little more than a female Rocky . In fact , compared to Rocky , this movie is not very good . It is stuffed with some of the most hackneyed sports cliches you'll ever see . Maybe it's just impossible to come up with a decent sports film . It always comes down to a final fight . There are very few options along the way . POSSIBLE SPOILERSTo thicken the proceedings , three conflicts are built up . One between the main character , Diana , and her friends at high school , one between her and her father and her family situation , and one between her and her new boyfriend . Unfortunately , all are lacking in certain ways . The first , between her and her classmates , falls flat quickly . Maybe I just have a strong distaste for anything involving high school ( I've been thankfully out of that situation for several years now ) , but I feel it is all underwritten . None of her classmates are developed in a significant enough way to make us care about the outcome of the conflict ( and , to spoil it , they never resolve the issue ) . We'll skip her family relationships for the moment ( they're a bit complicated ) and go on to her boyfriend . It's all pretty cliche , with Diana feeling jealousy over the trampy girl who always is trying to get her man back . Also , and it comes as no surprise , she is forced to box her boyfriend in the film's climactic scene . First off , the director / writer cheats by refusing to give us a good view of the actual match . She films it in slow motion and cuts out significant portions , giving you no idea what is happening in the match ; when the decision comes , you have no clue who will win . That adds a bit of suspense , but an actual boxing match , something that you may crave by this time ( there's very little boxing in the film , really ) , would have produced more suspense . However , the boyfriend situation works much better than the friend situation . The actors have chemistry , and , although cliche , I did care about their relationship . Their final scene , although sewn together with formulae , is touching ( it is an ode to the famous ending of Francois Truffaut's The 400 Blows , where we end in a freeze-frame towards which the camera moves closer and closer ) . Now I must talk about the relationship between Diana and her family . I'm not sure I understood the situation with her brother , and I'm not sure whether that's my fault ( it was hot and humid , and thus difficult to pay attention at times ) or the writer's fault . Anyway , I'll take the blame for that one . What I can argue over is the relationship and situation between Diana and her father . He is a very interesting character , and I think he's diminished by both the writing and the actor playing him . The casting for this character was very poor indeed . He's supposed to be a brute who has changed his ways ( supposedly ; I might have misinterpreted this situation , also ) . Diana accuses him of driving her mother to suicide by beating her . This whole backstory is what stimulates Diana's character the most , and Kusama develops it very by-the-books ( straight from Screenwriting 101 ) , mentioning it passim . She ( Kusama ) thinks she's being really subtle , but she ends up underplaying it too much . If I had written it , I would have given this whole conflict much more prominence , as well as the role of the brother . Still , the way it is done gives any mention of the mother an emotional background , and two scenes involving it are probably the two best scenes in the film : one where Diana is forced to sell a locket which contains pictures of her and her mother ( she keeps the pictures of course , but it is heartbreaking when she is standing outside the pawn shop with those two naked photos in her hand ) and one where Diana attacks her father physically , accusing him of killing her mother . A couple of more things about the writing and the direction : it would also have been good to develop more strongly the relationship between Diana and her trainer . It seemed to me as if Kusama had wanted to do this , but chickened out . It ends up being rather cliche . I'm beginning to paint a picture which , to me , seems pretty clear . I'm betting that Kusama had a much more complex film going for her , one that may have soared past its cliches like an eagle , but that she felt as if it would be far too long a film if she had used it all . I have mapped out four different relationships that Diana has to deal with , and all four peter out for the most part . All four could have been developed much further . But it ended up being 111 minutes long , about the average length , maybe even a little more , for a feature film . I've already shown Truffaut's influence on this film . Godard , the other French New Wave giant , also influences quite a bit . Jump cuts are used constantly . Godard's first film , Breathless , is most famous for its jump cuts , and he said that he used them so often because , for his first film , he didn't want it to be too long . Jump cuts cut significant time from the film . This is obviously why Kusama jump cuts so often , and , like Godard's Breathless , it is her first film . But I have done little besides complain ! I must tell you why it " overcomes its weak script " ! Michelle Rodriguez absolutely shines . Seriously , I think I'm in love with her and I pray that she'll get more parts . I remember , when commercials for this film would air on television , friends would comment on how ugly Rodriguez was . I think she's absolutely stunning . She has so much personality and so much skill in this film . You may correctly say that she sports only one expression throughout the film , a scowl , but you ought to notice , too , that Rodriguez is expressing a lot of feelings underneath that scowl . It is only a front , a defense mechanism , and Rodriguez ( as well as Kusama ) knows this . Her Diana is an endearing character , and , as hackneyed as the film can get at times , she always makes it worth watching and I always cared for her . I give the film a . May we see Michelle Rodriguez soon in another film . This woman's Oscar material .
I was disappointed , I'm sorry to say	I was rather disappointed in this screwball comedy , from a director whom I generally love . And it's another one of those films where there are so many great elements ? Irene Dunne and Cary Grant are so perfect that it's really frustrating I laughed so little . Well , there were some scenes near the beginning that made me laugh a lot , but , as the film progressed , I felt it slowed down considerably . The last half hour was extremely weak , with two sequences in a row which were not only unfunny , but nearly unbearable ( starting where Dunne pretended she was Grant's sister was particularly painful to watch ) . I also didn't like the cheap shots at Middle America , although I laughed uproariously at the line , spoken by an Oklahoman oil baron , ' I'm so happy , I could eat three steaks ! ' I also thought the end was poor , although I did like the clocks . Overall , I think the film is okay , but the disappointment is something that will linger a lot longer than the parts I did like .
Philip Seymour Hoffman is great , but the film is kind of a bore	A straightforward film about a gambling addict , Dan Mahowny , beautifully played by Philip Seymour Hoffman . Yet , as good as Hoffman is in the film , saying that he gives a great performance is like saying the ice in my freezer is cold . Philip Seymour Hoffman [ I ] always [ / I ] gives a great performance . So what else does Owning Mahowny have to offer ? Well , there are several other good performances . Minnie Driver dresses down to play a Canadian bank teller from the early 1980s . She is quite good , but it's not an especially interesting role and I have to wonder why she would uglify herself with that awful hairdo for a movie that focuses almost entirely on the lead . If she was looking to win awards , she came to the wrong place . Maury Chaykin , one of my favorite Canadian character actors , is very good as Mahowny's bookie . I also liked Chris Collins , who plays a young man in Atlantic City who begins as a nobody working for Mahowny's favorite casino . When Mahowny shows a fondness for the kid , his boss pulls him up in the world and has him become the gambler's personal assistant . The manager of the casino is played by John Hurt . I don't know if I like him . He seems so evil at times I expected him to tap his fingers together and exclaim ' Excellent ' in a Mr . Burns voice . The most interesting part of the film , outside of Hoffman's performance , is the way Hurt is portrayed as Mahowny's shadow . When Mahowny is losing , Hurt is winning , and vice versa . He's as addicted to Mahowny's gambling as much as Mahowny . Other than that , the film offers few if any insights . See it for Hoffman's performance if you're a fan . Or just catch any of his other pictures . He's good in everything . .
Nonsensical ? Yes . But definitely interesting , and worth your time .	Richard Kelly's followup to the cult classic Donnie Darko , which finally makes its arrival in theaters a year and a half after its legendarily disastrous Cannes debut in May of 2006 . And what you heard about it is absolutely true : it makes little to no sense . You'll spend much of the movie wondering who people are , what they are doing and how they all fit together . It's not worth getting too deep into the plot in a review . After all , it's incomprehensible . But the film takes place in an alternate universe where a nuclear bomb exploded in Texas in 2005 , starting WWIII . Now it's three years later , and political tensions are mounting as we near the 2008 election . The film takes place in southern California , a hotbed for political dissidents . The cast of characters is enormous . You might think Altman meets sci-fi ( but don't think Quintet ) . The cast is filled with B-list stars ( Dwayne " The Rock " Johnson and Sarah Michelle Gellar may be level stars , and Justin Timberlake is , well , an A list music star , anyway ) , all of whom give fairly good performances . I especially liked Gellar , who probably delivers her best movie performance here , and Miranda Richardson as the head of this world's version of Big Brother . Even though I was wishing like hell the movie made more sense , I found myself enjoying it . It's an interesting look at the current zeitgeist ( especially the lampoon of the 24 hour news cycle that pops up everywhere in the film , often providing us with information ) . Kelly is a talented filmmaker , there's no doubt . There is a host of memorable sequences and some beautiful shots ( despite the occasionally ugly look of digital video , most obvious when the camera pans ) . And , heck , even as a writer , Kelly is hugely gifted . This is an original story , and , despite the fact that it is nonsensical most of the time , it's never boring . His imagination is boundless . It's a blessing and a curse . The medium also harms this work , I think . It may have worked better as a TV show or mini-series . Anyway , the bottom line is , after all , I'd rather see something I've never seen before , even if it doesn't always work , than the same old plots over and over . I sincerely hope Southland Tales doesn't destroy Richard Kelly's career . The future of cinema would lose something special if that happened .
Stanwyck is great , but the film is just decent ( though indecent ! )	Infamous pre-code film , really the one film that caused people to insist on the Hayes Code being strictly enforced . Barbara Stanwyck stars as a young girl whose liquor-selling father has no problem pimping her out to customers . When he dies in an accident , she's released out into the world with the knowledge that her nubile body can get her whatever she wants . She goes to New York and proceeds to climb the corporate ladder , one bed at a time . Although obviously there's no actual sex shown , the film is quite sleazy . Unfortunately , after the initial shock value fades ( around the time Stanwyck screws a rail car inspector so she can travel for free ) , the film becomes a tad repetitive and dull . Stanwyck herself is the only thing that keeps the film worth sitting through . As always , she's fantastic .
Frustratingly uneven , just like George Washington	David Gordon Green is a most irritating director . He is so clearly talented , immensely so , but he cannot for the life of him mold his creations into a working whole . All the Real Girls is beautiful , and at times its so poignant , intense , and truthful that it seems like it is hitting the very meaning of love . Then the very next moment , he craps on that with a completely ludicrous , forced , and utterly false scene . It was exactly this way with George Washington , another horribly frustrating film that made me joyous one moment and ped off the next . What Green really needs is a co-writer to edit his script . Or Green might try adapting a screenplay , because , as a writer , he has little sense of what is good and bad , since both qualities stand so close side by side in the two films he has made . I did think All the Real Girls worked slightly better than George Washington , mostly because the actors in this movie can act , unlike a majority of the child stars of his debut . .
pretty but empty	This was the third Godard film I saw , and I saw it at a time when I was still eagerly building the base of my film knowledge . I found it dull and incomprehensible , but it seemed like interesting filmmaking ( at the time Breathless was the most amazing , original , and refreshing film that I had ever seen ) . It , and the second Godard film I saw , Contempt , put me off of the fellow for at least two more years ( I still need to see Contempt a second time ) . I finally fell in love with him on that fourth and fifth film , watched on the same night , Une femme est une femme and ( more particularly ) Vivre sa vie . After that I was a huge Godard fan , but it still took me almost two years to go back to Alphaville . I hoped that four extra years and about a thousand new films would have helped me appreciate the film ; either that or help me understand why the film wasn't any good . The verdict on this second viewing : it improved a little , but I still feel it's one of Godard's weakest films . By turns fascinating , silly , and just plain pretentious , Alphaville is at the very least an extraordinarily visually beautiful film . If I find the plot and themes somewhat trite , I can always marvel at the almost constantly artful black and white composition . Perhaps what the film really needed was a more interesting central character than Lemmy Caution , and a more interesting actor than Eddie Constantine ( whom I do love in Lars von Trier's Europa , which I believe was his last film ) . Caution / Constantine bored me , and I was constantly waiting for Anna Karina to reappear . Truth be told , she's not especially great , either . I've seen , I think , all but one of her collaborations with JLG , and this is easily her least interesting performance . Well , she's still pretty enough to look at . Again , beautiful , but , again , empty .
Mostly hit and miss Buster Keaton movie	Certainly not one of Keaton's best films . There are a lot of funny jokes , few of which provide belly laughs ( maybe only one or two really big laughs ) . A lot of the less funny jokes are still cute and smile-inducing . Buster Keaton is as great as ever . His stunts in this film are amazing . I prefer almost every other Keaton movie I've seen , save for his most famous , The General , with which I was unimpressed . .
Rather good , though not especially memorable	Nothing special narratively , I suppose , but this romance is a cut above the average Hollywood film . A black , professional woman ( Sanaa Lathan ) starts a relationship with a white landscaper ( Simon Baker ) . They hit it off , but soon racial issues ( and , to a lesser extent , class issues ) start to weigh them down . They break up and find other people , but , of course , everything ends up working out in the long run . The characters are well written , and the performances are very good , especially Lathan's . It would be easy to just put these two eye candy actors together and hope for people to like them on account of their looks , but they are well characterized . The film also looks amazing , which is weird considering the genre . Romances and romantic comedies don't have to look good , really , but this one does . I think Sanaa Hamri might turn out to be a big talent . Keep an eye on her . By the way , what the heck is with John Ratzenberger showing up in the last scene ? That was weird . He doesn't even have a line . Not that he's a big star or anything , but you'd think he wouldn't have to do the work of an extra to pay the rent .
Basically identical to the show	My first film of 2007 is a big screen port of one of my favorite television shows . I'll have to be honest : this doesn't seem like the kind of show that would lead to a very good big screen movie . Of course , Sacha Baron Cohen did a great job with his adaptation of his Borat character last year , and Reno 911 ! is similar in a lot of ways . It's not gonzo ( that means , all actors , no real people ) , but it is all improv comedy . Truthfully , I think the performers of Reno 911 ! ( most of them , anyway ) are far more talented than Cohen , and that the characters are funnier , at least when compared to Borat's segments from Da Ali G Show . Well , Reno 911 ! doesn't come close to surpassing Borat , but it is a pretty fun movie . Hit or miss , definitely , much more so than Borat , but its best moments are great . It is pretty much a direct port of the TV show ? they definitely could have made a three part episode about the team taking over the Miami police department ; they actually have had series of episodes in the past . Sacha Baron Cohen expanded his Borat character , which is why it was more successful .
Robert Altman proves to be no Maestro	Robert Altman is undoubtedly one of the best American directors of all time , but he very often missteps . Remember Popeye ? Well , Brewster McCloud , his first effort post-MASH , his enormous hit and Oscar winner , shouldn't really be considered a misstep , per se . It certainly is an interesting film . It's just that Altman never knows when to stop , and by the end , I couldn't wait for it to end . The first hour is hilarious . It's original , even for Altman it is unique . But after about an hour , there's this fifteen or so minute car chase that's just lame . There have been hundreds of car chases in film history , and only about three have been exciting , all three of those being in the Mad Max series . This one goes on and on . I can give it one complement , or insult , however you might see it . It predicts The Dukes of Hazzard . Several cop cars chase around an orange muscle car . This car chase kills whatever mood has been growing . Also , the film is just too dang clever for its own good . Cleverness is a good thing in the movies , because you see so little of it . But when a film is trying to be so different that it just becomes silly , well , like I said above , you just have to know when to stop . Altman ends with what seems to be an ode to Fellini's 8 . During that circus , the reason that the audience's emotions are so high is because you know and love the characters who are dancing around . Here , they're all just caricatures . I shouldn't be so hard on it . To tell you the truth , I liked it for a very long time . The film itself took too many missteps , and ended much more poorly than it had began .
Fun but slight	A cute premise stretched rather thin . A 7 year-old boy is tricked by his 12 year-old brother into thinking he accidentally shot him . The kid is so upset he runs away , taking with him six dollars the boys ' mother left behind for them . He goes to Coney Island and spends two whole days there . It's all nice and charming , but it might have worked better as a thirty minute episode of a TV series , or even at an hour . At 80 minutes , it gets repetitive and loses much of its potential charm . Shots are even reused several times . Richie Andrusco as the 7 year-old and Richard Brewster as his older brother are excellent child stars . They are far more natural than any counterpart in a Hollywood film of this time period . It's funny the way things change . That prank with the gun would surely have seemed very cruel in 1953 . But with that kind of event being an everyday 10 o'clock news item , it's much more tainted right now . And it's funny that , when I first saw Jack the Pony Ride Man , I didn't think of him as a concerned adult but as a potential child molester ! .
Good , but Panahi's done better	In The White Balloon and Crimson Gold , the two other films by Jafar Panahi that I've seen , the director mines surprising amounts of depth in subjects that seem , on the surface , slight . In Offside , Panahi's seriocomic tribute to Iranian women standing up for their rights , I don't think he's as successful . Not that what he's saying isn't important , of course ( and it's too bad that , like pretty much every other Panahi film , Iranians can't see it ) . But , after a while , the film feels a tad flat , and it feels long even at 90 minutes . Not saying I didn't like it , though . The actors are all fantastic , and the celebration at the end of the film is infectious . But it's not an important work , in my opinion .
Incredibly stupid , but , I have to admit , I enjoyed it	For a movie that's pretty much just a cheap combination of Indiana Jones and The Da Vinci Code , I was surprised at how much I enjoyed National Treasure . Oh , it's dumb , but it's dumb fun . Nicolas Cage stars as the latest descendant of the Gates family , whose members have spent their existence following the treasure of the Knights Templar . The Freemasons , descended from the Knights Templar , have supposedly left a series of clues leading to this treasure . Cage , in his hammy mode , carries the movie . His sidekicks , Diane Kruger and Justin Bartha , are mostly boring , as are the villains ( led by Sean Bean ) . Harvey Keitel and Jon Voight pop up in supporting roles , but neither of them adds too much . It really is the Nicolas Cage show . It moves quick and doesn't allow you to overthink any of the extremely simple story . I'd definitely place this in the " guilty pleasure " column , but a pleasure it is .
Maddeningly disappointing	Okay , it's actually a pretty good film , but after being so absolutely blown away by Zhang's previous martial arts picture , Hero , his follow up could only disappoint . It just feels so unambitious and small in comparison . The script is far less interesting and timeless . It takes over half the movie before anything especially fascinating happens . Sure , the " echo game " scene is okay . But think of Hero , whose first set piece was the fight between Nameless and Sky . When I saw that back in August , my jaw hit the floor . I knew I was in for something truly amazing . The echo game is interesting , but also a bit silly . I guess a lot of things in Hero were silly , too , when you think about them ? like the lake fight between Nameless and Broken Sword . But Hero captivated me , where Daggers barely registered . As far as the martial arts sequences go , I wasn't astounded by a single one . The bamboo forest was the best , but it isn't as wonderful as , say , the fight in the trees from Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , or , indeed , even the bamboo forest fights of King Hu's A Touch of Zen , a picture I didn't like at all . It's only in Flying Dagger's final sequence where it triumphs over the mediocrity that has been trying to creep in throughout the film . Even with it , it still feels like only three-quarters of a movie . I'm probably being more harsh than I ought to , though . It has many worthwhile elements . The costumes are particularly great , and the only aspect that I would say is beyond Hero is the music . .
Good , but not that good	Good , but I was expecting better given the reviews . It's about at the same level as , say , The Others . Belén Rueda plays an adult orphan who now lives in her former orphanage with her husband and adopted son . Her son speaks of imaginary friends , which she and her husband find normal . But these imaginary friends , it starts to seem , may really be ghosts . One day , the son vanishes , and Rueda thinks the ghosts may have something to do with it . The film is quite spooky , but I think the eeriness is pretty much ruined by an overzealous musical score . This really needed to be more subtle . The script has a couple of great twists , but , in general , it's fairly poor . It contains scenes where characters sit around and spout out endless exposition . Home movies are discovered which provide endless clues to the mystery . The most annoying flaw is that police and detectives are brought in to solve the case , and they find nothing . Later on , Rueda discovers all kinds of obvious clues that police searching for a missing child wouldn't have left uncovered . The final twist , I think , is particularly brilliant , but the movie lost me again with a lousy , sentimental ending .
OR The Children of Marx and Coca-Cola	That alternate title for Masculin Feminin , The Children of Marx and Coca-Cola , is provided in the middle of the film . It is probably the most famous thing from it . It's actually a good title . Politics and pop culture mix in odd ways in the film , and the characters are uncertain about both of those aspects of their lives . Truth be told , Masculin Feminin is a lesser work by Jean-Luc Godard . It was made during a difficult period in his life : his relationship with Anna Karina , his wife and favorite actress , star of many of his early films such as Le petit soldat , Une femme est une femme , and especially Vivre sa vie , was falling apart . Therefore , this particular film is very bitter and hopeless . Godard is also unsure of where he's going . The film stars Jean-Pierre Leaud , who is most famous for playing Antoine Doinel in such Truffaut films as The 400 Blows . His girlfriend is played by Chantal Goya , who was a pop star at the time ( and she plays an up-and-coming pop singer in the film ) . The film loses track of its supporting players . They are omnipresent , but when they have scenes without Leaud or Goya , the film gets tedious . Godard doesn't know what he's doing with them . This is especially true of a long scene where Leaud's best friend tries to court Goya's best friend in a kitchen . He asks her many questions , but they are all very trite ones about her sex life . I swear , he asks the same three questions a dozen times each . It gets old fast , and the scene lasts forever . There are several good sequences , but nothing that really equals the best of Jean-Luc Godard . Perhaps its real value is in its editing . Godard's editing is always interesting , and Masculin Feminin shows us his skill with long takes . Also , there are a couple of great tracking shots . .
Not great , but it's okay	Very Miramax-ish film from South Africa . It won the Best Foreign Language Film at the Oscars this year . A petty criminal known as Tsotsi ( slang for " thug " ) shoots a woman in order to steal her car , not knowing that her baby is in the back seat . He can't bring himself to abandon the child , and takes it along with him . Will Tsotsi find redemption through love for the kid ? Well , duh . But it ain't quite that schmaltzy . Tsotsi's character is well defined , and the story doesn't make him pure allegory or anything like that . The acting is quite good , and the film-making , especially the cinematography , is often very good . Unfortunately , I didn't find the film particularly memorable . It's worth seeing , I think .
A disappointment , but an enjoyable one	The film aims at being a good satire . It is a remake of a 1977 film that I haven't seen , but this version is very rooted in modern events . It takes the Enron scandal as a starting point and depicts an upper middle class culture where many people are fighting it out for a few jobs . After attempting to work at a Wal-Mart clone and even as a day laborer , Jim Carrey gives up and decides the only way to get what he deserves is to steal it . He and his wife ( Téa Leoni ) go on a crime spree . The movie does have some anger behind the story , and it does have some satirical teeth . Unfortunately , it doesn't quite bite hard enough . A combination of mediocre direction and poor editing make a lot of the comedy sequences ? many of which feel like , with a good rewrite , they would have been gut-busting ? fall somewhat flat . I also imagine that the screenplay went through many hands , and the rewriting that it did get was more of a watering-down . There's also a weird thing that happens in the background . All over the place we see Gore / Liberman signs and bumper stickers , which works to set the film in 2000 . For a long time , I was wondering why the filmmakers were blaming Bill Clinton , still for some reason every conservative's whipping boy , for all these corporate scandals when , more often than not , the CEOs and CFOs were die-hard , campaign-contributing Republicans ( there isn't a single Bush / Cheney sign to be seen ) . I'm still not sure why all the Gore / Liberman signs , but the only reason the film is set in 2000 , it turns out , is to set up a joke whose punchline only comes in the film's final moments ? one character announces that he finally got a new job ? at Enron . It's a joke that doesn't even make sense , and one that is certainly not funny , though it's meant to be . So , anyway , all that needs some more exploration . I imagine that the filmmakers had a good idea that never fully came to fruition . Anyway , the film is something of a failure , but I laughed , and I did enjoy it . I also thought it was very historically interesting .
Entertaining , but a huge mess	The Scarlet Empress is clearly a grab for the same dollar that MGM's Queen Christina had made with star Greta Garbo the year before . Similarly , in 1931 , Paramount released their version of Mata Hari , which MGM had released earlier that same year starring Garbo , called Dishonored , with Marlene Dietrich . The extravagant Josef von Sternberg did everything in his power to make The Scarlet Empress a visual feast , but his flat direction caused it to be a failure . It's supposedly one of the most carefully composed films ever made in Hollywood . To me , it looked like von Sternberg just threw a bunch of weird statuary on the set and filmed as is . Only once in a very long while does it betray a care in the cinematography . Most of the time it simply seems overproduced . It seems to me that Eisenstein must have seen this movie . In his Ivan the Terrible films , he seems to have taken the seed that von Sternberg planted here and expands it into what can truly be called a visual masterpiece 11 years later . The script is nonsensical , but , in a way , this is what makes the film worth watching . It makes the film seem absolutely insane , almost psychodelic , in a way . 1960s audiences would probably have appreciated it the most . Sam Jaffe plays a mad duke , whom Dietrich is forced to marry . This was Jaffe's first film , and later he would play the title character in Gunga Din . He is hilarious here as a half-wit ( which also reminds me of the Ivan the Terrible movies ) . Louisse Dresser's queen is a wack-job , too . One particular dinner she had reminded me of the tea party in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland . The worst thing about the film is Dietrich's performance , unfortunately . She doesn't play an innocent too well . Even if she did , von Sternberg never gives her enough screen time . I think that the film's intertitles are on screen more than Marlene Dietrich . Still , the film is worth watching , just for its insanity . .
Of the three Béla Tarr films recently released by Facets on DVD , The Outsider is my favorite	Not that I loved it or anything . It's still rooted in the clichés of socialist realism and it has long , repetitive scenes of people chattering on . But I connected with this one pretty well . The main character , András , is a talented but unambitious musician . He plays the violin exceptionally well , but doesn't think he could make a living at it because he's not classically trained . Instead , he wastes his life away at a factory in a small town ; he only works there because he has to support his illegitimate son . The film's best scenes all involve music , which is also true of the other two Facets releases , The Prefab People and Family Nest ( though those two used music much more sparingly than The Outsider ) . Music seems to hold a special place in Tarr's work , or at least these early works . I wouldn't especially recommend any of these three films . You might want to wait until Satantango or The Werckmeister Harmonies ? both of which sound much more interesting ? eventually make their way to DVD . If you have seen those films and are looking into the development of this artist , these films are worthwhile enough .
A great story told in a rather dull fashion	Philippe Noiret plays a military bureaucrat who is meticulously trying to catalogue the casualties of WWI . He and two women cross paths during the excavation of a train that was buried in a tunnel by German explosives . This would make for a great existential movie , but it's all talk talk talk . The dialogue is endless , and , with the long running time , the whole picture seems that way , too . The film would be much more powerful if it demonstrated its themes more visually . Instead , the emotions come off as somewhat flatter than they deserve to be . The production is also poor ; it feels like it was made for television . And the musical score is so weak it takes the film down a peg itself . It's still worth watching , but I think it really could have been a lot better .
Starts out great , goes downhill long before it ends	Disappointing , though only because it begins so promisingly . Lucille Ball stars as a dance hall girl , an American in London , who becomes a detective to find out what has happened to a missing friend . A serial killer poet is on the prowl . The police have Lucy answer personal ads , which is how the killer found his eight victims . This provides some excellent vignettes , the most amazing and memorable of which stars Boris Karloff . He's only in the film for five minutes , but , man , he is so good here . He's the only thing that can steal the movie away from Lucille Ball . Fortunately , Ball is wonderful , too . This is one of her best performances . George Sanders also stars as a night club manager who develops an interest in Lucy . He's good , but I never ever believe that his initial lust ever turns into love , as it supposedly does here . Though the mystery is in the first two-thirds of the film , all the secrets are revealed rather poorly at a certain point . And then the police investigation drags on and on and on . Lured screeches to a halt from which it never recovers . The faults are all in the script . .
Okay , but kind of generic	Afraid to Die , one of the four Yasuzo Masumura films that Fantoma has recently released on DVD , contains several examples of the directorial mastery of the same man who directed Giants and Toys and Bind Beast - in fact , the entire film is skillfully directed - but the script is terribly dull . Also working against the film is Yukio Mishima . He was the original draw for the film . He was a famous novelist at the time , probably the most famous in Japan , and his fans desperately wanted to see him in a film . Unfortunately , he's not a very good actor . I guess his poor performance is just as well blamed on the script , though . His character fluctuates a lot . We're supposed to like him , or at least sympathize with him , but that's not really possible . He's a pure scumbag . Afraid to Die is worth watching . It's not very long , and , like I said above , there are a couple of great scenes . One particular death scene is alone worth the price of a rental , if you're lucky enough to find it on your local video shelf . If you're thinking about buying any of Fantoma's Masumura DVDs , this one's not really worth it . Definitely buy Giants and Toys and Blind Beast . I haven't yet seen Manji . I did order it , though , so by the time you read this I could have already posted a review . Check it out . For Afraid to Die : .
Blew away my expectations	Having unfortunately caught BASEketball a month or so ago , I was in no hurry to see Orgazmo . But someone rented it , so I decided to brave it . Boy , am I glad I did . While it's nothing masterful , it has enough belly laughs to warrant a big recommendation from me . There were many scenes where I was nearly on the floor , and there were relatively few jokes that made me cringe . I would put it in the " guilty pleasure " pile with movies like Dumb and Dumber , Billy Madison , and Kingpin . They shouldn't be funny , they shouldn't even amuse me in the least , but I can't help laughing my butt off . I give Orgazmo a . I would have given it an ( Jesus and I know I laughed hard enough for an 8 ) , but the " dramatic " moments , especially those concerning John Young's girlfriend , slowed the film to a complete stop .
Moves along a bit too slowly to be as good as the first two	A disappointment , although definitely pretty good . Certainly better than Spider-Man 3 . But that ain't saying much , now is it ? Basically , At World's End carries over Dead Man's Chest's major problem of too much plot , but loses its virtue of breathless pacing . At World's End is far too slow at times , and it can be easy to get bored between setpieces . Which aren't , I should say , as good as those in either of the first two films . But , all in all , it isn't bad and it's still a lot of fun . Johnny Depp is as great as ever , and he , Geoffrey Rush , Naomie Harris and Bill Nighy's CGI face take part in an enormous ham-off . Personally , I think Rush won . As for the setpieces , the surreal , Being John Malkovich-inspired sequence in Davy Jones's locker is a lot of fun , and the climactic battle aboard the Flying Dutchman , though definitely a little too busy , is cracking .
Not much more than a gimmick	Just a gimmick . It's a good one , even a great one , but , once the film ended , I realized it was just a gimmick . A gimmick propping up one of my least favorite movie plots : the paralyzed person triumphing ( in a way ) against adversity . Others include The Wings of Eagles and , more recently , The Sea Inside . The style , which attempts to capture everything from the point of its protagonist , a man with locked-in syndrome ( i . e . , he can only move one eye , but is entirely conscious ) . I'm impressed by what Schnabel was able to achieve here , but I must say , I never felt anything for any of the characters . Only Max von Sydow , with two knockout scenes , registers . The man's three female helpers are easy to mix up , and his wife and mistress don't have much personality . Because of this , it faded almost as soon as the credits started to roll .
Godly Action Sequences , So-So Script	I have hardly ever experienced action sequences so awesome . American action has never reached this kind of pinnacle . But the rest of the script is very cliche . I was sure the captain would say to Chow Yun-Fat : " You're a loose canon , Tequila ! " and he basically did say that . The final sequence of the film is hard to take . It seemed to me that John Woo was getting off with killing off innocent victims and putting newborn babies in grave danger . I still give this film a , but I was getting more than a little annoyed at these sorts of things near the end .
Entertaining , but lesser Woody	Radio Days seems like it should be one of Woody Allen's best movies . Unfortunately , the structure is so amorphous that nothing at all registers . There are a ton of promising vignettes , but none of them are developed . Like , for instance , what happened with the burglars , or even with the prize they won for the people they were robbing ? Where does Sally ( Mia Farrow ) fit into the story at all ? What about the teacher whom the boys saw naked ? Allen drops it like a hotcake . The actors are all good , but their characters aren't developed enough to really care about . I guess that they were so familiar to Allen that he forgot to do so . It's not often when an 85 minute movie seems long . I did enjoy myself watching it , but I was glad when it was over . It won't stay in my mind for more than 20 more minutes . .
Solid thriller	This seemed to get a lot of flack for not being political enough when it was based around the assassination of the President of the United States by terrorists . I can understand wanting it to be more relevant and intelligent . Doesn't the subject deserve that ? Maybe . I don't think necessarily . It just uses the current zeitgeist to make an entertaining thriller , and if you can take that , you'll have some fun . The film shows the assassination attempt from the points of view of several characters , finally joining the events up near the end . The cast is uniformly good , and includes Forest Whitaker , Dennis Quaid , Matthew Fox , William Hurt and Sigourney Weaver . The trailers and commercials give away an awful lot , so if you haven't seen them , the film might be even more entertaining . The story is kind of silly if you examine it too closely , but the pace is fast enough that you're not too likely to do that . I wish the editing weren't so frantic , especially during the car chase climax . It's exciting , but would have been better if done Bourne-style , not MTV-style . I'm hoping more action filmmakers start stealing from the Bourne movies in the future . Certainly not exemplary , but it's worth a rental or a matinée .
typically iconoclastic Godard	Hail Mary is done in the exact same style as the only other late Godard film I've seen , First Name : Carmen , which , I believe , he did right before this one . The narrative is fractured , much more so than even his classical films such as Breathless and Pierrot le fou , and it is impossible to understand exactly what's going on . Like in many of his early films , he plays with sound effects and music . It may have been clever and interesting in Une femme est une femme , but it has grown old here . Still , Hail Mary , like First Name : Carmen , musters enough mood to make it well worth seeing . With First Name : Carmen , I was interested at the beginning and bored by the end . Here , although the prologue is quite good , the first half of the real film bothered me , and the second half grew more interesting as it progressed . What I'm saying here is that you have to stick with it and be patient . It can be rewarding . Also , Hail Mary seemed to me one of Godard's more visually accomplished films , probably second to Vivre sa vie . You'll see some of the most gorgeous photographs of clouds and the sun , the moon , fields , flowers , and nude women . Some of the nudes are absolutely stunning and it never felt to me pornographic ( unlike First Name : Carmen ) . They reminded me of beautiful paintings that I have seen by the likes of Lucien Freud ( I don't know if people know him , but I was particularly struck by some of his sleeping nudes ; I think he is the son of Sigmund , and I know he was a companion of Francis Bacon ) . Other more abstract photos reminded me of Picasso . .
Decent romantic comedy , but the Farrelly Brothers ought to go back to their more racy material	The Farrelly Brothers have pretty much lost their comic touch now . They haven't had a single laugh-out-loud moment in any of their last three films . These movies , which also include Shallow Hal and Stuck on You ( not counting Osmosis Jones , which they only partially directed ) , are sweet and nice , and probably fine date movies . Fever Pitch actually has a very well created relationship between the two leads , Jimmy Fallon and Drew Barrymore . Fallon isn't very good , and probably should have stuck it out on SNL a couple of more years . Barrymore is good . It's about time she moved onto more substantive material . I enjoyed Fever Pitch , but forgot about it during the post-movie bathroom break . Worth renting , probably , or maybe seeing on a date . I really wish the Farrelly Brothers would stop being so slight . You guys are funny ! Go back to your more childish stuff , you were better at it !
Too much romantic melodrama makes it drag , but it's worth seeing for the good parts	Harvey Weinstein famously used to buy up foreign films and then would refuse to distribute them to American theaters , thus reducing competition in the arthouses for the films he actually decided to release . Tears of the Black Tiger was one of those films . Now Magnolia Films got it away from him and has it available . It's a Thai Western , with some of the weirdest and wildest production design to be seen . Unfortunately , it doesn't live up to that amazing trailer that played the art-house circuit back in January . While it certainly is a lot of fun in parts , the pacing is poor and the story gets so bogged down in romantic melodrama that at times it's downright boring . Still , those fun parts make it worth sitting through . When the Sergio Leone-esquire violence begins , it's always entertaining . And it has a couple of the best movie deaths ever .
I love The Wizard . It's so bad .	Yes , this is the infamous 100 minute long Nintendo commercial , climaxing with the reveal of Super Mario Bros . 3 , which was released a couple of months afterward . It also has time to fit in commercials for Hostess deserts and Universal Studios theme park . Yet , for a commercial , it's not half bad . I admit , I like it 99 % based on misplaced nostalgia ( I was 10 when the movie was released ) . Not only was it about Nintendo , it starred Fred Savage ! I seriously didn't even remember Christian Slater was in it , nor Beau Bridges ( who is terrible pretending he knows how to play Nintendo , flailing at the buttons as he does ) . And the girl who co-stars is Jenny Lewis , now one of today's greatest musicians , heading the band Rilo Kiley as well as having a fantastic solo career . I would never have recognized her . The story's not that bad . As far as feature length commercials go , it's quite a bit better than Mac & Me . youtube . com / watch ? v = Ya0F83Bmbl4 .
Bizarre and amusing . Michael Shannon is a great discovery .	Um , okay . An odd film , to say the least . And certainly not an entirely satisfying one . I have a feeling Friedkin and playwright / screenwriter Tracy Letts want me to take it a lot more seriously than I did , or could . The film follows a man and a woman as they slowly ? no , make that quickly ? go insane . Michael Shannon and Ashley Judd are the stars . As I hinted above , the film is based on a stage play . It would be wrong to call the film " stagey " , because Friedkin , with a lot of help from photographer Michael Grady , does a very good job of keeping it cinematic , despite its mostly one-setting location and a couple of obvious stage effects . It's not the presentation that feels like the play , but the dialogue and , naturally stemming from that , the performances . I have to admit that I'm not a fan of the medium of plays , although I do enjoy musicals for the most part . Stereotypical play dialogue sounds so unnatural , so phony . Even when the characters are whispering on screen , you can almost hear it as stage whispers . And the gestures and facial expressions seem overly large . This makes sense as the film moves on , when the two characters have gone utterly insane , but it's annoying early on . The performances are quite good , though , for what they are . Really , Michael Shannon is at times fantastic . In this and , in a much smaller role , in Before the Devil Knows You're Dead , he's made an enormous impression on me . His presence will be a selling point for future movies . I don't much see the point that Letts is trying to make with this story , but I have to say , it is enjoyably weird , and certainly memorable . Nothing great , but worth seeing once .
There's such a thing as too subtle	It is nice to see a film that doesn't spoonfeed its audience information to help us understand what's going on , but there is also such a thing as not giving us enough information , as well . Old Joy is a very short film ( a mere 76 minutes long ) about two old friends ( Will Oldham and Daniel London ) who go on a day and a half long camping trip in the Cascade Mountains of Oregon . We observe , as flies on the wall , the interactions of these two , and it's our job to parcel out the things we learn and try to make something out of all of it . There's just enough information to keep me interested , but in the end , I think I decided that there's just not enough to make me care too much . This is more like Gerry than it is like My Dinner with Andre , but it lacks the beautiful artistic abstraction of Gus Van Sant's film . And the weird homoerotic scene at the end just felt odd and misplaced . I think much as heterosexual men like to imagine that pretty girls all have a little lesbian in them , some heterosexual women fantasize that any two buddies would screw each other if they found themselves alone and naked .
A bit disappointing considering its credentials	Upon seeing JPIII today , I was thinking back to the first and the second . JPIII earned a from me , which means that it accomplished what it set out to do with minimal stupidity and no pretenses . The first one I also gave a . Originally , I had given it a , but I hadn't seen it since it was first in the theaters in 1992 and was just remembering how cool it was that first time you saw a computer animated dinosaur , how the word " wow " was on everybody's lips for months and even years afterwards when recalling this film . Unfortunately , when I saw it again in 1999 , and after I had actually studied film and had a superior understanding of the art form , it seemed trite . Comparing it to the other toothy monster which Spielberg brought to life , Jaws , Jurassic Park is a near dud . One who once made action masterpieces later made pap , hardly better than any other action film at the theaters . JPI is better than JP3 . It creates suspense a bit better . I can't think of a more tense moment than when the little girl falls through the floor and a raptor's mouth comes about an inch from her dangling foot . Still , it is nothing more than an actioner . A good one , but not anything better .
Not as good as I heard	Long-obscure cult film noir finally makes it to DVD thanks to Fox's noir line . It's about a sideshow con-man , played by Tyrone Power , who learns how to play the role of a mentalist . His skills become so great he moves to nightclub shows , whereupon he learns a way to cheat people out of even more money . Considering its glowing reputation , I frankly found it rather overrated . It definitely has some good stuff , and some excellent cinematography . The story is very original . However , as original as the plot is , the overall script is only passable . There are a lot of weak moments , and a lot of unbelievable twists . I was left wishing it would have been better than it was . The acting is also mostly mediocre , but I did really like sweet Coleen Gray . I'm not sure if her performance is good or not , but she sure is pretty . It's still worth watching ? just don't let your expectations ruin it for you .
Interesting , but far too slow and confusing	This film should be more important than it is , but the director ( and editor ) makes the fatal error of assuming that if a film is slow it is automatically artistic . No , sometimes a film that is slow is nothing but , and all the great things in your picture quickly fade from memory when you leave the theater or rewind the tape . This is the conflict of the film : the chief of the Horabbat tribe has just died and his sons are in line to take order , but they object to the tribe's way of making a living : tomb robbing and selling ancient relics to foreigners . This has been their way of doing things for a couple of millennia , and the tribe elders try to get rid of the two brothers . At the same time , archeologists from Cairo have come down to excavate and save the relics from being sold to foreigners , while at the same time stealing the relics to take back to Cairo . To tell you the truth , I can't remember too much after that , though I just stopped watching it two hours ago . It is very ambiguous about who is in the right , and the ending is , if I understood it , lacking any sort of climax . The best things about this film are its cinematography and its score , both of which are exemplary . It's too bad the narrative is so confusing and , well , frankly , boring . It's worth seeing , but , since it's not on video , it's certainly not worth going to great lengths to see it . .
A touching movie , but it has a lack of comedy	Boy , Bobby and Peter Farrelly really are sweet at their core . Even in their big gross-out masterpieces like Kingpin and There's Something About Mary , there were complex and touching characters . They brought this part of their work to the surface with their last film , Shallow Hal , which wasn't very funny but carried with it a very good message . Their new film , Stuck on You , is a bit funnier than Shallow Hal ( which was almost a drama ) , but the human story is very much on the surface again . Unfortunately , with their two latest movies , it feels like Bobby and Peter have completely lost their edge . Stuck on You has a few hilarious moments , but I walked away feeling slightly moved , but thinking very much that I would have preferred something more daring . I sure hope they go back to their gold material . I mean , sure , Kingpin and There's Something About Mary had one joke that missed for every four that worked , but I'd rather groan at a risky and ultimately cheap joke than slightly enjoy myself for two hours . If the Farrellys wanted to move over into fuller drama , they might be able to successfully . The emotional worth of Stuck on You is actually very worthy . To boot , the performances from most of the cast are brilliant . Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear play conjoined twins ( who should , by definition , be identical , but never mind ) . The best performance in the film comes from Eva Mendes , who eventually becomes Kinnear's girlfriend . Mendes is so sexy and she looks like such a stereotypical bimbo , it's really wonderful to see the Farrellys make so much out of her . And Cher has an excellent supporting role . If you're a fan of the Farrellys like I am , Stuck on You is very well worth seeing . I hope like hell that they get back in stride and films like this and Shallow Hal are only stepping stones to the next level ( and I truly think this will probably happen ) . As it is , I liked it fine but , dammit , it needs more and better jokes ! .
Didn't do much for me	Good , but somewhat overrated . It's a French Do the Right Thing , which is its biggest problem . It apes Spike Lee so much that I don't think it ever finds a voice of its own . Plus , its three protagonists , Vinz , Saïd and Hubert are all pretty despicable . Am I really to feel sorry for these guys when they've been insulting and assaulting every person they run into ? Kind of reminds me of the American film Kids , too . Sure , the film is , I assume , steeped in honesty about its characters . But that doesn't mean I feel sorry for them in the end . The film is very well made , if a little self-conscious about its freshness . Doesn't surprise me much that director Kassovitz went on to make Gothika .
A matter of interest only	This is the first Mae West film I've seen , and I am terribly disappointed . It was , sadly , a test of my patience , and it is only 65 minutes long ! Maybe the biggest problem is that this film is referred to as a comedy . Well , the plot is not comedic . It plays out like low-rent Hitchcock ( REALLY low-rent ) . It is basically about a bar where there are some very illegal activities going on , the worst being white slavery . The cops have it staked out and , at the end , everyone gets arrested . The only comedy comes from West's one-liners , of which there are unfortunately very few . The film is worth watching once just for a couple of reasons , the biggest being Mae West . The movie may be pretty bad , but she is excellent to watch . She also has a few nice musical numbers . The other major reason to watch is for Cary Grant's first major role . He has said before that this was the least favorite of the movies that he did , and it's no wonder . He looks terrible , like he's made of clay . Except for his cleft chin , you could hardly recognize him .
Too much fun to dismiss	The plot of Tony Jaa's first big movie , Ong-Bak , was insanely simple : sacred statue stolen and taken to the big city , rural martial arts master goes to retrieve it , kicks butt along the way . The plot of his new film is pretty much identical , except for the statue is now a baby elephant and his mother . So one has to wonder what's with all the unfollowable subplots that happen once Jaa is in the city ( Sydney , in this case ) . Part of the confusion probably has to do with the half hour cut by good ol ' Harvey " Scissorhands " Weinstein , but the extra plots do seem unnecessary . Then again , it doesn't really matter . When Jaa starts his special brand of butt-kicking , the movie's a ball . Silly , but a lot of fun ( though not nearly as fun as Ong-Bak , so if you didn't like that one , go ahead and avoid this one ) . As many complaints as I had throughout the picture , it won me over for a couple of its fight scenes , most notably the four minute super-take in which Jaa ascends several flights of stairs , wasting whoever gets in his way ( think of it as Children of Men with karate ! ) . And then there's this scene where he snaps the bones of about a hundred henchmen in a row . But nothing will prepare you for this one moment during the climactic fight . I won't spoil it for you , but I'm not kidding when I say it's the single greatest " I can't believe they did that ! " moment I've ever seen . It had me and two of my buddies laughing for several minutes afterward . We had to pause it and wait for our tears to dry . Then we couldn't resist rewinding it and watching it again . And then the movie ended , and we watched the scene in question again , and again and again , and then again in slow motion , and then again with the " Step " button , examining it a frame at a time . So , yes , the movie is actually kind of crappy , but it's well worth seeing .
SPOILERS People were begging me never to see this movie . . .	But I did anyway . And those people were wrong . Charlie's Angels , while not showing up at any awards ceremony ( although the people who run those might be wrong , too ) , is quite a good action flick . In fact , I don't often like action movies , but this one turned out to be special . I'll go through a few cons first before I get to what I did like : the script is the biggest problem of the film . The action sequences almost always work , if not for the adrenaline rush then for the giddiness of them . It is the exposition that hardly ever works . The introductory vignettes give the film an immediate sour flavor , and , for a long time , the movie heads downhill . Don't worry , though . As soon as the next action scene starts , you'll forget about anything excessively crappy that came before . The humor of the script often worked , but not always . They went a bit too far with the tongue-in-cheek shtick . Wink wink nudge nudge . The only technical thing I can complain about is the constant desire to Matrixify the action sequences . I despised the Matrix , and I'll quickly tell you why : it is NOTHING but an action flick with a script no deeper than Charlie's Angels YET it believed that it was speaking grand profundities . What's worse , audiences bought the pseudo-philosophic mumbo jumbo it was spitting out . As for that film's action , the first slo-mo scene is neat , but it is used so poorly throughout the rest of the film that it renders itself ineffective YET people still ate it up . Films that The Matrix influenced have sort of made better use of the technique , but , really , you can only go so far with it . Charlie's Angles does some pretty neat stuff with it . The bullet scene in Charlie's Angels , stolen directly from The Matrix , is put to decent use here , showing us the truth of a situation where in regular speed the truth would have escaped the audience ( as it does the characters ) . Pros : well , the action , dummy . This film has some of the most beautiful action sequences this side of Die Hard . Also , something that is never noticed with action movies , usually because they are so schlocky , but Charlie's Angels has some of the most beautiful cinematography I've seen in recent years . And that's not just because the frames enclose beautiful women or scenery . The DP and director know how to use the camera , especially how to move it . There is a long , unbroken shot in Knox's apartment that is truly awesome . A cinematography award would not be out of place here . It's techniques are often innovative , too , even if it does also steal a lot . The scene where Drew Barrymore gets shot out the window is amazing in the way it rewinds the scene to show us what actually happened . The use of split screen is also good . It is not new , perhaps , but I haven't seen it done in this way . I hope the director , credited as McG , directs even better action films in the future . All he needs is a great script and , bam , you may just have an action masterpiece , something that is rarer than the dodo . One actor has to be singled out , and it is not one of the angels : Crispin Glover . He's always been sort of an odd fellow in his films , but it was impossible to predict him as a James Bond's - adversary's - main - henchman type , sort of like Jaws from Moonraker . He says not a word , but he's just so good at what he does in this movie . It would be kind of sad if he were from now on terminally type cast as that character , but I'd love to see him in another similar role . As for the Angels themselves , well , they are gorgeous . I'm not a Drew Barrymore fan , usually , but she's pretty hot here . Lucy Liu is also good , and Cameron Diaz is a goddess .
Average Astaire / Rogers vehicle	I was absolutely sure that I had seen each of the RKO Astaire-Rogers pairings . Somehow Carefree slipped under my radar . I liked the concept , which has Astaire as a psychoanalyst trying to probe Ginger Rogers ' mind to understand why she won't marry his friend and her longtime beau , Ralph Bellamy . Like pretty much every Hollywood film that utilizes psychoanalysis as a prop , it is treated as a joke and as if it were magic . At one point , during a dance , when Fred is trying to control Ginger , he wiggles his fingers like a sorcerer . It's all in good fun . Carefree comes off as overly sexist at times . Of course it was 1938 , but it's hard not to wince at Astaire's guess that Rogers is a brainless ninny , even before he meets her . And , of course , Astaire can easily and completely control Rogers mind in whatever way he wants . Again , all in good fun ; again , 1938 . There are a couple of hilarious scenes where Ginger is hypnotized , or anesthesized . Carefree also develops some unexpected emotional depth from its situation . Rogers eventually falls for Astaire , but Astaire's best friend , Bellamy , still loves her . I guess it's kind of nice to have something like that , but it probably harms the film . The frivolity of a Top Hat comes off a lot better . ' Carefree ' the film really isnt ! There aren't too many musical numbers , but we do get to see Astaire and Rogers dance in slow motion ; ' The Yam ' is a cute song , and its dance number is the best in the movie ; and ' Change Partners ' is the best song in the film . Irving Berlin wrote the music for this film .
Interesting , but the story is too sloppy	Bizarre Russian sci-fi , socialist silent about a scientist who builds a rocketship , flies to Mars , and leads the Martian proletariat in a communist revolution . Or at least that's what I've always heard that that was what Aelita was about . In reality , this part of the plot only takes up about fifteen minutes of this 111 minute film . Most of it takes place on Earth , where a scientist , Los , suffers the infidelities and hedonism of his wife . He watches her with scorn as their philandering neighbor feeds her pieces of chocolate . This movie may hold the record for having the most unnecessary subplots . There's a man who is training to be a spy / private detective / undercover policeman ( the professions seem kind of mixed up ) and then there's a soldier who has had much experience ' winning over ' neighboring lands to the Soviet Union . Meanwhile , on Mars , curious Queen Aelita is wasting the planet's energy supply by using a newly invented telescope to watch Earthlings . She falls in love with the scientist . The movie is mainly valuable for the early science fiction settings . The filmmakers do a very good job with the art design on Mars . Of course everything looks very silly and impractical , but it's always amusing . Some of the sets and costumes are more imaginative than anything in Metropolis . Of course , Prozanov isn't anywhere near the talent Lang was , and most of the time the images are haphazardly composed . The Earth sequences , which take up the vast majority of the film , are not too bad , to tell you the truth . In fact , the story is pretty good . It certainly needed to be cleaned up a lot , especially so we might understand why the side characters exist in the first place ( it makes more sense when they get to Mars , ¾ of the way through the picture ) . The acting is quite excellent . I thought the Martians were particularly well cast . I was actually quite enjoying Aelita : Queen of Mars , but the cop-out ending is rather bothersome . It's worth seeing , but it might be helpful to know beforehand that it's going to fall apart completely by the end . .
Scary ? Yes . Original ? Not by a long shot .	I'm tempted to rate this higher than I'm going to because it's so rare that a horror movie is genuinely scary . When it's at its best , The Descent is extremely blood-curdling . Don't read any further if you don't want spoilers ( though they are light spoilers , they are nonetheless spoilers ) . It also avoids effectively my pet peeve in horror movies : the women characters ( and the major characters in this film are all women ) don't fight back like wusses . Most women in thrillers and horror movies whack their enemy on the head once and then run away . These ladies know that if they don't give it their all , they'll be dead . So , anyway , it's a horror movie that's scary and not stupid . What's not to love ? My problem was that writer / director Mashall goes out of his way to hit every cliché in the book . It may be effective , but it's far from original . A lot of the film is just Aliens , and that final shock is total J-horror . Most of the scares are achieved by the cheap " boo " tactic . The film is much more effective when it isn't deafening us with musical stings . The entire prologue feels extraneous , and there isn't even a pay-off that involves it . The film really should have just started with the six women meeting at the cabin the night before the spelunking . They would have lost 20 minutes , but that resulting 80 minute horror film would have been better . The characters in general are pretty weak . They aren't as bad as your run-of-the-mill horror flick , but they aren't that much better , either . Still , it works and it's well worth seeing . Definitely see it in the dark if you do .
It's good , but far from great	Adrien Brody plays a detective investigating , and becoming obsessed with the death of George Reeves , most famous for playing Superman on television ( played by Ben Affleck ) . The story of George Reeves is a compelling and sad one , and that's where the film is best . Reeves ( in flashbacks ) is having an affair with a studio boss's wife ( played by Diane Lane ; her husband is played by Bob Hoskins ) . He becomes a kept man , and his career is going nowhere . The detective part of the movie is much less successful , mainly because it all feels like a been-here-done-that . Brody is fine ; he's kind of channeling Peter Falk from Columbo . The character's drama is pretty much all cliché . He's divorced and is having relationship problems with his son , and has to deal with his ex's new meathead boyfriend . For some not very believable reason he becomes so entangled in the case that he refuses payment when his client turns tail and runs . He's working on another , less interesting case that he's not doing very well on because he's so worked up about the Reeves case ( seriously , this subplot should have been excised ) . He even gets beat up by some heavies . I just never really cared . I wanted to get back to the Reeves story . Affleck gives the best performance of his life ( which isn't saying much , honestly ) . Lane is also very good . There are also several very good supporting performances , from Robin Tunney ( playing Reeves's fiancée ) , Jeffrey DeMunn ( playing Reeves ' agent ) and others . I liked the movie , but it is somewhat uneven .
My first Ozu	Yasujiro Ozu is considered second only to Kurosawa in the hierarchy of Japanese cinema ( by Westerners , anyhow ) , so it has always shocked me how unavailable his films are . Most of his films do exist on VHS , and there is at least one on DVD , Ohayo , which I have considered purchasing in the past , but have not as of yet . But , for God's sake , I live in a decently large city now , and I can hardly find a single film of his . Finally , I did manage to rent one , Early Summer . I can say right away that I did not enjoy it . I found it of interest in cultural aspects , but I was also quite unaffected by it , and , frankly , quite bored . I don't bore easily , either . The cultural aspects were valuable , in that it showed me a part of Japanese culture that I did not know very well , that is the intimate workings of family life . I have a feeling , though , that these modes of thought are outdated in Japan now . I think my main problem with the film was the script itself . I liked most of the characters , but I cannot say that I really got to know them all that well . I liked the grandparents , the uncle , and the young children the most . I found the main character somewhat uncompelling and underdeveloped . I'm certainly not going to give up on Ozu . I know his reputation . Early Summer is not among his more famous films , anyway , and I'm sure , from reading about them , that Tokyo Story or Floating Blossoms would be much more appealing to me . I still would give this film . If you like it , may I suggest a couple of films : To Live , a Chinese film by Zhang Yimou which follows two characters from when they meet and marry to when they are aged . Also , the Apu trilogy , from Indian filmmaker Satyajit Ray . I particularly like the first installment , Pather Panchali , and have actually not seen the third , World of Apu . But this film reminded me a lot of those films .
Adequately entertaining , nothing more	Ang Lee tries hard to make the film good , but his efforts to inject substance and art to the project are misguided . Why couldn't he have just tried to make it fun ? Last year's Spider-Man fulfilled a lot of that promise . The Hulk ( or Hulk ? imdb provides the ' The , ' which isn't in the main title of the film or on any of the posters ) does entertain when action strikes . There are at least three great action sequences , although a couple of them take place at night , making them difficult to comprehend at times . The finale is especially muddled , and I could only barely tell what happened . But I had to love the Hulk ? literal id . I want the sequel to be Bruce Banner-less . The rest of the movie is better than it ought to be , with particularly good performances from Jennifer Connelly ( who seems to think she is vying for her next Oscar ) and Nick Nolte ( who is the only one who seems to know exactly which movie he's in ) . Director Lee tries to present the movie as a living comic book . It doesn't come off too badly , but this has been done better before in the animated television series The Maxx . .
By Far the Worst Movie the Coen Brothers Have Ever Done	Like many people , I first became associated with the Coen brothers through Fargo . They might have been the first filmmakers whose entire body of work I searched out and watched . And I liked every one of them . And then I was the first person in line to see their next film ( their previous film now ) The Big Lebowski . And that one just added to their shining reputation . And now , some three and a half or so years later , comes their next film , O Brother , Where Art Thou ? It has all the marks of a Coen brothers ' movie , but , for some reason , it doesn't work at all . And I know why , or at least I think I do . What makes a Coen brothers ' film distinct from a film of another director ? Some would say quirkiness . This is certainly part of it . But people can copy quirkiness , and have . Take Being John Malkovich . It is possibly the quirkiest film ever made outside of the Coen universe . But no one would mistake it for a Coen brothers ' film . Why is this ? Well , in my opinion , which , of course , is informed , it is the Coen brothers ' sense of perfection and meticulousness both in the technical aspects , the performances , and the script . Technically , O Brother is a match for any of their other films . The cinematography , mise-en-scene , sound and editing are great . The script is the biggest problem . It is bad . Not that there aren't good ideas in there . In fact , any one of the episodes could have turned out to be hilarious . Possibly , its just that there are too many episodes . Therefore , each episode runs for approximately two minutes before it is over . Each episode comprises about one sequence , and each sequence is composed of about two or three scenes . Take a look at Miller's Crossing , for example , to compare . The pace is slow . O Brother is not a short movie , yet it feels that way . And because of the sloppy script , there are no performances to speak of , really . I like any one of the actors on screen , but their characters , even the character of George Clooney , are all one dimensional . It isn't necessary to flesh out every character of a comedy , but I think some of the more colorful supporting characters should have had more screentime , more development . John Goodman should have had a more substantial part , for instance ( although his Southern accent is not very good ) , and Charles Durning's part should have been better . In fact , the whole gubernatorial race part of the plot should have been more in focus . I would have based the plot more around it , rather than having it taking place in the corners . The way the Coens get rid of Durning's opponent is just bad . The only thing the film did get right is the music . The main song that the escapees sing is just marvelous . And all the other songs written by T . Bone Burnett are excellent , also . In fact , it would be a travesty if at least that main song didn't get nominated for an Oscar . It completely deserves it . I would have given the film an all-time Coen brothers low score of , being the former low ( The Hudsucker Proxy ) , but I have to give it at least one point for the music , so final score = .
They really need to cool down with movie trailers ! Felt like I'd already seen the movie !	Very amusing big budget comedy about a bunch of superstar actors who think they're making a movie when they're really lost in the jungle and being pursued by machine-gun wielding members of a drug cartel . Ben Stiller plays a huge action star trying to break into drama . Robert Downey Jr . plays a method actor who goes so deep into character that he doesn't break it until the DVD commentary . And Jack Black is a star of fart-themed movies who is addicted to heroin . I laughed a lot at Tropic Thunder , but I didn't enjoy it as much as I'd hoped I would . Part of it is that they've had so many previews and commercials for the movie , and they've been airing them since April or so , and I've pretty much seen the whole movie . But that might not really be the whole reason , because even the jokes that I hadn't seen - and there were plenty - weren't always making me laugh . And even when I was laughing , I never laughed big . And maybe it's because two other comedies released in the past month , Step Brothers and Pineapple Express , both made my sides split . Yes , even Step Brothers , as stupid as I will admit it was . While I would recommend those two even more , I would also say Tropic Thunder is well worth seeing .
Good act one , but . . .	Suzhou River's beginning represents an extremely compelling film . It has it all - a great narrative , great acting , great score , and it is emotionally involving . But the director / screenwriter throws it all away when he decides simply to revert back to Sir Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo . Vertigo is one of those films that is impossible to top , so it is just a waste of time to try . Here is my experience during Suzhou River , after having enjoyed the first 30 minutes or so immensely : I hear the score sampling Bernard Herrmann's Vertiginous theme , and see the camera quoting the film , and my mind immediately jumped back on my dreamlike memories of Vertigo . It's as if Suzhou River disappeared . Near the end , the film started to become a little more original , and my daydreams faded , but I was pretty lost at that point . Don't get me wrong . Suzhou River is still a fine film . I would actually like someone to remake most of it , taking out the Vertigo homage and inserting something more original .
Stupendous visuals only barely make up for a forgettable story and characters	The first 2005 film I've seen , and , really , it's the only one released so far this year that I have had even the littlest desire to see at the theater . It was worth seeing , but it's forgettable . The visuals are absolutely eye-popping . The film's best sequence is a Rube Goldberg-esque public transportation system across town . I think if that had gone on for 90 minutes , we would have had some kind of masterpiece on our hands . Instead , we get a dull story of a group of nearly outmoded robots rebelling against an evil company that is no longer building spare parts . The head of that company used to be all for the common folk , but he's disappeared and left a despot in his place . The underground area , where they melt scrap , is really cool , and reminded me of The Nightmare Before Christmas . Madame Gasket , who rules this part of the city , was the most interestingly designed character . Robin Williams is very annoying , but , to his credit , he is playing a character here , not just himself . I wasn't thinking " Man , is Robin Williams annoying , " but rather , " Man , that character Robin Williams is playing is annoying . " I doubt that could be taken as much of a compliment , though . All of the other main characters are especially forgettable , especially Halle Berry's character , who is supposedly the female lead . I think most of the audiences wanted the protagonist to end up with the second female lead , who is a tad more interesting . And I think the filmmakers realized this , too , because the hero only barely ends up with Berry at the end . The movie is also in need of laughs . I chuckled a bit , but that was all . The funniest moment is the robot who does the robot dance . As much as I can complain , though , I would still highly recommend ( renting ) it for the visuals alone .
I wish Harold Lloyd's work was more available . . .	Previously , I had only seen one Harold Lloyd feature film ( Safety Last , which I loved ) , and a couple of short films that he made . I was fascinated by the obscure actor , whose name only the most knowledgeable of film buffs will recognize . Sure , Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton are great , but so was Harold Lloyd . He has unfairly been forgotten by almost everyone . Nowadays , the only video one can find in America of his work is his updating of his character from The Freshman , The Sin of Mr . Diddlebock , also called Mad Wedensday . So I rented it , and I enjoyed it quite a bit . While it is not as funny as a silent movie would be ( anyone who is familiar with silent comedy will tell you , I believe , that there has never been anything funnier than the silent comedies ) , it is still witty and funny and quite enjoyable . It's not a laugh riot , but it was always entertaining . I'm guessing that a lot of the film was based on Lloyd's famous silent movies , perhaps not entirely forgotten in 1947 ( or maybe they were , since The Sin of Mr . Diddlebock was re-edited and renamed and rereleased in 1950 ) . I know that the scenes with Harold trying to rescue his lion from a high building ledge at least seemed to be pointing back to Safety Last , but the newer scenes were a lot less impressive than his old ones . Still , if I can't find his masterpieces , at least I can enjoy some steady work of his .
Too obscure , but I can't help but like a Pasolini film	With this , I only have one more Pasolini feature to go and I have seen all of them ( the missing culprit being Accatone ) . Porcile does not represent Pasolini at his best . It's far too abstract and obscure . Two stories alternate , one taking place in a quasi-legendary time and one in modern times . The quasi-legendary scenes concern a young cannibal , some rapists and murderers . The modern sequence concerns some former Nazis living in Italy . One of their sons , played by French actor Jean-Pierre Leaud , is sick of the evil , bourgeois lifestyle he leads . At one point , since he lacks any ambition , he throws himself into an intentional coma . I don't get it , especially how the two parts work together . Still , as a Pasolini fan , I have to admit that it is a strikingly made film . I especially liked the scenes set in the past . Pasolini regulars Franco Citti and Ninetto Davoli ( the only actor , I believe , who appears in both parts of the film , although I have no clue why ) come along for the ride . Pasolini fans should certainly see it , others should avoid . .
Passable Billy Wilder comedy ; the first pairing of the Jack Lemmon-Walter Matthau team	I'm not a huge Billy Wilder fan . I love Some Like it Hot , but was never too impressed with Double Indemnity and I really disliked Stalag 17 . I'm rather ambivalent towards The Fortune Cookie . I laughed a bit , but was also bored some of the time . It actually kind of lacks successful jokes . Walter Matthau , who won a deserved Oscar ( thought probably a sympathy Oscar , since he had a heart attack during the making of the film ) , plays the crooked lawyer who plans to milk an insurance company after his brother-in-law , Lemmon , a cameraman for the Cleveland Browns , is run down by a football player . Most of the best jokes are Matthau's . He has a lot of energy in the role and has a lot of great one liners as well as extended speeches . Jack Lemmon himself is good but had many better roles in his career ( look no further than to Some Like it Hot ) . He is still in love with his ex-wife who ran away with someone who promised her a singing career . She comes back to take care of Lemmon , but she's clearly a gold-digger . Ron Rich plays the football player who knocked Lemmon down . He's a little stiff , and , really , could they have found a whiter black man on Earth ? Much of the film's dramatics rely on his situation . He feels guilty for the injury , and Lemmon feels guilty for faking the injury and thus damaging the player's own confidence . These dramatic pulls never work well , though , since Rich is not all that good . There're also a lot of racial issues that are raised matter-of-factly - this was made at the height of the civil rights movement - and the casting of Ron Rich , who is so wimpy , sensitive , soft-voiced and light-skinned , is rather disingenuous . Still , at least the film is trying to show a friendship building between Rich and Lemmon . The film loses further pith because of the story . It's nothing special and it becomes , through the film's course , excessively predictable . Billy Wilder's direction is decent , but ordinary . The cinematography is pretty good and crisp black and white , but it may have seemed better in color . Really , all of my attention was focused on Matthau and Lemmon . .
Works best if you're familiar with Cronenberg beforehand	Crash fits perfectly in David Cronenberg's canon . It has the same fascination with cold , mechanical images that we see in The Fly and Videodrome . If this is your first Cronenberg film , you'll be understandably lost . It is certainly not his best , though . I like the film particularly for its boundary-pushing . Boy , does it push some boundaries ! It has many unique and fascinating scenes . But it has one major problem : once it shows us its ideas , it sort of just repeats over and over . It never really goes anywhere with its ideas . It should have ended at least twenty or thirty minutes before it did . But no one on Earth wants to see James Spader have sex with Elias Koteas . Oh , disturbing image !
Curious film that I admit I felt a little iffy about	A unique film , a blend of documentary and animation . It definitely shares some aspects with Richard Linklater's Waking Life , but it seems fresh and new . Ari Folman interviews people with whom he served in the Lebanon War in 1983 . He himself was a soldier at the time , but he seems to have blocked the entire period from his memory . The film is almost all animated , mostly because it wants to illustrate the events described by his interviewees . He also wants these horrible events which he doesn't remember experiencing to come across as dreams or nightmares . The style of animation is very odd , very simple , and very beautiful . It's an entertaining and mystical film , but it didn't win me over completely . I kept thinking , " Wow , this is beautiful , " or " Wow , this looks neat , " and then I'd feel guilty for that . The dreamlike quality of the film becomes kind of numbing after a while . Folman switches to live action , real-life footage of the atrocities he doesn't remember witnessing to show that it definitely wasn't a dream , but I felt like it was too little too late .
Deeply flawed but extremely interesting film from Lars von Trier	First thing's first , he shouldn't have repeated the style of Dogville . It worked there , yes , but it isn't something that was going to work twice . It weakens this film quite a bit , because it all feels like a been-there-done-that . I'm not 100 % sure what von Trier's point is supposed to be , but the film seems to be trying at both a commentary on American racial attitudes as well as an allegory of the Iraq War . The latter part mostly works , although even it has some flaws . Grace ( played now by Bryce Dallas Howard ) , unlike the United States , doesn't have to use force to free the slaves of Manderlay . There is no collateral damage , and it's hard to dislike Grace for wanting to help these people . However , it does make a good point that helping these people form their own society has its own dangers . When all they've ever known is servitude and cruelty , how are they going to treat their fellow man ? That argument may be condescending to the Iraqis , but I have to admit I agree . As far as the racial themes go , Lars von Trier , a man , I don't have to remind you , who has never even set foot in America , has no idea what he is talking about . Well , I suppose some idea . I mean , everybody reads . But the American racial situation is far more complex than he understands , and the film , with regards to this theme , echoes the kind of jackassery of Neil Young's " Southern Man " . It's not surprising that von Trier's indictment of American society doesn't work ; it didn't work in Dogville , either . He even ends this film exactly the same way , with David Bowie's " Young American " playing over a montage of supposedly damning photos . The final photo is of a black man cleaning off the statue of Abraham Lincoln in the Lincoln Memorial . The irony of just how non-damning that image is is lost on Lars von Trier .
If you love this movie , you have to watch the edited version the next time it's on Comedy Central !	And I'll tell you why : whoever decided to edit this movie to make it suitable for television was very ill-advised . EVERYTHING CONCERNING DRUGS IS CUT OUT AND COVERED UP ! ! ! How do they do it , you might ask ? Well , they don't do it very well , that's for sure . Anyway , instead of the marijuana which Cheech and Chong are supposed to have in their possession , they are said to have diamonds ! Still , the characters go around in a haze of marijuana smoke stoning others along their way with no explanation whatsoever !
Very flawed but interesting and often beautiful film	It's easy to dismiss a film like this or Salo or In the Realm of the Senses as garbage . It's too easy , in fact , and not very fair . These films are all very interesting , if you can take them . And , if you can't stand the heat , hey , stay out of the kitchen . Among the ranks of what I'll call the Artsploitation flick , The Night Porter is rather tame . There are only a couple of hardcore sex scenes , and there are really only two scenes with nudity . What I like about this film is , first and foremost , the performance by Dirk Bogarde . The subtle guilt and shame he projects is simply amazing . He really builds a three dimensional character , and mostly without dialogue . Other performers are weaker . Charlotte Rampling , his captive , gives a very uneven performance . Sometimes it seems on the money , other times it seems forced , or blank . None of the others are really worth mentioning , except for that one actor's ballet dancing , which is quite remarkable . Cavani's direction is sensuous . I saw this film for the second time today , and I had failed to notice before that it was directed by a woman . Unfortunately , that doesn't affect my reading of the film any , but it is interesting . This definitely seemed like a male project . Cavani's direction has a certain grace , a certain elegance . The film contains several scenes that could be called masterpieces in the midst of a lesser work . My favorite in the entire film is the one where Lucia locks herself in the bathroom , breaks a bottle in front of the door , and then allows Max to run in after her . This scene is so marvelously directed , it would work particularly well when seen as a separate entity . The famous nude cabaret song , the one depicted on the Criterion cover , is also exquisite . Technically , it is perfect . The cinematography is beautiful , as I've mentioned . The musical score is also gorgeous . It's possibly one of the greatest . The biggest failure of the film is definitely its script . The story is very difficult to follow . It's never clear exactly what has happened since the war , and what these former Nazis are doing in Vienna . It's also unclear what exactly the trials are that are always being brought up . And I'm not sure what they are afraid of , what they originally plan to do with Lucia , or anything like that . Or why they can't break into Max's apartment again . A lot of this stuff seems silly . I would have also liked Lucia's character better developed . We get the sense that she accepted Max's advances so quickly so that she could get his protection , which she receives in that biblical dance scene . I want more yet . With Max so well developed , Lucia feels somewhat like an object for the plot . I rate this a high .
Pretty good translation to film	I don't read all that much because I'm a little dislexic , which makes reading take a lot longer for me than it does for others . That's why I am more of a film fanatic than a literature fanatic . But there is one author whose work keeps me thoroughly interested , and that author is William Faulkner . In my opinion ( and it is an opinion that is well informed ; despite not reading often , I would consider myself well read . Instead of wasting time reading weak entertainment like John Grisham , Tom Clancy , and Micheal Chrichton , when I do read , I always make sure it is something that is highly regarded among literature experts ) , there is no better author than William Faulkner . His style surpasses everything else that I've read . And I have read _ The Reivers _ . While it doesn't match up with the rest of his work ( in fact , I consider it the least of all those that I've read , and I've read all of his bona fide masterpieces ) , it is still a thoroughly enjoyable novel . It does not match up because its narrative style is greatly diminished when compared to _ The Sound and the Fury _ or _ Absalom , Absalom ! _ . _ The Reivers _ is also very anticlimactic , which ends up harming the rest of the novel . Well , _ The Reivers _ , with its unimpressive style , is the perfect Faulkner novel for the big screen . And the film version actually improves on the ending , removing the anticlimactic scenes ( in the novel , Boss shows up after the first heat of the race , and then the second heat is postponed while Boss negotiates Boon out of jail ( in addition to smacking Corrie , he also beat the heck out of Butch , the sheriff ( or " shurf " in pure Faulknerian ) ) . Also , the film actually adds some very well written dialogue that was not in the novel . The film does miss one important thing , though . It never feels as if much time has passed . In the novel , several scenes are carried out a lot longer . Basically , we experience everything that happens to Lucius , and by cutting out some scenes , we don't feel as if we've not slept much . There is more to the Mr . Binford scene , there is a lot more to do with Otis ( his character was perhaps the most severely excised in the film version ) , and there is an enormous episode involving the transportation of Lightning , the horse , to Possum . The subtraction of all this material results in the feeling that the events in this film go by too quickly . I give the film the same grade that I give the novel , an . While the film fixes the anticlimax , it also goes faster than it should .
It never caught my interest , but I can't say it was bad	In the past , I have sometimes found myself able to enjoy Capra's populism and sometimes unable . I go back and forth on the philosophy , as well as the director's sentimentalism . The day I watched Mr . Deeds Goes to Town , I just wasn't buying it . Gary Cooper plays a bumpkin who inherits $20 million from an uncle he didn't even know . He's spirited off to New York City , where the media are chomping at the bit to find out more about him . Reporter Jean Arthur pretends to be another stranger in the city and befriends Cooper , secretly writing newspaper articles about how dumb he is behind his back ( a plot line that the Coen Brothers adopted for The Hudsucker Proxy ) . The movie is never particularly bad . I enjoyed it at some points . But I can't say I was ever really interested in it . And it devolves into my single least favorite classic movie cliché , a courtroom sequence where the audience laughs uproariously at every revelation . Cooper , of whom I'm not a big fan , gives one of his better performances , and Arthur , of whom I am a big fan , is , as always , wonderful . The film got a bunch of Oscar nominations , but Arthur was sadly left out .
I suppose it's wrong to compare it to Pixar's work , but it is a decent little flick	Decent animated entertainment from Dreamworks , the poor man's Pixar . Except for Shrek , which I despised , Dreamworks ' animated films have been rather enjoyable , if unremarkable , and Kung Fu Panda continues this trend . Jack Black voices Po , a fat , clumsy panda who dreams of kung fu while working in a noodle shop . One day , he is chosen by a kung fu master to be the next dragon warrior , the one who will defeat über-villain Tai Lung ( Ian McShane ) . Will he embarrass himself , or will at some point realize that , if he believes in himself , he can accomplish anything ? Only the stupidest children can't figure that one out . Other voices are provided by Dustin Hoffman , Angelina Jolie , Jackie Chan , Lucy Liu , Seth Rogen , David Cross , and Michael Clark Duncan . Jesus . Just think about how much money Dreamworks wasted on all these people . Jackie Chan , for instance , has possibly one line in the entire movie , and probably made a million dollars for it . The movie itself is enjoyable , especially during the action sequences , which go by a little too fast but are well choreographed . The storyboarders had their work cut out for them . The artwork is probably the best looking Dreamworks has yet conceived , but compare it to the visionary WALL-E and it's clear that this studio is just for kids .
Good thriller	Unambitious but quite fun little thriller . It stars Luke Wilson and Kate Beckinsale as an about-to-be-divorced married couple who get stranded in the middle of nowhere and bed down at a crappy motel . The motel's manager ( Frank Whaley ) turns out to be in the snuff film business . He films his customers as his buddies torture and slaughter them . The film looks great , and is well acted , especially by Whaley . It avoids being stupid or predictable for most of its run , but trips up a couple of times later on . You know whenever a lumbering old police officer shows up , he won't survive more than a couple of minutes . One has to wonder why no other officers shows up after that first one vanished off the face of the Earth . And , just when you think the film has some guts to do something completely unexpected , it turns out to be just a tease .
Far from great , but I don't think it's as bad as many say	A film even most Bergman enthusiasts dislike . However , as weak as it is , I have to admit I found a lot to like about it . First , the bad : David Carradine is pretty awful . He's had an uneven career , giving several very good performances and many bad ones . In the interviews included on the MGM DVD , it seems clear that he was out of his element working with Bergman ( the featurette , incidentally , is a must-see ; it's hilariously awkward , especially with Carradine's positive take on the film and his own work in it and how it contradicts what Liv Ullmann has to say ) . Secondly , this was the biggest budget Bergman ever worked with ( Dino de Laurentiis produced it when Bergman was hiding from Swedish authorities in Munich ) , and it feels like a lot of his attention to the emotions of the film , and possibly also David Carradine , was diverted to the handling of the massive amounts of extras and the massive sets of 1920s Germany . Third , the script takes too long to develop . The first half of the film can be excruciatingly slow , and most of the good material comes in near the end . I fear that , for most , it'll be a matter of too little , too late . The good : well , to counteract Carradine's crusty performance , we have the fantastic Liv Ullmann . True , she's a little hard to understand through her accent ( I should have probably also noted in the " bad " section the sound , which I think was just badly done ; I watched the film with subtitles , but then , hey , it's a Bergman film , so no big deal , right ? ) , but she's as expressive as always . She brings out a lot of emotion , and does it subtly . The setting , Depression-era Germany , is vividly recreated . The Bergman film The Serpent's Egg reminds me most of is Hour of the Wolf , in that it is a horror film . The setting is truly horrifying . The film builds to a surreal , dreamlike climax with Carradine winding his way through a labyrinth . These scenes are impressively done , as are several others . I love the one-shot scene where Carradine wanders into a crowded dance club looking for booze . There really is a lot to like , even though , overall , it's pretty hard to enjoy . Honestly , I think it's well worth seeing .
Lesser John Ford is still quite good	Ford might be best known for his Westerns , but he made nearly as many military pictures as he made Westerns ( perhaps more if we were to count his cavalry pictures in the military genre ) . What Price Glory is a WWI picture starring James Cagney as a commanding officer . He's involved with the daughter of an innkeeper , Charmaine ( Corinne Calvet ) , but he doesn't think he should marry her . He pushes off one of his underlings ( Dan Dailey ) on her , but later regrets it . There's also a nice romantic subplot involving a young Robert Wagner and a French teenager , Marisa Pavan . A lot of it works very well . I love Calvet . She's best known for her role in Anthony Mann's The Far Country , where she played the pig-tailed girl with the stocking cap who was always trying to sing for Jimmy Stewart . Oh , I know she's not a great actress , but she's so damn cute and charming . I love her character here , nice but opportunistic . The sets and cinematography are very good . The one aspect that really harms it is Dan Dailey . He gives a very weak performance and is very unsympathetic . .
No , not great Hitchcock , but entertaining nonetheless	Family Plot differs from all the other Hitchcock films . It lacks suspense , for the most part , and it is not as funny as many of his films . Instead , it is just an amusing little yarn . I like the way the film starts with two separate plot lines which gradually merge . Even if it is not the most original thing in the world ( especially since two of Family Plot's stars were main players in Robert Altman's Nashville ) , it still makes the film interesting . If anyone else had made this film , it probably would be more fondly received by the public , although I doubt anyone would still be watching it today . The two characters with whom we begin the film , whom we would consider the heroes , are the best , and are played lovingly by Barbara Harris and Bruce Dern . She's a hack psychic milking old ladies out of pensions , and he's a cabbie who cannot find enough time both to drive his cab and participate in Harris ' schemes . Although the characters aren't as well developed as those in numerous other Hitchcock ventures , they're entertaining . The other couple , Karen Black and William Devane , fare less well . They're more crafty in their crimes , perpetrating large-scale kidnappings for enormous ransoms . Karen Black's character is very underdeveloped , hardly showing any depth . What character she does have is not entirely believable , since Karen Black seems too nice to play a hardcore criminal . William Devane is decent as the sinister mastermind , but the history provided to his character is far more brutal than is believable ( he locked his adopted parents in their bedroom and set fire to their house ) . I liked the idea of the small time crooks clashing with the professionals , and I liked the outcome of the film . All in all , it is decent and worth watching . It does not feel anything like a Hitchcock film , so I wouldn't expect anything like Vertigo or Rear Window when approaching this , his swan song .
Well observed drama	I only watched this film because it takes place in Madison , WI , where I lived for a couple of years a while back . I was surprised to find a pretty good film . Zach Braff plays a man nearing 30 whose girlfriend is newly pregnant . Feeling trapped , he is easily seduced by a 20 year-old girl who throws herself at him . Meanwhile , his three best friends face the crises that come with that age . I thought the characters and situations were very well observed , and the acting was quite good . Casey Affleck in particular is great as the married friend with a 1 year-old who's starting to think that it might be for the best if he and his wife split up . My only real problem is with Braff's girlfriend's parents , played by Blythe Danner and Tom Wilkinson , who are having marital problems themselves . That subplot is poorly developed and poorly integrated into the rest of the film , and Danner overperforms her role terribly . Is it just me , or does she seem pickled drunk in every movie she's in ? Must be me . The movie is a remake of a 2001 Italian drama of the same name , which I haven't seen .
Tough call	I can say I definitely did not like _ Rosetta _ . And I'm not saying that I didn't enjoy it . What , are you kidding ? This movie is impossible to enjoy . I mean that I did not find it successful . It's the kind of movie that only exists to challenge its audience . I may not have been entirely up to that challenge . Watching a Dogma 95 film on four hours sleep and ten hours work was certainly not the best idea I've ever had . But I was certainly not the only one who felt that the final product was kind of a dud . I saw it in a theater with at least 90 other people , and there were a lot of moans and groans being uttered during the last ten minutes . And this wasn't just from a couple of people who may have accidentally wandered in an art theater by accident . Here are my complaints : a film like this has to be saying something , and , in order to work , it has to make me think about the world around me , especially regarding our old friend , the Human Condition . _ Rosetta _ only made me think about how exactly the film failed . Basically the moral of the movie is : life sucks . It never questions why life sucks . Its conclusion , as far as I can tell , is that it just does . The major obstruction that arose in my mind during it were obvious similarities in theme , style , and character to The Dreamlife of Angles , which I regard as one of the best films of the 1990s . They are both about young women living in the lowlands ( _ Rosetta _ takes place in Belgium , _ Dreamlife _ in Lille , France ) who desperately need jobs to live , jobs which are extremely hard to come by . _ Dreamlife _ has an edge over _ Rosetta _ , though . It shows us two different perspectives of this sort of life . One of the two main characters of that film cannot handle the life of poverty , whereas the other finds ways to deal with it . Their characters are well drawn , and we care about them . Heck , I think there are no other two characters from the 1990s ( besides maybe Ben and Sera from Leaving Las Vegas ) whom I know and love more . Most of _ Rosetta _ is just the camera operator following Rosetta as she stomps all over town . She has a personality , but it doesn't go to far . She lives to survive , if that even makes any sense . All of her personality traits arise from a very survival of the fittest attitude ( and Rosetta knows that she is not the fittest ) . This is realistic , to be sure , but it is very hard to care for her . She is so closed off to the world that I could not care all that much about her . If you met her on the street and said hello , I would guess that she would punch you . But look at the bitter woman from _ Dreamlife _ . Her character generally resides in her bitterness , but she has extra depth . As people usually are when they are bitter , she is very vulnerable and is bitter to , at least partly , keep people from knowing her . Thus , I cared much for her , and I wept profusely for her all throughout the film . Rosetta did not make me feel a thing about her . But here is what I like : While I may not have been the least bit compelled by the character Rosetta , the actress playing her was great . This seems paradoxical , but I'll try to explain it . The character as written by the screenwriter has little depth . But there is some depth , and all of it comes from the actress . Her constant stomping leaves her mainly with a sharp frown , but the scenes where she is actually doing something , that actress is amazing . Her face is very expressive , even though the directors seem not to have wanted her to use her facial repetoire during most of the film . There were a couple of scenes which elevated the film for brief periods . There are two very painful scenes where Rosetta tries to stay at her current job . And the very ending , while I was quite disappointed in what the plot was doing with the characters , shows us one of the saddest faces ever filmed . I would never suggest that anyone watch this film , but in the future , if this actress gains any of the fame which she deserves , you may want to hunt this film down . You may dislike it , but it is worth seeing it just for her . So I gave this movie a , which is a pretty big stretch .
Not bad , but a tad stale	It might have been wise to watch the two earlier versions of Dashiell Hammett's The Maltese Falcon before I re-watched the 1941 classic . It would have reminded me just how great Huston's film is . The ' 31 version isn't bad , per se . It has the same major flaw that most films of this early talkie era had : leaden dialogue delivery . It's also a bit stagy , though by no means the worst I've seen from the time . None of the actors are as good as their ' 41 counterparts , with the possible exception of Bebe Daniels , most famous for her role in 42nd Street . She's a bit sexier than Mary Astor , and it's more believable that she could hold sway over men . I also thought Otto Matieson was pretty good as Joel Cairo . Una Merkel is very cute as Effie , Spade's secretary . Thelma Todd , of Marx Brothers ' movies fame , also co-stars as Iva Archer . Ricardo Cortez plays Sam . He's a bit too nice for the part , like he should rather be starring in musicals ( Daniels doesn't suffer this way ? she's appropriately ruthless ) . The film only runs 78 minutes , but it feels a lot longer . It excises even more of the novel than Huston's version , but the pacing is really slow ( the ' 41 movie runs 100 minutes ) . It seems the major success in Huston's movie ? well , besides the awesome cast ? was its lightning pacing . It also changes some things around at the end , if I remember right . I actually really liked the final sequence , not in the ' 41 version and ( if memory serves me correctly ) not in the novel , either , where Spade visits Ms . Wonderly ( which isn't a pseudonym in this movie ) in prison . I wouldn't say it surpasses the ' 41 version in any way , but then again I've never quite been satisfied with Spade's final exchanges with Brigid O'Shaughnessy either .
I liked it ; I wish I liked it more	After falling in love with Jarmusch's most recent film , Broken Flowers , I thought perhaps the door would be open and I would learn to love the rest of his films . Unfortunately , watching Mystery Train , I feel the same distance that I have felt watching most of his other films . Don't get me wrong , there are some wonderful things about Mystery Train , and , overall , I liked it more than I did Stranger Than Paradise and Down by Law . But I always felt like I should be liking it a lot more , and I just never felt much more than a nice affection for the movie . The film contains three segments about people in Memphis , Tennessee . I especially liked the first one , which has two Japanese tourists there to visit Sun Records and Graceland . The second segment I liked less , which involves an Italian widow and a motormouth American she runs into . The third I liked slightly better than the second , and slightly less than the first . It involves three guys ( one of them being Steve Buscemi ) , one of whom has a loaded gun and is drunk ( who is not Steve Buscemi ) . All three stories meet up at a flophouse run by Screamin ' Jay Hawkins ( famous for recording the song " You Put a Spell on Me " ) and a goofy little bellboy played by Spike Lee's brother , Cinqué . I really liked those two . The whole film is mysterious and charming , with a bit of magic in the air , but somehow , for me at least , it didn't result in too much .
If nothing else , it's probably the only French New Wave film that begins with a decapitation !	I'm still inching into the cinema of Robert Bresson , as I would a hot bath . I saw Pickpocket a couple of months ago . I liked it , but didn't agree that it was a masterpiece of any sort . I picked up Lancelot of the Lake because the video box caught my eye . I didn't expect a French New Wave guy to be directing Medieval drama ( I also rented Rohmer's Perceval at the same time , but have not yet watched it ) , especially Bresson , whom I associate with a certain slowness . The result is mixed . The film is certainly not entirely successful , but I'd say that it is an extraordinarily interesting film . I have a problem with his decision to erase all emotion from his actors . That works decently in Pickpocket , but not as well here . The story takes place after the Knights of the Round Table have failed to find the Holy Grail . They return defeated . They feel that they have been denied by God himself . And then they begin to doubt themselves , and eventually to turn against each other . The story is one that ought to be imbued with emotions , especially Lancelot and Guinivere . Also , Lancelot's enemies , who are jealous of his affair with the queen more than they are angry on King Arthur's behalf , their rivalry should be readable on their faces . Instead , the actors emote about as much as cardboard cutouts . I guess Bresson is going for naturalism , but he falls way below that mark . Real people have emotions . On the other hand , Robert Bresson's direction , that is , everything but the acting , is excellent . Most everything works , and there are many masterful sequences . It's perfectly paced ( well , that is , if you like his style ) . The editing is often amazing . The art direction and music are also very good . As for the script , well , it can sometimes be confusing . Once in a while , I got a bit lost . But most of it works really well . .
Great effects in this silent flick	Destiny demonstrates just how great Fritz Lang was with his special effects . This was three years before The Nibelungenlied and five before Metropolis , and there are many eye-popping visuals . He would improve even more by The Nibelungenlied , which may be the pinnacle of silent effects films , even greater than Metropolis . As far as the really early German silent films go , I prefer Destiny to two much more famous films that were made around the same time , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari and Nosferatu . To tell you the truth , I think those two films were just randomly selected to stand as masterpieces , for they don't stand the test of time at all . And neither does Destiny , really . I gave all three a , but Destiny is the best of the three . Its only problem is its slow plotting . It was often difficult to stay awake . Indeed , a woman sitting in front of me slept through a good third of it !
Pales in comparison to Dutt's previous film , Pyaasa	A huge disappointment ! Dutt's Pyaasa is one of my all-time favorite films ; few have moved me so greatly . I didn't think he could top that one , but I also didn't think that his next film would fall so low . I mean , it's a fairly good film , but it really failed to resonate with me . Where Pyaasa was an archetypical plot that aspired to myth , Kaagaz Ke Phool is more along the lines of melodrama . Completely lost is the previous film's visual and aural poetry . The story of Paper Flowers concerns a film director , played by Dutt , who discovers a poor woman , Waheeda Rehman , to star in his new film . The two of them develop a special relationship that approaches love , but is not quite there . Then the director's daughter , Baby Naaz , enters the picture . The director's wife separated ( not divorced ) from him because her upper class family did not approve of a man involved in the film industry . But the daughter cannot stand to see her father fall for another woman , so she convinces Rehman to quit after the film is done . Disaster ensues for everyone . For this film to work better , I think the characters really needed to be better developed . They are mostly pretty generic . The daughter especially needed a more fully written role , because she basically ruins two lives and we only hastily see how she is affected by this . The movie pulls together a bit by its end , and its last couple of sequences are good , but nothing comes close to the cinematic magic of Pyaasa . Even the songs are far below Bollywood standards ; they're too few and far between , and they tend to sound alike . Sometimes I wasn't sure if one song was a reprise of another . I liked a few of them , especially those sung by the actress character ( sung , that is , by Geeta Dutt , as the actors tend not to sing in Bollywood ) . .
Better than most of the junk horror that gets a theatrical release	Lucky McKee made one of the best horror films of the decade with May , but his followup was deemed unreleasable by the money men . That's very unfortunate . While it is no May , it's better than most of the schlock horror that makes a ton of money at the box office . It is a deeply flawed film . It's not entirely original . A troubled girl is sent away to an all-girls boarding school . The staff is creepy and are most definitely up to something . There are legends surrounding the school's history , and the recent string of student disappearances might have something to do with them . The film's biggest problem is its too-quick and confusing climax . It's loud , obnoxious , and unworthy of what has come before . The rest of the film is quite eerie . The acting is very good ( Agnes Bruckner plays the lead , and along for the ride are Patricia Clarkson and Bruce Campbell ) , and McKee's direction is generally wonderful . Perhaps a slight disappointment after May , but still a worthy followup . I have faith that McKee will go on to make more great films . Just hope someone deems them releaseable .
Merely okay	Not the best of the Val Lewton horror series , but it has its moments . When I think about it , the plot seems very good . A small group of people quarantine themselves on a small Greek island when they discover that one of them has the plague . Boris Karloff stars as a Greek general who becomes cruel when trying to keep order . After the army doctor dies , he becomes superstitious along the lines of an old woman who is also on the island . Somehow , the characters and the situation never come off especially well . It's never bad , but it's never great , either . The finale is quite effective , however . .
Long and amorphous , but still interesting	I definitely liked this film much better than Jia's Unknown Pleasures , his follow-up , but I still wouldn't call it great . Platform is a very amorphous film . Perhaps it has more meaning to those who might know the referents better than I , the various places in China which are visited . But the fact remains that the loose , repetitive , episodic structure mixed with the total lack of character development hinder much of the possible enjoyment or involvement . I know it's not cool for a certain sector of Chinese art films to allow the audience to give a crap what's going on . But , surprisingly , I did enjoy it to a fair extent . You kind of feel like you're part of the performance troupe in the film , that you're being carted between these sections of nowhere around the vast country . There are many beautiful scenes . It's worthwhile . I suggest , given its 2 . 5 hour running length , to watch it in bits and pieces . It won't feel quite as repetitive .
Monster Free-for-all ; SPOILERS	This is quite an entertaining B-flick in the Universal Horror series featuring Dracula , the Wolfman , and Frankenstein's Monster . The plot revolves around Dracula ( John Carradine ) and Larry Talbot , the wolfman ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) , separately visiting a revolutionary doctor . They both ask him if they can be cured , and the doctor attempts to devise a way for each . Beneath the doctor's castle , they find Frankenstein's Monster buried in mud ( this is apparently a reference to the previous movie in the Frankenstein series ) . Of course , if things had went as planned , the movie would have turned out incredibly boring . Instead , Dracula can't suppress his appetite , and the doctor is eventually infected , by a blood transfusion , with vampirism . As a semi-vampire , the doctor goes insane and awakens Frankenstein's Monster . As with all of the Universal Horror series , the ending is completely unsatisfactory . A beautiful woman with a hunchback , one of the doctor's two assistants , has a particularly gruesome end . Plus , you just have to feel sorry for Frankenstein's Monster in this film - he's awake for around two minutes , kills one police officer , and then yet another building ( what's this , the fifth now ? ) collapses on top of him and is consumed by flames . It is also unfortunate that the great character created in The Wolf Man ( 1941 ) , Larry Talbot , is really reduced here . People underrate that film and Chaney's performance in it . Here , he would be justifiably criticized as wooden . All in all , though , it's a pretty fun movie at just 68 minutes . A nice waste of time . .
A good way to spend an evening .	SPOILERSThis has potential to be as big a hit as The Sixth Sense on account of its nature - it is clearly trying to copy its success and its formula ( not to mention its release date - I think they both opened in the exact same week , two years apart ) . It is nowhere as good as that film , but , if you did like that , you're going to probably like this . I doubt anyone will like this one better , though . Technically , the film is superb . In this aspect , it probably surpasses The Sixth Sense . The editing and especially the cinematography are often breathtaking . The acting is decent . I don't particularly care for Nicole Kidman - she harmed Eyes Wide Shut significantly , in my opinion , but her bizarre style of acting worked fabulously in the purposely campy Moulin Rouge . Here , as a constantly paranoid , possessive , and protective mother , she is more than adequate , though not deserving of any award or special hurrah . The three servants are well played by Fionnula Flanagan , Eric Sykes , and Elaine Cassidy - they have a certain air about them . The best performances come from the two children ( another echo of The Sixth Sense , although the adults in that one were also marvelous ) - James Bentley as the perpetually frightened Nicholas and Alakina Mann as the intelligent Anne . Mann is in fact wonderful and I hope to see her in other films in the future . There are just a few actors after these principals , and I commend the filmmakers very much . This saves a ton of money , and makes the film more intimate and frightening , which is exactly what this film calls for . Like always , almost all of the film's problems exist in the script . The screenwriter ( who is also the director ) realizes that his savvy audience will guess that this is a descendent of the immensely popular The Sixth Sense , so he is always attempting to trick us . What are these strange servants up to ? A few times , we experience the narrative from their point of view , and what they say drives us wild with guessing . And what is wrong with the father , who had disappeared in WWII ( this is set in the 1940s ) and then mysteriously reappears in a frightening fog ? We know that there are surprises , and these tricks work to confuse us and lead us away - good old McGuffins . I guessed right away , correctly , the father's situation , which kept me from seeing the forest for the trees . What the script forgets to do , or at least forgets to do well , is develop the characters . The children are well developed , but Amenabar relies too much on the inherent creepiness of the three servants for their effect - they almost become silly by the end ; anyway , there were several moments when I laughed at their actions , although it might have been intentional . Grace ( Nicole Kidman ) is Amenabar's biggest failure . Her main character trait is a severe neurosis - her husband has been lost in battle and she has been left alone in an enormous mansion with only her two children . Those children have a severe light sensitivity - they break out in hives when they come into contact with light ( no , they aren't Gremlins or magwies ) . For most of the film , Kidman's character is built up , but the revelations at the end don't ring true . One of the reasons that the ending of The Sixth Sense worked so well was because the final revelations revealed a lot of hidden facets about the characters and their actions in the events which happened beforehand . The revelations here , while very unexpected and clever , don't exactly follow what Amenabar was building . Amenabar also has a problem with suspense . He gives himself all these little peculiarities to deal with - the kids are allergic to light , for instance . But he never really uses that to create suspense . One morning , the children wake up to find that all the curtains in the house have been stolen . It would have been better , perhaps , if we were allowed to watch the curtains being slowly removed at night . The suspense nearer the beginning , when we don't know very much , is quite good . The first set piece is excellent . A lot of the other scary scenes are also quite good , including the climactic one , where the secrets are finally revealed . Still , the film uses too many stingers ( sharp rises in the music ) . That may make us jump , but for a dishonest reason .
Good , but not as good as I expected	One day a couple of years ago , while I was waiting for a television show , I was flipping through the channels and I caught part of Spalding Gray's monologue film - Monster in a Box - and I was so blown away by it that I missed the show that I had been waiting for . I don't know why it took me so long to rent another one of his monologue films , but this week I picked up his first one , - Swimming to Cambodia - . It was good , but nowhere near as good as - Monster in a Box - . For one thing , - Monster in a Box - was very well directed , and the " special effects " do not get in the way . But in - Swimming to Cambodia - , the sound effects are often too loud , and thecutting is too quick and artsy , when it should have been nothing but slow pans and zooms , sort of like - My Dinner With Andre - . Then there is this awful effect with the lights , basically shutting them off to cut the emotional rhythm . This was unneeded . Gray's performance itself establishes rhythm enough . My second big complaint is with the monologue itself . It is mostly very interesting , but it is not polished or cohesive . Just as he does in - Monster in a Box - , Gray alternates between very hilarious narrative ( such as the descriptions of the sex acts in Thailand ) and very harrowing narrative ( such as the descriptions of Pol Pot's revolution ) . That technique works extraordinarily in - Monster in a Box - , but the two halves of the narratives don't seem to do with each other at all . The funny half concerns the work on the movie - The Killing Fields - , and the harrowing half very intensely examines the true story of the Kamir Rouge and America's dealing with these kinds of situations . Also , the monologue seems to end almost arbitrarily . This film is definitely worth a rental . It is under 90 minutes , which I always count as a plus . But if you want to be impressed , rent - Monster in a Box - .
Great first half , so-so second half	Touching Bollywood epic melodrama about a 10 year-old girl who finds out that she's adopted , and is determined to find her birth mother . The film's major success is the performance of P . S . Keerthana , who plays the girl . The first half of the film is very good . There are a few really good songs , too , especially the number that introduces the protagonist . Unfortunately , the film's second half , which takes place in war-torn Sri Lanka , feels like an entirely different , and disappointing movie . It's big on explosions and special effects , with Sri Lankan soldiers and rebels dodging grenades , running from fireballs , and being yanked by stunt wires . All the film can offer as insight are cheap platitudes like , " Some day there must come peace " and " Perhaps the children will find a way " . The final sequence , where the daughter and mother are reunited , is good , but so over-the-top with the music and a well-timed downpour that it feels like a cheat . I know , I know , it's all in the style of Bollywood . But this is a story where big moments simply detract from the simple , powerful central story . Bollywood could certainly use a little restraint at times , too .
Christina Ricci needs a burger	Any movie where Samuel L . Jackson chains up a scantily clad Christina Ricci to his radiator to cure her of her nymphomania has to be at least worth seeing . What I didn't expect is that it would turn into a respectable drama by the end . And that's wherein the disappointment lies . It is a good movie . Christina Ricci and Sam Jackson are both excellent , the story is well written and it's different from anything else I can remember , even if it does end up endorsing the boring old status quo . The film could have been a lot more memorable if it had just stayed sleazy throughout . Still , it has its moments . The first sequence where Ricci discovers the chain around her belly is gold . You have to love Sam Jackson's titular song . And the sequence where Ricci writhes sweatily to another Jackson-belted blues number is hot as hell . Certainly worth seeing , but wait for rental .
Good flick , but a little uneven ;	To Be or Not to Be is an interesting WWII era film about actors in Poland who lead a resistance against the invading Nazis . It is mostly a comedy , but there is a dramatic side to the proceedings . The acting is good , especially Jack Benny . Most of the rest of the actors don't do anything particularly special , except for maybe Robert Stack . Unfortunately , as good as this film is , it has a difficult time reconciling its dramatic angle with its comedic angle . First of all , most WWII movies that were made in America during WWII are a little weak because the makers could only guess at what was really going on in Europe before the US entered the war . The best example of that is Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator . Chaplin himself said that he could have never made that film if he had known what was really going on . Ditto To Be or Not to Be . After having seen the atrocities which happened in Poland in a film like Schindler's List ( although I believe the massacre I'm thinking of from that film happened in Krakow ; I have not seen it for a long time ) really ruins you for a film like this . However , even if it were not weakened by the actual history , the film still has problems reconciling . Robert Stack's role is never really resolved , for instance .
A disaster	But not without a great deal of interest , especially for Altman fans like myself . It's actually one of the most disappointing films I've ever seen . I caught the first hour about a year ago on television , and I was enthralled . " One of Altman's best ! " I exclaimed . Or at least I thought that it probably would be if I ever got to see the last half of it . Now I finally found it , and I am hurt . The first hour is brilliant . It's the kind of film Altman is best known for , the ensemble piece , this one about a wedding . Perfect , Altman has two huge families to play around with . There are dozens of characters , perhaps more than he had in his masterpiece , Nashville . It's amazing , the family dynamics , the characters ' histories , their feelings about the union between Dino and Muffin , etc . It's all staggering , entertaining , hilarious , and brilliant . The first hour buzzes along like fireworks . But then it begins to trip . You can actually see it coming . There are just too many characters and too much going on . Most of them had had their moments up to that point , but some , such as Ms . Farmer , who seems to be somewhat important , we don't know anything about . However , to make it even worse , Altman and the other screenwriters begin to add more characters ( what's with Briggs and Tina ? They're just a horribly cheap plot device , and the two actors are awful ! ) , come up with more plot twists , and insert a sort of very miscalculated humor ( especially with the drunk aunt or whatever she was , the one dressed like a gypsy ) . It's like watching a train wreck for almost the whole of the second half . A few good scenes turn up , but far more bad ones . For instance , what the hell was Altman thinking when ( SPOILERS , although the film itself is its ultimate SPOILER ) he had Geraldine Chaplin come unto Muffin ? I mean , for God's sake , the film had like 20 minutes left . That just came out of left field . Its parallel is even less believable , although at least that one has some precedent character development in the film . Both of these scenes are exploitative . END SPOILERSAlthough it is a disaster , A Wedding does contain enough to make it well worth seeing once . Mia Farrow is really good . And if you ever wanted to see her naked ( she is quite a beauty , I admit ) , here's your chance . That scene was awful and should not have been in the film . It's another moment that just made me sigh with anger . This may be Geraldine Chaplin's best role . Although Nashville is in my personal Top Ten , I have to admit that the only part of that film that strains the film is the character of Opal , the ditzy , pseudo-BBC reporter played by Chaplin . In A Wedding , she plays the wedding planner , and she is amazing . It's far too bad Altman took a dump on her character by adding that penultimate scene of hers that I mention above in the spoiler . At least he kind of made amends by giving her the excellent final shot of the film .
Good , but not Marvelous	I liked the Umbrellas of Cherbourg , but was acutely aware that it was gimmicky . The American musicals of the 1950s obviously influenced this film quite a bit , and that genre was already nearly dead in the world as filmmaking began to move into the more artistic ( American ) films of the 1960s , like Bonnie and Clyde or Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . The gimmick , to have every line , no matter how mundane , sung by the actors , is interesting at first , but after about 30 minutes , it gets old . The music is never all that great in the first place , and it is really repetitive . Also , the actors aren't very good singers . What I did like was the art direction and the costumes . The color schemes are very interesting throughout the film . But even this , the best part of the film , owes a lot of debt to the American musicals of the 1950s , especially An American in Paris and Singin ' in the Rain . Remember the color schemes in the extended " musical number " sequence near the end of Singing in the Rain where Gene Kelly proposes the grand finale of the film they are making ? It involves a goofily dressed Kelly trying to find a job as a dancer . Especially memorable in this scene is his dance with Cyd Charisse , decked in a gorgeous green flapper dress . Basically , the Umbrellas of Cherbourg constantly looks like it takes place in the same world as that scene in Singin ' in the Rain . I would suggest renting those two films before The Umbrellas of Cherbourg . And if you want a French musical , I suggest Le Million . As for the rest of the movie , i . e . , the plot , the dialogue , etc . , it is extraordinarily light . It is very two-dimensional and it is instantly forgettable . It isn't very romantic , and it is very predictable . It reminded me a bit of Elia Kazan's Splendor in the Grass in its plot , but it doesn't produce the same feelings in me that Splendor did . All in all , I would still recommend it if you're a lover of world cinema , but I'd just warn you not to expect the masterpiece that it is often touted as . I give it a .
SPOILERS ;	This pre-MASH Altman flick will probably be uninteresting to anyone who is not an Altman fan . Maybe a hard-core sci-fi fan would like it for the novelty , but , let me warn you , it is barely a sci-fi movie . It tries to be as realistic as possible . It is an interesting prediction of the actual moon landing , which would happen a bit over a year from Countdown's release date . As an Altman film , it is an interesting precursor to MASH , but it is a little bit too mainstream for Altman buffs . I don't know whether the conventions of an astronaut film were instated before this film or whether they were set up here , but you won't find anything that much different from Apollo 13 or even Armageddon . Most of the scenes include a bunch of scientists sitting in front of panels , with some cross-cutting between them and the astronaut , James Caan . There are a few inventive touches in the direction , including a cut that predates 2001's bone-to-satellite edit by a few months : Caan throws a baseball into the air , we are blinded by the sun , and an invisible edit takes us to the launching platform at Cape Kennedy . Actually , since 2001 was released only a few months afterwards , this film was likely buried under that film's glory ( even though many despised that film upon its release ) . Also , another famous sci-fi film appeared around the same time as Countdown : Planet of the Apes . The acting may be the film's saving grace . Both James Caan and Robert Duvall give top-notch performances . So does Joanna Cook Moore , who plays Caan's worried wife . Most of the other actors are hardly distinguishable . Look out for Barbara Baxley and Michael Murphy , who were both in Altman's Nashville in 1975 ( which I watched earlier this afternoon for about the fifth time ) .
An exploration of America's Nero	I , for one , liked it . The film is half a standard bio-pic , depicting much of George W . Bush's early life up until his Presidency . The other half takes place in the run up to the Iraq War , and continues until around the time the war starts to turn back on him . The stuff of the past is sometimes messy , but I liked that it attempted to understand Bush ( Josh Brolin ) psychologically . The film takes the stance , popular around 2004 , that W . ' s political career was a desperate attempt to win his father's love . The modern-day stuff is a lot more interesting and well done . It depicts the politics of Bush's first term . Stone has done a mostly excellent job of re-creating that cabinet , with Thandie Newton as Condoleeza Rice , Richard Dreyfuss as Dick Cheney , Jeffrey Wright as Colin Powell , along with several more . The make-up guys are the ones who do the best job here , but Dreyfuss and Wright are particularly great in their roles . The film isn't an especially deep exploration of the President ? I suspect we'll get many more thorough analyses of this undoubtedly fascinating man's life in the future . The film's major angle , that Bush was a well-meaning idiot who is easily manipulated , is a very common opinion , one that is not entirely supported by facts . But , really , who can know the entirety of a man ? W . is at least a good cursory examination of Bush .
Watch for the jokes on Last Year at Marienbad	Fassbinder's wry comedy about the trials and tribulations of filmmaking . It's gorgeously shot and very well acted ( especially by Fassbinder himself and Lou Castel , who plays the director ) , but , truth be told , a bit on the dull side . I guess most of Fassbinder's early films are a little dull . Only fans will want to pursue them . There is plenty to like , though . The best element of the film seems to be lost on all those whose reviews I've read . The film is set mostly in an opulent Spanish hotel , and , at least for one sequence , it lapses into a deft parody of Resnais ' Last Year at Marienbad . I think that , if I tried to describe it , my explanation would be too wordy and would not convey it well enough . So , if you ever do happen to watch the film , make sure to keep an eye out for that joke . .
Good effort , but the results are somewhat forgettable	There really aren't enough films made about the modern experience of immigrants in America . There's a huge vein to be mined there . Man Push Cart is a step in the right direction . This film follows a Pakistani immigrant in New York City who sells drinks and donuts from a push cart . He was a pop star in his native country , but is now reduced to nothing . It's a simple story , entertaining and moderately involving , told decently enough . Unfortunately , when you step back and look at it , it's all pretty vapid . Director Bahrani clearly aims for neorealism , even echoing The Bicycle Thieves at points , but the neorealist classics aren't nearly as simplistic as a lot of people tend to think . Here , the characters are two-dimensional , the situation is pretty shallow , and the distantly foreshadowed climactic event feels like a cheap ploy . I'd hardly call it a bad film , but I think much more could have been done with the subject .
Entertaining but weak	This is definitely Terry Zwigoff's least successful film , and a big disappointment in a lot of ways . But I think if you don't expect too much , it's fun and has some good twists along the way . The film follows Jerome , who goes to art school after graduation . The film's major strengths are that it really gets into the absurdity of the concept of art school ( I don't think many believe that one can be taught how to be an artist ) , and that it communicates well the feeling of not being able to succeed . It also does good by not making Jerome a remarkable artist himself . He's a talented drawer , but his stuff is largely uninteresting and unimaginative . For a while the film seems to be poking fun at more abstract art , but then it does pull back and smartly doesn't dismiss the more abstract or pop art on display , though it does put forward some of the various artists ' pomposities . The film plays a lot like Ghost World , which had the same director and writer , in that it sets up all the characters as stereotypes and then begins to reveal them as more human . Unfortunately , it just doesn't work nearly as well here . There are a ton of other problems , too . Max Minghella , the actor who plays Jerome , is painfully dull . He looks like a model in a catalogue . The girl in whom he develops an interest is equally dull , an everyday blonde cutie who comes off as rather vapid . With these two protagonists , a certain tiny part of the film kept coming to mind , where one of the very rare persons of color in the class asks their art history professor why they only study dead white males . Why do we have to have these two boring , white-bread characters dominating the film ? Luckily , the supporting cast is very good , and includes John Malkovich ( in a rather typical but entertaining Malkovichian role ) , Steve Buscemi , Jim Broadbent and Joel Moore . It also includes Anjelica Huston , whom I generally don't like . But it feels like she might have had a bigger part originally which was cut down .
Sweet and pretty , but it doesn't really go anywhere	Francis of Assissi depicted as the first hippie . That's not really a ridiculous comparison . After all , Godspell depicts Jesus and the Apostles as hippies , as well , far more annoyingly , I may say , than Zefferelli depicts these characters . I actually started off really enjoying this picture . I thought it was sweet , lovely , and beautiful . It helps a lot if you like Donovan . I know that he's kind of dopey , but I've always found his mellowing tunes quite pleasant . None of his songs here are among his best ( in fact , not a one appears on the anthology I own , which contains other work on soundtracks ) , but they're pretty good . Unfortunately , the film never really goes anywhere . It plateaus early and only reaches a little further in its climax , when Francis and his followers ask the Pope ( Alec Guiness , in what amounts to a cameo ) to bless their order . The only really good Francis of Assissi movie I've seen is Roberto Rossellini's The Flowers of St . Francis .
Like Old Joy , maybe too minimalist , as well as forced , but it has its charms . Spoilers in the last paragraph only .	Following in the same steps as her first film , Old Joy , Kelly Reichardt has constructed another small , simple , minimalist film . Wendy is a hippie chick who has nothing but a few hundred dollars to her name , her car and her dog . Lucy is that dog , and Wendy's only companion . Wendy is traveling to Alaska for some seasonal work , and has stopped off in small town Oregon for a night's sleep ( in her car , of course ) . In the morning , she finds her car does not work . Not knowing how much of her approximately $500 it will take to fix it , Wendy makes the incredibly , almost unbelievably moronic choice to shoplift a can of dog food for Lucy . This results in the obliged prosecution , which separates the title characters for several hours . Upon Wendy's return , Lucy is nowhere to be found . Most of the movie consists of Wendy looking around for her pooch , while her money slowly dwindles between the shoplifting fine , the Xerox usage and the tow , not to mention the impending cost of repair . Michelle Williams plays Wendy , and everything we know about her is due to her masterful performance . Much like in Old Joy , Reichardt gives us almost nothing to work with concerning who this person is . We learn of a not very sympathetic sister ( and rather more sympathetic brother-in-law ) back in Indiana , but we don't learn whether Wendy's wanderings have anything to do with these people . Little to nothing is implied there , though I suspect some who feel like digging will come up with a theory involving Wendy's illicit affair with her sister's husband . Honestly , her history is not much worth speculating . It's Wendy's characteristics which identify her , her cropped hair and lack of attachment to material things . I'm aware of her subculture because one of my best friends from high school became a professional hippie after college . I half kid , but you really do have to work at it . He has told me about many of his acquaintances , among whom were female drifters accompanied by large dogs . I actually really like Reichardt's style . It's hypnotic and often beautiful . And I think Wendy and Lucy is an even better film than Old Joy . However , it's impossible to feel too much sympathy for Wendy . I mean , shoplifting isn't a major crime or anything , but why would you even chance it when you're in such a precarious situation ? A can of Alpo costs , what , a dollar fifty ? Dropping a buck fifty is probably not going to tip the scales on whether or not you can afford to replace the serpentine belt on your car . And then there's the film's finale . It's powerful , to be sure . But it rings completely false . These drifter women don't have a dog solely for companionship . They are an essential part of the lifestyle . Their symbiotic benefit is that they serve as protection . The scene where the hobo assaults Wendy would never have happened if Lucy had been there to protect her master . Without the dog , this 100 pound woman is completely vulnerable to any of the male drifters with whom she crosses paths . There's no way this woman is going to give up her dog .
Even though I wish it were less formulaic , it's still pretty enjoyable	Not an especially interesting movie narratively , but the performances are so good that it's very watchable . Anne Hathaway plays a frumpy girl ( Hollywood frumpy , that is ? only in Hollywood could Anne Hathaway be repeatedly referred to as fat ) who gets a job in the fashion industry under the cruelest exec in the biz , played by Meryl Streep . Streep has been getting pretty much all the credit for the movie . It's not entirely fair . She is indeed excellent ? you just want to strangle that bitch . But the film would be utterly worthless without a strong central performance , and Hathaway supplies it . Even when the film is at its least engaging , Hathaway makes it engaging . More her presence , I suppose , than her performance . I mean , damn , she's an attractive young woman . You'd think her smile could cure cancer , or at least bring dead puppies back to life . Emily Blunt and especially Stanley Tucci also deserve a lot of credit in the main supporting roles .
Slightly disappointing effort from Bela Tarr	Tarr returns after a long absence . Unfortunately , it's not up to par . Well , I should say , I have much of the same problem with this film that I do with all of Tarr's films . I'm certainly not his biggest fan anyway . I love his aesthetic , and would definitely call him a genius just for his visual prowess . It's so extremely original . And he's so good at setting mood , although I should say that the mood of all of his films , at least his later , more well known films , is pretty close to the same . Dark , cold , lonely , the drudgery of life , etc . But as soon as the characters start to speak , I stop paying attention . I find most of the actual words of Tarr's films uninteresting , and , when the characters are talking , I start to realize that I don't find these people that interesting . They may look interesting , as Tarr captures their essence in severe close-ups , but they never say anything interesting . The Man of London unwisely adds plot to the mix . Tarr's earlier films have a wonderful meandering quality , where it feels like he's just capturing people going about their lives . That is true here to an extent , but this one has a pretty clear plot structure , and one that's been told often before : a man finds a pile of money that belongs to crooks , and he pays for it . It's not plot driven by any means , but that skeletal plot is followed , and it makes the film less interesting than Tarr's other films . Also , Tilda Swinton shows up as the protagonist's wife in what amounts to a cameo ( she has about five minutes of screen time in this 2 hour and 12 minute film ) , and it's pretty distracting . There's a cute little nod to Satantango at one point , where people in a bar dance like they did in that behemoth . Also , the little girl with the cat from Satantango shows up as the protagonist's daughter . It's weird , because she looks exactly the same , except she's a woman now . A very , very creepy woman . Who probably still kills cats when nobody's looking .
Okay ghost story , but a little too loud and obnoxious at times	I guess there's no objective reason for it , but , in my mind , ghost stories should be subtle . In general , I think all horror films should be subtle . Poltergeist is anything but subtle . It's a loud , flashing , exploding horror film . The basic story : a suburban family is terrorized by ghosts . It starts innocently enough , with a young girl hearing voices come out of a television , forks bending and chairs being moved . Three minutes later , though , ghostly hands are shooting out of televisions , beefsteaks are crawling around like slugs and giant demon heads are popping out of the closet . It's all too much , too fast . Watch the scenes in The Exorcist where objects begin flying around the room , then contrast them with the scene in Poltergeist where the paranormal investigators open a door and see the objects there flying around . The film was directed by Texas Chainsaw Massacre auteur Tobe Hooper , but the marks of its screenwriter and producer , one Steven Spielberg , are all over it , and not generally in a good way . That's not to say I didn't like the movie . In all honesty , it has a lot of memorable moments , from the iconic " They're here ! " to the chair stacking sequence . There's a really good use of a false climax , which I imagine caught people off guard at the time .
Great story , but could have been done better	A great story that should have been a great movie . It's unfortunately pretty poorly directed , and the writing could have been tighter . I can still appreciate it for what it is , and hopefully writer / director Nichols , whose debut this is , will come up with something as good in the future and do better by it . Michael Shannon , Douglas Ligon and Barlow Jacobs play three men named Son , Boy and Kid . Their father left them when they were kids , which led to their mother abandoning them emotionally . Son , the oldest , basically raised them , and their lives are pretty lousy , though seemingly normal for the setting , rural Arkansas . When they hear their father has died , the three men attend his funeral and speak badly of the man who couldn't have cared less about them . This deeply offends the old man's second family , consisting of four brothers , and a war begins between them . What the film really has going for it is the great characterizations , very well performed by mostly amateurs . I pegged Michael Shannon last year , with his performances in Bug and Before the Devil Knows You're Dead , as being one of this generation's finest actors , and he does well by that promise here . Nichols almost undoes it all with awkward pacing and way too much wallowing in the town's redneckiness . The film is mostly pitched as a serious indie with copious comic moments , all involving how trashy everyone is . The movie probably does not play well in the South . I think maybe the script's biggest problem is that it really contains only one idea , and Nichols doesn't want to spend it all in one place .
Great direction , but the lack of distinct characters makes it a bit of a bust	Amazingly well directed and produced WWI flick made in France . Bernard is an extremely talented director . Unfortunately , the film doesn't stand up too well compared to so many other WWI pictures , notably the earlier All Quiet on the Western Front and the later The Grand Illusion . What Wooden Crosses lacks is strong characters . About the only one who stands out from the rest is the " loudmouth " , as he is described bluntly by another solider . " There's one in every company , " he says ; or at least , I think he says that . If no one said that , someone probably should have . Instead , Bernard concentrates almost wholly on extremely long battle sequences . One lasts nearly 40 minutes . Great , but if I don't care about the characters , I'm not going to care much when one gets killed .
I'm surprised Flags of Our Fathers got such mixed reviews and Letters from Iwo Jima only got raves	After Clint Eastwood's American version of the Iwo Jima story , Flags of Our Fathers , premiered , it was met with surprisingly indifferent reviews . A lot of Eastwood lovers and WWII buffs were gravely disappointed . The followup , Letters from Iwo Jima , was due in February , but Eastwood bumped it back so it would come out in 2006 . It , on the contrary , got rave reviews . I'm at a loss . I thought they were both of about the same quality : they are respectable but unremarkable WWII films . Letters is notable , I suppose , because it tells the Japanese side of the story , and humanizes an American enemy to a pretty much unheard of degree . But that's not enough to win me over by itself . It's been a long enough time where I don't think anyone would think the Japanese were all inhuman monsters . The story follows a young soldier , Saigo ( well portrayed by Kazunari Ninomiya , a relative newcomer ) , who begins the battle inside Suribachi Hill . In Flags of Our Fathers , the vast majority of the war story took place on this hill , on top of which the American soldiers raised the titular flags . Letters covers the entire battle , which , if I remember right , lasted over a month . Much to Saigo's commanders ' dismay , Saigo doesn't quite feel like sacrificing himself in this impossible battle , and he narrowly escapes death several times . Another prominent character is General Tadamichi Kuribayashi , played by Ken Watanabe . Unlike most of the commanding officers under him , he is completely sympathetic with the underlings ' anxieties , and he also acknowledges his enemies as human beings . It sure is frightening to experience the losing side of a battle ( though I don't see much difference either way if you die , or even if you witness dozens of your friends die ) , but I didn't really think Letters from Iwo Jima broke new ground . There are plenty of Japanese movies about the war that are far more powerful , especially Kobayashi's The Human Condition , which I think is probably the best WWII film ( or series of films ) ever made . Frankly , I was frequently bored by Letters from Iwo Jima . It does have some great moments , but I don't at all feel it's essential .
Weak and poorly written , in my opinion	Truly disappointing , considering how big a Val Lewton fanatic I've become . This is probably the third most famous Lewton film , after The Cat People and I Walked with a Zombie , but I thought it was so far below any of the others that I've seen ( also including at this point The Ghost Ship and The Leopard Man ) that it is scarcely believable . The story concerns a young Catholic school girl , played by recently deceased actress Kim Hunter , whose tuition has not been paid . Expelled , she travels to New York City to find out why her businesswoman sister hasn't paid it , as she usually does . Apparently she's disappeared , although , when Hunter's not around , her sister's friends seem to know where she is . To me , every aspect of the film seemed utterly muddled . The script was sloppy and rather crappy , the acting was often execrable . The only one who does a decent job is Lewton regular Tom Conway . I was particularly disappointed in Hunter , who was so amazing in three of my very favorite films , Stairway to Heaven ( aka A Matter of Life and Death ) , A Streetcar Named Desire , and , of course ( and I'm certainly not being facetious ) Planet of the Apes . Of course , this was her debut in the cinema . It just doesn't look here like she knows what the hell she was doing ( which I hate to say only a month after her death ) . I don't understand her character , she seems all over the place . Half of her problem is the script , of course . There are apparently two love interests , but the screenwriter can't decide into whose arms he wants to push her . I'm all for going against the audience's expectations , but we need to , at the very least , get involved with her emotional state so we can understand why she does what she does . Eventually , a lot comes to the characters ' attentions about the sister being involved in a Satanic cult and also a murder . The cult might worship Satan , but they are apparently not bloodthirsty ; they just want to kill the sister because of her own murderous transgressions . The shock is that these Satan worshipers are normal , small town people . But that's been done better since 1943 , Rosemary's Baby being the best example . There were a couple of good scenes within the course of the film . I love how two villains try to disguise a murdered man by pretending they are both drunk and that the dead man between them has passed out . I also loved the shower scene . You're never more vulnerable than when you're naked - unless you're a naked , teenage , Catholic high school girl . The scene has probably been described as a forerunner of Psycho's infamous shower scene a thousand times , but the scene in The Seventh Victim is almost creepier for its lack of violence . Still , most of the film , as I've said , just seemed poor to me . Hopefully I'll see what some have raved about on subsequent viewings , as I have it taped . It's enough of a collector's item that I won't erase it ( especially since it's short and wedged between the superior The Leopard Man and The Ghost Ship ) . .
Comparison to the remake	You can find my review for the 1959 version by clicking on my name . I am not a fan of the Douglas Sirk remake of Imitation of Life ( 1959 ) . It was the third film from that director I saw , and I felt that he was trying to play it straight , make a prestige picture , denying the insanity of classics such as Written on the Wind . Seeing the 1934 version of this film , I only find my opinion of the 1959 version reinforced . Sirk barely changed anything . He doesn't crank it up a notch . He changes the main white character's profession ( Claudette Colbert , 1934 , and Lana Turner , 1959 ) . In the older version , she ( with the help of her black maid ( Louise Beavers , 1934 , Juanita Moore , 1959 ) ) , establishes a pancake restaurant . One day , a customer ( character actor Ned Sparks ) suggests that they start selling the pancake mix in boxes , which will ( and does ) make them rich . In the 1959 version , Lana Turner , as I remember , is an actress of some sort . I suppose I prefer the pancake story better , because I get sick of seeing pretty women become successful actresses in movies . Weighing the two films against each other , they do come out pretty even . For example , the conflict of the young , light-skinned black girl ( played by Fredi Washington in 1934 , Susan Kohner in 1959 ) is much more fleshed out in the later version , and it just works better . Kohner is a better actress than Washington , as well . The main white character's daughter ( Rochelle Hudson in 1934 , Sandra Dee in 1959 ) works better in the earlier version , as Hudson is a better actress than Dee . Louise Beavers and Juanita Moore come out as a dead heat . They're equal . Too bad neither of them are that good . I suppose the original novel must be to blame for this ; the black maid character is very poorly developed in both films ( so I assume it was the same in the novel ) , and , in the end , they both lack focus . I suppose it comes down to the last race , Lana Turner and Claudette Colbert . Well , now here , in the films ' main characters , we find a clear winner . Personally , I just don't like Lana Turner . I thought she was poor in Imitation of Life ( it's the only film I've seen with her , and it makes me want to avoid others ) . On the other hand , Claudette Colbert doesn't have a great track record with me . However , I really thought she was great in Imitation of Life . She's utterly charming , clever , and gorgeous . Blondes are overrated anyhow . I much prefer Ms . Colbert's doe eyes . 1934 was really Colbert's year , with this , Cleopatra , and her Oscar-winning role in It Happened One Night ( which I'll watch in the next couple of days , incidentally ) . So 1934 Imitation of Life ends up winning by a nose . Neither film is great , mind you , but both are worthwhile . .
Good , but very , very flawed	Steven Spielberg has made a couple of clunkers in his career , that's for sure . When sitting through Hook or The Lost World : Jurassic Park II , it's difficult to believe that the same man who made Jaws or E . T . or Close Encounters had a hand in them . Most of Spielberg's output , though , has been fantastic . Despite the occasional 1941 , his films , even when flawed , soar above the average film . Minority Report falls into the category of fantastic and soaring , yet deeply flawed . Minority Report is , above all else , an enormously entertaining film . I personally like actioners and thrillers and sci-fi , and Minority Report fits well into all these categories . There are a couple of action set pieces that are simply amazing , like the chase through the car factory or the spider scene . Unfortunately , in the idea department , the film is kind of a dud . Critics have immediately pointed to the politics of today to show how prescient Minority Report is , but no matter how large and powerful the intelligence industry gets I seriously don't believe that we'll ever live in a world where , even if it were possible to predict crime , law enforcement could arrest someone for a crime they were about to commit . And then , without a trial , apparently , they not only imprison the pre-perpetrators , but they encase them in suspended animation goo , apparently forever . At least they never say whether these prisoners are ever to be released . I mean , what happened to correctional institutions ! And , what's worse , almost every perpetrator chooses to murder for reasons of passion since everyone knows that it's impossible to commit premeditated murder . That means that a man who was about to stab his wife and her lover with a pair of scissors - a horrific but understandable crime - is doomed to never see the light of day again ( apparently ) . And I haven't even mentioned the time frame : this story takes place in just over 50 years from now . It specifically states that the ACLU still exists . Perhaps if the film took place a hundred and fifty years from now and the ACLU had been disbanded or something ( with some heavy explanations in that department ) , I may have bought the story . The screenwriters never come close to making the situation believable . And even if it weren't so unbelievable , the film has dozens of flaws besides that , and several poor , not very well thought out scenes . For example , the crimes are predicted by three psychics whose origins are dubiously explained . Part of the plot of the film is that this Pre-Crime department is supposed to expand nation-wide . The three pre-cogs are supposed to be the only ones alive , so where are they going to get others to predict the murders of every other city in the United States ? These three only cover Washington D . C . I assume they aren't going to now cover the entire country ( and soon , the world ! ) . Okay , so maybe more exist . Perhaps I misunderstood that part of the exposition ( which is generally very bad in this film ) . But if these three cover a populace only as big as the capital , they're going to need hundreds if not thousands of pre-cogs , and the three that they show in the movie seem to be so important and irreplaceable that the logistics of the project seem completely unfeasible . Then there's a scene where Tom Cruise kidnaps one of the pre-cogs to help him avoid the murder that he is accused of having been about to commit . First of all , you must know that the three pre-cogs are kept in a sort of sensory-deprivation chamber where they are suspended in a vat of liquid nutrients that is supposed to foster their psychic abilities . So Cruise kidnaps Agatha the pre-cog and escapes from the authorities in a ridiculous manner ( there's apparently a drain in the bottom of the pool big enough for two people to slide down ; the Pre-Crime division must have a hell of a time preventing the pre-cogs from accidentally being flushed in the first place ! ) . Agatha , for the first time in a long while , begins to exist in the present . Then there's this scene in the mall , where she is able to protect Cruise by predicting every second of what's going to happen . She couldn't even do anything near this in the nutrient bath , and even there she could only see one thing : murders ; but outside of it she sees every single thing that's ever going to happen . It just doesn't make any sense . And then there are the poorly calculated scenes . The scene with Peter Stormare ( Fargo ) as a black market surgeon makes little sense . It's completely ridiculous and also rather foul . The writers set up a whole history for this character , but don't follow up on it at all . And Cruise's whole backstory is very lame . Has every single individual who works for any law enforcement body had a child or wife who was murdered ? All the good stuff in Minority Report is technical . It's often beautifully done . Spielberg's direction is often fantastic . The set designs are miraculous - it would be insulting if it didn't get nominated for an Oscar in this department - as is the cinematography ( a very beautiful , bleached look ) . The acting I would rate as merely adequate . Tom Cruise's character is not developed well enough , and therefore the performance isn't anything special . Max von Sydow , as nice as it is to see him in a summer blockbuster , has a very stereotypical role . Tim Blake Nelson ( O Brother , Where Art Thou ? ) , as Gideon , the warden of all the criminal tubes , should have been axed . Nelson is totally wrong for the movie . The only great performance in the film comes from Samantha Morton , who plays Agatha . She is amazing at times . Many critics have praised this , saying that it's a great rebound after the failure of A . I . That's so incredibly insulting . A . I . is by far the superior of the two . Overall , Minority Report is a fun movie when you're watching it , but the more I think about it , the more my opinion shrinks . I give it a . Good entertainment , far too many flaws to even count . I think I could go on for days pointing them out .
Not half bad	Considering that it is little more than your standard cop buddy movie , the slight variation being that the buddies are a tough seen-it-all cop and a by-the-books rookie who is an alien , Alien Nation ends up being a pretty good film . You can give a lot of credit to James Caan and Mandy Patankin for that . They have great chemistry as the partners . Both are very accomplished actors , and they make a very cliched script into something well worth watching .
All for Cooper	Good true story about the biggest spy ever to infiltrate U . S . security . They caught him in 2001 , and I remember the story , though I didn't know the details . The film is mainly worth seeing for Chris Cooper and the complex character whom he plays . Cooper definitely gives one of the best performances by an actor of the year . A very subtle , very beautiful performance . Ryan Phillippe isn't quite able to hold his own against Cooper , but he acquits himself well enough . He certainly doesn't screw the film up or anything . I have a feeling that Phillippe is just about to break out as an actor . I really liked him in Flags of Our Fathers last year . Laura Linney was a big reason I wanted to see this film . She was praised for this performance , but I don't think she was given that much to do , honestly . I liked the film , but was far from loving it . That's probably because it pulled out one of my most hated cliché , that of the suffering , whining wife of a man who is busting his hump to save the world . She drags that old chestnut out , " I don't even know you anymore ! " Supposedly , this is pretty much the truth , but for Christ's sake , think of the greatness Eric O'Neil could have done if he had stayed in his position !
Unpretentious and fun .	The Mummy Returns is maybe a step above the first one . The action is non-stop , and it does manage , for the most part , to rouse the audience , or at least me . The good guys are likable . Brendan Fraser is where he belongs . Rachel Weisz is beautiful . John Hannah amuses as Jonathan , and Freddie Boath manages not to annoy as Alex , the kid . He's pretty good as a smart-mouthed brat . The bad guys are , for the most part , fun to hate . Im-Ho-Tep is a good villain . Maybe he isn't given enough to do here , but he's still cool . Patricia Valazquez is a real stunner as his love interst , Anck-Su-Namun . She's probably the best thing about the film . Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje was good as Lock Nah , the main henchman . Perhaps the weakest part of the film is the Rock as the Scorpion King . The narration during the film's prologue is not nearly as good as it would be if we were watching the story develop . The Scorpion King is basically a boring character . His computer-animated doppleganger at the film's climax is neat , but it would have been better if there were some feelings towards that character . People who know their action flicks will notice that the Mummy Returns steals about every action scene from every action movie made in the past 20 years , quoting movies like Aliens , Indiana Jones , Jurassic Park 2 ( why ? that movie was terrible ) , and especially Star Wars Episode I : The Phantom Menace , with which , if you remember , The Mummy I was competing with in the box office successfully in May of 1999 . They don't try to hide any of it . They even make a jest at Spielberg with a shadow against the moon from ET and Amblin Entertainment . It's all in good fun . You shouldn't be too angry at the sloppy script . If you are going to be angry , the shoddy computer animation should be your target . Still , it's not bad .
Pretty good , but falls apart near the end .	I was loving this movie for the longest time , but near the end it was trying too hard to maintain its palindromic structure . When filmmakers put style over substance , it detracts from the film . MILD SPOILERSIt would have been perfect if they had just met up at the end and stayed with each other for the rest of their lives . If you think that sounds cheesy or cliched , just think to yourself what the last drama was where a couple actually fell in love and stayed there . You might say that that never happens , but this film was stressing the magical aspect of life . It would have made more sense if they had lived happily ever after at the end . MAJOR SPOILERSBesides , I'm not even 100 % sure what happened at the very end of this movie . Again , the filmmaker was stressing his construction too harshly . But I'm pretty sure Ana died ( and her meeting with Otto was just her dying dream ) . This is an incredible let down ! The film still had potential to be great until the very end . There's just no payoff . Even though the characters were not particularly well developed ( and they didn't need to be , really ; like I said above , this film was more of a magical fairy tale than a piece of realism ) , I had an emotional bond with them ( or more likely , with their situation ) . I was feeling rather elated throughout the whole movie , but after it ended , there was no feelings to be felt . I would have given it at least an 8 , and maybe as high as a 9 on the imdb grading scale , but I have to give it a . It was worth watching , but it will dissolve quickly from my memory .
Too familiar in its story to be a really great movie	A small film about a big man . Mickey Rourke is , as you've certainly heard , outstanding as an aging wrestler who was famous back in the ' 80s and still plugs along at small events . Small those events may be , but they don't skip on the showmanship . One particularly brutal match rubs out the possibility of any more , and he has to take his life into perspective . He tries to reconnect with his estranged daughter ( Evan Rachel Wood ) and form a real relationship with a frequently-visited stripper ( Marisa Tomei ) . Frankly , my opinion of the film is lower than that of most who have seen it . When The Wrestler focuses on wrestling , it's spectacular . It's very detail-oriented , and you can just sense how much Rourke , the big lug , loves it . And the aforementioned brutal match is sure to be one of the most shocking things you'll see in any 2008 film . I rarely am disturbed by what I see in a movie , but I was wincing hard at it . When the plot kicks in , though , I just found it to be utterly predictable . It's made out of three basic clichés : the old pro who desperately wants to re-achieve his former glory , the family member connecting with an estranged family member and the sex worker unsure of whether she should cross the line between her profession and her feelings . I could never get very excited about it , because I felt I knew exactly where it was going and I never was wrong .
Forgettable , but Cheadle and Pearce raise it above mediocrity	Gripping but derivative thriller about terrorists and the people trying to stop them . Don Cheadle plays a Muslim who is a secret agent with the United States , under the supervision of a single man in the FBI , played by Jeff Daniels . No one else knows his true intentions , but he is connected to a terrorist organization by two other FBI agents , Guy Pearce and Neal Mcdonough . Cheadle has infiltrated these terrorists , lead by Saïd Taghmaoui , who also played a terrorist earlier in 2008 in Vantage Point , so deeply he's afraid that he'll have carried out attacks against the U . S . before Daniels gets what he wants . Traitor is clearly indebted to The Departed in its plot ? no points for guessing what happens to Daniels eventually ? and the Bourne movies in tone and style ( although not nearly as shaky ) . It never transcends its influences , and is thus , in the end , generic and forgettable . I don't want to be too harsh , however . For a bit of mild entertainment , it's well worth seeing . The final twist is great , if initially confusing and unintentionally hilarious . And the performances are quite good . I saw it mainly for Cheadle , who , as far as I'm concerned , can do no wrong . Pearce is quite good , too .
Grrr . . .	Profoundly frustrating , but , without a doubt , emotionally stirring . It's about a low class woman , Stella Dallas ( Barbara Stanwyck ) , who marries a rich man . They have a daughter , Laurel , but then the marital relationship deteriorates . The husband ( John Boles , always looking shocked ) moves to New York , where he gets involved with a woman he knew before he met Stella . She married and has children , but her husband has died . Stella has little interest in men , though she does have one very good male friend , Ed Munn ( Alan Hale , the real life father of the Skipper from Gilligan's Island ) , who does love her , but both are content as friends . Stella's only real interest is the happiness of her daughter ( played by Anne Shirley as a teenager ) , and the main conflict of the film is her class as compared to her husband's . She , of course , wants her daughter to be a proper young lady , but she herself is really not . Stella's idea of high class is the upper class ' idea of trashy . While this conflict is very interesting , the resolution of it is maddening . Really , how would a poor audience during the Great Depression see this film ? It was certainly very popular . But the message is that , if you're not bourgeois , it's best that you give up your child . It's better for the child that way . This is the kind of sentiment that might start a revolution in some parts of the world ! That cruel final scene made me want to pull out a guillotine . Yet there are so many beautiful pieces of the film . King Vidor was one of the very best Hollywood directors , and it shows here as well as it does in The Crowd . There's a poetic moment where Laurel Dallas has a tender moment with her boyfriend after they've been for a bikeride . It's filmed without dialogue . And the relationship between mother and daughter is wonderful . Anne Shirley has many of the film's best scenes in terms of acting . She's very sensitive as an actress , and there is a scene where she has to comfort her mother , when we might expect Laurel to be angry at her . Barbara Stanwyck is good in the role , but she did better . The character has many inconsistencies , which is the script's problem . Stella seems like a naïve , young girl when we first meet her , but her manners and class seem to fade steadily as the story moves on . It's far too exaggerated at some points , and that , I suppose , is Stanwyck's fault . Or Vidor's , perhaps , as well . Among the other actors , Alan Hale is fun . He also gets more and more pathetic as the film advances , but , disappointingly , at a point we are no longer asked to care for him . He was such an interesting person , and I don't like how he's dismissed . John Boles is painful to watch . .
Great setup , no payoff	An oddly toned film . I have been able to avoid the more intense discussions this has aroused , and I was barely at all aware that the film had comedic tones . As far as I can figure , the film posits suburban and married life in the realm of the Twilight Zone , via a deep-voiced , omniscient narrator . The narrator is something that most film audiences don't care for , but I don't think Field and novelist / screenwriter Tom Perrotta would have been able to capture the tone they did without it . So I personally thought that worked . I think the tone is really what makes the film memorable . The movie's steeped in awkwardness , but , at least for most of the film's run , it isn't awkward itself . The story begins well , and the characters are excellently realized and performed . Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson play the primary caregivers to their toddler children . They grow closer as they meet repeatedly at playgrounds and the public swimming pool , and soon begin an affair . The film's major subplot deals with a recently released sex offender ( played by Jackie Earle Haley ) who is being hassled by a former police officer ( Noah Emmerich ) . Haley's loving , elderly mother ( Phyllis Somerville ) tries desperately to protect her son . The main plot and the subplot tangle together in the end , and there is an attempt to relate the subplot to the main plot ( as per screen writing 101 ) , but it feels mighty forced . In fact , pretty much everything fizzles by the film's very weak ending . The strong story that had been built up , alas , has no satisfying resolution . I still think it's mostly a very strong film , though , with great direction by Field .
Painfully dated courtroom drama , but not too bad besides that	Jodie Foster plays a woman who was raped by three men in a bar . The legal case this film covers is not about the rapists , however , but about several men who stood by and cheered it on . In that way , the brunt of the film is somewhat anticlimactic . It's based on a true story ( many details were changed , of course ) , and the conviction of the " criminal solicitors " was a precedent . The quality of the movie is like a made-for-TV movie of the week . The music is awful and most of the acting is poor ( Kelly McGillis co-stars as the prosecuting attorney , and is very weak ) . However , I did think the film was worth seeing . Jodie Foster - and I'm not a big fan - is excellent . She won the Oscar for the role . Yeah , it's the old trick of an actress de-glamming herself ( though , honestly , Foster has never been much of a glamor queen as it is ) , but she creates a real person . The character of Sarah Tobias is the only thing in the film that's anywhere near three-dimensional . The actual rape sequence , which is smartly held off until the climax of the film , is also very powerful . For its time , it's very unflinching . Niki Caro had to have used this film as a reference point for 2005's North Country . The films are very similar .
Good , but too slow for my tastes	A look at three geishas who are way past their prime . Now they look back on their pasts with fondness and bemoan their present . Kin ( played by Floating Weeds ' Haruko Sugimura ) has sworn off men and has made a good living as a moneylender ; everyone on the block owes her . The other two , Nobu and Tamae , wish they could land husbands , but are not foolish enough to believe they ever will . Meanwhile , their children - one has a son and one a daughter - are both about to get married ( not to each other ) . Tamae is irked at how much prettier her daughter has become than her , and bitterly tries to convince her not to marry the man . Nobu's concerns about her son are more legitimate in nature , but they are also ( understandably ) self-serving . After her son leaves , she'll be alone . A bit into the film , two of Kin's former clients come looking for her , one a man so obsessed with her that he tried to get her to commit double suicide with him , the other one of her handsomest clients . Unfortunately , he comes for her money , not her love . The way I've described the film makes it sound unrelentingly depressing , but it's really not . Sad , but not fatally so . It's more bittersweet . Unfortunately , I only marginally liked Late Chrysanthemums . The story seems better when I look back on it , but it is very slow and dull . I actually nodded off twice during the film , and I wasn't at all tired before I started it . This is the kind of film that I can appreciate more than like ; it reminds me very much of my reaction to a couple of Ozu's more famous films . .
Surprisingly good - Anne Hathaway is going to be a huge star !	I was completely expecting to despise this movie . The only reason I watched more than five minutes is because I was lazy . Fortunately , it turned out to be quite good . I mean , yeah , it is sort of trite . It doesn't ask for too much . You know , be yourself kind of thing . Anne Hathaway is at first provided with hair , eyebrows , and glasses that don't make her ugly at all . In fact , when she gets her magical makeover , she's no more pretty than before . So what makes this movie good ? Well , Julie Andrews , for one . It's just wonderful having her back in a movie , for God's sake . But it would be a very slight film if it weren't for Ms . Hathaway . She's a very rare breed indeed : she's Hollywood A-list material , easily one of the most beautiful faces out there . But she's also a fine actress . Her character is the typical accident-prone , romantic comedy type , but Hathaway provides her with so much character that it's difficult not to be swept off your feet . Even in scenes that were clearly terrible , she shone through . I laughed at jokes that were quite bad . Her character's growth was nothing but cliches , but she convinced me . Also of note is the excellent supporting cast : Hector Elizondo especially , but also Heather Matarazzo , so great in Welcome to the Dollhouse , and Sandra Oh , who was great in Don McKellar's film Last Night . Most people are , of course , still going to hate this movie . That's fine ? there is plenty to frown upon . Young girls will very much like it . It's very harmless . The lessons taught are all valuable ones , however cliche . .
Better than it's given credit for being , though certainly far from great	This movie was thrown out on DVD in 2005 without any real theatrical release . It's well pedigreed for such treatment , directed by famed documentarian Barbara Kopple ( Harlan County USA ) , written by late phenom Jessica Kaplan , " fixed " by famed screenwriter Stephen Gaghan ( Traffic ) and starring Anne Hathaway in her first serious role . The film is far from perfect , but it isn't nearly as bad as people have said . It's main problem is that it is undoubtedly exploitative . Hathaway and co-star Bijou Philips both get naked , the kind of naked that leaves the viewer feeling sleazy . The film is about a group of teenagers from upscale Los Angeles who like to play gangsta , pretending they're black or Latino . When Hathaway's boyfriend is threatened by a Latino drug dealer ( Freddy Rodriguez of Planet Terror ) , she is attracted to the more authentic gangsta scene . She becomes involved with Rodriguez , which leads to the titular havoc . While many of the characters are one-dimensional and uninteresting , Hathaway's is well written , and she turns in the best performance of her career up to that point . She's nearly as intriguing here as she would later be in Rachel Getting Married . Also appearing is my favorite young actor of today , Joseph Gordon-Levitt , but he has a pretty weak role , so it's not worth watching just for him .
Not Romero's best by a long shot , but not nearly the failure that I had heard it was	Romero returns to the zombie well for the fifth time . And , yes , it's gotten old now . These stumbling monsters have shown surprising resilience in the past 60 years ! Romero goes big theme hunting here , exploring the current video - and internet-obsessed youth culture , dusting off that old film-making-is-voyeurism chestnut ( with dozens of shots of characters staring daggers at whoever's operating the camera at the moment ) , but I think he fails to say anything especially interesting . Truth be told , I don't think he was particularly insightful in any of the Dead movies , save maybe the class-consciousness of the undervalued Land of the Dead . But , come on , if you really think the whole " people be acting all like zombies at the mall " thing counts as deep social commentary , you're overselling it more than just a little . But wait ! I didn't say I disliked the film . In fact , quite the opposite ! It's not Romero's best by a long shot , but the guy is a consummate filmmaker , there's no doubt . I went into this with low expectations , given the reviews , but I was entertained by it . Romero delivers on stuff like gore . You'd think he'd have imagined every possible zombie situation , but then you get stuff like a scythe through the head or hydrochloric acid eating away at a brain . The film comes off much like Blair Witch meets Night of the Living Dead , and it's about as successful as the other Blair Witch rip-off of this year , Cloverfield . It isn't as frightening as Cloverfield , but I'd say , with its more interesting characters , it's about equal .
Decent , but disappointing	I began this week with Ernst Lubitsch's Trouble in Paradise , which is one of the funniest films I've ever seen . I'm also in love with Greta Garbo . Her Queen Christina is one of my favorite films . I had great expectations for Ninotchka . Unfortunately , it didn't live up to those expectations . The film begins well enough . Three Russian ambassadors get distracted from their duty by capitalist excesses in Paris , which leads their superior to send a woman , Ninotchka , to check up on them and report their activities . Ninotchka is a former soldier and is now a cold-hearted communist . She cares about nothing but facts and figures . Almost immediately , she meets up with a Parisian lawyer who just happens to be fighting her and the ambassadors in court over the ownership of some expensive jewelry . The lawyer eventually breaks through her communist armor , challenging her ideals . For nearly an hour , the film is very good . Garbo is hilarious as an almost robotic woman . After she begins to enjoy herself in Paris , the film quickly goes downhill . The film never gets bad , per se , but it's painful to watch a film that had been so humorous only moments ago become so flat . And the film is never romantic , which seems to be what Lubitsch wants . Trouble in Paradise was a hundred times more romantic . Leon , the Parisian lawyer , is kind of a jerk . At least Garbo didn't become submissive to him . That would have hurt me beyond words . She retains her grandeur throughout the film . I say , check this one out . It is too famous to ignore , and , like I said , it never becomes less than watchable . If your thoughts of it are similar to my own , please , check out Trouble in Paradise and Queen Christina . .
Quite fun ; Zellweger is awful , though	Clooney's third directorial outing , and his followup to the Oscar nominated Good Night and Good Luck . This movie is quite a bit lighter , a screwball comedy about the early days of professional football . Clooney stars as a pro football player for the Duluth Bulldogs in 1925 . The sport is not very popular at this level , but is insanely so at the college level . His plan to increase attendance and save the sport is to recruit football and war hero John Krasinski , who plays for Princeton , onto the team , though college football players rarely go on to the pros . Meanwhile , a reporter from Chicago , played by Renée Zellweger , has discovered that Krasinski's war hero story is bunk , and plans to expose him . While never hilarious , it's quite an enjoyable movie . Clooney , I think , is a more talented director than any of his three films have displayed . I think , if he ever gets his hands on a great script , he'll knock out a truly great film . He captures the period detail well , and the photography is great . I think the film would be a whole lot better without Zellweger . I'm not necessarily a Zellweger hater , but she's staggeringly awful here and drags the whole film down a notch . I like the whole fin de siecle mood . Nothing especially memorable , but a good time .
Goofy , campy jungle adventure courtesy of Cecil B . DeMille	It is included in Universal's five-disc DeMille set and is the least well known of the films , mostly because it's not an epic , the genre to which DeMille usually contributed . Claudette Colbert stars , and is , as usual , wonderful . She plays a mousy , virginal school teacher who eventually transforms into a jungle princess . Mary Boland , Herbert Marshall and William Gargan round out the cast , along with Leo Carrillo as a native who claims he is accepted as a white man because of his necktie . The film is racist as hell ( at one point the men shoot a native because they think he is a chimp who stole their rifle ) , but I tend to expect that with these kinds of movies . It's about the same as a Tarzan movie . There's some good comedy , and Colbert strips down pretty naked . The film was cut upon re-release because of its sexual content ( the version available is missing 17 minutes , at least according to IMDb ) . Either the missing footage is lost or Universal was too lazy to find and restore it .
Doesn't fully fulfill its promising premise	An interesting , ambitious , and somewhat entertaining satire of television , but one that pretty much fails for a number of reasons . It's difficult to believe almost everything that happens in it . Not one of the characters rings true . William Holden is as boring in 1976 as he was in 1955 , and his cliché relationship with Faye Dunnaway is not at all believable , and not even that interesting . Their scenes together go on forever , and Holden's character carries the trite and obvious metaphor of Dunnaway as television personified , and their relationship as soap opera far further than necessary . Dunnaway herself puts an amazing amount of energy into her performance , and she didn't not deserve the Oscar she won , if you'll excuse my double negative . But her character really is only the metaphor that Holden attributes her , so what ground can she win with that ? Beatrice Straight gives a performance that's most famous for being the shortest that ever won an Oscar , only three minutes . I didn't know who Beatrice Straight was , but it's obvious when she starts giving her big speech , so showy that she induced me to roll my eyes as many times as inches tall her Oscar is ; that must be a record , too . Robert Duvall fares the best among the major cast members , although he hasn't much of a character either . Peter Finch's performance is interesting , but his ranting gets old quick . While Howard Beale's first couple of ravings would undoubtedly raise people's interest ( the ' I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take this anymore ' scene is as great as it is famous ) , but I doubt the television show that is developed for him , which apparently airs five days a week and runs for many months before the film ends , would ever attract an audience of any kind , except maybe a small bit who have a taste for public access television , which is what it seems like . I think people , especially the kind of disenfranchised , cynical people to whom Beale's show is supposed to appeal , would be much more critical and suspicious of a man who does his show opposite a psychic and in front of stained glass window . People always refer to Network as ' prophetic , ' and then claim their proof is stuff like Jerry Springer , Hard Copy and reality television . As much as some of us may hate those kinds of television shows , only the deranged or stupid would ever believe that When Animals Attack is harmful to anybody other than those who are being attacked by animals . Does anybody really believe that anyone would ever air programs like The Ecumenical Liberation League or whatever that was ? Some of the scenes focusing on this new show which the network is developing seem to want to be comedy , although the film is too heavy-seeming to ever succeed in being comic . Anyhow , in the world of reality , in which Holden's character keeps trying to convince Dunnaway and the film's audience that the story is really happening , the network's lawyers would have stopped them immediately . I will say that the film is prescient in only one way : Ned Beatty , who appears for one scene , has the most intriguing part , where he says , among other things : " It is the international system of currency which determines the vitality of life on this planet . That is the natural order of things today . That is the atomic and subatomic and galactic structure of things today ! And you have meddled with the primal forces of nature ! And you will atone ! Am I getting through to you , Mr . Beale ? You get up on your little 21 inch screen and howl about America and democracy . There is no America . There is no democracy . There is only IBM and ITT , and AT & T , and DuPont , Dow , Union Carbide , and Exxon . Those are the nations of the world today . " It comes out of right field in the film - well , kind of . The almighty dollar is the driving force of the film , and , the film realizes correctly , the world . But what Network does not understand is how television works to propagate this system , or perhaps how it would . It's too busy finding its subject , television , overtly evil when it misses the ways it can be more subtly evil . Not that I think all TV is evil or anything . Personally , I watch a lot of television and enjoy it immensely . I don't think it is particularly wicked , and I actually think that there's a lot of great art to be found on television ( yes I do ! ) . However , most of the evil I do see comes from the news . I wasn't around in 1976 , so I can't say whether or not the news was as suspicious and creepy back then , but , if Network really had been prophetic , it would have at least got some of the satire right . .
Pretty good , but a bit dated	Definitely not one of Spike Lee's best films , and definitely a bit dated after 15 years . But it still holds some interest . It's a whole mishmash of racial issues , of the director and of the actors ( many scenes seem to be improvised ) dealing with their own thoughts . Often Lee shows his own prejudices . In 1991 at least , it doesn't seem like he thought black people and white people should be involved romantically . When Lee was promoting the film at the time , he implied that people of two different races were only attracted to each other because of stereotypes they had in mind . I think we still have a ways to go , but I think a lot of the barriers that may have been in place in 1991 have crumbled . The two main characters , played by Wesley Snipes and Annabella Sciorra , are fairly weak . I don't think either of them are especially good actors . Snipes has always been rather mediocre . The film is much stronger with its supporting characters . Samuel L . Jackson was much lauded for his performance as a crackhead . He is very good , though I think Lee makes him a bit too humorous at times ( though certainly he is downright frightening at others ) . I also thought John Turturro was excellent as the boyfriend Sciora dumps for Snipes . Honestly , I don't think Turturro can do any wrong . The film ends on the silliest note possible . Still , I rather liked it for the most part .
Good for the most part , but it all works out too well in the end	Pretty good Christmastime family drama . A liberal family welcomes their son's conservative girlfriend into their home , but nothing goes right for any of them . Advertized as a comedy , the film is almost pure drama . In fact , the bulk of the comedy ? all of which was featured in the previews ? doesn't work that well ( most notably the big slapstick sequence where Sarah Jessica Parker , Diane Keaton and Rachel McAdams all slip in some food ) . As drama , it is somewhat affecting . However , I hate that every little thing ends up working so perfectly by the end . I much prefer The Myth of Fingerprints , which ends in heartbreak and a family rift that might never be solved . That might have been a lot more truthful here . At least one of the plot lines could have been resolved less cleanly .
A pretty good B sci-fi that anticipates Planet of the Apes	Surprisingly good B sci-fi . John Agar and Hugh Beaumont star as archaeologists who gets trapped in a world below the Earth's crust . They discover two intelligent species there , a race of Albinos apparently descended from Sumerians and the mole people . The mole people are initially the scarier race , with their ugliness and their big claws , but the superstitious , ultra-religious ways of the albinos prove more threatening in the long run . The script is fairly intelligent , and anticipates Planet of the Apes in many ways . Yes , the B-movie production level is at times risible , and the ending is very odd ? read IMDb's trivia section for an explanation ( though avoid it if you haven't seen the film , as the one piece of trivia is an enormous spoiler ) ? but otherwise it's a fine movie . I was racking my brains to understand why it was rated so low ? only 4 . 4 ? then I figured it out : it was featured on Mystery Science Theater 3000 . That show really is a bane to real movie lovers . So far , this is the only film in Best Buy's sci-fi set that I've really liked besides The Incredible Shrinking Man .
Lesser Kurosawa , now available on ( a legitimate ) DV	The new Eclipse set Postwar Kurosawa might be more accurately titled Lesser Kurosawa . I mean , Kurosawa didn't make any pre-war movies , and he only made two or three during the war . Scandal is most famous for being released the same year as Rashomon and being infinitely inferior . It's definitely one of the director's more forgettable films . In fact , I'd probably say it's my personal least favorite so far ( there are three more in this set that I haven't yet seen ) . But it's not that bad . Pretty good , really . Toshiro Mifune plays a pipe smoking , motorcycle riding painter who gets photographed by paparazzi hanging out with a famous singer ( Yoshiko " Shirley " Yamaguchi , who also starred in Sam Fuller's House of Bamboo ) . A tabloid spins the story out of control , so Mifune decides to sue . He hires pathetic failure Takashi Shimura to be his lawyer , mostly because he feels sorry for him and his daughter , who has tuberculosis . But being a weak man , Shimura is susceptible to temptations from the other side of the lawsuit . There are a few very good scenes , especially the one in the bar where Shimura has a breakdown and gets the whole place to join him in a Japanese version of Auld Lang Syne . The courtroom drama is one of my least favorite genres , and while this film mostly takes place outside of that setting , the scenes that do take place there are poor . The film includes one of my most hated clichés , that of the courtroom audience bursting into laughter and / or applause during the testimonies . The final twist is lame , too . Let's just say checks are always a bad idea when you're attempting to bribe someone .
Well acted and made , but it's really just a turgid melodrama	Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet star in this film about an unhappily married couple . When they met , they were idealistic youths , but when they arrive in the suburbs , he working in sales and she a housewife , life seems dreary . The film offers no new insights on marriage or life . It is set in the 1950s , so you might think it's like , say , Far from Heaven in that it attempts to exploit the inadequacies of an era so beloved by a certain group of our society . But , no , Revolutionary Road doesn't make much of its ' 50s setting . I think it wants to be more universally about marriage . It's set in the ' 50s , I think , so there's a better reason these two people who just plain dislike each other have to stay together . So , taking place in the 1950s actually dates the problems that these couple are having for the most part . The story just doesn't feel relevant to a modern audience . Or me , at least . The film isn't that bad in the end . The acting is quite good , especially from Kate Winslet . Though I am a big fan of Michael Shannon , I found his two scenes in the movie very poorly written , mostly concerning his character , who comes off as a mere plot tool rather than a real person . The film is very gorgeous to look at , thanks to Roger Deakins , and I liked Thomas Newton's score ( he provided an even better one for Wall-E earlier in 2008 ) .
Probably my least favorite Tsai film , but still very good	This may be Tsai's first film set and made in his homeland of Malaysia , but he doesn't stray at all from Tsaiville . Which isn't much of a problem , really , if you're a fan of the director . Sure , we could complain that he's been hitting the same notes for eight features now , but there are artists in every medium that are like this . Either we get sick of it , or we like it and we stick with it . I'm sticking with Tsai . His moods and rhythms haunt my mind . He captures images like no other director , and he's definitely one auteur whose work you could identify from just one shot ( granted , you have about ten times as many frames in that one shot as you do in your average auteur's work ! ) . I Don't Want to Sleep Alone is probably my least favorite of all of his films ( all of which I've seen except his previous , The Wayward Cloud ? I've seen the first five minutes and am aching to finish it ) . This is mostly because I wasn't too sure what was going on through much of it . The plot seems to concern a young Chinese man ( played by Tsai's boytoy / regular Lee Kang-sheng ) who gets beaten senseless in Kuala Lumpur . A construction worker saves him and nurses him back to health , mostly with lustful intentions . But when the Chinese man is up and about , he goes off and sleeps with some women , which understandably pisses off his savior . Then there was a bunch of stuff I didn't quite understand , notably a guy in a coma ( also played by Lee Kang-sheng ) . A lot of my favorite shots involved that guy , but I'm not 100 % sure what was going on in that plot line . The images here are top notch , and though there is little dialogue , Tsai's use of sound ? and music ? is wonderful . Much as Tsai uses Taipei , Kuala Lumpur is an area of urban alienation . Late in the film smoke drifts over from a nearby Sumatran forest fire , covering the city with a thick haze . Many of the scenes are set in a crumbling building ( not quite sure what this was all about , really ) , which reminds me of the post-apocalyptic landscape in my favorite Tsai film , The Hole . I actually think I might have enjoyed this more had I watched it when I was less tired . Unfortunately , I'm not sure I want to give it another chance with the awful DVD , courtesy of Strand Releasing . It's cropped , for one thing . The image also looks a lot less crisp than any of Tsai's other films , though that may have been his stylistic choice this time around .
Loved it - but then discovered that it was completely fabricated	This is the kind of documentary that makes me really dislike the entire medium . I tell you , I hate to say that , because when I was watching it , it seemed like an amazing movie . I love the picture of the competitive video gaming subculture , and it tells a compelling story about a lovable , meek fellow battling against a debonair villain and an evil empire . This was the only documentary ever to bring a tear to my eye ( well , okay , let's not count ones about the holocaust and other such horrors ) . The problem is , I found out the day after , the underdog story was completely fabricated . Seth Gordon manipulates facts and events ridiculously . I suspected that there might be some manipulation while watching it , but Gordon is really inventing a fictional story involving real people . Which must suck for some of the people , especially video game champion Billy Mitchell , whom the film makes look like an utter jerk . Some of his meanness might have been real , for all I know , but with all the stuff I now know Gordon did to make him look worse , you can't trust the movie whatsoever . The real story isn't bad , and if Gordon had stuck to the facts and not tried to create a gamer version of Pumping Iron ( which at least never made any pretenses about not being phony ) , it wouldn't have irked me so much . The depiction of the subculture and the detail into which the film explores Donkey Kong still make it worthwhile .
The film is about as entertaining as a real circus , i . e . , it's moderately entertaining	DeMille's Best Picture winning circus epic , generally considered one of the worst winners of the big prize . I have to admit that DeMille's films are a guilty pleasure of mine . He's really an awful director , maybe the single worst of the major Hollywood directors , ham-fisted and in love with giant , fake-looking spectacle and bland performances . But his films provide me with some cheesy fun , and I do enjoy me some spectacle . The Greatest Show on Earth provides it nicely . It focuses on Barnum and Bailey's Circus . Charlton Heston plays the manager of the circus , who is one of those classic " business always first " type of characters . He has a romantic relationship with the show's trapeze star , played by Betty Hutton . But he jeopardizes the relationship in the name of business when he hires Italian playboy Cornel Wilde to take center ring from her . Enter the love triangle . Or love square , if you count Gloria Grahame , who tries to move in on Heston . Also in the mix are Jimmy Stewart as a clown who is hiding something and Dorothy Lamour as , well , Dorothy Lamour . She's not given much to do , although during her big musical number there's a cute cameo by Crosby and Hope . The story may not be all that interesting ( although I liked the Hutton-Heston-Wilde triangle ) , but it's pretty to look at . The costumes and cinematography are fine . So it's not one of the worst Best Picture winners , but certainly a mediocre one . I do prefer it to its two more famous competitors for that title , High Noon and The Quiet Man . Eh , maybe not The Quiet Man , but I don't have much love for that one , though I should try it again some day .
Uneven melodrama , but it ends up being fairly good	Pauline Lord plays Mrs . Wiggs , a poor , single mother whose husband is supposedly up looking for gold in the Klondike . She has five children , one of whom is very sickly . They have almost no money and their landlord is about to give them the boot , but luckily a benevolent rich couple takes an interest in them . Sometimes the relationship between the Wiggs and these two works out well . The couple's deeds seem sincere most of the time . But at odd times their behavior seems , well , not reprehensible , exactly , but questionable . It's almost as if they're treating the Wiggs as pets . How should we feel when the woman , Lucy , brings them a couple of baskets containing Thanksgiving dinner . Nice , yes , but does Lucy really have to be wearing a $5000 outfit made almost exclusively of fox fur ? I suppose this element didn't mean anything to those who were suffering through the Depression : Lucy was nice and that's that . From this vantage point , though , I don't know ; my knee jerked a little . The melodrama kind of fades near the end as good ol ' W . C . Fields wanders into the picture . He plays a sort of a mail-order husband to Mrs . Wiggs ' neighbor , Ms . Hazy ( well played by Greed star Zasu Pitts ) . Fields is as humorous as ever , and there's a very amusing scene where the Wiggs family helps Ms . Hazy trick him into thinking she's a great cook . Donald Meek ( best known as the whiskey salesman from Stagecoach a few years later ) shows up in a quick role that doesn't work out too well . .
Interesting adaptation of Faust	Personally , I like this film . It's an imaginitive adaptation , and it definitely begs to be seen . I think , though , that Jan Svankmajer fans are likely to be disappointed . People unfamiliar with his work are likely to hate it . Now , I'm no expert in his work . I've seen three shorts and his version of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland , just called Alice in the U . S . The three shorts are all masterpieces in their own ways ( my favorite being The Death of Stalinism in Bohemia ) and Alice is a near-masterpiece . Faust is not nearly as inventive as those other works . Svankmajer is known as a stop-motion animator , but his Faust contains little animation . The animation that there is is universally stunning . I will bet that any fan of the medium will just love the sequence with the baby , and will probably wish that it were longer . Actually , the medium that is most abundant in Faust is marionettes . Most of the film is live action , as well . The marionettes are often replaced with actors wearing gigantic papier-mache heads . This isn't as interesting as stop-motion animation , but it still works . Some of the puppets can be annoying , especially the jester . I believe that the puppet characters are done in the kind of exaggerated style familiar to puppet shows . .
Not Ferrell's best work , but still pretty funny	Another Will Ferrell sports movie . Sigh , right ? Personally , I think the guy's funny . And I think his vehicles are funnier than most comedies being made right now . The previous one , Blades of Glory , I thought was completely undervalued . Semi-Pro , unfortunately , is a step down . It's not bad , to be sure . I laughed plenty , and I'd give it a moderate recommendation . Ferrell fans should definitely take it in . They won't be sorry they did . But there just aren't enough great jokes to make it a must-see comedy . And you know that when there aren't a ton of great jokes 90 % of the good ones you've already seen in the commercials . There's a lot of half-baked material , too . I think , for instance , that Will Arnet's character was particularly hilarious , but they just don't give him enough to do . Ditto Matt Walsh , who plays a pastor moonlighting as a referee . Good jokes to be made there , but they are given a pass .
The original is in general better	I guess you can't complain too much that they remade 3 : 10 to Yuma . After all , the original is a pretty shameless rip-off of High Noon . As much as a rip-off as it is , though , I thought it was better than High Noon . And , while Delmer Daves ' original is fantastic , it's not like it's perfect or anything . It can be improved upon , I suppose . Unfortunately , James Mangold's remake doesn't improve upon it , except for maybe one bit , which I'll get to in a minute . The remake adds over 20 minutes , but it doesn't bother to flesh out the characters . In fact , the roles are flatter here than they were in the original . The extra plot points are unnecessary . They should especially have excised an entire sequence in which Luke Wilson makes a cameo . Not only does that sequence have the distracting , " Hey , look ! That's Luke Wilson " factor , it just doesn't add anything . It has been a while since I've seen the original , but , as I recall , it was pretty close to a real-time thriller , with Dan Evans guarding Ben Wade until the 3 : 10 arrives for most of the film . This is only a short portion of the new one . It is the best portion , though . It doesn't solve the problems of the original , although I don't personally consider the characters ' actions too problematic in either version , as many people do . The reason that the remake might be worth seeing is the ending . It's quite a bit different than the original ( unless I'm misremembering ) , and it brings the story to a higher level than the original achieved . As for the acting , it's mostly passable . But again it pales in comparison to the original . Both Van Heflin and Glenn Ford have some great movies and performances to their names , but I think 3 : 10 to Yuma was the peak of both their careers . I'm not a huge fan of either Christian Bale or Russell Crowe , but they've both done better . Crowe is great in that final sequence , however . As for the other actors , most are not worth remembering . I did really like the kid who played Dan Evans ' son , Logan Lerman . Watch for him in the future . And Ben Foster can add his name to the list of the classic superbad henchman characters in Westerns . He was wonderfully evil . I probably sounded like I didn't like the film much . That's not true . It's just that it's not as good as its predecessor , which , to me , means it doesn't have much reason to exist .
Not one of John Carpenter's best , in my opinion	Some find it to be so , but to me it feels almost like a throw-off . Too simplistic . But that doesn't mean it isn't entertaining . Roddy Piper , the WWF wrestler , plays a drifter who stumbles upon a huge secret : the powerful elite on Earth are really aliens who exploit the working man . They are disguised as people , but with a pair of special sunglasses , he can see which ones are which . Without a second's worth of questioning , he grabs a shotgun and starts blasting away at every one of the ugly s . o . b . ' s . It's silly , but entertainingly so . As an action picture , it's serviceable . Unfortunately , there are long stretches where nothing much happens , and it takes forever for the plot to start moving , instead treating the whole thing as a mystery for about a half-hour , which Carpenter executes badly . By the time Piper starts to see the aliens , I was the only person of four watching it left awake .
Interesting , but I wish it were better	The kind of film that sounds really exciting , and is interesting , but you wish it were a bit better than it is . Its reputation is based mostly on the final 40 minutes , where all the characters take a vacation to the bowels of Buddhist Hell ( pretty much like Christian Hell , but with more lotus flowers ) . The first hour or so isn't much less hellish . A college student and his wicked friend mow down a drunk gangster in their car . The student , burdened with guilt ( somewhat nonsensical guilt seeing as it wasn't his fault ) , starts seeing tragedy occur all around him . In just the next several days , all kinds of people with whom he associates die . It's never his fault , per se , but for some reason he always blames himself . That first hour is a little boring and a little confusing ? I was wondering if the guy was supposed to already be in hell . The hell part is pretty cool , but also fairly silly . What always works in Jigoku is the cinematography and art direction . This is a damn cool looking movie . I wouldn't particularly recommend it , but it's worth seeing just for the cool parts .
Were you also cheesed when Jim Kelly bought it in such a crappy way in Enter the Dragon ?	Well here's a movie for you ! Black Belt Jones is a must for aficionados of martial arts films , blaxpoitation films , and cult films in general . It boasts probably the funniest opening fight scene that I've ever seen ( unintentional or not ? it's difficult to tell in this film ; I have an acute feeling that everyone was just joking around and having a lot of fun ) , in which Jim Kelly aka Black Belt Jones ( one of the greatest character names in cinema history , to be sure ) ends the thing by shooting a bullet into a man's ass . It also boasts maybe the only fight scene where Scatman Crothers kicks some butt . And a scene where Jim Kelly kicks about a dozen guys out of train windows . And a set piece where everyone battles it out in a car wash with bubbly soap covering the scenery . The guy who plays Sidney also played the young black kid in The Omega Man , the one whom Charlton Heston tried to save . It also contains more abuse to the testicles than any film I've ever seen - none of the good guys have any qualms in the least about attacking the male package . If you see it with a bunch of guys , expect loud groaning all through the film . However much camp value there is , it does grow old during the course of the film . It's still a funny and distracting film .
	This is a bizarre little horror / comedy , mostly a comedy , the horror aspects almost parody . Lon Chaney has the top billing , but he's the evil adversary to a group of three , the leader being an amateur detective far too reminiscent of the previous year's Sherlock Jr . by the great Buster Keaton . He carries around a book called How to Be a Detective , and there are frequent zoom-ins which underline certain passages in the book . This is the ancestor to the type of film where a group of normal people are abducted into a strange house with a strange owner . As for the film's quality , its humor is generally on target , but it is never all that funny . A lot of giggles , but I never laughed out loud . It is often very slow moving , but it has a few wonderful set pieces and suspense scenes . Lon Chaney's villain is pretty entertaining ; I really wish they would have had more of him . There's much more footage of his evil henchman . The climactic scene is excellent .
Gorgeous pictures , but uninteresting characters	Zhang Ke Jia is a director who produces mixed feelings in me . On the one hand , I think he's a fantastic filmmaker as far as the technical aspects go , but I think his writing is pretty generic , especially when it comes to his characters , and he often relies on some hoary art movie clichés . Still Life is no exception , though it probably ranks as my favorite of Jia's films so far . Its worth is perhaps the result of a lucky accident more than anything . During the creation of the monumental Three Gorges Dam project in China , Jia filmed this movie while a city was being disassembled before it was to be flooded . Therefore , you get these beautiful , eerie scenes of this decaying , emptying city . The bifurcated story follows two characters , a man and a woman , as they seek for their ex-wife and current ( but estranged ) husband respectively . Structurally , it's kind of weird , because the woman's story pops up randomly in the middle of the man's story and has no relation to it . After her story ends , the film returns to the man and finishes his . I like the stories , but the characters are rather bland . I kept looking past them to the dreamy images behind .
One of the better Friday the 13th movies	I don't think anyone was particularly angry about this " remake " . Every Friday the 13th is pretty much a remake of Halloween anyway . One of them just takes place in space , that's all . So , yeah , you pretty much know what to expect here . Sexy teens ( who totally deserve to die ) stumble upon abandoned Camp Crystal Lake , where they discover that there's a hulking mongoloid with a machete hanging around . Jason has changed a little . He's a little more human , less zombie . He can walk at normal speeds and even run . He's smarter - perhaps too smart . I think that'll be the biggest complaint from fans . Jason sets traps , shoots arrows and utilizes fire in this one . It didn't bother me much , and I thought this was one of the better entries into the series . It's decently tense , and well made ( despite the image sometimes moving too fast and being unclear ) . The chicks are hot , and they have , as one male character points out at one point , " perfect nipple placement " . The kills are nasty and mostly pretty inventive . There are definitely a couple I think'll be fan favorites . Jason's a little too attached to his machete .
Hilarious Peter Sellers Vehicle	This is a very funny send up of the flower child generation . Peter Sellers plays an uptight , Jewish lawyer who falls for one of his hippie brother's girlfriends . After that , he descends into hippiedom . The film is filled with some of the funniest scenes around . The funniest part of the movie is Sellers as a hippie with hair down around his cheeks and psychedelic clothing , but still wearing horn-rimmed glasses . The musical score , which uses sitars as satire , is really great , too . It's very much worth seeing , although it overstays its welcome . Its humorous observations ( and imaginations ) about hippies get a bit repetitive in the film's second half . .
Quite fun , actually ; a nice companion piece to the 1941 masterpiece	The second version of Dashiell Hammett's The Maltese Falcon came in the wake of the big success of a cinematic adaptation of another of the author's novels , The Thin Man . So here we get a comic version starring a wise-cracking gentleman , Warren William ( who had played Julius Caesar in DeMille's Cleopatra ) . The comedy is sometimes desperate . It's played WAY over the top . If they had toned in down a tad , and maybe got William Powell instead of Warren William , it would have been a great film . Which would have been terrible because then , if it had been a success , Warner Brothers wouldn't have deigned to remake it five years later . We wouldn't have the 1941 masterpiece , John Huston's career might have went an entirely different way , and film noir wouldn't have developed as we know it . Film history might look damn different just because of this goofy little adaptation ! It's generally considered the worst of the three adaptations , but I really liked it . It's a heck of a lot better than the stale ' 31 version , and it stands as a nice little companion piece to the ' 41 version . A couple of the actors I really liked , notably Alison Skipworth in the Gutman role ( all character names have been changed , by the way , but I'll keep to the originals ) , Arthur Treacher as Cairo , and Maynard Holmes as Wilmer ( shockingly uncredited where several less important characters were ! ) . The best of the best , though : Marie Wilson in the Effie role . Oh . You thought I was going to say Bette Davis . Nah . She's probably the least of the three Brigids . The secretary role is expanded a bit , and she's almost made Spade's love interest . Wilson gives a very cute comic performance . Well worth checking out .
I liked it ! ( and I was pretty damn close to loving it ! )	Surprisingly good . I was very entertained throughout , and I actually found it quite scary at times . The story is very silly , but in a fun way . A quadriplegic man is given a helper monkey that has been heavily experimented on . It's super smart , and starts to develop a psychic connection with the man . The monkey is able to read his mind , and he in turn takes in some of her primitive rage . This eventually leads to the monkey murdering those with whom he becomes angry . At times the movie is campy , but during the last half hour it becomes quite an effective horror movie . I like Romero as a director , but have not found much in his movies that I've actually been frightened at . Monkey Shines , although it often uses a cheap " boo " tactic , made me jump more than once . All that really takes is a sharp sting in the score ( or a high-pitched monkey squeal ) , but Romero develops the tension so well here that those scares really hit me . The climactic scene is unintentionally hilarious , but it's a moment of hilarity that I will always cherish . Underrated and well worth watching .
Van Sant extends his stay as the laureate of the American art film	Gus Van Sant continues his trend of making dreamy , artsy mood-pieces with Paranoid Park , a film about a skateboarding teen who accidentally causes the death of a security guard . In some ways , it almost feels like a continuation of Elephant , where kids are shot walking through school hallways in slow motion ( here photographed by the legendary Christopher Doyle ) , and their actions and reactions are observed quietly . No , no literal shooting in those hallways this time , thank God , just the thick sense of guilt weighing down on young Alex ( Gabe Nevins ) . From what I had read about this film , I had gathered that it was about a disaffected teenager who doesn't really care about the death he caused ( and , reading some words written over Paranoid Park , it seems that that is a common interpretation , which I think is entirely incorrect ) . Van Sant thankfully isn't going the " don't teenagers suck ? " route that many filmmakers would probably go . Alex is depicted as a boy wounded , and who understands what he has wrought . Van Sant perfectly captures that high school feeling of being lost in your own life , visualized in gorgeous footage of skateboarders dreamily gliding up ramps and walls . The chronology is disassembled , but not quite in the same , Béla Tarr-inspired way as it was in the director's previous two films . Disassembled chronology is becoming quite a cliché nowadays , but a director like Van Sant knows how to use it , how it adds to the mood and meaning of the picture .
My spoilers , I should say , are pretty much spoiled by the film's opening scrawl	This strikes me as Haneke's least successful film . Still , it's more than worthwhile , and I would still nearly call it great . Several different , seemingly random stories are mixed together . We watch vignettes of varying length . Among them are the stories of a homeless Romanian boy who has illegally crossed into Austria , a lovingly married couple adopting a new foster child , another married couple at odds with each other , an old man starved for attention , and a group of frustrated college students . We are told at the beginning that one of these students will murder three people at a bank , and we immediately realize that at least some of the other people we have met will be at that bank . I'm not sure how I feel about this technique ; I'm certainly a bit conflicted . And I'm not 100 % sure what I'm supposed to get out of this all . I guess it's always worth being reminded of the unpredictability of life and that at any moment we could disappear from this Earth . Interspersed between the various stories there also appear long clips of the evening news , where various atrocities and tragedies are reported in a manner that desensitizes its audience to them . And the climactic event pops up right alongside them . Which of course reminds us also that these atrocities happen to real people , a fact that's so easily forgotten when watching the 10 o'clock news . Structurally , the film is brilliant . It is similar to what Altman was doing with Nashville . Haneke would improve upon this film with Code Unknown , which stands as my favorite of his films and perhaps as my favorite film of the current decade .
Bizarre and eerie	Bizarre cinematic head-trip that is far better and more entertaining than anyone could guess from a description . I put it on my Netflix queue without realizing it was directed by Ken Russell . If I had seen that earlier , I would have avoided it . Thankfully I didn't . It contains everything that is good about Russell , that is , his crazy imagery , and none of the bad stuff . That is , it's not an enormous bore . The script was written by Paddy Chayefsky , based on his own novel . Not the writer you would associate with horror or sci-fi , which is the proper genres to which Altered States belongs . He disowned the film before he even saw a cut of it , despite the fact that Russell was contractually obligated not to change a word of the script . The greatest asset of the film is the fantastic acting . William Hurt makes his screen debut as a mad scientist , a Harvard professor , actually , who is experimenting with sensory deprivation , mixed with some choice hallucinogens . He hopes to lose his modern mind in the sensory deprivation tank and regress to a primitive state . Unfortunately , some mushrooms that he finds in Mexico help him regress not only mentally , but physiologically . Blair Brown plays his estranged and worried wife , and Charles Haid and Bob Balaban ( love the Balaban ! ) play colleagues who help Hurt do his experiments . The plot is silly , but it's legitimately eerie and frightening , thanks to Russell's surprisingly excellent direction . The film ends up in territory very reminiscent of 2001 : A Space Odyssey , but I thought it all worked pretty well . Drew Barrymore makes her film debut at age 5 , and also keep an eye out for John Larroquette .
If not as good as if . . . and O Lucky Man , that doesn't mean it is worthless	This film completes the Mick Travis trilogy , of which the first two installments are if ? ( 1968 ) and O Lucky Man ( 1973 ) . You could say either that Britannia Hospital has little to do with the other two films or a lot . It depends on how you look at it . The political viewpoints are similar , but the style is much different . The three movies remind me much of Tati's first three Hulot films in the way they differ between each other while having interconnected themes . This would be Anderson's Playtime , in that , much like Hulot in Playtime , Mick Travis ( Malcolm McDowell ) becomes just one of a million different characters . Calling Britannia Hospital Anderson's Playtime oversells the film , unfortunately . The film does not work quite as well as if ? and O Lucky Man , both of which are masterpieces , in my estimation . Britannia Hospital feels like it ought to be a masterpiece . There are just so many flashes of genius . You see images and scenes that Federico Fellini or Luis Buñuel would have killed to come up with , and the film's liberal politics , while definitely somewhat confusing , are far more potent than anything Godard ever put forward . It also contains one moment of gorgeous eroticism , when Malcolm McDowell is changing clothes and a nurse gently cups both of his buttocks from behind . By the end , though , instead of being moved I was rather scratching my head . The film would probably benefit if I were to watch all three installments in a row , because there are apparently a lot of characters that are shared between them ( I only recognized Mick Travis and Professor Millar ; it's been over two years since I've seen the other films ) . But , then again , seeing how this film has been completely tossed aside by so many people , I'm hardly the only one who is confused . On the other hand , a film with so much ambition and power ought never to be shoved aside . Its dismissal is more than a little unjustified .
Good final chapter .	I have commented on both pather Panchali and Aparajito previously . After many months , I finally got to World of Apu , the final episode of the trilogy . To recap , Pather Panchali = , absolutely perfect , one of the best films ever made . Aparajito = , had a few problems , but still a thoroughly involving and beautiful film . The World of Apu I give the same rating that I did for Aparajito , . For the most part , again , it was involving and beautiful . I however have a couple of problems with the film . SPOILERSAs I complained in my review of Aparajito , when tragedies arise in this series , they tend to repeat themselves . I was most affected by the first two of these major tragedies . The third one , at the beginning of Aparajito , affected me a lot , although its power was diminished . By the fourth one , I knew it was coming from miles away , and I felt unaffected . Now the major tragedy in this film seems a bit contrived . I think the development between Apu and his wife was incredibly powerful . The situation which led them to be married lends to a lot of interesting options . The option that was chosen , to kill his wife off , was definitely the wrong one . I am actually hypothesizing that the novel had some more episodes , or at least some more fleshed-out episodes , than does the final film . The events of The World of Apu , at least after the tragedy , seem crammed into a short period of time . It never feels like five years have passed . Still , this is a great movie . Though I stick by these complaints , the film as it stands is very worth watching , since , once you have watched Pather Panchali , one of the very best films ever made , you cannot help but watch Aparajito and The World of Apu .
Pretty good Chaplin film with extraordinarily powerful final moments	I once caught about a 20 minute portion of this movie on Turner Classic Movies about 6 months back . I thought every minute of what I was watching was gold , and , because it was somewhere in the film's middle and I didn't want to spoil the whole thing if I were to watch it from the start , I decided that I would rent it immediately . Well , the video store which I frequent did not have a copy , so it took me six months to finally go somewhere else and rent it . I had previous to that experience only seen some Chaplin shorts , funny but not greatly artful , but after I saw the snippet of The Great Dictator , I checked out three of his other films , City Lights , The Gold Rush , and Modern Times ( City Lights was great , I found the Gold Rush a little overrated , but still worthwhile , and I found Modern Times to be one of the funniest films I've ever seen ( second funniest , behind Keaton's Sherlock Jr . , more exactly ) . Finally , the whole of the Great Dictator . Well , to be honest , it had its moments , both of comedy and of drama . But these moments don't always mix well . Chaplin's comedy worked well when mixed with melodrama ( City Lights is the best example of this ) , but it didn't always work with social commentary . Plus , the fact that there was dialogue lessened the impressiveness of Chaplin's talent . Don't get me wrong , I liked the movie as a whole , but I thought it of little consequence . I would have given it a solid on the ratings scale . . . if not for the ending . The final speech that the Jewish barber gives is enormously powerful . Yes , it is adressed to the tempora et mores of 1940 , but his message is perfectly applicable to the world today . The speech brought me to tears , and I consider it one of the best endings I've ever seen . Final score : .
Although not the best film of 1933 , certainly not an unworthy Best Picture winner	A sloppy but beautiful British family saga chronicling the lives of two families , the Marryots and the Bridges , the former upper class and the latter their servants , from the end of the 19th Century up to 1933 . A few major events are portrayed . At the beginning of the film , the patriarchs of the two families go off to fight the Boer War . Much later on in the film we experience WWI , and in between we see the Titanic sink . The film is filled to the brink with good characters , all of them being portrayed by very good actors , as well . There are a few very bad scenes , most notably the one on the Titanic ( I know it was an important event in this time period , but it's handled very poorly and predictably in the screenplay ) . The final speech , a necessary element in every film of this sub-genre , is particularly bad , too . The film ends during a worldwide depression , and there is a half-attempt to provide the audience with hope . Unfortunately , there is none to be found . I would have hated to be an audience member at this film in 1933 ! The many good scenes do far outweigh the bad ones , though . There are a couple that are really masterful . The very long montage that paints a portrait of WWI is gorgeously done , and appropriately harrowing . The scene in which the matriarch of the Marryot family watches her youngest son go off to war is exquisite . After he leaves , she attempts to light a cigarette . At that moment , a young nurse and a wounded man in a stretcher pass by ; the nurse lights a cigarette for the wounded man . The match goes out between the matriarch's fingers as she stares at them . This very economical scene expresses both the cold fear she has for her son and the ways in which the boundaries between the classes were fading . The theme of class in Cavalcade is important , although I wish it had been developed further . Early in the film , the Bridges family moves away and amasses something of a fortune of their own . As history marches on , we do see the class lines falter a bit . Cavalcade may actually have been an influence on none other than Jean Renoir , at least in The Grand Illusion . That film also deals with the melding of the classes as a result of wars . There is one scene in Cavalcade that is simply too close to one in The Grand Illusion to be a coincidence . A theater show is interrupted to announce that the Boer War is over and that the troops are coming back . Together , the audience members stand up and begin singing . It looks very much like the scene where the P . O . W . s sing " The Marseilles " in The Grand Illusion . .
Very funny , if you can stand Jerry Lewis	I had never seen a Jerry Lewis vehicle before this one ( not counting Scorsese's King of Comedy ) , and I was annoyed as hell for the first fifteen minutes . I even considered walking out , that's how irate I was getting at Lewis ' mugging . But then there was a scene in which he was hilarious , so I hung onto it a bit . And it got funnier and funnier . Jerry Lewis isn't getting a clean bill of health from me ; he still annoyed me once in a while . But in at least an equal amount of scenes , and probably a bit more , he was very funny . He and Dean Martin play " roommates " who met each other way back when they were Boy Scouts , sleep in separate twin beds in the same room , take baths with the door open , and at one point talk about getting a divorce . At one point the semi-retarded Lewis ( and he admits as much himself ) says to Martin : " I can't keep my dickie down , Ricky . " Um , he's putting on a tuxedo I think . Similarly , Dorothy Malone lives in the apartment directly above them , unmarried with thick , black glasses and earning a good living on her own . She spends her time dressing the barely adult Shirley MacLaine , who has a cute little butch cut , up as the Bat Lady . The homosexual content seems to me almost too obvious to be meant . It's usually much subtler in Hollywood movies of the era . Then again , it's impossible to miss it , even you're a 1950s housewife . Eventually , the two gay couples meet and change partners , Martin getting Malone and Lewis MacLaine . MacLaine , in her second ( or maybe third ) role , is probably the film's standout , but Eddie Mayehoff , playing a comic book publisher who wants ever more violent comic books to sell , lands the highest percentage of the laughs . Eva Gabor has a decent part as a Soviet spy ( a Cold War plotline appears out of thin air in the latter half of the film ) , and Anita Ekberg , later to co-star in Fellini's La Dolce Vita , also has a tiny role as a model . The non-Lewis related comedy is frivolous but excellent . The film also contains several great musical numbers . Dean Martin at one point starts dancing with a little girl on the street in a scene stolen from An American in Paris . The girl , though , is an excellent back-up singer and the song itself - I believe it's called " The Lucky Song " - is quite entertaining . .
My pick for Robert Altman's worst film	Well , maybe I can't say that . There are plenty I haven't seen , and , well , Popeye at least has to be worse . The Player is one of the bitterest , most heavy-handed satires ever made . The sad part is that the focus of Altman's attack is not even close to being completely culpable for the crap it churns out . The cinema is an industry . It has to make money or it will go out of business . The crumminess of most movies only exists because the American public is made up of swine : they want to root in troughs and walk through feces . And it is so expensive to make movies nowadays , that , if a movie doesn't make money , it could destroy many people . Of course , with Hollywood's willingness to bow to the lowest common denominator , it works as a downward spiral . It's getting harder and harder to insult America's intelligence nowadays . Pearl Harbor is # 1 at the box office , and plenty of people attest to its greatness . Heck , Shrek , a pile of crap , is being touted , even by critics , as a great piece of filmmaking . What's worse , the media works as a catalyst to it all , angling all reports of success around the money which is made . For an intellectual like Altman to be mad at Hollywood is pointless . Be mad at America . Instead of making The Player , about people just doing their job , why not make a Nashville-style ensemble piece about the idiocy of the common man . They're not going to see it anyway .
	At least as good a Shakespeare adaptation as Throne of Blood , though nowhere near Ran , The Bad Sleep Well is a Japanese Hamlet set in the present . It is especially worth seeing because it contains Kurosawa's best black and white cinematography , better than Rashomon , The Seven Samurai , Throne of Blood , or Yojimbo . Unfortunately , Toshiro Mifune was never lamer in a Kurosawa epic ( although all the other actors are superb ) , and its epic length also detracts from its overall effect . Still , if you're a Kurosawa fan , you really shouldn't forget this great film .
Well worth seeing	I was wary of this one . It seemed a lot like this trend in recent world cinema that I don't like , where the camera observes unemployed losers who do little besides screw , smoke , and ride around on mopeds not looking for jobs . These films rarely provide any interesting insights , or even interesting characters . So the subject matter had me prejudiced against this movie from the start . Fortunately , Dumont does have some insight into these people . I wouldn't say it's a lot of insight , nor would I say that the film has much new to say . However , the characters come off as real people . A couple of minor complaints : I thought that the lead actress , Marjorie Cottreel , was far too beautiful to fit in with the rest of this picture . And the hardcore sex scenes were entirely unnecessary . And I didn't need to see Mom's vagina , either .
It's difficult to dislike	When people tell me that classical Hollywood films do not appeal to them , I understand it . Except for Citizen Kane , that is . It's hard to argue in any case with that film . But if someone says " I don't like Casablanca , " I can understand that . Not that I don't like Casablanca . I like it quite a lot . It's just that , well , as much as I like Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart , I just don't think that their skills as actors are very high ( well , Bergman's good , while I would pick any number of actresses from foreign films or silent films or more modern films ) . This is because I do not think true acting , at least for the American talkies , came about until the likes of James Dean and Marlon Brando . Acting before seems only to have been born from the style of acting you see in the theater . I have never been a huge fan of the theater because of this same reason . Actors act only with their voices . They have to get what they are saying heard , so nothing ever sounds sincere . There are so few silent moments . His Girl Friday is a great example of this . There is not a second where people aren't talking a mile a minute . Even when the dialogue is great , it starts to grate on your patience . But this is just a small criticism of mine . Although I would completely sympathize with someone disliking this film , I liked it a lot . Even if the dialogue does grate , it is still great . And the actors , even if they do act as if they're on a stage and not as if they were human beings , are very good . Cary Grant is always great to watch . His abilities are effortless . I could never imagine him in a serious role ( I'm sure he had to have had a few ; my only other Cary Grant experiences are two of his Hitchcock films : To Catch a Thief and North By Northwest ) . He's a lot like Bogart , and any number of other stars ( as opposed to actors ) , whose persona is so fun that we go along with him wherever he goes . Rosalind Russel is an actress I've never seen before . If I ever do , I won't be able to see much beyond the persona she establishes as Hildy Johnson . She may have been a very popular actress , for all I know , but even if this were her first film , she holds her own with Grant . The supporting character actors , especially the other newsmen , the gangster , the sheriff , the mayor , etc , are all very good . My only other complaint is that the few dramatic moments in the film tend to work against the overall comedic mood of the picture . The entire execution part of the plot seems almost as if it is from another movie . And especially the suicide attempt of Molly Malloy ( what a terrible name , by the way ) hurts the film . In fact , the rest of the movie is so good , that it almost cancels out these creaks . Almost . .
A beautiful film	This unknown film is a real gem . I wasn't expecting much , since Claude Lelouch has kind of a weak reputation ( I do love his version of Les Miserables , though ) , but , I figured that Jean-Paul Belmondo is always reason enough to see a film . Definitely , he pushes it far beyond what it could have been otherwise , but also helping him is the wonderful performance of Annie Girardot , an actress about whom I know not a thing , and the great but modest direction of Lelouch . The film begins as if it were going to be one of those run-of-the-mill French dramas where married people cheat on each other . After a while , though the two new lovers go on a cross-country trip from L . A . to NYC ( although they don't quite make it there in their rented car ) . What I would compare this film most to is Linklater's Before Sunrise . I give the film an .
Despite its goofy , paranoid plot , it's a good movie	Infamous piece of right-wing paranoia , involving a group of teens fighting a guerrilla war against invading Russians , Cubans and Nicaraguans . It's a joke of a film , one of those you'd only watch if you want to see a movie that's so bad it's good , right ? Well , no , actually . If you can look past the ridiculousness of the setup , it's a good movie . A darn good movie , really . Milius , most famous for being the screenwriter for Apocalypse Now and the director of Conan the Barbarian , may not be the best director who ever lived , but he is a good one . If the film were nothing but reactionary propaganda , it wouldn't be remembered quite as well today . Shows like South Park and Family Guy couldn't do take-offs on particular scenes if it had been a forgettable movie . The story is quite gripping , and the characters are fairly well written and performed by an excellent young cast ( among them Patrick Swayze , Charlie Sheen , Jennifer Grey , Lea Thompson , and C . Thomas Howell ) . I do think there might have been a bit more of a relationship between the kids . Some of the film's strongest sequences have to do with the moral questions they ask themselves , and the fights they have with each other . If we knew a bit more about the characters , it might be stronger there .
Wonderful	If only there could have been more musical and dance numbers ! All of them ( not counting practices ) occur at the very end of the film , and there are only three of them there . Luckily , the non-musical parts were really good , too . The plot was just a pretty standard behind-the-scenes of a play movie . It actually reminded me a lot of two films about plays that I have just seen recently , Micheal Powell's _ The Red Shoes _ and Tim Robbins ' _ Cradle Will Rock _ . While the plot may be a bit common , the dialogue is exceptionally good . It is snappy and witty and clever at all times . Also , the ensemble cast was extremely good . I love Dick Powell . He's not in this film too much , but he's perfect in every scene he's in . I was first introduced to him in the guise of Phillip Marlowe ( and I am among the small group of people who consider him the best incarnation of Phillip Marlowe ) , and he's just as great in the genre which brought him his fame . This is also the first movie that I've ever seen involving Bubsy Berkely , and I have to say , WOW ! ! ! Those musical sequences are ingenious ! One thing I find funny , though , is that , if you think about it , the audience who would be watching the play from below wouldn't be able to see any of the fancy designs the dancers make with their legs ! Too bad for them ! I give this film a !
Excellent cinematic adaptation ; Excellent cinema	I'll say this up front : this film can move very slowly at points . Also , I saw it in a theater with live piano accompaniment , and it's likely to be much less impressive on a smaller screen . I doubt the video print is very good , since I am familiar with other tapes that that company has distributed . Despite its slow points , when Lang and crew create the numerous set pieces , watch out : you're in for some of the greatest scenes of filmdom . I'd also like to point out that , as someone who is quite familiar with the original poem , I'll tell you that source material often moves a lot slower than this film does . As a technical marvel , I don't think some of the stuff here was surpassed until very recently , except maybe in King Kong . It's even more amazing to behold than Metropolis , Lang's next and much more famous film . All of the effects might seem dated now , but anyone who appreciates early cinema will easily fall in love . The film opens with Siegfried's infamous battle against the dragon . A bit of trivia : this scene is not in The Nibelungenlied . It is briefly mentioned in the first lay by Hagen as having happened a while ago . However , this is the one scene from this movie which is widely remembered , and for good reason . The dragon is amazingly created , nearly on the level of the dinosaurs from The Lost World and King Kong . Unlike them , though , it is a puppet and not stop motion . As far as puppetry goes , it surpasses most of the muppets of Return of the Jedi by leaps and bounds . Unfortunately , as lifelike as they made it , the dragon is not at all that fierce . It almost looks like a friendly dog ( it even wags its tail as Siegfried valiantly rushes at it , sword aloft ) . When it is supposed to be roaring at Siegfried , the audience was giggling ; it looked more like it was yelping . As a result , the depiction of Siegfried begins to come off as satirical ( probably not intended , but it makes things more interesting ) . There is a major strain of Niebelungenlied scholarship which sees Siegfried not as the hero , but as the aggressor . The second major set piece involves the battle with Alberich , the Nibelung , an episode that occurs a bit later in the poem , from whom he wins the cloak of invisibility , a horde of treasure , and Balmung , his famous sword . The mythological characters in this episode are awesome to behold in their costuming ( and simply in the casting , which is perfect throughout ; the creatues in the film's first scene , in which Siegfried is forging his sword , are great , too ) , especially the dwarves who balance the pot full of treasure on their backs . The best scene in the film occurs in the next chapter , the dream of Kriemhild , which is animation done in sand . Other great scenes in the film include the crossing of the lake of fire , the battle between Brunhild and Gunther ( with an invisible Siegfried helping him ) , the wooing of Brunhild , the quarrel between the queens , and the hunt . As far as I remember , only the war with Denmark is left out , which happens in the poem before they go to Iceland for Brunhild . It's not missed . Special attention must be given to the miraculous casting . Paul Richter plays Siegfried as the hero to beat all heroes . With his blonde , flowing hair , he marches across the world blindly performing great deeds and talking to birds ( the look on Richter's face when he starts to hear birds talk is priceless ) . He's too naive to see the trouble he causes as he dishes out treasure to the poor ( a wonderful touch ; Lang doesn't even draw attention to how this angers the Burgundians in their dialogue , but only in their expressions ) . As many scholars have proposed , Siegfried's actions all suggest that Worms is in iminent danger of being usurped by him . Margarethe Schoen may not have been the best choice for Kriemhild . The actress is so manly that I assumed that an actor was playing her . She is supposed to be the most beautiful woman in the world . The actress does emote quite well , however . Now , Hannah Ralph , who plays Brunhild , exudes a manliness that her part requires . She's supposed to be a warrior maiden . Ralph does a great job conveying Brunhild's cunning , bitterness , and cruelty . Theodor Loos , who plays King Gunther , is absolutely perfect . I couldn't have imagined him better . His face exhibits both his moral predicament and his supreme inadequacy that the poem spells out so clearly . Hans Adalbert Schlettow plays Hagen . His costume may be a bit overwrought ( a huge , gnarly beard , a furry eye patch , and an enormous helmet with eagle wings reaching a foot and a half upwards ) , but the actor's perfect for the role , although he might be too old . His age makes me wonder how he's going to fight like a demon in Kriemhild's Wrath , the second part of the film , which I'll see tomorrow . I'm very eager to see how Lang and Thea von Harbou , his wife ans screenwriter , will make the remaining half of the epic interesting on film . It's nothing but battles . Volker and Gunther's brothers are also well cast , although they'll probably be more important in the second half , that is , if the poem is followed as closely as it is here . .
An equal to the first part ;	In some ways , The Wrath of Kriemhild surpasses Siegfried's Death , but it also loses some of that film's greatness . The plot of this one is more cohesive than the first , which is quite amazing . The second half of the actual poem is a lot sloppier and a lot harder to tread through , until , that is , you get to the climactic battle scenes ; only the Iliad's are better . Lang and Harbou embellished the Huns . The poet-compiler of the Nibelungenlied didn't know a Hun from his right ball , and as a result they are , more or less , the same as the Burgundians in custom . For example , although the poet clearly describes Etzel as a heathen ( which is Kriemhild's main concern as Rudiger tries to persuade her to marry him ) , when she gets to Hunland , the first thing she does is go to mass . The Huns here are clearly heathens ; they're almost like caveman . The depiction of them is hilarious , especially Verbal , the jester , who has two marvelous scenes . Etzel's character has been given more weight . He is much more formidable . All he does is bemoan his fate in the original poem . Lang and Harbou are masterful at building suspense , especially at the banquet scene , which is intercut with Verbal's second performance to an amazing effect . However , as is the nature of this half of the poem , the film's amazing technical accomplishments are missing in this one , for the most part , except for a dazzling sequence where Etzel's hall burns down with the Nibelungs inside . The one thing I do have to object to is the way Harbou changes the ending . SPOILERS : in the poem , after Hildebrand captures Hagen and Gunther , they are imprisoned . Kriemhild visits Hagen in his cell and demands that he reveal where he has hidden the horde . He refuses and she herself decapitates her brother . When Hagen still refuses , she decapitates him . Hildebrand ( or possibly Dietrich ) is so disgusted that a woman would presume to murder a great warrior that he , in turn , decapitates her , calling her a " Devil Woman " . Etzel , who is much weaker in the poem than he is here , says something silly like : " Ah me ! " I can understand why they would want to keep a unity of time and place as Hildebrand brings them from the castle ; to retain the prison settings of the two deaths would make the film very anticlimactic . I also understand why they didn't have Hildebrand kill Kriemhild : his character is much reduced here ; his name is only mentioned once . But , to have Kriemhild kill herself , adopting Brynhild's death from the Icelandic sources , is just catering to the audience instead of challenging them . The point of the poem is that Kriemhild's wrath goes far beyond it should into the realm of pure evil . Here , we simply have her die for her lost love . It's not as interesting .
Great fun	A fantastic Arabian adventure . A former king , Ahmad , and his best friend , the thief Abu ( played by Sabu of Black Narcissus ) search for Ahmad's love interest , who has been stolen by the new king , Jaffar ( Conrad Veidt ) . There's hardly a down moment here . It's always inventing new adventures for the heroes . Personally , I found Ahmad and his princess a little boring ( there's no need to ask why John Justin , who plays Ahmad , is listed fourth in the credits ) . Conrad Veidt , always a fun actor , makes a great villain , and Sabu is a lot of fun as the prince of thieves , who at one point finds a genie in a bottle . I also really loved Miles Malleson as the Sultan of Basra , the father of the princess . He collects amazing toys from around the world . Jaffar bribes him for his daughter's hand with a mechanical flying horse . This probably would count as one of the great children's films of all time , but the special effects are horribly dated nowadays . Kids will certainly deride the superimposed images when Abu and the genie are on screen together . And the scene with the giant spider looks especially awful . Although most of the younger generation probably thinks that King Kong looks bad at this point in time , Willis O'Brien's stop-motion animation is a thousand times better than a puppet on a string that doesn't even look remotely like a spider . .
Very good adaptation	This might be the only movie that interested me so much with its previews that I read the book on which it was based before the movie was released . I had always heard about Watchmen , and , though not a comic book guy , I checked it out . It was good , quite good , though I balk , more than just a little , whenever anyone refers to it as great literature . That it was included in Time magazine's top 100 best novels of the 20th Century seems ludicrous to me . I found it rather sloppy overall and so in tune with its non-literary medium that I don't think it was an especially good work of literature . But I did like it . Now I've finally seen the movie . And I liked it . Very much , in fact . I thought it was a cracking adaptation of the comic book , and it moved along seamlessly . Its screenplay is surprisingly well adapted . Many of the film's flaws are inherent in the source material . There are some incredibly stupid scenes , like the sex scene and Dr . Manhattan's interview . Both are identical in the book . I might complain that the violence is a little more in focus in the movie . I wonder how well someone who hasn't read the original would understand this . The friend I saw it with said he had no problems , so maybe it's just in the details that it becomes obscure . The end of this film is far better than that of the original work , which comes out of left field and makes little sense . Actually , I did kind of like that , because it was enjoyably weird , but the film version works much better . As for the cast , I was surprised by how well Patrick Wilson played Night Owl II ? I didn't think he had it in him . As everyone seems to agree , the weakest link was Malin Akerman as Laurie Jupiter . Akerman comes off as kind of a bimbo , at least with how she speaks , which is nothing like the book's Jupiter .
Tallulah Bankhead is TERRIBLE ! ! !	I can't believe that so many people thought Tallulah Bankhead was great in her role in Lifeboat . In my opinion , she drags down what could have been one of Hitchcock's greatest masterpieces . She chews up every scene with her over-the-top acting style . It becomes tiresome instantly . Her character is by far the least compelling of the group . I know Hitch made the film for her , more than anything , but it would be interesting to see someone remake this film and subtract that character . Why remake Psycho ? It's perfect . Remake one that is somewhat flawed . The rest of the cast is outstanding , however . I love Hume Cronyn . He's also great in Hitch's Shadow of a Doubt , and , of course , everything else he was ever in . I am not familiar with most of the other actors , but they're all great . Besides acting , Lifeboat is one of Hitch's most interesting films in every aspect . First off , it is historically interesting . For one thing , there is an ad at the very end of the film telling you to buy war bonds in the lobby ! If you've read the Truffaut interview book , Hitch explains how angry Americans grew over this film because of its depiction of the German vs the depiction of the Allies . This film is actually incredibly brave in this way . It definitely is not anti-Ally in any way , as some interpreted when the film was first released . There are plenty of references to the inhumanity of the Germans and just a lot of general enemy-bashing . But the film also criticizes aspects of our culture , especially materialism . In the best scene of the film , the Allies form a mob , or a pack of wolves , as Hitch himself has said , and kill their enemy . It is an incredibly great moment . The ending is also one of Hitch's most complex , although he was especially gifted for creating incredible endings . Anyhow , see this film , even if you are not a Hitch fan . It is in no way his standard fare ( the typical Hitchcock film being , in my thought , Ti Catch a Thief ) . , - 2 for Tallulah Bankhead's mega-ego and terrible performance .
Lives up to its reputation as one of the best Sci-Fi movies of the ' 50s	If not for slow beginning , this would definitely be a great sci-fi adventure movie . As it is , it's certainly awesome enough in parts . When Scott Carey shrinks small enough that his pet cat is a danger , the movie becomes something of a masterpiece . Carey is knocked into the basement . His wife thinks the cat actually got him , so no one is looking for him . He must try to survive with the few items that are small enough for him to manipulate . A large spider roams the room looking for food . What Jack Arnold failed to do in Tarantula , he succeeds in doing here . This spider is damn frightening . I'm not really sure how I feel about the ponderous final sequence . I'm leaning toward not liking it very much . The strong scenes in the film are so good , though , I ended up really liking it .
Wright , Downey and Foxx are good enough artists to lift this above its Oscar bait plot	This film was supposed to be a major competitor for the Oscars last year , but Paramount bumped it to a few months later . Despite the mixed reviews the film has received , I believe it would have been a major contender . I honestly think Paramount's decision not only ruined its chances for Oscars , it gave the impression that there was something wrong with the picture . There isn't , really . The subject matter does scream " Oscar Bait " , with Robert Downey Jr . playing a newspaper columnist who writes about a schizophrenic genius musician ( Jamie Foxx ) who is homeless on the streets of L . A . We all remember Shine . Shine was pretty good ( if entirely made up , as we later discovered ) . The Soloist is probably a little better . I think it's stronger because of its exploration of the relationship between the two central characters . Both Downey and Foxx are extremely good ; both are award-worthy . This material could easily have been cheesy Oscar bait , but director Joe Wright ( Pride and Prejudice and Atonement ) is a virtuoso himself . The way he uses image and sound move the story along beautifully , not allowing the clichés to clog up the film .
A gem that already needs rediscovering	Undervalued film in the Coen Brothers canon . I liked it much more than their previous two films , The Man Who Wasn't There and O Brother , Where Art Thou ? I don't know how anyone could think they were selling out with this , because it still has that patented Coen quirk , this time revisiting the classical Hollywood romantic comedy . It's nothing like modern romantic comedies , but closer to stuff like Adam's Rib and Bringing Up Baby . George Clooney , turning in his best performance ever , is a divorce lawyer who never loses , even when the odds are stacked against him . Catherine Zeta-Jones is the gold-digging wife of a philandering , rich husband ( Edward Herrmann ) , who has in turn hired Clooney to defend him . The dialogue is perfect , and the plot takes a lot of fun and unexpected turns . All the performances are excellent ; in addition to the leads , Cedric the Entertainer , Billy Bob Thorton , Paul Adelstein , and Richard Jenkins among others are simply awesome . No movie from 2003 made me laugh nearly as hard . Actually , I think I haven't seen a comedy that was this much fun since Bowfinger in 1999 . .
There's at least one scene that should go in the comedy hall of fame	The scene where Buster and his girl , two rich youngsters who are stuck together alone on a ship , attempt to feed themselves is one of the funniest scenes I've ever watched . For about 10 minutes , I could not stop laughing . After that scene , the comedy is , well , I was going to say hit and miss , but that's not right . No joke really misses . It's just the difference between a smile , a chuckle , and a guffaw . I would say that , especially compared to my two favorite Keaton films , Our Hospitality and Sherlock Junior , The Navigator is considerably less funny ( though almost anything is considerably less funny than those two films ) . Plus , the film never reaches a solid conclusion . A situation was set up at the film's start which was never advanced at all . Still , The Navigator beats out most modern comedies . Nothing can really beat Buster Keaton . I would give it a if it lacked the food sequence , but I'll add 1 point for that , so a total of .
Great animated short	This is a very funny short . There is no dialogue , and the animation is quite unique - especially the way photographs of people are integrated into the animation ( possibly the greatest moment , the space chicken shoots his laser , hits a photo of a guy , and it turns out crooked , with the guy's hair standing straight up ) . It is too bad they had to go and make a stupid series out of this short . Cartoon Network is almost completely worthless . . . have to stay up until 4 AM to see anything good , otherwise we just get Cartoon Cartoons .
How funny are the Marx Brothers ?	Oh , man are they funny . And The Cocoanuts is one of their best , right up there with Duck Soup . 99 % of the jokes hit the bull's eye . Groucho , Chico , and Harpo are masters . Who the hell is Zeppo anyway ? He always looks like he's horning in on his brothers ' antics . In a lesser Marx Brothers movie , the song and dance numbers are annoying , the non-Marx actors are boring , and Chico's piano number and Harpo's harp number are agonizing . You can see the differences in this one : the song and dance numbers are amazing with especially good dancing ( and great Irving Berlin songs ) , the non-Marx actors are mostly charming ( Margaret Dumont is always great ; what a sport ! ) , and , well , I have always liked Chico's piano numbers . Most don't . However , the low point of The Cocoanuts is the harp number . It's shocking what a lull it is in the pacing . The only one of those I've liked so far is the one in A Day at the Races . .
Very amusing Mexican Bunuel !	Two streetcar conductors whose streetcar is set to be dismantled sneak into the station late one night to take it for one last spin . They spend all night and most of the next day having small adventured throughout Mexico City . Agustin Isunza is the film's standout as an old man , Papa Pinillos , who worked for the streetcar company most of his life . He was laid off a while back , but he does little with his time besides get on random streetcars to see if their drivers are competent . When he jumps on the 133 , he quickly realizes that it's stolen and he spends the rest of the film desperately trying to get the company to believe him . It's a fun movie and very charming . Not a necessary Bunuel film , but fans should certainly catch it . .
Don't F with Rambo !	I was surprised to find that I had never seen a moment of the first Rambo movie . I always thought I had seen bits , if not all , of the original three films . I guess I've seen bits of parts 2 and 3 , but not 1 . I was also surprised that First Blood was a really good movie , well made , well acted and with some kick-ass action . It's definitely in the mode of nastier , more depressing movies of the 1970s . It reminds me at times of Deliverance . The body count is actually pretty low , but the movie is extremely violent . Sylvester Stallone plays Vietnam vet John Rambo , a former Green Beret , now on the road looking for old friends , all of whom seem to be dead when he finally finds them . When passing through a small town , he is picked up by the sheriff , played by Brian Dennehy , and hassled for no good reason . Dennehy and the rest of his police force soon realize that they've screwed with the wrong man , as Stallone goes all Vietnam on their asses , escaping into the nearby forest and attacking all who follow . After causing some general havoc , the National Guard is called in . Also , Richard Crenna , Rambo's former commanding officer , shows up warning Dennehy that Rambo's gonna kill ' em all if they don't call it off .
Some rough spots , but overall a very good film	What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? has a lot of clunky spots . Even the acting is sometimes strained . Both Bette Davis and Joan Crawford have moments of extreme overacting , even though they are mostly great . The script also has some poor spots , especially the fate of the maid . Te final revelation is disappointing also and adds nothing to the film . That's especially poorly done . And one of the major flaws of the film is that the musical score is intrusive and often completely wrong for the film . However , most of the film is quite excellent . It overcomes its flaws quite well . As I've said , Crawford and Davis have plenty of good scenes . Victor Buono , who plays Edwin Flagg , a pianist whom Jane hires to work for her , is especially excellent . He has a couple of scenes that are just hilarious . The film itself contains more than half a dozen scenes that can be described as nothing but brilliant . Robert Aldrich's direction is amazing at times . The photography , by Ernest Haller , is beautiful and adds a horrific mood to the film . The film is very much worth seeing . If you liked it , may I suggest the other Robert Aldrich film I've seen , which is quite a ways above this , actually , Kiss Me Deadly . It's not the same - it's film noir . But the direction is similarly great . .
Overcomes its own weaker elements	I'm not entirely satisfied with this horror film , but it certainly has its moments . Actually , it is the horror aspect that doesn't work entirely . It comes off as too much like the recent strain of horror films from Japan like The Ring , and even like some American movies , like The Others and The Sixth Sense . In fact , in a lot of its most horrific moments , the direction is rather mediocre , relying on very cheap horror tricks like stings in the music . The rest of the film-making is really good , fortunately . The film really redeems itself in that final sequence , where the film sorts out its twists . It throws the shadow of an effective drama over the rest of the film . I'd love to see the story reconstructed with some of the weaker horror moments eliminated . Su-jeong Lim is brilliant in the film . And I love that maudlin theme music .
Fine film	Historical horror movie about General Idi Amin , the brutal Ugandan dictator of the 1970s . It's told through the eyes of a fictional person ( as far as I can tell ) , Nicholas Garrigan . In the film , he's a Scot who comes to Uganda as a doctor . Upon a chance meeting with the new President , Garrigan is taken to the country's capital to be his head physician . Garrigan is more or less in isolation . He's having a ball while the rest of the country is going to Hell . Amin treats him well , and by the time it becomes apparent that he's hardly the benevolent dictator he presents himself as , Garrigan can't get away . Perhaps it's disingenuous to create a fictional character in this situation , but Idi Amin himself is too much of a beast to focus the entire film on . It works better to make him the monster at the edge of the frame . I wouldn't say Whitaker gives the very best performance of 2006 , but he is excellent , and deserving of his eventual Oscar . It's not a great film , but I really liked it . It's scary and gripping from first to last .
An average documentary that excels because of an interesting subject	Not a particularly well done documentary ? the director doesn't get good enough footage to assemble a " complete " documentary , and it feels a little sloppy in the end . But Bar-Lev , whose second feature documentary this is , was lucky enough to chance upon an controversy that engages the audience nicely . I've certainly been thinking about it a lot for the past couple of days . The film is about a four year-old artist , Marla Olmstead , who took the art world by storm in 2005 with her amazingly sophisticated and beautiful abstract paintings . Marla's output produced a good $200 , 000 between ' 05 and ' 06 . Bar-Lev wanted to document this child prodigy , but in the middle of his time spent with the family , the infotainment show , just one of a host of television news shows that covered the story , broke the angle that Marla's father , an amateur painter himself , may have coached the girl . All Hell breaks loose , the parents become pariahs , and they look to Bar-Lev as a possible savior . Unfortunately for them , Bar-Lev , who all the time has been trying and failing to get film of Marla painting one of her " masterpieces " , is swayed by . It's a lot of fun to look at the evidence provided , to try to read the body language of the parents and try to read between the lines with them . You also have the issue about whether Marla herself was being exploited , which can raise a lot of debate . The film also works as an exploration of modern and abstract art . I myself am a fan of it , and I think there have been plenty of truly beautiful works of non-representational art . But , yeah , there are definitely paintings , some on display at an art auction going for millions of dollars in this film , where even I think the title of the documentary puts it perfectly . Most people are far less accepting than I . The film shows just how much the genre sticks in the craw of the general American public , and , in a sequence where the parents share a host of nasty e-mails with Bar-Lev , many seem just as angry that any of these paintings sold in the first place as they do that the paintings may be a sham . Even the segment angles itself as an attack on non-representational art . Also featured are clips of a John Stossel news documentary about abstract art that I remember seeing a while back that really got my goat and has literally been making me angry for years now . Like many documentaries , the film benefits greatly from its DVD extras , which include a 30 + minute followup ( which actually caused me to lose some sympathy for the parents ; I seemed to be one of the few people who watched this movie and sympathized with them ) , and a great 15 + minute defense of abstract art by New York Times art critic Michael Kimmelman .
Underrated noir / crime caper with a comic edge	John Cusack stars , and his performance is pretty much what you expect from him : quick-witted and cynical . But , as far as I'm concerned , as long as that's what the role calls for , he's always good . He plays a mob lawyer who has just stolen over $2 million from his boss ( Randy Quaid ) with the help of a strip club owner ( Billy Bob Thornton ) . For a good ways into the picture , I thought I was seeing one of the best films of last year . It does start to stumble after about the halfway point , but it still finishes pretty strong . All the actors are strong , but I have to give special kudos to Oliver Platt , who is always a delight . He plays a drunk friend of Cusack's who is now miserably married to Cusack's ex-wife . I don't normally praise drunk acts , but Platt is particularly believable ? and hilarious . This movie is a lot of fun and well worth seeing .
Holy Cow	This is no masterpiece , but it has a great distinction amongst the world of film . One can never go beyond this one in audacity . Never . If I described some of the stuff that you will only ever find here , this review would never be posted . They went so far a couple of times that I had to clap . Some of it is just so great . Besides its audacity , the two leads are very good . Even though the movie consists of very little besides the sex scenes ( and what little it does is not worth it ; the weakest part of the film is its script ) , the main characters are pretty complex . But if you're looking to see something which is erotic and beautiful , stay away and rent one of my all time favorites , Last Tango in Paris . In the Realm of the Senses is surely erotic , but it is not beautiful . It's main function is to disturb .
A battle of wits	I was a little wary of this one , but I was pleasantly surprised by it . It's much like another one of my favorite 2008 films , Frost / Nixon , which is also based on a play . Both are extremely well acted battles of wits . It's almost like watching a great wrestling match . The biggest muscles here belong to the venerable Meryl Streep , an actress who never ceases to surprise me . It's weird , because she's just given so many great performances . You don't think she'll be able to do anything new , but then she pops up here with a great character , one that doesn't really resemble anything else she's done . She's equally matched by Philip Seymour Hoffman , one of the finest actors of his generation . And I , for one , thought Amy Adams held her own against these two powerhouses . It helps that she's perfectly cast as the innocent , trusting nun . It fits her like a glove . And like everyone else who's reviewed the film , I'd give high praise to Viola Davis . It's pretty much a kind of one-scene-wonder performance , but it's certainly memorable . I have a couple of complaints that keep this film from the highest ranks of my year-end list . I thought Shanley's direction just plain sucked much of the time . Yeah , his script is brilliant , but he hasn't directed a film since 1990 ( and it was Joe Versus the Volcano ) , and it shows . He resorts to some extremely cheap tricks in order to distance the story from its stage-bound origins . He likes to tilt his camera , like he's making The Third Man , and it feels ridiculous . During the climactic sequence , Shanley inserts a thunderstorm that keeps growing until the scene hits its peak . Just cheap and unnecessary . As is the sequence demonstrating Hoffman's sermon about gossip . There's so much power in the simple confrontations between the characters , all these flourishes should just have been dropped . The film is going to be accused of being stagy in any case . Shanley should have just accepted that . I also wasn't quite sold on the final moment of the film . It feels out of character for Sister Aloysius ( Streep ) . I think I understood it , but it feels kind of false to me .
Very strange	SPOILERSI'm not exactly sure I get Fanny and Alexander . On the surface , it looks most like yet another dig , the ultimate dig , at the Protestantism with which Bergman was tortured as a child ( his father was a clergyman ) . But there're also some other things , or so it would seem . I really like all the scenes with the big , extended family and their servants , who are nearly equal to their employers . I don't know what Bergman's point is with this stuff , but it's excellent . Fanny and Alexander begins with this family's Christmas celebration . Soon afterwards , Alexander's father dies . A bishop consoles the mother and eventually proposes to her . When the family moves in with the bishop , they realize all to late that he is a cruel and evil man , a slavedriver whose punishments far exceed the crimes . This part of the film , which is probably the longest , is also the weakest . Edvard , the bishop , is so evil he's reminiscent of the emperor from Return of the Jedi , able to shoot bolts of lightning from his fingertips . I personally despise religion . It's the bane of the world , all religions . However , this wicked bishop seems far too easy . Other religious figures in Bergman films strike me as more interesting . For instance , Gunnar Bjornstrand's role in Winter Light . Finally the children and their mother escape from the bishop . The film's best scenes occur after the local moneylender ( played by the excellent Bergman regular Erland Josephson ) steals them away from Edvard . He brings them to his home , where he and his son Aaron make marionettes . All of these scenes are extremely frightening , especially when Alexander runs into the moneylender's other son , Ishmael , a hermaphroditic shut-in with supernatural powers . The final act brings the family back together ( and kills off Edvard and the rest of his family ) , but there is an enormously uneasy feeling about the whole situation . Like I said , I don't exactly understand this film . It's in need of a restoration and a DVD release , neither of which I think it'll get anytime soon . MGM owns it , and their business is in dire straits right now . I hope that they'll let Criterion buy it . I'd love to hear a full commentary on the film . Its level of difficulty would benefit from one . Right now I'm giving it an .
Very charming , very cute	This movie is really cute . Unfortunately , that adjective has a rather derogatory connotation , especially when referring to a work of art . I certainly don't mean it that way . Frankly , I could use a little delight of the sort The Girl with the Hat Box provided me . It's an utterly charming story about a young girl who makes hats . The comedy of errors is complicated , and is not worth telling in whole . Anna Sten stars in the lead . Does that name ring any bells ? Well , I didn't recognize the name , but I clicked on it and read up on her . Apparently Samuel Goldwyn brought her over to the United States ( surely based on her performance in Hat Box ) to be the next Garbo in the early 1930s . She starred in Nana ( Dorothy Arzner & George Fitzmaurice , 1934 ) , We Live Again ( Rouben Mamoulien , 1934 ; also starring Frederic March ) , and The Wedding Night ( King Vidor , 1935 , and she starred opposite Gary Cooper ) . All were enormous bombs , each more astronomical than the last . Afterwards , she appeared in several more Hollywood films in secondary roles . I really , really want to see any of her Hollywood films to see what her problem was . You'd never know there was one from The Girl with the Hat Box . She's gorgeous , charming , and very funny . The male lead is played , also delightfully , by Ivan Koval-Samborsky , who had a major role in 1926's Mother by Pudovkin . He plays a homeless student whom Sten at first pities and tries to help , but they soon find love in each other . The villains in the film are played by Serafima Birman and P . Paul . They are both exceptional . The latter doesn't seem to have any other film credits , but the former later played Efrosinia , Ivan the Terrible's aunt in Eisenstein's Ivan the Terrible movies . I didn't recognize her , as this was 18 years earlier . Plus , in Ivan she is always covered in huge robes . But you can recognize her from the nose .
Keep in mind - I liked this movie , but my criticisms are mostly negative because I expect more from Pixar	Good , but not at the level that I expect from Pixar . It's always fun , but it's often in danger of feeling slight . Besides the awesome setpiece of Remy , the gourmand rat , entering Gusteau's kitchen for the first time and the wonderful climax , there is little that is memorable . The characters are also pretty generic , except for food critic Anton Ego , voiced by Peter O'Toole , and Colette , voiced by an unrecognizable Jeneane Gorofolo . Remy is dull , as are a lot of cartoon heroes ( they're hardly ever the most memorable characters ) , and the other rats don't have enough screen time to make an impression . The villainous chef is a dull bad guy , and Luigi , the human who is helped by Remy , is never redeemed by the script . Even in the end , that character has taken advantage of Remy . He admits that to the other characters , but doesn't do much to make up for it . I would actually have ranked Disney's CGI film , Meet the Robinsons , above this , but the climax is so wonderful , and the aftermath so beautiful , that I ultimately felt very pleased , despite only being moderately so for the other 90 minutes .
Quite an entertaining piece of filmmaking	Airport was an enormous hit when it was first released in 1970 , the biggest blockbuster of its time . Today it's best known for being the basis for the spoof film Airplane ! . Heck , more people have probably seen Airplane II : the Sequel than have seen Airport , probably more than even know Airport exists . The film has become a joke , and that's unfortunate . It's no great masterpiece , it may not have deserved 10 Oscar nominations , it may not have deserved to make so much money and spawn several sequels , but it's certainly an engaging 140 minutes . The film mixes personal melodrama with a suspense film . There are a dozen or so characters and several big actors on the bill . Burt Lancaster and Dean Martin are the most immediately recognizable . Lancaster plays the manager of the airport , and he is quite good ( although he was better in umpteen other roles in his career ) . Dean Martin plays a pilot . Now , he probably wouldn't be my first pick to play an airplane pilot . Rumor has it that Dino has a bit of a drinking problem . But he is quite good in the role . Jean Seberg has a pretty thankless role as Lancaster's second in command . It's petty , but her hair is awful in this film . I didn't even recognize her until she put on a parka , when she began to look more like her Breathless days . Jacqueline Bisset plays Lancaster's whiny wife . She's got to be one of the least understanding spouses in cinema history . Helen Hayes plays an old woman who is able to make her way around the country by stowing away in planes . She's sure that they won't bust her - no airline wants that kind of bad publicity . The film was nominated for 10 Academy Awards , and she was its only winner , for Best Supporting Actress . The film probably deserved any of the other awards before it deserved that one - she's annoying . Perhaps people found her funny in 1970 , but I was quite hoping that she would get her butt sucked out of the plane . Airport definitely suffers from some major dating , which is why hardly anyone ever mentions it anymore unless as a camp reference . Dino has knocked up a stewardess , and they have a cheesy ( but not unaffecting ) dialogue about what they should do . The film never does resolve the fact that he loves both his wife and his mistress . In his first scene in the film , Dino's dropped off at the airport by his wife who tells Lancaster confidently : " Some day he'll come home and find a reason to stay . " And it seems like he loves her back . But the end leaves us with little doubt as to whether he'll stay with the stewardess ( and be father to her child ) . A lot of the personal melodramatics seem too abundant , especially the stuff between Lancaster and Bisset . Fortunately , the suspense is much more successful . Some people may scoff at the use of split screen and similar techniques that are used to depict two separate settings , such as the cockpit and the control station . Sometimes the head of the control tower will appear in between Dino and the other pilot in a little bubble with a thick , black outline - it almost looks like the little squares in which the members of the Brady family appear at the beginning of each episode of the Brady Bunch . However , that technique works quite well . I think , if anything , the film may have deserved an Oscar for Best Editing ( I don't even know offhand if that was one of the categories in which it was nominated - nor do I know what other films were up against it in that category , although I assume MASH was , which would be an even more deserving nominee ) . .
Pretty awesome !	Having been very disappointed in King Hu's most famous film , A Touch of Zen , I was actually eager to see one of his other supposed masterpieces . I wanted to see if the guy just didn't work for me or what . Fortunately , his earlier film , Come Drink with Me , made for Shaw Brothers , impressed me a lot . I would still complain about the choppy editing during the kung fu sequences , which not only makes it difficult to understand what's going on , but also makes the martial arts magic less believable . But while there are a few brief scenes where I thought the editing was weak in such a way , there are three extended action sequences that are eye-popping and heart-stopping . Cheng Pei-Pei , best known now for her latter-day role in Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , plays a powerful kung fu student trying to rescue her brother , who has been kidnapped by a gang of dissidents , led by the chalk-faced Hung Lieh Chen . He's one of the all-time great bad guys , and I love his cohorts , as well . The film is full of fantastic character design . Cheng teams up with Hua Yueh , a drunken beggar who is secretly a kung fu master . What really comes through is Hu's supreme visual sense . It definitely made me more interested in the man's works , and even in revisiting A Touch of Zen .
Way better than you're probably thinking it is	Wow , this is surprisingly excellent . I mean , it's crap , but it's good crap , and that's worth a lot . The premise is basically Speed meets D . O . A . ( the 1950 movie starring Edward O'Brien ) . Jason Statham ( of the Transporter movies ) is a hit-man who has a lethal Chinese poison coursing through his veins . If he slows down , if his adrenaline level drops , he drops dead . In his last moments , he rushes to find his killer and others responsible , snatching as many energy drinks and drugs as he can get his hands on along the way . This is some fun stuff , and hilarious , too . The editing is the MTV-style of many modern action movies , so avoid it if you can't stand that . I hope the directors , who also wrote the script , succeed even more so in the future .
Excellent , complex character study	Pre-op transsexual Bree Osbourne discovers that her one heterosexual experience produced a son , who is now in trouble . She must help him before she gets her operation , and the two end up traveling together from New York City to L . A . This film certainly has some major flaws . It's structured as a road movie , and it comes with a whole load of genre clichés . Also , the son character is at times too stupid to believe . It should become pretty obvious that Bree is his father . We should at least see him considering this possibility . He's 17 and has experienced a lot of nastiness , but he seems utterly naïve to the ways of the world ( he still has fantasies that his father lives in a mansion , for instance ) . Even with some major flaws , though , I found Transamerica quite good and very touching . The character of Bree is beautifully written . She's both believable and complex , and Felicity Huffman , who , to this point , has done most of her best work on television , really sinks her teeth into the role . I was always convinced that I was watching a transgendered person , always watching Bree Osbourne . It's an amazing performance , and one of the most justifiable Oscar nominations of last year ( it would be a toss up , if I were voting , between Huffman and Keira Knightley ? the other nominees don't come close ) . Whenever Bree is the focus of the film ? which is the vast majority of the time ? it is exceptional . Whenever she isn't , well , it ain't bad , but I was always wishing that they'd get back to Bree . The strongest portion of the film is when she has to encounter her parents and sister again for the first time in ages . While I can wish all day that the film had been better , I can also be plenty thankful for all the great moments that it provides .
Excellent Film Version .	Hamlet may be the single greatest piece of English literature ever written . This modernized version of it proves that . It also proves that a modernization of a classic play is not at all a bad idea . Romeo + Juliette was just undone by overdoing and poor acting . This Hamlet is very well performed . It actually proved to me the acting talent of two whom I had considered under-average previously , Julia Styles and Ethan Hawke . Both are very effective . Also effective is Bill Murray as Polonius . The only actor who fails is Karl Geary as Horatio . He made a great character seem rather impotent . His accent makes his iambic pentameter difficult to understand . The only other problem the production has in general is the copious amounts of product placement . Marlboro cigarettes , Pepsi , and , in the most painful instance , Blockbuster Video make appearances . Hamlet speaks his " to be or not to be " speech at Blockbuster , which is , if you know the play , a contemplation over suicide . If there's anywhere that makes me want to commit suicide , it is Blockbuster video , so I guess it fits in all right .
Hey , a Buñuel film that I actually like !	Written on August 30th , upon my first viewing : I'm not saying that I love it , though . It's infinitely more watchable than the other two Buñuel " masterpieces " that I've seen , the execrably boring The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeosie and the somewhat lame Belle de Jour . I have been told time and time again to go back to his early stuff , that I'd be much more likely to enjoy those films . And those who pushed me were right . Of course , when I sat down to watch it , I didn't have the highest hopes . Immediately , I began to nitpick . " What is that supposed to mean ? ! ? ! " " What the heck is going on ! ? ! ? " My favorite three letters became , throughout the first half hour of this film , WT & F . But , as much as its narrative ( or anti-narrative ) was annoying me , its technical aspects were very much delighting me . The cinematography is quite good , the editing is fabulous and unique , and the use of sound is simply fantastic . Eventually , I just decided that the narrative wasn't supposed to make much sense and that Buñuel's purpose was anything but a storyteller . He was after the absurdist image and the absurdist mood . After that , I had a lot more fun and enjoyed it quite a bit . All good film watchers have to eventually train themselves away from depending on narrative . I'd still not call it a masterpiece , or even a great film , but it was very interesting and quite entertaining . I give it an . However , I do plan to rewatch it , since it is short and I do have it for another four days . Perhaps , now that I can watch it entirely prepared from the very beginning , I will raise that score . Upon watching it the next day : Nope , sorry . I didn't get anything new the second time ' round . I still liked it as much , which is a huge compliment , but I certainly didn't like it more .
Not at Pixar's level , but fun nonetheless ; the " Bowler Hat Guy " rules , though	I got to see the new Disney film in 3D , so I can't say whether it plays a lot worse without it . It certainly is a lot of fun in 3D , though ( but then , if you've seen 3D movies before , it's pretty much the same as it always has been ) . The story here is slight and somewhat nonsensical , but it moves so quickly that you don't have any time to notice . The visuals are eye-popping and everything looks like candy . And it's genuinely amusing . The villain , known as the Bowler Hat Guy , is one of the funniest characters to appear in any Disney film . In the distant future , I can imagine that he could be all that's remembered about this film , accompanied by his robotic bowler hat and pet t-rex ( the gag in the commercials where the dinosaur can't grab the protagonist is what sold me on this movie ) . It's also nice to see that Disney didn't pack the film with movie stars . Angela Bassett is the biggest name ( and you've got to wonder why they bothered to hire a big name at all for the small role she plays ) , with the next biggest being Laurie Metcalf ( you'll remember her for playing Roseanne's sister on the sitcom , um , Roseanne ) . Oh , and Adam West , Harland Williams , Tom " Songebob Squarepants " Kenny and Tom Selleck have small parts . A fun time .
Quite good	A man ( Ken Ogata ) is saddled with his three illegitimate children when his mistress skips town . This more than annoys his actual wife ( Shima Iwashita ) , who knew nothing about it and is herself childless . Ogata attempts to care for the children , but he just isn't up to it . For a while , I was expecting an Ozu-esquire domestic drama about a man and his wife who eventually come to love these children and learn responsibility . Oh , how wrong I was . I should have known that the title had something to do with the content . After thirty minutes or so the film's tone shifts as the husband and wife make plans to get rid of their unwanted bundles of joy . This is a very dark film , done very subtly . It strikes me as something Vittorio de Sica could have made perfectly . The last sequence reminds me very much of The Children Are Watching Us . As it is , The Demon is not a perfect picture . It goes on a bit too long . You can't do much besides hate the married couple , and it's just so difficult to build honest suspense around endangered children . Ogata , best known as being the star of Shohei Imamura's Vengeance Is Mine , which was made the next year , is exceptional . He goes through a range of emotions in the picture , all perfectly and subtly expressed . He is probably the titular character , but that title is ironic . He is demonic in his intentions , but he is clearly a human being . A couple of third act speeches , especially one he gives about his own past , harms the film a lot , unfortunately . Shima Iwashita is also great , although she doesn't get any chance to seem human ( she's much closer to being a demon ) . In the past she starred in two movies by Ozu ( Late Autumn and An Autumn Afternoon ) , as well as Shinoda's Double Suicide , Kobayashi's Harakiri , and Okamoto's Red Lion . I also love the musical score , though it is often used cheaply to toy with the audience's emotions . The film wins extra points by mentioning Gatchaman , one of my favorite TV series ever ( that I just found on DVD ! ) .
Very Funny , but has one major problem	And that would be that it exhausts its funniest jokes in the first half ( before it goes on to that weird but great " Middle of the Film " section ) . Everything from the short film to the British officers during the First Zulu War is gold , but after the halfway point , it is all silver . Not that that silver isn't good , it just feels week compared to the perfection of the first half .
Quite good ;	The Coen Brothers have their place in the cinematic lexicon . They're the clever jokesters of the movies and have given us many great movies . However , I really wish they would evolve . Sure , their films are a lot of fun , but they generally end up as nothing more than an entertaining joke . Only two of their films , in my opinion , achieve anything more , Barton Fink and Fargo , but even they only walk a few steps past that line . The Man Who Wasn't There for a long time suggests that it might end up being the best Coen Brothers movie . It seems to have depth past the cynical parodies and absurdities . Unfortunately , after about one third of the film has past , it loses focus and runs towards easy jokes and cutesy quirks as if it were a burly man who almost revealed something about himself after a night of heavy drinking . In particular , the UFO subplot really should have been cut . And they didn't need the young pianist's seduction near the end . It felt forced . Sure , what results in the film is very entertaining , but it felt like something profound was about to be revealed . The film is a quality product , as you would expect . Billy Bob Thornton is great . He gave two of the best performances of 2001 , the second in Monster's Ball . His character is interesting , but that is one of the major areas that the script pulled back on before it could say enough to make it fascinating . Francis MacDormand is great , but she has far too little screentime . The Brothers obviously wanted to focus on Thornton , but it should have centered less on him than his relationship with his wife . A flashback nearer the end of the film hinted at that depth once again , but it was not pursued . I haven't said too much good about the film , though I've already scored it in my summary . Truth be told , The Man Who Wasn't There is an enormously entertaining and funny film . It contains some of the Coen Brothers ' subtlest humor . It helps to be a classic Hollywood lover , especially of film noirs . The name of the store , for instance , Nirdlinger's , is a reference to Double Indemnity . It's also worth seeing for some excellent black and white cinematography . It's always been obvious that the Brothers have wanted to make a film in B & W , and here it is . It is a glorious achievement in that particular aspect of the art of filmmaking .
Much better than I had expected	As an avid fan of the original Planet of the Apes , I had always avoided the sequels ( though unfortunately not the remake ) , thinking they'd be so cheesy that they would harm the greatness of the original . I finally got around to the first sequel , Beneath the Planet of the Apes , and , frankly , I'm surprised at how good it is . I'm a big fan of corny ' 70s sci-fi anyway , and Beneath is certainly cheaper and goofier than the original . But its themes and ideas are surprisingly intelligent , and it creates suspense and excitement very well . It also expands the mythology of its universe , which is always a positive to geeks like myself . I'd say the only big faults are the much smaller budget , which causes the ape makeup to appear much less convincing than it originally was , and the casting of a Charlton Heston impersonator to play the lead . The story is that James Franciscus is another astronaut looking for Heston and his crew . And since he eventually does find Heston , I don't understand why they wanted someone who looked so much like their original star .
Ambitious , uneven , but overall excellent Bollywood melodrama	Nargis stars as a suffering woman , Radha , experiencing tragedy after tragedy , surviving it all . The first half of the film doesn't promise anything overly special . A poor community falls under the weight of a moneylender , Sukhilala . When Radha marries , her mother-in-law mortgages her farm to pay for the wedding and Radha's jewlery . Since the mother-in-law has no education whatsoever , Sukhilala , probably the only educated man in the village , is able to take advantage of her . When she challenges Sukhilala's claim , she can't do much to disprove their deal . This part of the story is pretty cliché , rather predictable and very questionable . Sukhilala is a fairly standard villain , very cartoonish and simplistic . The audience is programmed to hiss at his every appearance . The conflict is compelling , but I was hoping for something more complex . It is nice , I suppose , to see the system challenged , but the fact that the system is challenged does not necessarily mean that the film challenges the system in an insightful manner . In reality , the film's solutions to the problems are all melodramatics . Luckily , something else is brewing in the film at this point . Radha has two sons , Ramu and Birju . The story starts to focus in on Birju , who is very obnoxious . His mother loves him dearly , spoils him , and he becomes simply evil . I should say at this point that the little kid who plays him as a child , Master Sajid , is very , very annoying , not to mention a terrible little actor . As an adult , Birju is a devil . Sukhilala still runs the place , and now Birju is big enough to do something about it . Thankfully , Birju is not made a hero . Well , perhaps an anti-hero , but at least we're spared him becoming an Indian Robin Hood as I expected . Complexities begin to develop in the way Sukhilala is depicted , and , while he's still the villain , the audience is no longer programmed to despise him on site . Radha has to both protect her son and stand up for what is right . The climax is so extremely impressive that I was almost convinced that the film was great . Yet the film is not what I would call great as a whole . There were dozens of scenes that I loved , but , as the film goes on for three hours , there was plenty to dislike , as well . The fat and gristle detract . Did I mention there are great songs ? Great indeed ! I love Hindi music myself . The cinematography is also often exceptional . .
I didn't like it as much as most do , but it's quite good	An original entry into the vampire genre from Sweden . The film is about a 12 year-old boy , Oskar , who suffers the brutality of bullies at school every day . He has no friends until one day he meets a strange girl who has just moved into his building . Her name is Eli , and she is a vampire . Much of the film is made up of the two kids bonding . They are both very interesting characters , and I've seen very few movies about tweens that understand their psychology quite as well as this one does . Unfortunately , whenever the film wanders from the intimacy between Eli and Oskar , it stumbles . While sating her hunger , Eli causes a huge mess with a group of boneheads at the edge of town . These characters exist solely to move the plot along ( otherwise , frankly , the film wouldn't have one ) . At one point , a woman from this group becomes a vampire after Eli bites her . When she is exposed to sunlight , she bursts into flames . This doesn't seem to effect anyone else in the town save her husband . This whole subplot is just weird and underdeveloped , and drags the film down significantly .
This short can now be found on the new Winstar DVD of Goodbye , Dragon Inn	Perhaps this is best described as a curio . It's an addendum to What Time Is It There ? , Tsai's previous feature . The girl in that film ( Shiang-chyi Chen ) has returned to Taipei from Paris ( with no indication of how long she's been gone or how long she's been back ) , and she is searching for the man who sold her a watch on a skywalk ( Kang-sheng Lee ) . But , as the title states , the skywalk is gone . She never finds Lee , but Tsai eventually turns his focus to him . He lost his job because there is no more skywalk ( though , as I recall , though I haven't seen it in a couple of years , that the suitcase full of watches was stolen by a hooker ) . Now he is reduced to prostituting himself to men ( or starring in porn videos made for gay men ) . The film has little reason to exist , but any Tsai , I think , is worth watching . At 25 minutes , this short contains about five times as much dialogue as Goodbye , Dragon Inn .
Powerful and well written , despite some classic bits of Haggis ham	Paul Haggis ' followup to his Best Picture winning Crash is certainly a bit of an improvement . I'm not a Crash hater , but I'm the first to admit it's far too heavy-handed and sloppy to be considered to be a great movie . And honestly , at its worst , you can feel that old Haggis hackery popping up in Elah more than a few times , most notably in that final shot , which is the worst final shot of a film since John Sayles ' Silver City . I also have to giggle at the lame Biblical allegory from which the film gets its title ( Elah was the valley in which David fought Goliath ) , which , try as I might , I cannot get to fit any possible scenario in the film's story . For the most part , though , In the Valley of Elah is an intriguing mystery and a powerful story . Tommy Lee Jones plays a Vietnam vet whose son has gone AWOL . He drives two days to the Army base in hopes of quelling the situation before it gets any worse . Unfortunately , the reason his son is AWOL is because he has been murdered , which is discovered shortly after Jones arrives . Both the military police and the local police ( led by Jason Patrick and Charlize Theron respectively ) are on the case , but Jones , himself a former MP , decides to do his own detective work . The mystery is well crafted by Haggis and his co-screenwriter , Mark Boal . It is true that , after parts of the mystery are revealed , some parts that you learned earlier don't make much sense . But that's pretty common in mysteries in general , and I didn't feel like Haggis had cheated , although it's entirely possible he's just kind of stupid . There are several very moving moments in the film . Susan Sarandon plays Jones ' wife , and , while I usually dislike her as an actress , she brought me to tears in the scene where she learns of her son's death . Jones ' performance was nominated for an Oscar , and it's well deserved ( although I would have rather seen him get one for No Country for Old Men , where he was even better ) . I like how Haggis makes him rather unsympathetic at times . Theron is also very good .
Surprisingly Good .	First off , I love Wings of Desire . It is surely one of my ten favorite movies . But , contrary to my expectations , City of Angels did not offend my sensibilities at all . In fact , I rather enjoyed it . Even though it was based on one of the best movies ever made , it has some original ideas of its own . I really love what we're left with . The last scene is especially affecting . It also contains one of Nick Cage's best performances and , as far as I've ever seen , Meg Ryan's very best . Dennis Franz , however , is a poor excuse for Peter Faulk . Please , if you have seen Wings of Desire , don't ignore this film for that reason . See City of Angels and try not to compare it with its originator .
Quite good Fassbinder	Good , nearly great Fassbinder about an adult woman who passes from the care of her controlling parents to the even tighter control of a bizarre husband . Margit Carstensen plays the woman and Karlheinz Böhm ( whom you probably remember as the protagonist of Michael Powell's Peeping Tom ) the husband . This is one of Fassbinder's better films . Jonathan Rosenbaum , who doesn't seem to be much of a Fassbinder enthusiast , cites it as his very favorite . It would rank as one of my favorites , too , but for a couple of reasons . It kind of makes its point fairly early on , especially after the marriage takes place . Then it gets a tad repetitive , and goes on for nearly two hours . The next year , Fassbinder made an even better film dealing with similar themes called Fear of Fear , which also starred Margit Carstensen . Carstensen's performance is exceptional in Martha ( and just as good in Fear of Fear ) , and Böhm is quite good , too .
Excellent	Not one of Ford's best works as a director , but it's an excellent film nonetheless . It's one of the best biopics I've ever seen . The subject is Frank " Spig " Wead , a Navy man through and through who , despite all his success in the service , was never able to make much of a connection with his wife and daughters . It was a very personal story for John Ford , who was a good friend of Wead's . Wead was the screenwriter on Ford's excellent They Were Expendable ( and also Air Mail , which I haven't seen ) . The film concentrates on the man and his relationships . John Wayne gives a downright excellent performance as Wead . Maureen O'Hara is back as his love interest , and their interactions here are marvelous . Also giving excellent performances are Ken Curtis ( maybe his best role in a Ford film ) , Dan Dailey , and Ward Bond as the first movie producer who hires Wead . Bond's performance is in loving imitation of John Ford . The Wings of Eagles is a very touching tribute to a friend . The only problem is that it is such a personal story to Ford that the most interesting part , the relationship with the wife and kids , is not treated fully in order to make Wead look better than he probably did in real life . .
Ledger's Joker makes this a lot better than it probably would otherwise be	The sequel to Christopher Nolan's much ballyhooed Batman Begins , a film which frankly I disliked . It spent way too long on Batman's well-known backstory , brought in two of the worst villains from Batman's gallery of rogues , and edited together so choppily that it gave me a headache . The Dark Knight has won even better reviews and already scored a fanbase so rabid that it's hard to tolerate . No movie deserves that , of course , but we can't hold it against the film itself . No , it's nowhere near good enough to be called the best movie ever made . It's nowhere near the best movie released so far in 2008 . It is , however , a marked improvement over Batman Begins , even while having some of the same flaws . Its editing is frequently poor , too . It has improved somewhat , but there were still some action sequences , most notably Batman's first appearance , that were difficult to follow . The biggest hole in the movie , in fact in every Batman movie so far , is Batman himself . I can't offer any advice myself on how to fix the problem , but Batman / Bruce Wayne is the dullest character . They try to inject some substance with Wayne's struggles with his own vigilantism and the way in which he keeps the cycle of criminality in revolution , but , in my opinion , it's rarely interesting . Christian Bale is a mediocre actor , and he brings nothing to the table . And the deep voice he uses as Batman is extremely grating and ridiculous . Add to that that the costume design of the current Batman makes him look like a linebacker . He just doesn't seem streamlined enough to be able to pull off any complicated martial arts moves . Of course , as you've no doubt heard , all eyes watching The Dark Knight are looking at Heath Ledger , who plays the Joker . The Joker is easily the best of Batman's villains , and Ledger has created the definitive Joker in this movie . I hate to say it , but Jack Nicholson's performance in Tim Burton's Batman is bound to be forgotten . The script overall is quite good , despite a clunky scene or two . It creates a fuller view of Gotham City and its strata of criminals and official corruption . And I love how it fits the Joker into this all , an " engine of chaos " , as he describes himself , wanting to upset the good guys and the bad guys alike until nothing is left but total anarchy . The Dark Knight veers into the horror genre at times , and does so effectively . As for the rest of the cast , Aaron Eckhart is quite good as Harvey Dent . Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman are both as good as they were in the first film , in which I thought they gave by far the best performances . Maggie Gyllenhaal replaces Katie Holmes as Rachel Dawes , but unfortunately she doesn't improve this already undercooked role . Nolan's direction is fine , but I still think he's far better suited to the mystery puzzle films he's done besides the Batman flicks . I think any moderately good director could have made it .
One of the better American films to be released in 2005	I hate sports movies , but I found this one exceptionally well done . Kudos to Bill Paxton on his sophomore effort and his second good film , after the flawed but unforgettable Frailty . The Greatest Game Ever Played doesn't offer any surprises plotwise , but the level of acting and the depth that Paxton finds in the material certainly is surprising . Shia LaBeouf plays a working-class young man who is great at golf , and ends up playing against , and doing well against pros in the US Open . The film uses the class issues that come with the game of golf to add a lot of nuance . Paxton's direction and the editing during the Open ( which lasts most of the movie ) are excellent , and it is certainly one of the most gripping sports movies I've ever seen . LaBeouf is exceptional , as are many of the supporting performances . The performance that's getting all the press for the film is from Josh Flitter , a 10 year-old who plays LaBeouf's caddy . Yeah , he's cute and funny , and the energy he adds is probably needed for a lot of the audience . But , to me , he seemed pretty obviously there just to be cute , and just to keep a segment of the audience from getting bored . If not for the utterly cliché and pointless my - father - doesn't - approve - of - me subplot , this film would be one of the best of the year . As it is , if it had had a little more press , it would have been a sure-shot for the Seabiscuit slot in the Best Picture category .
Familiar , but well done dramedy featuring some stellar performances	An indie comedy about a quirky family of self-hating misfits . We've seen this before , am I right ? Well , so what , I say . When it's done well , I don't care too much whether the concept has been done before . And Smart People is done quite well . Dennis Quaid stars as a college professor and widower who hasn't been out with a woman since his wife died an unspecified ( but long ) amount of time ago . He lives alone with his daughter ( Ellen Page ) . He has a son who goes to the same college at which he teaches and an adopted brother ( Thomas Haden Church ) who likes to mooch off of him . After an accident , Church moves in with Quaid and Page . Quaid also meets a former student ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) , now a doctor , who had a crush on him . They start to date . The plot isn't anything special , but the dialogue is witty and the relationships are well observed . And this is also a case of fine actors who make something merely serviceable into something special . Quaid has never been better . My feeling about his work as an actor is that he is very uneven . He can be excellent , such as in The Right Stuff , but usually he's adequate , and often , perhaps too often , he's awful . But this is definitely one of the excellent performances . Church has kind of a sitcommy role , but that's fitting for an actor who was really good in sitcoms . He's hilarious here , too . A lot of the time , I was thinking of the movie as somewhat akin to a sitcom , but a good sitcom . There have been such things , you know . Page , fresh off her star-making turn as Juno ( though Smart People was filmed earlier ) , is an actress I've liked in a couple of movies I disliked ( Juno and Hard Candy ) . Finally , a movie with her that I actually like ! Feels good . And she's great in it . The character is similar to Juno , but not quite so despicably precious . I like how the writer and director invite the audience to dislike all four of the major characters , at least a bit . They are recognizable people , which is , unfortunately , a rarity in movies . I liked the movie , and recommend it .
Disgusting , depraved and endlessly inventive	Wowza ! Along the lines of Evil Dead and Dead Alive , this splatterfest is sure to be a cult classic . Eihi Shiina , famous for playing the crazy girl in Takashi Miike's Audition , stars as a member of Tokyo's police force . Her specialty is hunting " engineers " , genetically modified humans who can reconstitute their flesh wounds as weapons . I think 90 % of this film's budget was spent on red Kool-Ade and fire hoses . Every severed limb produces approximately 30 gallons of fake blood . A movie like this can easily become repetitive and thus boring , but the true worth of Tokyo Gore Police comes from its endless inventiveness . Yoshihiro Nishimura , who has spent his career up to now as a makeup artist , keeps upping the ante , showing us some horrible new thing we've never seen previously in every sequence . It's all extraordinarily disgusting and depraved , but it's the best film of this type I've seen in a while .
Great , but certainly no masterpiece	I am shocked at the great reception American Beauty has gotten on the IMDB . # 2 , only behind the Godfather ! ? ! ? Come on ! It was great , to be sure , but all of the film's sentiments have been expressed before , and better . The decaying family relationships were stated in the better film The Ice Storm . The idea that even in terrible situations , life is still beautiful was brilliantly shown in ( what else ! ) Life is Beautiful ! The one thing that the film did succeed in doing extremely well is the composition of shots . Watch the scene where the neighbor boy records Thora Burch with his video camera . We see the boy on the far left of the screen , staring at her offscreen . Burch stares out at the audience from the television . That is one perfect shot ! There are several great scenes like this . The part of the film which truly bothered me , though , was the way they handled the inevitable shooting . Throughout the film , we watch every important character talk about killing Spacey , and we see them all next to guns . This set up reminded me of the " Who Shot Mr . Burns " episode of the Simpsons . I don't know about the rest of you , but I thought it was rather obvious who the killer was going to be . I think Mendes put way too much emphasis on the murder which he set up at the beginning ( and by the way , did he have to tell us all this at the beginning in the first place ? ) . No one could have screwed up the amazing payoff at the end of the film though . i believe the main reason this film touched so many people must be the last scene . It is truly remarkable to behold !
Wonderful 1930s comedy	I watched Six of a Kind for W . C . Fields - he's only in it for around 10 minutes and has one long scene , the infamous pool sequence he made famous in vaudeville , and several other great moments . The reamaining 55 minutes are also delightful , thankfully , mostly due to the hilarious Charlie Ruggles as the bumbling banker J . Pinkham Whinney . He is everyone's foil . He stutters and stumbles about to our pleasure . Also , his comedy partner , Mary Boland plays his wife , Flora . Joining in the proceedings are George Burns and Gracie Allen . Boland is particularly funny near the beginning and near the end , but Gracie and Ruggles use up most of the picture . Gracie's funny , quite , but she can also get tiring . And poor George Burns has absolutely nothing to do except repeat Gracie all the time . I don't remember laughing at him once ( although he has one great scene with Ruggles , where Ruggles tries desperately to get George to take Gracie and leave him and his wife alone for a while , and one with Fields , where he asks Fields to sell him a sweater ; that bit is exclusively Fields ' , though ) . The situation is constantly funny : the Whinneys are going to drive to California , but to help them with expenses , George and Gracie are recruited . .
Great premise reduced to a pretty good action flick .	When I first saw Total Recall , only a bit over a year ago , I thought it was a fun action flick and nothing more . I remember being a bit disappointed at it . The scene where Edgecomb enters Quaid's hotel room and tells him that he is trapped in his own mind made me think how much better the film could have been if the writers had tried to make the audience think that maybe the whole movie ( after Quaid visits Rekall ) was just an accident in the memory implant . Well , after watching the film twice in one week , I have discovered some things . The writers did try to make the film ambiguous . There are two huge clues to this fact right before Quaid is knocked out in the Rekall lab : 1 . the picture on the screen is obviously Melina . 2 . One of the technicians says , right before Quaid falls asleep : " Blue skies on Mars . That's new . " ( the second chapter to the end of the DVD is titled " Blue Skies on Mars ) . So there we are . The story is ambiguous . Or is it ? Very few people have even noticed this . I'm sure there are plenty of fans of the film who would violently argue that most of the film takes place in Quaid's head . These people should take the next step . There are huge problems with the last two acts of the film if it is just a dream . The biggest problem , the one which makes the whole dream theory fall utterly apart , is that at least a third of the scenes after Quaid is sedated take place without him on screen . One cannot dream without being present at the events which are unfolding . I also think the writers were confused about the whole backstory . Hauser , is he supposed to be a good guy or a bad guy ? Most people will pick up that we're supposed to think he is a good guy at the beginning , then near the end of the film he is revealed to have been involved in the whole plot against Kuato . It seemed like a really good plot twist the first time I saw it , and it felt like a kick in the stomach . The last time I watched it though , there is an interesting scene where Richter and Cohegan talk . Cohegan seems very frightened that Quaid might reveal the secrets he has found . He then tells Richter that he has a plan to capture him , and says , " I have a plan , if you're willing to play along . " The plan he is talking about has to be the creation of Hauser as a bad guy who was only turned to Quaid so he could infiltrate the mutant rebellion . We can also see that Hauser was a rebel sympathizer earlier when Richter complains to his companions ( not to Quaid ) , " We should have killed Quaid on Mars . " Why would he say this unless Hauser had actually been an enemy before ? If one thinks this back story out , it makes no sense whatsoever ( notice that Benny infiltrated the mutant headquarters without any complex plot , thus they didn't really need Hauser to get to Kuato ) . Cohegan could have easily created a video with a fake Hauser ( just as Quaid appeared as a fake fat woman ) . He could have easily implanted a fake memory in Quaid to make him believe that he had always been Hauser . The writers must have been confusing each other , though , because it seems that near the end they completely forgot that Hauser's evil persona was false . Cohegan persists in saying that he wants the old Hauser back . This makes no sense with what has come before . The consensus : great premise that failed because of the screenwriters . It turns out to be just a fun action movie . The only thing the film did completely right : the Tri-Breasted Hooker and the Midget Hooker . I think they should get their own television series .
Should have cut back on the non-monster stuff , but otherwise excellent	It's been a long time since they made a really good monster movie , one that's lean and fun and scary . Maybe it's just because I saw it for the first time in a while last week ( and on the big screen no less ) , but Spielberg's Jaws strikes me as just about the perfect film of that sort . Much of The Host seems like it could come pretty close to Jaws . Unfortunately , while it is fun and scary , it can't in any way be called lean . When The Host is focusing on the monster , or the people hunting the monster , it's just plain awesome . The monster is original , cool-looking , scary , and it acts like an animal . Bong Joon-Ho's direction in these sequences is very close to being as good as Spielberg's . The one big complaint I would have with the monster is that there is little suspense built up to the revelation ? there's a backstory ( that frankly should have been scrapped , for both time and utter stupidity , not to mention pointless anti-Americanism ? even if it is arguably a joke ) , but only a couple of minutes into the main story it appears and starts wreaking havoc . But , my lord , that scene where the monster is running up and down the park chasing people is one of the all-time great sequences of horror . It made me giddy , while I gritted my teeth at the same time . The big problem with the film is that , whenever it wanders away from the monster , it gets fairly weak . I liked some of the quirky family comedy ( the plot is basically as follows : a father is after his daughter , who was eaten by the beast but later regurgitated alive ; with him are his own father , his brother and his sister , but they are hunted by the government who thinks they're diseased ) , but there are too many scenes where the four adult family members are standing around shouting at each other or at the bureaucratic doctors who keep them imprisoned . It gets incredibly obnoxious at times . In short , it's reminiscent of Little Miss Sunshine in its worst moments ( they even ride around in a van together ) . The worst part of the film is the whole satire / criticism of South Korean government , law-enforcement , bureaucracy , and the big-bad Americans , who are of course behind the whole thing . Much like Bong's last film , Memories of a Murder , figures of authority are nothing but idiotic goofballs who want nothing more than to screw the common man over . Where the cops in Memories of a Murder miss out on solving the case , the people whom you'd think would be trying to get the monster don't even seem to be looking for him . After all , it'd be easy to find , as the four heroes of the pic find it numerous times using very simple logic . Instead , they are more worried about quarantining everyone who came in contact with the beast the first time it appeared , without any proof , or even reason to believe they might be infected with anything . After the heroes escape from the quarantine , they have a fight with the monster , which several military guys with machine guns witness . But they only pull out their guns after the monster leaves . Maybe Bong was hinting at some Alien-like plot line , but he never attempts to give us any idea what anybody is thinking about the situation outside the family members . Another sequence has the younger brother escape from about fifty cops after they get locked behind a glass door and some huge glass widows , which any of them could have kicked through . There's also this whole thing with " Agent Yellow " , a noxious gas that's supposed to kill the virus or something , and people are protesting it , but Bong never lets the audience into what that's all about . I say , if you're going to keep us in the dark , just drop it all together . There's just so much Bong could have cut back on . I realize he wanted to make it more than just a monster movie , but unfortunately he isn't nearly as talented in other departments as he is in that one . Whatever my complaints , though , I did enjoy the film and it's easily the best 2007 release I've seen so far . P . S . I hadn't had a chance to read up on the film before I wrote this review , so I completely missed that the prologue was based on a true story . Read the IMDb trivia section for further details . Of course that means I am wrong in some of my sentiments above , but I'll let my review stand as my initial reaction .
Conflicted , but it works	I am usually one who has little problem deciding how I feel about a movie . Carrie is a rare movie that completely conflicts me . A good half of the movie I found excellent . The other half I found execrable . I was highly suspicious right from the second scene , where the camera pans through a high school girls ' locker room in slow motion , and no detail is spared . Okay , so none of the girls in the film were under 25 , but that doesn't take away from the fact that they're supposed to be 18 and under and we can see their naked breasts and even pubic hair . This is very bothersome . And then we find the source of the title character's problems : her religious zealot of a mother , played by Piper Laurie . This role is so poorly written , and so poorly performed that it veers very close to being hugely offensive . Even if not offensive , it's annoyingly one-dimensional and adds absolutely no depth to the picture . And then there's the climactic sequence . If you haven't seen the film , egregious SPOILERS follow . I've always known how this film turns out , for the most part ( I had never heard about the ultra-religious mother , which is probably wisely kept a secret by the film's fans ) . I expected the whole film to be little more than a revenge fantasy , and I was mostly correct . I especially didn't like the scene where Travolta and Nancy Allen got killed , despite the fact that I've always secretly wanted to see John Travolta die in an exploding car . But it would have been better to let them survive , to allow some of the guilt exist on with them ( they had already escaped the prom , so it almost seems like they were supposed to live ) . Yet the actual climactic scene in the high school gym is not merely a revenge fantasy . If it were , the audience would be allowed to enjoy the violence and take part in the joy of it , which is the way revenge fantasies generally work . But , no , our emotions are purposely conflicted when Carrie ends up killing several people who neither meant harm to her nor did harm to her . She even kills her gym teacher ( Betty Buckley ) , who is more benign to her than any other character in the film , brutally and intentionally . These deaths were not playing into the audience's desire , but rather worked against it , raising uncomfortable questions . Unfortunately , we then have to follow Carrie home . On the way , she kills those who did her , and , consequently , everyone else , the most harm , and that is a death scene we're meant to revel in . Then she gets to have revenge on the cartoon character of her mother ( who speaks with a fake Southern accent because anyone who would be that into Jesus would have to be a Southerner , I guess ) , where she dies in the same position as Carrie's demonic-looking Christ figurine , a ham-fisted attempt at satire . Along the way De Palma foolishly throws in his entire bag of tricks , which don't really encompass anything that Hitchcock hadn't perfected years earlier , and perhaps even fall far short of what Hitchcock could achieve , and he has composer Pino Donaggio write what has to be one of the worst musical scores of all time . It frequently steals the sharp violin notes that punctuate Janet Leigh's death in Psycho , and uses them in an incredibly inept manner , at that . And then , and then the film has such a remarkably knowing center , the cruelty and pain of a young girl's existence in high school . Throughout the movie , so many perfect notes are hit , from the embarrassment Carrie feels when her gym teacher , either thinking the girl can't hear her or forgetting the fact that she can , is telling the principal about Carrie's period ( hey , maybe that's why she gets crushed at the end ! ) , to the way Carrie refuses Tommy when he first asks her to the prom , to the beautiful spinning dance ? not so much the actual dance , which is another of De Palma's moments of unneeded inventiveness , but the sweet , natural dialogue between Tommy and Carrie . At that point we don't know yet that Tommy and his girlfriend , Sue , aren't in on the prank , but Tommy's dialogue sounds so unforced that I was unsure of whether he was just an exceptional actor ( William Katt does an excellent job in the role ) or whether he might actually like Carrie . I found myself actively hoping for the latter and , though we never do find out the exact truth of the matter , I was at least relieved that it wasn't the former , or at least that the act he was putting on wasn't an act of unadulterated cruelty ( perhaps , at the most , unintentional cruelty ) . In the middle of this mess of a film is the beautiful , brilliant , powerful performance by Sissy Spacek . She was a decade or more older than the character she was playing , but she captures that look of a tortured teenage soul with those cavernous , blue eyes and the hangdog lips . And she gives such perfect readings of her lines . Spacek breaks my heart with every word she says in the movie , even during the bad scenes with Piper Laurie . And knowing what awaits Carrie at the prom makes some of the film almost unbearable emotionally . As many problems as I had with the film , I had tears in my eyes through most of it . Indeed , I was very involved with the film emotionally through its entire run . When , in Sue's dream sequence in the end of the film , an event occurs that would have been entirely predictable ? even if this was the first time it had ever happened ( which I doubt anyway ) , I was startled , badly . I , who claim to recognize nearly every cinematic trick and cliché in the book . And I sat there and chastised myself in my mind for being that gullible . But the simple fact was that it made me jump . That's higher praise than I can give a good number of the best films .
Has some problems , but mostly soars above them	Often wonderful film about children from the director who brought us such family-friendly fare as Shallow Grave , Trainspotting , and 28 Days Later ? Just a joke , not a knock . Boyle is very much deserving of praise for his broad directorial talent . Millions is very good . The story concerns two young boys who find a bag of money . The younger is obsessed with saints and religion , and wants to be charitable with it . The elder wants to use it to increase his status . The film is in the style of magical realism . It is first and foremost very entertaining , and infectious . I do have some complaints that knock the film down a couple of pegs . First off , the last time Boyle had characters coming upon a surprising amount of cash , the situation consisted of hammers against teeth , plastic bags over heads , and bullet holes through attic floors . Eventually in Millions , a criminal comes looking for his money , threatening violence upon the children . This feels like it's from another movie altogether ( namely Shallow Grave ) , and it throws a dark and unpleasant tinge over the movie . There had to be other ways to get the money in their hands without resorting to that old cliché . My second main complaint is that the film likes to veer into schmaltz every once in a while . The climactic sequence is especially vomit-inducing . I also have some smaller complaints , like John Murphy's score ? too Elfmanesque . I also think the movie could have benefited from a slightly less frenetic pacing . The relationship between the brothers could have been especially satisfying if Boyle weren't so eager to shove the story forward . Still , the movie is a lot of fun and well worth seeing .
Hardly perfect , but strong	After re-watching Happiness for the first time in over a decade , I decided finally to catch up with Solondz's two follow-ups . Storytelling finds Solondz in a self-critical and defensive mood , taking on both his own weaknesses as a writer and his critics , who were ubiquitous after Happiness . That aspect of Storytelling didn't really work for me , because , honestly , I don't find Solondz as shallow as many critics did . His characters are sometimes grotesque , but I think he does uncover some uncomfortable truths about people with his technique . Storytelling is comprised of two parts . The first , entitled Fiction , is really a short film . Selma Blair plays a college student who is enrolled , alongside her disabled boyfriend , in a creative writing course . Their professor is a cynical , controversial and angry black novelist . After their professor gives a scathing criticism of the boyfriend's story , he and Blair break up angrily which leads Blair right into her professor's bed . It's hard to see exactly what Solondz is trying to say with this story . It's easy to say he's just trying to stir controversy and make the audience uncomfortable , at which he obviously excels . But the thing is , the uncomfortableness only arises because the emotions of the film are so precise . The second part of the film , Non-Fiction , is a little stronger . Paul Giamatti plays a documentarian who finds his ideal subject in the form of pothead Mark Webber , a high school student who has no ambition . Whatever Giamatti does with his film , it seems like he's making fun of his subject . I liked this part of the film better , because it deals with a subject that I think about often , that being the way documentaries work . There were a few bits of the film that I didn't like , but mostly I found it pretty strong . The film is bolstered by original songs by Belle & Sebastian .
Moore is outstanding	I don't know if this film has anything all that useful or original to say . We know , or at the very least we've heard that 1950s folks didn't much care for homosexuals and black people . Todd Haynes is certainly not taking any brave new stands in this film . It's a tribute to Sirk , who would never overtly deal with these exact same subjects . But he did make a good study of racial attitudes in Imitation of Life in 1959 , so he was no coward . Fortunately , Far From Heaven does manage to work itself up to something quite worthwhile . The film is subtle in the same way as Sirk's were : throwing florid melodrama in your face while secretly depicting the truth under that cloud . Haynes probably wouldn't have succeeded half as well as he did if he weren't working with Julianne Moore and , to a slightly lesser extent , Dennis Quaid . Moore has been a powerhouse actress for more than a decade now , and this could be her strongest performance yet . I might prefer her in Boogie Nights slightly , but this is close . She's great as a sheltered 1950s housewife coming out of her protective shell . Her husband ( Quaid ) has been fighting his homosexual lust his whole life , and he's beginning to lose the battle . Rejected , Moore befriends her gardener , an educated black man ( Dennis Haysbert ) . It's not love , at least right away . Moore is just enthused to have found someone outside of her own world who understands her and will talk with her in an honest manner . The color cinematography , set design , and costume design are full of transcendent Sirk-influenced colors . Perhaps my favorite aspect of the film is the musical score , by Elmer Bernstein . It would be a shame to see it go without an Academy Award nomination . .
This Movie Was Sweeter Than Curly Fries	This film was quite good . The acting was top-notched . Terence Stamp was excellent . Apparently , the real-life limeys thought that his Cockney accent wasn't good , but it wasn't grating . I thought that he perfectly expressed emotion . He played an extremely complex character . I felt a genuine sense of pathos for him . Even better was Peter Fonda . I think this role of his was the best I've ever seen , better than Ulee's Gold or Easy Rider ( which wasn't really an actor's movie , so don't crucify me for that comment ) . He was certainly not the standard Hollywood scumbag producer whom we see in a lot of movies which take place in that place . He was actually kind of likeable . Though he had done plenty of bad things , he seemed to have been trying make amends with his past . Notice how he acts around his girlfriend . When I saw her , I thought , " Oh boy , another Hollywood fantasy where an aging man sleeps with an extremely young girl . " But it was never like that . Fonda seemed to really care about her , as if he were trying to right the wrong that he did to Jennifer . And his girlfriend did not seem empty-headed . She was kind . She was genuinely interested in her lover's past . It was not as if she was just there for the money . But the crazy jump shots and weird editing really took away from the film . In fact , it was so annoying that I gave this film an 8 instead of the 10 it should have been . I liked the way the director narrated some of the background information over Wilson's journey to the place of illegal business to which Eddie drove Jennifer . There is this sort of editing , and it leads into a quick burst of carefully directed violence . Very effective . What I disliked was the way there would be a shot of a character standing there with his mouth shut while the same person would be speaking in a voice-over . Now that was grating ! The flashbacks were sort of hackneyed , also . Many , many movies show flashbacks in a blurry or grainy film stock . This editing was so distracting , that I bet a lot of people will hate it just for that . It takes away from the great story and acting . Without that editing , it would have been better than Out of Sight .
You'll laugh until it hurts then probably spank it to Rosario Dawson	If the tagline upsets you , stay the hell away from this movie . Kevin Smith hasn't evolved at all as a filmmaker in the past 12 years , but who really cares ? No one's going to ever nominate him for an Oscar or anything , and , Jersey Girl aside , his films are entertaining . Sometimes they're downright hilarious . I forgot just how fun the guy can be . Clerks II is probably my second favorite of his films after the original . It goes back to his old characters , Dante and Randall , who , after the Quick Stop burned down , started working at a fast food restaurant . Dante finally found the perfect woman , or at least one who will bring him opportunities and relative happiness . His dream girl is his manager ( Rosario Dawson ) , but he doesn't believe they could ever have a future together . The mushy stuff works okay , especially the friendship between Dante and Randall . This movie is played almost wholly for laughs . And there are a lot of big ones . I love their co-worker , Elias ( Trevor Fehrman ) , a 19 year-old born again Christian who lives most of his life talking about either The Transformers or Lord of the Rings . I laughed pretty much constantly at him . The only big disappointment is the climactic Tijuana donkey show , which is built up and then turns out really lame . And it's not because Smith was too Puritan about it , either . It's pretty dirty and I'm actually wondering how the MPAA let it go with an R rating ( I'm wondering if it was originally way worse , and then with a bit of editing seemed relatively tame ) . It's just not that funny . One thing is for sure : it's almost impossible to watch this movie without falling in love with Rosario Dawson . I've seen her elsewhere , but she's never made an impression . She's just out-and-out sexy here , even in a fast food uniform . It wouldn't surprised me if Smith's wife left him just for how lovingly he films her . The film is juvenile , but definitely one of my favorite movies so far in 2006 . Highly recommended to anyone who liked or loved the original .
A decent romantic comedy made wonderful by the presence of Clara Bow	I'm completely smitten with Clara Bow . After having seen Wings , and having just watched It and the TCM documentary Clara Bow : Discovering the It Girl , I have to say that she's just about the most amazing actress of the silent era . Even besides her limitless beauty , it seems like she can accomplish anything with her face . It's far too bad that she was never given a role that fully suited her immense talent . Wings is the closest she ever came to making a great film , it would seem , but , even though she steals the movie away from the other actors , the dogfights and action sequences steal the movie from her . So then It has to stand as her testament , the film that best demonstrates her legacy . And because of this , it's not surprising that Bow is all but forgotten . I mean , It certainly isn't a bad movie . It's a moderately well done romantic comedy where the shopgirl goes after her rich boss . It's fun and entertaining , but not necessarily something you'll remember for that long afterwords . Much like any romantic comedy that would be released today , among which the best is only an average movie . But then those looking to observe Clara Bow's talent don't exactly need another movie . Bow effortlessly raises the level of the project . It would have been rather average without her , but she makes it good . Quite good , in fact . I couldn't take my eyes off her , and I know that I'll visit the film again because of her . The other actors are mostly forgettable , except for William Austin . He plays the boss's best friend , and he's pretty obviously a homosexual . It's one of the more open depictions I've seen . He's quite funny , as well , and it's no mean feat that he wins any attention whatsoever away from Ms . Bow . .
Has its weak points , but some strong points make it a worthy Welles film	Orson Welles ' Othello is certainly not to be counted amongst the director's best films , which are , of course , amongst the very best ever made , but it's good . The opening is gorgeous : it begins in medias res , with Othello and Desdimona being carried away , corpses , and Iago being suspended from a castle turret in a small cage . Unfortunately , the adaptation falters all the way until the very end . I can't say that I am any kind of expert on the play , but I know that there is a lot missing . The film moves at the speed of sound , when it really shouldn't . Suspense has no time to brood . The play loses a great deal of its power through most of its run . It's simply dry of emotion for about an hour or more of the 93 minute running time . Most likely , this wasn't Welles ' fault . There were a lot of problems on the production , and it took many years to complete it ( the credits list no fewer than five photographers ) , and it's probably the case that not everything was completed by the time they edited it all together . The pace is the biggest problem . The actors , too , are not strong . Welles himself is great , of course . Unfortunately the character of Othello really doesn't have all that big a part in the original play . Well , he begins to come in more nearer the end , but , as far as the " main character , " Iago is it . Until the very end , the play is told from the point of view of Iago . The actor who plays him is decent , but decent isn't nearly good enough . Many of the other actors are weak , too . Cassio , heck , I didn't even know which actor was playing him most of the time . Desdimona is played by a truly beautiful young actress , but she isn't worthy of the role , sadly . To tell you the truth , the only character besides Othello who has a worthy actor in the role is Emilia , Iago's wife , who really , like Othello , doesn't have much to do for most of the film . So for most of the film's run , we're left to sate ourselves on Orson Welles ' beautiful visions . They're great , of course . They are better , however , almost everywhere else in Welles ' world . It only beats F for Fake , which can hardly count in this contest . Fortunately , the film pulls itself together by the climactic sequence . Welles is especially good , both as an actor and a director , in the bedroom scene . There is an absolutely stunning moment where Desdimona's white radiance fills most of the screen . Suddenly , Welles ( in black face , of course ) turns his face and reveals himself - mere centimeters above her head . I jumped .
Why does Kenji Mizoguchi get a free critical pass on every film he directs ?	No , The Story of Late Chrysanthemums is not a bad movie , not at all . In fact , it is quite good . However , it is hardly perfect . This is an Alcestis-like story about a wife , Otoku ( Kakuko Mori ) , who sacrifices herself for the sake of her husband . The man is a young actor , Kikunosuke ( Shotaro Hanayagi ) , who is living in the shadow of his famous father . The name earns him respect and praise , but only when he is present . When his back is turned , nobody hides the fact that they think he's terrible , and he knows it . Otoku , the wetnurse of his brother , is the first to give him honest criticism . The two fall in love and attempt to marry , but Kikunosuke's father and the rest of his family won't allow him , a man of noble birth , to retain the name if he should go through with it . He does it anyway , and spends many long years suffering as a nobody . Meanwhile , Otoku works at keeping things going ; she even begs acting troupes to give her husband a job . Kikunosuke doesn't appreciate her enough , but , then again , she is selfless to a fault . She becomes downright annoying as the picture progresses : always whining , and , after every major bit of dialogue , she has a coughing fit . Let me ask those who overpraise this movie : did anyone not see the ending coming from the first ten minutes ? Mizoguchi made many films that were similar in theme , but not nearly as irksome , and his actors were nearly always better . Still , the man's cinema is evolving rapidly , and his direction is downright beautiful . The cinematography flows like poetry . I like it more than I let on above , but I really do want to urge my fellow internet critics to hold the same standards to Kenji Mizoguchi that you would to any other director . .
hilarious !	W . C . Fields in top form , but Edgar Bergen and Charlie MacArthy are just as prominent ( and as funny ) . The best scene involves Fields playing ping pong - it's easily one of the funniest sequences in film history . Another great scene involves Fields BSing about his exploits as a big game hunter .
Russian Silent . . . Comedy ?	I really love silent cinema of all types , and some of my very favorite films are silent ( Voyage to the Moon , Battleship Potemkin , The Passion of Joan of Arc , Our Hospitality , Sherlock Jr . , Safety Last , City Lights , Modern Times ) . Battleship Potemkin ( and Sergei Eisenstein in general ) got me interested in Soviet silent film , so I was excited to find this particular title , Happiness , on my local video shelf ( although that is not a link , this is available for purchase , if not at Amazon , check other sites . I picked it up and put it in my VCR . I had expected something heavy and powerful like Potemkin ( and many other films that I had read about ) , but it turned out not to be exactly what I expected . Happiness is , in fact , a Russian silent comedy . No , it is quite unlike the silent comedies of Keaton , Lloyd , and Chaplin . It shares a few characteristics ( especially Chaplin's famed swift-kick-in-the-butt , so prevalent in his pre-feature-length shorts ) , but it is a lot more socially conscious . What's more , it manages to be both socially conscious ( and very much so ) AND quite humorous ( also very much so ) . The main character , actually named Loser , is just a great character . He is the archetypical lovable loser . He can't do a thing right , ends up messing things up completely in every situation . At one point he is asked to protect his farming community's storage barn , and when trying to chase a goat away from some crops , he fails to notice a bunch of people literally steal the house ! Perhaps the funniest scene in the film is the one where Loser chooses to give up his life ( strange in comedy : there are two different scenes with jokes about suicide , and both actually work ) because thieves stole his horse , the last bit of property he owned ( though it was a particularly bad horse ) . He builds a coffin , measuring it for himself by stretching out in it to see if it will be comfortable . There is a great set piece where Loser is smoothing the wood of his coffin on a workhorse , and when he moves back and forth , shaving the wood , the workhorse moves rhythmically back and forth like a real horse ( maybe you'd have to see it to understand ) . The local magistrate catches him doing this ( i . e . , planning suicide ) and he speaks a very telling line : " If the peasants start killing themselves , where will we get crops ? " " Killing yourself is illegal , " the magistrate informs him . He gets the local wing of the army , in which the commons soldiers are no longer individuals , but rather automatons with big , puffy , rubber masks ( they very much resemble the school children in the film Pink Floyd's the Wall ) . The captain of this troop , when Loser says that he can no longer live , says to his soldiers : " Beat him half to death ! " The only problem with this film is that I believe some scenes are missing . The story is sort of difficult to follow at times . Otherwise , it is a very good film , unfortunately forgotten as so many old films are .
Good Miike	Despite the title and the mean-looking cover art , Young Thugs : Innocent Blood is one of Miike's gentlest and sweetest films . That's not to say that it is entirely free of nastiness . The protagonists spend a lot of their free time getting into violent brawls . But the story is one of friendship and romance . The film follows four friends , three guys and a girl , as they exit high school . As time goes on , and as new romantic relationships arise , the friends grow apart . It's kind of like Take Care of My Cat , except for every once in a while someone gets beaten with an aluminum baseball bat . It's actually quite touching , and frequently very funny . The climactic event in the film is extremely goofy in a way that only Miike could accomplish ? it's not quite on the level as the end of Dead or Alive 1 , but it's something you're guaranteed not to see outside of this man's filmography .
Dazzle me , baby !	A hugely entertaining musical about a woman , Roxie Hart ( Renée Zellweger ) , who kills her lover when he reveals that he was lying about a guy who could make her famous . She's up for murder and might be hanged , but she and her wishy-washy , pushover husband ( John C . Reilly ) hire a fast-talking lawyer ( Richard Gere ) to defend her . The high-profile defense makes Roxie famous , and she plans to start an act after her inevitable release from prison . The film is all flash , and I wouldn't have it any other way . The point , that fame can come and go without warning , isn't anything new , but the film has a lot of energy to drive its theme home . The great musical numbers can be attributed to the original play's original director , Bob Fosse . As a Fosse fan , I could immediately identify his style . The numbers all arise out of the characters ' fantasies , which works very well . The music itself is somewhat less impressive . Sure , every song is at least good , but there are so many songs that they tend to run into each other . Zellweger has been around for several years now , since Jerry MacGuire , and she's always been good . This is the first time she's been fantastic , and I'm guessing that she will be nominated for Best Actress . I've seen a few people praise Richard Gere's performance , but his , I think , is the least special in the film . He just didn't seem right to me , and I'm not sure I could explain why . I like Reilly in this film as well . He's had a thousand great roles in the last decade , and everyone tends to ignore him . His character in the film is constantly forgotten , so much so that his one musical number is " Mr . Celophane , " in which he laments his invisibility . I hope the Academy doesn't look right through him this year . I've left out Catherine Zeta-Jones , who looks like she's really important on the posters . She's less so in the actual film . She plays another murderess , having killed her husband and sister when she found them together . She was the night club star whom Roxie was watching when she was seduced by the man whom she eventually killed . I wish that her character had been given more screen time . Even more deserving of extra screen time is Queen Latifah , who has one of the most impressive musical numbers early in the film . She also kind of drops away as the film progresses , unfortunately . .
I can't believe how low the imdb rating is on this film !	Sure it's probably the least good of the Mad Max films , but it is still entertaining as heck ! It is maybe a little more Hollywood ( which is a bad thing ) than the first two . The music is overbearing at times , and some of the attempts at jokes were very cheap and American blockbusterish . One of the main faults that has to be sited with this one is that the last thirty minutes or so are basically taken straight from The Road Warrior . The car chase and then the speech about how a stranger helped them establish a new society were taken right out of the 2nd installment . It still is very creative , and the action has a wonderful momentum . I love the whole society that finds Max in the desert . I loved the recitation of their foundation , and I loved their dialect . I loved Masterblaster . And Tina Turner was actually cool , too .
Good , but overrated	This is the first Robert Bresson movie I've watched , and perhaps I did miss something . It is usually considered a masterpiece , one of the best films ever made . I personally liked a lot of it , found a couple of individual parts amazing , and felt unsatisfied when it ended after only 75 minutes . I don't know , it could even be an edited copy that I watched ( although I did see the New Yorker version of the VHS ) . I would like to praise over everything the performances , especially by the pickpocket himself and the woman who played Jean . They are both excellent . I also found the editing in a couple of the pickpocket montages remarkable . I give it an . If I hadn't been expecting a masterpiece , I might have liked it more .
Well worth checking out	Excellent early Fassbinder about two shiftless young men who decide , seemingly on the spur of a moment , that the next big step in their lives will be an extended expedition for treasure in Peru's Rio das Mortes region . One of their fiancées ( Hanna Schygulla , as gorgeous and as great as ever ) finds the notion stupid and wants to put a stop to it . It's a droll comedy and has a ton of great sequences . This is the first film in a Fassbinder bender I'm going on . I'm planning on seeing all of the films of his that have recently been released on DVD . I've been thinking a lot about this particular auteur lately . I don't think that enough time has passed since his untimely death to allow his career to be taken into proper perspective . Fassbinder reminds me a lot of Rohmer , Ozu , Godard and Bresson . He's in his own little world in his films ( a world which changed a lot in the 13 or so years during which he was active ) , and a lot of people are still misunderstanding it as overly theatrical , or stilted , or otherwise . The more films one sees by him , the more one gets adjusted to this universe . I think Rio das Mortes is best appreciated by Fassbinder's fans , and is unlikely to make any new converts ( start with Ali : Fear Eats the Soul , Fox and His Friends , and The Marriage of Maria Braun ) .
A heck of a lot of fun	Awesome , cheesy 1980s action / sci-fi flick starring the one , the only Arnold Schwarzenegger . You know , say what you might about Schwarzenegger , but he made some damn entertaining movies in his day . The story here is pretty clever , actually . It probably had been done before , but I can't think of anything specifically . It certainly has been done afterward . The Japanese cult classic Battle Royale is pretty close to the same concept . The ideas in the film pretty much take a back seat to the nonstop action . And one-liners . This movie has some of the best ( meaning most hilariously cheesy ) one-liners in action movie history . Some of them are moderately amusing , like when , after he kills the guy with the chainsaw , Schwarzenegger says , " He had to split . " But the one that had me rolling on account of its pure awfulness was after he dispatched of Sub-Zero : " Now he's just plain zero . " You feel like there should be crickets chirping after that one . I also love how much the future looks like the ' 80s , especially the freshly permed dancers . And whosever idea it was to cast Richard Dawson as the villainous , scumbag gameshow host deserves a medal . The film also features my former governor , Jesse Ventura . This is probably the only movie where you can see two real-life United States governors fight each other to the death .
Certainly a very good film , but not the masterpiece everyone has touted it as being ( )	SPOILERS AHEAD : There are many , many movies about WWII , both about the battles and about the condition of life for the people involved , especially the situation of the Jews in Europe . When someone makes a movie on this latter subject , it is very difficult for anyone to criticize it . 1998's _ Life is Beautiful _ received some criticism , but mainly because it contained comic elements where people felt there should be only tragedy . But if the film is a drama , then it is basically untouchable by critics and viewers . And as for this film itself , it was directed by an old master who had been out of it for a while . Even if the film was terrible , there was no way , when it came out in the early 70s , that anyone was going to call it less than a masterpiece , an instant classic , if you will . Well , this film is in no way terrible . In fact , it is very good . It affected me enough where I did tear up a bit . I was touched at certain points . But I also was acutely aware of some of the film's shortcomings as I watched . First off , the reason why I teared up , i . e . , what I did like about the film especially : the relationship between Georgio and Micol . I connected with it instantly because I have been through similar circumstances . It is rather painful , let me tell you . I longed for Micol right along side with Georgio , and felt utterly rejected simultaneously with him . This is the way one should experience a great film . There were two more relationships that were really well developed and deeply felt by me , both involving Georgio : Georgio and his father , a very good character played by a marvelous actor , and Georgio and Malnate . The rest of the characters were very sloppily made . Did Alberto Finzi-Contini exist for any other reason than to create that great funeral procession scene ? He was barely in the movie at all . I had thought they had forgotten him for a long time , then they finally came back to him , and he was next to death . The Finzi-Contini family was hardly existent . I thought the father was a butler until very near the end of the film . A cheap joke is made about the centegenarian grandmother's inability to hear well ( although this character had a very poignant scene at the very end of the film ) . Possibly the biggest problem of the film is that the scenes dealing with anti-Semitism and the onset of war never really coalesced with the problems surrounding Micol's and Georgio's relationship . The latter theme dominated the film , while the former only appeared in the background . This structure would have been fine , but the background section of the film never seemed to influence much the foreground . Georgio could have just as easily have fallen in love with Micol without the war going on . This is not what puts stress on their relationship . Possibly the main theme that de Sica was trying to get through in the film was that our personal lives do not naturally care about what is happening in society , but society keeps trying to push its way into our personal lives . Unfortunately , it only works to a certain extent . The film was too short for its subject matter . It is only 94 minutes long . If it had been two hours or even two and a half , the two parts would have fit together better and the main theme would have been a lot more potent . One of my very favorite films has the exact same theme : _ The Unbearable Lightness of Being _ , where people attempt to love each other in Czechoslovakia while the Soviets oppress them . It is three hours long , and it works on every level . In _ The Garden of the Finzi-Contini _ , there is not even time for a proper conclusion . Micol's story is finished , or at least as finished as it needs to be , but what happened to Georgio ? His father just informs us that he left . Why can't we see him leave ? We don't need an enormous explanation from him , but just a subtle scene , as is the film's style , where he packs and talks to his mother maybe . Surely he hasn't gotten Micol out of his mind that quickly . I realize it was in his best interests to get the heck out of Italy right away , but I can't believe he doesn't at least think for a moment whether or not he should do something on Micol's behalf . I'm fine that he doesn't . I would bet that in the novel , this sort of scene appears . It should have also been in the film . I give the film an , mostly for the true-to-life pain it caused me concerning the one-sided love .
Really good for most of its run , but it gets a bit too abstract at the end	This Western was barely released near the beginning of 2007 . Too bad , really , because it is quite good . Much better than the current hit 3 : 10 to Yuma , which is similar in many ways . I suppose the aging stars , Pierce Brosnan and Liam Neeson , aren't big box office draws . And I think some would find it slow . The story has the pretty basic chase and revenge elements . Liam Neeson is chasing Pierce Brosnan . We're not told why until near the end , though , from a few brief flashbacks , I kind of guessed it . But we're not told with whom to sympathize for most of the picture . It's the kind of Western that's very serene most of the time , with startling photography , but that erupts with violence every once in a while . I found it entertaining as hell , but a couple of problems arose as it neared the finish . First , the backstory , which is only told in full near the end , is weak . When we get the full flashback , it kind of ruins the balance between the two characters . Plus , where director David von Ancken had done a marvelous job elsewhere , his direction in the flashback sequence is incredibly poor . Characters behave idiotically , and no one's acting like a believable human being . In short , it almost ruins the rest of the movie . Secondly , it becomes increasingly obvious as the film movies on that von Ancken and his co-screenwriter , Abby Everett Jacques , want this to be a purely symbolic film . Near the end we get a couple of overly ridiculous sequences where the two leads encounter mysterious characters who deliver cryptic speeches . The final weird character is played by Anjelica Huston , and her cameo is distracting in the extreme . If the backstory had been more well thought out ( since the filmmakers want the film to exist on a more symbolic level , it might have been preferable never to reveal what happened ) , and the symbolism were less overt , this might have been one of the great Westerns . As it is , it stands as a pretty good modern one . It does boast one of the single coolest moments in any Western ever . If you've seen it , I'm talking about the scene with the dead horse . That was sweet .
Loren is awful , but everything else is good	I resisted this for much of its run . Oh , it was always good , but , being such a huge fan of Mann's tight , emotionally and thematically complex Westerns I was disappointed in the pure spectacle and the bland characterizations . Plus , I've come to the conclusion that I find Sophia Loren to be a poor actress . I mean , she's beyond awful in this movie . But over the course of it , I became more and more impressed with the visuals , the artistry behind the cinematography and the costumes . And Miklós Rózsa's score . Holy freakin ' cow , is this one of the greatest film scores ever written . I love Henry Mancini's score to Breakfast at Tiffany's , but it is frankly ludicrous to say it's better than Rózsa's score for El Cid . Heston is Heston . He has a great presence , and he looks pretty awesome with that grayed beard . Acting-wise , I was impressed with John Fraser and Geneviève Page . I have a great love for corrupt rulers in movies . About the only thing I liked in Ridley Scott's Gladiator was Joaquim Phoenix's Commodus , and I loved Fraser and Page as the possibly incestuous brother and sister who become El Cid's undeserving king and queen . Nearer the beginning of the film , I desperately wanted Heston to dump Loren and marry Page instead . Of course , if Page wasn't there I'd rather have Heston marry the nearest rock . Far more attractive than Loren , that mutant .
Good indie drama	Quite good indie drama about intellectual New Yorkers going through a divorce , and the effect it has on their children . Jeff Daniels and Laura Linney star . This is certainly based on real life experiences . My biggest problem was that I just couldn't for the life of me find any sympathy for Jeff Daniels . He's a novelist who hasn't been published for a while . He's very cold and intellectual , and he shamelessly manipulates his children into the same mold ( thankfully only the first born follows ) . I'm one who gets his references to Godard's Breathless and Monica Vitti , but , man , did I want to smack him ! This , at least for me , gave the film unbalance . I immediately sided with the mother and the younger child , who rebels against his father and stays with his mother . She cheated on him , and he stayed faithful to her , but I was always thinking that I would have cheated on him , too ! And I only started sympathizing with the older kid when he started to see through his father . So , yeah , I never found sympathy for Daniels . I still really liked the film , though . I think Baumbach's script is very observant of human nature . As far as indie dramas of 2005 go , I think this was somewhat overrated ( according to criticstop10 . net / 2005 / , it's the seventh highest rated film of the year ) . I prefer both Junebug and Me and You and Everyone We Know , but The Squid and the Whale is at least in the same league .
Excellent , though the comic drunks were a bad choice	Another win for William Wellman ! He keeps moving up the list of my favorite directors . In this one , Barbara Stanwyck stars as a nurse who is assigned to watch two young girls . She discovers that they're illness is being exacerbated by a crooked doctor . It seems that the doctor and the kids ' mother's chauffeur ( Clark Gable , looking delightfully evil in his black chauffeur's uniform ) are conspiring to let them die . Unfortunately , Stanwyck is obliged to follow the doctor's rules , as per her profession's code of ethics ( hopefully this has changed over the past 75 years ! ) . It's a good story , and Stanwyck is fantastic in it . My major complaint is that Wellman goes for some strange comic scenes . The girls ' mother is an alcoholic ( the doctor and chauffeur are also trying to keep her inebriated , so she doesn't stop their murder plot ) , and she always has friends over for parties . The drunks are all played as comical , which grates against the more serious themes of the movie . Joan Blondell co-stars as the nurse who takes care of the kids during the day ( and apparently she's nowhere near as concerned as Stanwyck about it , or at least she doesn't do anything about it ! ) . This movie is found in Warner's Forbidden Hollywood Vol . 2 , not in Vol . 3 , which is nothing but Wellman films .
I don't see too much of a point to there being a film of these events , but this is undoubtedly a good one	The recounting of the investigation surrounding the Daniel Pearl kidnapping in Pakistan , based on the account of his wife , Mariane . Winterbottom takes much the same approach as Paul Greengrass did for United 93 last year , playing everything very subdued , very straight , and concentrating on the procedure . I'm not really sure it was necessary to make this film , honestly . United 93 worked mainly because is an event that is shared by everyone in the United States , and arguably everyone in the world . It makes sense to watch the film as a kind of catharsis , and as a kind of visual education of how things went down ( at least with the procedural part of that day ) . A Mighty Heart feels more like a peering into a private tragedy . I also question the casting of Angelina Jolie in the lead role . She's a figure who is far too associated with trash journalism , and has , for a long time now , been more of a celebrity and less of an actress . To cast her in a film like this makes you wonder , is this just a bid to win awards ? Was her casting just a ploy to lure audiences to the theater ? If the latter was the case , the producers of the film failed miserably : the movie flopped . I think it is fair to judge movies by their intentions , at least partly . But the truth of the matter is that the film is very good . It grips and moves when it is supposed to . And , yes , Angelina Jolie is award-worthy , as much as I hate to go that route . I guess I can't complain about it all too much . If Mariane Pearl hadn't wanted her story known across the world , she wouldn't have written the book .
Almost great movie , with great performances	Cronenberg follows up his critically ( and I'm guessing financially ) successful A History of Violence with another mob story , this time set amongst the Russian mafia in London . A midwife ( Naomi Watts ) delivers a baby to a dying Russian teenager . She takes her diary , in Russian , and tries to get it translated . Unfortunately , she walks straight into the people who were selling the teenager as a prostitute , a restaurateur ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) whose business is merely a front . In reality , he's a mob boss . The mob boss's son ( Vincent Cassel ) has recently recruited his driver ( Viggo Mortensen ) into the mob . The story follows Mortensen , who becomes attracted to the midwife , while his bosses want her out of the picture . Cronenberg fans were mixed over A History of Violence . Many thought it was too mainstream . But it had a strange mood to it , and was definitely a stylized reality . That made it stand out from other films , in my opinion . I'm not sure I could fit it into Cronenberg's filmography very well , but , if I had seen it without knowing who directed it , I would certainly have known it was made by someone special . Eastern Promises , on the other hand , could easily have been made by pretty close to anyone else . Other than a couple of visceral moments , most notably the now infamous fight sequence that occurs late in the film ? certainly one of the stand-out scenes of 2007 ? the film is directed in a straightforward manner . SPOILERS in the next paragraph Steve Knight , who was nominated for an Oscar for Dirty Pretty Things several years ago , has a very good script here . I especially like the way he gets us thinking about Vincent Cassel's sexuality before the possibility is even uttered by the characters ( and it's never confirmed ) . But I honestly didn't like the big twist with Mortensen's character . Turns out he's an undercover operative for the police . Much like Cassel's sexuality , this is hinted a few times , very subtly ( I didn't notice it , but probably because I didn't want the story to go that way ) . To me , this route is uninteresting . I liked Mortensen's thug character so much , I was disappointed when it was revealed to be untrue . In addition to this , I thought the film's wrap-up didn't make much sense . Mortensen's supposed to be dead . While Mueller-Stahl is sent to prison , I don't quite believe Mortensen would be able to re-enter that society . Mueller-Stahl doesn't seem to be at the top of the Russian mafia , but he seems to be high enough up it where someone he decided to kill wouldn't last very long , even with Mueller-Stahl out of the picture . END SPOILERS All in all , I do think Eastern Promises is a very good picture , pretty close to being a great one . While the script has a couple of weaknesses , overall it's quite good . And the acting is through the roof . Mortensen , Cassel and Mueller-Stahl are all award-worthy . I don't think any of their chances are that great , though , for an Oscar nomination .
Surprisingly good	So many horror movies think that blood and gore are the scariest things about life . I'm definitely not in their camp , and take the ( I hope ) high-minded position that fear is best generated by atmosphere and tone . That said , gory horror movies can occasionally be fun in a circus geek kind of way . The French horror film Inside is a nice balance of both atmosphere and blood . It does lean more on the blood than on the atmosphere , but it has just enough of that atmosphere to break it free from those movies that are merely bloodbaths . Alysson Paradis is in her 9th month of pregnancy . It is Christmas Eve , and the next day she will go to the hospital , where they will induce labor . Unfortunately , a creepy woman ( Béatrice Dalle ) breaks into her home with the hope of stealing the baby , whether or not it has been born yet . So , yeah , if the thought of a pregnant woman in peril bothers you , avoid at all costs . The film gets every bit as tasteless as you might imagine . If you can stomach it , though , it's a perfect B-level horror movie . It actually made me queasy , and I'm not one who is easily queased .
Very funny	A stoner comedy / action movie send-up from the Apatow factory . Seth Rogen witnesses a murder and gets his drug dealer , James Franco , mixed up in the mess . The two go on the run as some gangsters search for them . It's very loose and sloppy , with an improvised feeling . There are long stretches where I didn't laugh much , and there are some plot developments that make little sense . Fortunately , much of the film is inspired silliness , and Rogen's and Franco's comic timing is great . I was frequently in tears . Danny McBride and Craig Robinson both give break-out supporting performances . The final sequence in the diner pushes this one for me from pretty good to almost great . I'm not quite sure why David Gordon Green was hired to direct this . Many of the critics who wrote about Pineapple Express went out of their way identifying the elements that belong to him . I'm not a big fan of his art films , but he's a decent director , and anyone could have shot this one , entertaining though it may be .
Has its flaws , and some big ones , too , but still achieves something near greatness	Ben Affleck's directorial debut , based on a novel by Dennis Lehane , who also wrote Mystic River . Affleck's direction is more than adequate . I'm sure he's aping Clint Eastwood's film version of Mystic River much of the time , and there's one scene that's way too reminiscent of Se7en , but he shows a lot of skill . He's great at capturing his hometown of Boston and the people who live there . The story revolves around the investigation of a missing girl . Morgan Freeman and Ed Harris are two of the major investigators for the police . The aunt of the missing girl hires Casey Affleck and his girlfriend , played by Michelle Monaghan , to do private investigation on the side , because they can maybe find some secrets that the girl's mother ( Amy Ryan ) might be hiding . It's a gripping mystery story , and it arrives at one quite satisfying twist . But then there's another twist . The second big twist is completely stupid , and then the previously excellent film starts to fall . This isn't unlike Mystic River , where , when we finally found out why Tim Robbins has been acting so strange all the time , I just had to slap my forehead . Gone Baby Gone is able to pull itself up a bit from its head-slapping plot revelation in its final moments , but I was still left feeling cheated . I also have to complain that Monaghan , as cute as she is , adds very little . Would Affleck's character really put his girlfriend in such dangerous situations all the time ? I'm sort of glad we're spared the whole cliché schtick where one of the two lovers fears for their significant other's safety , but bringing the hot chick into a powerful drug dealer's den sounds like a hostage situation waiting to happen . Casey Affleck delivers his second fine performance of the year , though it isn't as good as his Robert Ford , which I think might some day be considered iconic . Ed Harris is a sure thing for an Oscar nomination . The guy is such a master at his craft . It's a credit to Affleck's direction that the film can still be considered so good after some should-be fatal flaws .
Maybe not Hitchcock's best , but . . .	I think The 39 Steps was the first Hitchcock film I ever saw . I was not impressed . However , after four years and a whole lot of education in film , I have come to respect it . I disagree with the opinion that it is one of Hitch's best , still . He possibly has more perfect films than any other director in cinema history : Rebecca , Rope , Vertigo , Psycho , Rear Window , North by Northwest , The Birds and probably many more that I have not seen . The 39 Steps does not compare to those great films . It is a fun suspense film , but it has not the layers of subtext that Hitch's greatest films have . I give it an .
Great direction and great acting , but I don't really get it	I can appreciate this film scene for scene , but I'm not sure of what the sum is meant to be . Not at all , actually . It seemed to me like an important turning point in Bergman's career , like an exact middle point between something like Persona and Scenes from a Marriage . It is probably just because I was damn tired when I watched it . However , it wasn't like I was unconscious or anything , and a great film will usually pull me out of any kind of stupor . I am determined to revisit it at some later date , perhaps when ( or if ) it is released on DVD . Like I said , scene for scene , the film is excellent . In fact , only four specific scenes fail . Every other one , taken as an excerpt , is brilliantly created . Many scenes are rather emotionally powerful . .
In loving memory of Gillo Pontecorvo , who died last week	Pontecorvo's followup to The Battle of Algiers , and probably his second most famous film . That's probably mostly because of the film's star , Marlon Brando , but the movie itself is quite good . It's a little slow , sometimes a little difficult to follow , and it hits us with no less than three third act speeches ( a speech a character makes near the end of the picture which more or less explains the film's themes , just in case you missed it ) . At it's best , though , Burn ! is a powerful treatise on the pains caused by colonialism . The story centers on a British man , Brando , who goes to the Portuguese-run island of Queimada in order to provoke a slave rebellion . He preaches freedom to the slaves , but his real aim is to get control over the island's sugar . A decade or so after the original rebellion , the natives aren't co-operating with the British anymore , and Brando returns to overthrow their leader ( Evaristo Márquez ) , whose career he fostered . Brando is , as expected , excellent . I wouldn't rank this among his very best performances ( the inevitable Italian dubbing always makes all performances a tad awkward ) , but it's definitely second tier Brando . This might be the most despicable character he ever got to play . I also liked Márquez , who often gets criticized for giving a wooden performance . The cinematography is beautiful , and Ennio Morricone provides an amazing score ( I love the song that plays after the revolution ) . Gillo Pontecorvo's direction is very good . In fact , I think I slightly prefer this to his acknowledged ( in my opinion , overrated ) masterpiece , The Battle of Algiers .
Surprisingly well written and executed mystery , with a bit too much Hugh Herbert	Surprisingly entertaining horror comedy , found on the new Best Buy exclusive horror set . This is the second movie supposedly based on the Poe story in which Bela Lugosi stars . The first one had nothing to do with the story . This one has one brief reference to it , but otherwise has nothing to do with it . It's an Old Dark House movie and a murder mystery . Broderick Crawford stars as a real estate agent ( maybe the only real estate agent hero in film history ? ) who comes upon a family of vultures waiting for their dowager grandmother to die . No one's willing to wait , so someone speeds up the job with a quick stab . Among the suspects are Basil Rathbone , Gladys Cooper , Bela Lugosi , Alan Ladd and Gale Sondergaard . With this cast , it can only be a grade A ham-athon . And it's a delightful one , at that ! The degree to which you enjoy this film will probably be determined by how much you can tolerate comic character actor Hugh Herbert ( hoo hoo ! ) . Personally , I do find him funny , even if he's in this one a bit too much . The script to this one is a cut above what you might expect .
Dated , but good	Dennis Patrick plays a man who accidentally kills his daughter's boyfriend and then reveals his secret at a local bar . Joe ( Peter Boyle ) , a bigot who is getting drunk there , at first takes it as a joke , but then the story is confirmed on the evening news . Instead of calling the cops or the like , Joe decides that , since the guy killed a hippie , they must be kindred spirits ! He blackmails the man into becoming his pal . At first , the film seemed harsh and judgemental , but , as it revealed itself , it actually became quite a complex portrait of the current society . Yes , I think it does exaggerate a bit , but in amusing ways that don't really detract from the power of its messages . Susan Sarandon debuted in this film , and it's a shock to see how pretty she was around 23 . Well worth seeing .
Quite a delightful little film	When their mother is forced to stay in the hospital for a prolonged period of time , Ting-Ting ( a four year old girl ) and Tung-Tung ( an eleven year old boy ) are taken by their uncle to spend the summer with their grandfather , a doctor in a small , rural town . There are some cliches in the film . The strict , imposing grandfather who at first doesn't seem to like the kids ( I saw this just last week in Ford's Wee Willie Winkie ) and the crazy lady who later saves one of the children's lives come quickly to mind . A scene where Ting-Ting gives her stuffed animal to a recovering patient of her grandfather's made me cringe a bit . But other than that , it's a rather wonderful movie . The two children in particular are fantastic . When Tung-Tung first meets up with local children , they have a battle between his remote control car and another boy's pet turtle ( probably not the best scene to watch if you're a member of PETA , however ) . In another scene , the boys race their turtles . And there are more . The uncle , kind of the black sheep of the family , has a good subplot , as well . Edward Yang , the director of Yi Yi , has a small role as the children's father . It's too bad this of all of Hou's movies is unavailable . I only liked Flowers of Shanghai better . .
Great French Revolution story	Maybe I just love Griffith when he's big . This French Revolution film is flawed , certainly , but I also think it's very good . The narrative has such an excellent flow . Dorothy Gish plays the daughter of aristocrats , abandoned as a baby at the Notre Dame cathedral when her father is assassinated . A poor man wanders to the cathedral intending to abandon his newborn daughter , too , but when he sees the other bundle in the snow , he decides not only to keep his own daughter , but take up the other child as well . When she is an adult , she has lost her sight ( and her adoptive parents ) to a plague . The poor man's real daughter ( played by Lillian Gish ) takes care of her . There is an operation she can get in Paris which will reverse her blindness , and Lillian swears that she will get it for her . She also vows to remain unmarried until her sister can see once again . Unfortunately , as soon as they get to Paris , they become separated . An immoral aristocrat fancies Lillian and orders her kidnapped and brought to his midnight orgy . Poor , blind Dorothy is left alone , and a beggar woman ( Morgan Wallace ) and her two rapscallion sons ( Sheldon Lewis and Frank Puglia ) take her back to their hole in the wall , planning to use her affliction to their advantage . Everyone who passes by will have such pity on the blind girl and give them lots of their spare change . Thus the story splits into two halves ( though definitely favoring Lillian ) , following both the rich and the poor at the beginning of the Revolution . There are several exceptional sequences , including the revelries of Bastille Day and Lillian's frightful approach to the guillotine . There are some very weird connections that Griffith makes between the French Revolution and American history and present . One character he tells us ( in a footnote , no less ) is the " Abraham Lincoln of France . " The film's introductory title tells us that the French Revolution was begun by Anarchists and Bolsheviks , although they did , in fact , overthrow a [ i ] bad [ / i ] government . He also adds that we in America should never overthrow our own government , which sounds very odd . Perhaps he was so overly wary of the societal impact he had with Birth of a Nation that he thought , quite arrogantly , that his French Revolution film might stir up a revolution at home . Or perhaps he was responding to the scandals surrounding the current president , Warren G . Harding . I don't really know , but it's very interesting .
Fun , with great music	A lot of fun to be had by Seven Brides for Seven Brothers . Adam ( Howard Keel ) , the oldest of seven brothers , comes into town one day looking for some chaw and a wife . The shopkeep thinks this is ridiculous , but Adam effortlessly courts a young woman named Milly ( Jane Powell ) in only a couple of minutes . He takes her back to his rowdy brothers more as a slave than a wife , but she makes the best of it . Through her influence , the other brothers settle down a little and learn to be gentlemen . They can't keep this up forever , though , especially under the influence of the relatively untamed Adam . When his six brothers start to pine over six girls they met at a barn raising party , he convinces them , with the help of Plutarch , to kidnap them , just like the Romans did to the Sobbin ' , er , that is , Sabine women . The story's not especially great , but the musical numbers more than carry it along to its conclusion . It's never less than entertaining , and mostly it's wonderfully so . The songs vary a little in quality , but there are no bad ones ( some of Powell's ballads come close ) and there are several great ones . Howard Keel starts things off by singing " Bless Your Beautiful Hide . " Later on , he and the brothers have the great song " Sobbin ' Women . " And there's a nice double song near the end in " June Bride " fading into " Spring , Spring , Spring . " My favorite , though , is " The Lonesome Polecat , " which the six younger brothers sing while cutting up logs in the snow . Their saws and axes provide most of the sound effects , and they dance with the objects slowly and gracefully . It's a beautiful number . Most people probably remember the barn raising dance best of all . No one sings there ( the music is a reprise of " Bless Your Beautiful Hide " ) , but the choreography is a highlight in the cinema's musical genre . .
Maddin's Winnipeg	Guy Maddin's ninth feature is a pseudo-documentary about the director's hometown of Winnipeg . It mostly focuses on his relationship with the city , but it also includes re-enactments of his family life and famous weird things that happened in the city's past . It's a bit of a mess , but , as I've said before regarding Maddin , his films play out like dreams . A mess makes sense a lot of the time . I do think the film lacks the focus of his best work , and is , in fact , my least favorite of his features . Also contributing to my relatively low opinion of it ( i . e . , I don't think it's one of the best movies ever ) is Maddin's own narration . I loved his previous film , The Brand Upon the Brain ! , but objected to the narration . It's even worse here , taking a lot of the mystique out of the silent film pastiche Maddin has been perfecting since The Heart of the World ( I'm kind of hoping that he'll some day return to the stuff of his earlier works , which felt more like the films of the ' 30s than those of the ' 20s ) . My favorite sequences were the occult ceremony in the Masonic temple and the hockey legends game , where septuagenarians play one last game as their stadium is demolished by wrecking balls . Darcy Fehr of Cowards Bend the Knee returns as Guy Maddin , who , in the movie , is as desperate to leave his depressing hometown as he is to stay ( throughout the movie , Fehr appears dozing in a train car that never seems to get out of Winnipeg ) . And Maddin dug up Detour's Ann Savage , possibly literally , to play his mom .
Maybe not on par with Mann's Westerns , but a good one anyway	Best known as the film that ended the great Anthony Mann / Jimmy Stewart partnership . Mann either got in an argument with Stewart , hated the script or hated co-star Audie Murphy , or all of the above . No-name director James Neilson replaced him , and the results are , well , not as good as something Mann would have directed , one would imagine . But they're not as bad as many have said . I think the script is the weakest element of the film , mostly because it takes a while to get moving , it's a little cliché and predictable , and , worst of all , it doesn't give Stewart much to work with . Between Mann's Westerns and Hitchcock's films , Stewart was really broadening his horizons in the ' 50s , moving from a dependable " aw shucks " kind of guy to a seasoned thespian . His role here is closer to the " aw shucks " period than it is to the darker side of Stewart . It starts to lean a little bit toward that darker side when the film hits its stride , a little too late . If Audie Murphy was Mann's biggest problem , I have to say , except for the miscasting ( he's young enough to be Stewart's son ) , I very much enjoyed his performance . I had never seen one of his films before , but I look forward to seeing more . The two bad guys , the second one being the always dependable Dan Duryea , are more interesting than the hero here . Also making an appearance , Jay C . Flippen , always a great Western character actor . Even if this doesn't compare with the Mann / Stewart Westerns , it's a fine one itself . You can find it in Universal's new James Stewart : The Western Collection . It looks great , but the sound was kind of muffled .
Slow but fascinating	In this Nikkatsu pink film , a man who shoots erotic photography becomes obsessed with a woman he sees in a porn movie , in which she , very innocent looking and young , is raped in a classroom . He tries to convince her to work with him , and finds out that she is a prostitute and a nymphomaniac , not the pure innocent he wanted . This movie turns Japanese sexual roles on their heads . The woman , named Nami , as are all the main female characters in the Angel Guts series , saps men of their virility . In the film's most memorable sequence , she sleeps with a man once , then works hard to get him going again . After the second time , she basically rapes the guy . Still , overabundant sex ultimately proves soulless .
This review is for at least the first two films of the Samurai Trilogy , and for the third installment unless my opinion of that is different	The Samurai Trilogy is a very good work , very well worth watching . No , they aren't as great as Kurosawa's samurai masterpieces , The Seven Samurai , Yojimbo , or Sanjuro , but they are no much less worthy . My only major complaint is that they were filmed in color , which is a lot less good looking and elegant than the black and white of the Kurosawa films . In some scenes , especially those at night , it is very difficult to determine which character is which . The Samurai Trilogy excels in several aspects . First and foremost , Toshiro Mifune may be the single best actor who ever lived . Sure , he was typecast , but he was great in his roles . There is a huge difference in his acting jobs in these films and Rashomon or The Seven Samurai or Yojimbo and Sanjuro . His character here is very complex . The second reason to watch is for the great secondary characters . They are all quite complex . There will be characters you'll love and long for , and other characters whom you will hope will be killed by Toshiro . These secondary characters are extraordinarily complex at times . Third , watch it for the novelistic unfoldings of the story . Well , it should be novelistic , since all three films were based on a single novel . Don't worry about the three movies repeating in any way . Also , it is a good idea to watch all three in a row ( I watched the first two tonight , and plan to watch the third one tomorrow night ; hey , it's late ! ) . The story is constantly developing , and you don't want to forget anything . I give each segment of the samurai trilogy a solid ( unless the third installment is particularly great or awful ; i will most likely post a comment for that film by itself ) .
Unsuccessful , but still good	If it weren't for the great performances in Iñárritu's previous film , 21 Grams , I think I would have called it one of the worst films of 2003 . The script was ridiculous and , even worse , chopped up chronologically in a pointless and exceedingly artificial and pretentious way . So I have not been in a hurry to catch his new film , Babel , but finally grudgingly decided to go to a matinée because I assume that it will be a contender for the Oscars . And I'm glad I did . It's imperfect , but worthwhile . And it's a huge improvement over 21 Grams . As is the vogue , Babel contains three stories connected tenuously by narrative , but more closely related by theme . That theme is the difficulty of communication , and also the inception of bridges spanning that difficulty . In one story , an American tourist in Morocco is accidentally shot by a child playing with a rifle . The second story takes place in the near future with that woman's children , as their caretaker , an illegal immigrant from Mexico , is forced to take them with her to her son's wedding across the border . The third story is about a deaf-mute Japanese teenager who is growing apart from her father , and is love-starved . Honestly , I don't think Iñárritu or his screenwriter , Guillermo Arriaga , hit a homerun with their themes . I really don't think the film ends up saying anything important . And the interlocking narratives don't end up commenting on each other very well . The Japanese story in particular feels like it's out of left field . What I do like about the film is just the stories themselves . All three stories , even though they don't connect very well , are involving and entertaining . And Iñárritu directs them very well . Using a lot of close-ups , he succeeds in putting us directly into the action , and I felt like I was experiencing what the characters were experiencing . It's thrilling to feel that culture shock when the affluent white children find themselves in the middle of Mexican wedding festivities . Or the thrill when the deaf Japanese girl enters a night club for the first time , and how frightening it is to have the strobe lights destroy your ability to contact other human beings . The film may fail on a number of levels , but it does succeed in being vivid , which is something many better films fail to do . So I quite liked it .
Beautiful , but I have some problems	A teenage British girl ( Jenny Agutter ) and her little brother are taken deep into the Australian Outback by their father for a good , old-fashioned murder-suicide . When the kids get away , the father goes ahead with his own death , figuring they'll probably die in the desert . They last by themselves long enough , but soon an Aboriginal teenager comes upon them and helps them survive . The film is more a collection of images and impressions than a narrative . Roeg likes to compare the savagery of nature with that of civilization . The big problem with the film is that a sexual tension develops between the Aboriginal boy and the white girl . That's actually the main thrust ( excuse the pun ) of the latter half of the film . Honestly , though I'm sure Roeg was being daring for his time , the conceit in itself is pretty racist . The story is basically one of interracial lust , with the white woman interested but unwilling and the black man super-horny for white meat . Really , Aboriginal women do appear in the film , and I would assume that that culture's standard of beauty must be extremely different from our own . And it's funny when the Aboriginal boy , to attract Agutter , does a goofy mating dance to attract her . Perhaps that is how they do it , but to me this little bit animalized the boy to a nasty degree . I should also say that the little white boy , played by Roeg's son Luc , is one of those painful little brats who chatters on endlessly . My thoughts at the beginning , when the father was taking pot shots at him , was that this murder-suicide was entirely justifiable on account of his son's annoyingness . Really , the boy is only there through the rest of the film so the black boy can't bone the white girl . Okay , I have a couple of seemingly major criticisms of the film . Honestly , I enjoyed Walkabout quite a bit . While it's racist attitudes toward sex might be offensive , hell , it is a genuinely erotic film . And it's simply beautiful . Its images are haunting .
Brutal	Imagine Truffaut's The 400 Blows with a more literal title , and you've got Bunuel's Los Olvidados . It's his attempt at neorealism - only twice does he delve into his surrealism . I saw it in a theater with a small audience , and there were a lot of groans , gasps , and cringes as the film progressed , all quite deserved . It's a very good film . I give it an . If I see it again , I might raise that score , since the film that I watched had a whole reel without subtitles .
Excellent	This is a Hollywood silent film of great spectacle and emotion . Lon Chaney as Quasimodo is entirely believable . He exudes a supreme sense of pathos . However , I'll remember it most because of Patsy Ruth Miller who plays Esmerelda . She is very , very good . The mob scenes at the end are unpolished - that sort of filmmaking hadn't been perfected yet , I suppose . I also dislike color tinting . I know , I know , that's what they originally did . However , I can't imagine that the photographers liked it , since it makes all their images dull and murky . It seriously looks like someone pulled the print I saw out of a recently-desecrated porcelain god . .
Should have been one of Hitchcock's best , but . . .	Marnie was made after a string of knock-out masterpieces by possibly the greatest director ever made . At the time of its release , it was considered a huge failure by critics and audiences . To be truthful , it is a failure . But it is an extremely interesting failure . The relationship that Sean Connery developes with Tippi Hedron is very complex and fascinating . Connery , a rich man who becomes sexually attracted to a woman who is a pathological thief and a hater of men , forces her to marry him with jail time as her only other option . This is quite cruel , and it makes for some very interesting narrative . Although Marnie is the title character , I think we learn more about Connery than her . His acting is nearly immaculate here , certainly the best he's ever done . Hedron is a bit disappointing . Her character has many complexities , and often Hedron is good enough to express them , but when the tension starts to get a bit much and Marnie starts to break down , Hedron is unable to make her insanity believable . Instead , it looks quite silly . A few other grave missteps wreck the film further . The flashes of red and Marnie's following spasms are not handled well at all . This is partly due to a poorly written score by Bernard Herrmann , easily the worst one he ever did for Hitchcock ( and , to my knowledge , the worst he ever did , period ) . This score , reminiscent of Vertigo ( as well as the story itself ) , forces itself into the picture at awkward times , making several scenes seem utterly ridiculous . When Marnie sees red , or hears thunder or tapping , Herrmann's score soars to unnecessary heights . His scores for such films as Vertigo and Psycho are much more subtle . Even with these smaller pieces not working , Marnie still would have finished a near-masterpiece , if not for the terrible finale . The entire resolution is entirely unsatisfying for many reasons . First off , it's too convenient that everything works out as it does . Like Scotty in Vertigo , Rutland ( Connery ) tries to force a truth out of his woman . But Vertigo had suspense in this final scene , where Marnie has none . This is because there is absolutely no danger in this final confrontation . Second , the mother is a very poor actor . She is entirely unconvincing . Third , the flashback feels very awkward . Just a few years before , they would have not been able to show or even imply what happened in this scene in a film , but in 1963 , it still wasn't entirely acceptable . I would guess that this really alienated audiences at the time . It alienates viewers now because of the odd staging of the whole situation . It all plays out in an unconvincing way . It's difficult to explain , but I think it will be self-explanatory when you see it . I actually think that Marnie could be remade into a great film . Only a few of Hitchcock's films have been remade , and all the remakes have been heavily derided . But this film , obviously flawed in many ways , could easily be improved . Just weaken the score a bit , don't use the gimicky fade to reds , and tighten up the finale . It could be great . As it stands , it's still quite good . .
One of Woody's most mature and underrated dramas	There was a certain period in Woody Allen's career when he was trying desperately to imitate Ingmar Bergman's work . It rarely worked , and often turned out disasters like the execrable September . Another Woman is a riff on Bergman's Wild Strawberries : a college professor , played by Gena Rowlands , is past fifty and looking back on and reliving key events in her life as her present life is falling apart . The film is quite stagy at times , just as it was in September , Allen's previous film . He seems to think that adds something , but it really doesn't . One other problem Another Woman has is a couple of very clunky scenes , and a few poor bit performers , which were much bigger problems in September , which was actually the last Allen film that I saw and the one that made me subconsciously avoid him for the past several months . Allen's script here is excellent . He has produced an excellent character study which is probably unsurpassed in all of his other films that I've seen . The lead actors are wonderful here , Rowlands , Ian Holms , Blythe Danner , Sandy Dennis , and Gene Hackman . Allen's use of piano music is beautifully touching . It all adds up to a very touching and sad little film . It might not be Woody's best film , but it ought to be better respected and known . .
This comment may contain small spoilers , but nothing huge	James Gray's third film , seven years after his previous , the criminally underrated The Yards . That film starred Joaquin Phoenix and Mark Wahlberg . They must have realized that Gray , who also wrote the script to The Yards , gave them some damn fine roles there , so they came back , and even helped produce We Own the Night . This film belongs more to Phoenix than Wahlberg , and he's fantastic . It's kind of like the reverse of The Godfather , where Phoenix plays a man with criminal friends who gets pulled into police life . Gray's direction is superb . He gives the film the same low-key intensity that existed in The Yards . There are also two setpieces that should be included among the best sequences of the year . Especially notable is the outstanding car chase in a heavy downpour , which has been compared to the infamous French Connection sequence . This one is actually quite a bit better , and may be the scene of the year . Just the way Gray keeps the focus on Phoenix's car , even when all kinds of other stuff is happening . It gives it a horrifyingly claustrophobic tone that's amazing . The script isn't quite on the level that the rest of the film is , unfortunately . For a story about familial bonds , I don't think Gray did a good job establishing the relationships between Phoenix , Wahlberg and their father , played by Robert Duvall . The film just goes an easy route , making Phoenix a black sheep and not telling me enough to make me really care . In addition , the character of Phoenix's girlfriend , played by Eva Mendes , is underdeveloped . We never learn enough about her , and after a while it feels like she's only there for sex appeal ( she does kind of provide a vital plot point , but so what ? ) . I also didn't buy the climactic sequence at all . It doesn't make any real sense that they'd allow a newbie like Phoenix to go on a raid . One other small detail that drove me nuts : the film takes place in 1988 , but the movie opens with a Blondie song playing in a night club . Couldn't we find a better song than " Heart of Glass " to establish that it's 1988 ? And later , in the same night club , they're playing " Rapture " ! That's just odd . In my opinion , Phoenix gets pretty much all the acting honors . Wahlberg isn't given much to do . Duvall is pretty good , but he's done better . Woljciech Kilar provides a masterful score ( which is why sometimes the film seems like it's even better than it is ) , and the sound design is certainly Oscar-worthy ( keep your ears wide-open during the car chase sequence , as well as the other awesome setpiece , the drug raid ) .
A lot of fun , even if a bit empty	Style over substance can be a lot of fun , like in this movie . It's about a knife thrower ( Daniel Auteuil ) who recruits a suicidal girl ( Vanessa Paradis ) for his act . She doesn't want to live anyway , so why not die in a more interesting way than jumping off a bridge ? The story's too vapid , and that's what makes it fade from memory so quickly after it's over , but there's a ton to offer while you're watching it . Leconte's quick pace and flashy direction is aesthetically alluring . The black and white cinematography is very beautiful . Although their characters aren't especially great , the two leads turn in excellent performances . Paradis is very cute ( she could stand to get her teeth fixed , though ) , and I love Auteuil's look . He's got the most interesting nose since Jimmy Durante . Okay , so maybe its not the performers who are particularly great but their appearances . Good casting , perhaps . The script does have a nice vein of comedy running through it , too . I had thought it was going to take itself too seriously , which would have rendered the whole project rather useless .
Quite good , but I wish Svankmajer would use more animation	Perhaps Jan Svankmajer is sick of the medium of stop-motion animation which first made him famous . Perhaps he's trying to move into pure filmmaking . And perhaps I shouldn't criticize him for that . He's actually an excellent live-action director as well , which Little Otik ( in Czech " Otesanek , " " Greedy Guts , " the name of an Eastern European fairy tale from which the script is adapted ) demonstrates . But I'm not sure he wants to leave stop-motion animation behind . It seems to me more like he wants to use it more often in the film , but he didn't have the money . If you're interested in Svankmajer's work , start with his short stop-motion films , then move to Alice , his version of Alice in Wonderland , and then move to this film and then Faust . As for the film itself , it's imperfect . Its biggest problem is that it's overlong . There's really not enough meat in it ( well , there's enough meat literally ) . It can move slowly , especially nearer the beginning . Also , the ending is a bit abrupt . Still , there're a lot of great scenes and set pieces . It can also be very funny . It's certainly the most humorous side of Jan Svankmajer that I've seen . .
Behold my awesome break dancing !	There's something about a cheesy 80s movie that pleases me to no end , and this is one of the cheesiest . Made simply to cash in on the break dancing fad that was popular at the time , the film stars Adolfo " Shabbadoo " Quinones and Michael " Boogaloo Shrimp " Chambers as two inner city toughs who battle their enemies by lockin ' , popping ' , and , of course , breakin ' instead of with knives and guns . Lucinda Dickey plays our white suburban tour guide to the inner city as a jazz dancer who falls in love with street dancing ? and possibly a black man , though the movie is so coy about the interracial relationship romance that it is only ever implied ? even through the film's sequel ? that there is any attraction whatsoever between the two . While the cheese never stops flowing and it would be a lot of fun for no other reason , the dance sequences are actually very impressive . Boogaloo Shrimp is particularly great in his dance with the broom ( even though I can see the strings attached to it ) . The film also features Ice T , some eight years before he penned " Cop Killas " , and apparently Jean-Claude Van Damme , though I missed him . Lucinda Dickey starred in one of my other favorite cult classics in the same year , Ninja III : The Domination .
Flawed , but too charming not to like a lot	The Coen Brothers ' fifth film . It's well liked today , but was a disaster when it opened , grossing less than $3 million domestic on a budget of around $25 million . It also didn't do that well critically . It's not hard to see why . It's a film of all style and no substance . It's often easy to get lost in its labyrinthine production design and forget about the rather forgettable characters . Not to mention that it has the most forehead-slapping deus ex machina outside of Greek tragedy . Oh how I wish the Coens and co-writer Sam Raimi would have re-read the script one last time and realized how poor that whole climactic sequence really was . The characters may not be as interesting as they are in any of their other films , but they deserve better than that . Despite its massive flaws , I must say that The Hudsucker Proxy is so extremely enjoyable that it's pretty close to impossible to dislike . I for one enjoy getting lost in the art deco New York City the Coens have created . And there's something magical in the clockwork way the film runs , the mechanical dialogue and editing . It's strange , and it's not always successful , but it's so wholly original that I have a lot of affection for the picture .
Rohmer has made much better , but this is still very good	Not one of Rohmer's best , especially from a writing standpoint . It seems to me that he wasn't particularly interested in this project , or at least he is unable to make the story as interesting as I find most of his other films . However , several points elevate this film far beyond what it could have been . First thing , the cinematography , by Néstor Almendros , is stunning . Rohmer pays particular attention to the composition , something which he isn't generally known for . I think it hurts the film , but one thing can't be denied : it looks as painterly as possible . Also , the performances are generally great . Bruno Ganz kind of disappointed me , but that's mainly because I consider him one of the greatest actors . His performance here is good , but not at the level of the other films in which I've seen him . On the other hand , the star of the film , Edith Clever , is amazing as the titular character . She becomes pregnant even though she has not had relations with a man since her husband died a couple of years earlier . She must face the prejudices of the time ( a good story of a woman up against society , though it's been done better before ) . The Marquise's parents are played by Peter Lühr and Edda Seippel , and they both give excellent performances as well . All in all , a beautiful experience , if not the most exciting .
Shockingly good ' 80s horror movie - which deserves far better than a 4 . 8 rating !	Not that there aren't a good number of decent ' 80s horror movies , but I had always been lead to believe that C . H . U . D . was a piece of crap , at most a so-bad-it's-good type of flick . Maybe it's because I came in with low expectations , or because the day before I slogged through the truly awful Silent Night , Deadly Night , compared to which almost anything semi-competent would look like a masterpiece , but I was marvelously entertained by C . H . U . D . It's more than just semi-competent , thankfully . While certainly a B-movie , C . H . U . D . succeeds in the areas where most horror movies fail . The direction and editing are good . That is , the filmmakers actually understand how to build suspense . That suspense also couldn't have existed without a screenwriter who knew how to create those suspenseful situations , as well as characters whom we care about , at least a little . The film has three heroes : John Heard , a photographer who is clued into the existence of monsters living in the sewers , Christopher Curry , a police detective investigating several disappearances , and Daniel Stern , who runs a soup kitchen where many underground-dwelling homeless people tell him about the weird happenings below . Heard's character seems a little extraneous at times , but he does provide the movie's female interest , Kim Greist . If they were going to stick in a horrible actor anywhere in the film , it would have been a bimbo in this role of the damsel in distress , but no : Greist's character comes off as a real person , and the actress doesn't even have to take off her clothes to keep our attention ( not much anyway ? she does play a model , but she's never denuded ) . The main reason to see a movie like this is of course the monsters , and the C . H . U . D . s are delightfully gross and frightening . The movie is pretty gory , but not arbitrarily so . I'm not saying the movie is any kind of masterpiece or anything , and it has its share of the ' 80s cheese , but it was a big surprise how entertaining it was .
A solid effort by John Ford	No masterpiece , but a fine piece of work . Three bank robbers in the old West , played by John Wayne , Pedro Armendáriz , and Harry Carey Jr . , run from the sheriff of Welcome , Arizona ( Ward Bond ) . The first forty minutes or so consist of this simple but entertaining tale of bandits trying to survive the desert and an intelligent sheriff who tries to get one step ahead of him . Then the film takes an interesting turn . The three bandits find a dying pregnant woman , help deliver her child , and then are forced to keep him ( and themselves ) alive . Like many Ford films , there is a ton of religious allegory . Some might consider it heavy-handed , but to me it seemed well done . Instead of just setting up parallels with the Biblical tales of the infancy of Christ for those in the know , the three bandits themselves discover the parallels and are convinced that they have to get the baby to a town called Jerusalem . The story is often very harrowing . I don't think that the characters are very believable bandits . They're too nice . The other thing I really don't like is the end , which seems inconsistent with the mood of the rest of the film . It's a bit anticlimactic . John Ford's direction is good , but , compared with his previous two films , My Darling Clementine and The Fugitive , it doesn't register as one of his best . The performers are generally good . Harry Carey Jr . , in his screen debut , is the best ( the picture is also dedicated to his father , who had recently died ) . Ward Bond is also quite good . .
Quite good	A man runs into a pretty but aging woman in the middle of a rainstorm . He politely protects her from the downpour with his umbrella , and even lifts her over a fence so she can get to her bus . He also gets on the bus , and , beginning to pant , she declares that she can't go near anyone else on the bus , because she's a famous actress and she'll be thronged . The other passengers on the bus look up at the exasperated woman , but don't pay her any more mind than that . A bit later , the woman proudly tells the man that she is Veronika Voss , and all he can do is politely nod . She hasn't been in a movie for three years , and hasn't been in a good one for longer than that . Veronika has to try really hard to pin the man , Robert , down and seduce him , and even when she accomplishes this feat he doesn't seem particularly interested . Robert's interest does grow when he begins to discover some nasty secrets about her life , notably that she is addicted to morphine . A strange doctor seems to be little more than a local drug dealer when he begins to look into the situation . The plot is decent ; it would have been a really good one for a classic Hollywood film starring Joan Crawford or Bette Davis or someone like that . Its greatest worth is in the performance of Rosel Zech , who has the titular role . Cornelia Froboess as Robert's girlfriend and Annemarie Düringer as the wicked doctor are also good . The character of Robert is never very interesting . The black and white cinematography ( Xaver Schwarzenberger ) and the unconventional score ( Peer Raben ) are very good . The tape I watched was not in a very good condition , so I may have liked it more if I had seen a better copy . .
Much better than most would have you believe	This film has suffered some pretty undue criticism . It gets the dreaded ' BOMB ' rating in Leonard Maltin's guide , followed by ' The worst film of a great director . ' I haven't seen more than a couple of Penn's other films , so I can't comment on that , but it is hardly a bomb . Sure , it is a little slow moving , and it doesn't quite feel like the themes of the film were totally panned out , but most of the film is very good . I'm assuming Brando's the problem with most of the film's detractors . Wow , is his performance weird here . If you ever wanted to find the missing link between The Godfather and Apocalypse Now , here it is . He plays a bounty hunter of sorts hired to discover some horse thieves and murderers . This character is very eccentric , and I'm guessing that Brando had a lot of artistic input on this one based on his later career . He's basically a psycho killer , and he seems much more lawless than the criminals he's seeking . He also speaks with an Irish brogue , some of the time . Personally , the waxing and waning accent is my only real problem with the role , and I'm not a big accent baby anyway . It's a tiny flaw in what is otherwise a very interesting performance . Brando creates a very memorable character . Jack Nicholson plays his rival . He's almost ready to go straight , having found a nice , small ranch and a girlfriend ( Kathleen Lloyd ) . His performance is subdued , and I really think Nicholson is best when he's like that . This isn't his greatest performance , but it is subtle and it's very good . The flaws of the film are offset by the number of great scenes in it . Almost every single actor gets one scene alone with Brando , and both Randy Quaid and Harry Dean Stanton deliver excellent performances especially in those scenes . Nicholson's two best scenes are also alone with Brando . I would guess than he had something to do with their co-star ; I do think Brando deserves some credit for the excellence of these scenes . Penn's direction is nothing to write home about . I love the two other films I've seen by him , Mickey One and Bonnie and Clyde , but , let's face it , he was more or less ripping off the Italian and French cinemas of the time , respectively . Missouri Breaks is much more straighforward in that respect , and perhaps it is here that it could have used a boost of energy . .
Utterly hilarious	I had flirted with the idea of seeing this film when it was in theaters , then again when it hit DVD , but somehow never got around to it . I don't even remember why I put it up at the top of my Netflix queue . Must have seen it referenced somewhere and my interest was renewed . I'm ecstatic that I finally caught up to it , though . It's hilarious ! This generation of Saturday Night Live is pretty dismal , but one of the few good things about it is Andy Sandberg and his digital shorts . They aren't always great , but they're weird and frequently inspired . He stars in this movie about a man who wants to follow in his dead father's footsteps and become a stuntman . In a very common plot for SNL players , Sandberg's stepfather is going to die if he doesn't get a heart transplant . That'll cost 50 grand , and Sandberg thinks that , if he completes one awesome stunt , he'll make the money needed . Much as all of the movies like this ( e . g . , Dirty Work , which starred Norm MacDonald ) , the plot is very secondary . Jokes are first . And jokes about the lameness of the plot are hugely encouraged . In fact , Sandberg only wants to heal his stepdad ( Ian McShane ) because he wants to kick his butt just once in a fair fight before he dies . Isla Fisher plays Sandberg's love interest , but his desires are thwarted by ultra-windbag Will Arnet , one of the funniest men on Earth . He brings this stereotypical character to ridiculous heights of meta-comedy . Danny McBride , Bill Hader and Jorma Taccone co-star as Sandberg's wacky crew . McBride and Hader have become sure-fire signs of a great comedy . There are so many great bits in Hot Rod : the crazy dancing Asian guy , Bill Hader's calm recollection of his acid trip , a fight between a taco and a grilled cheese sandwich , Sandberg " punch-dancing " his rage out . Little of it comes close to being describable . It's weird and wild , and sure to be something of a cult comedy classic .
Gripping depiction of obscure WWII history	I had thought the title of this one was an American invention to capitalize off of the American film The Longest Day , but I do believe " Japan's Longest Day " is the actual title . It has nothing to do with the other film . It , in fact , depicts perhaps the most tense day in modern Japanese history , the 24 hours between August 14th and 15th , 1945 . The simplified version of WWII history has the Japanese quickly surrendering with their tales between their legs after the Allies dropped the bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki , but a nation so wound up in nationalistic and militaristic pride wasn't ready to give up that easily . The film doesn't depict the citizenry ? one could imagine they would be mostly sick of war . But the military certainly was ready to go all the way , to have every person in Japan martyred . Emperor Hirohito , who is supposed to be looked upon as divine by his people , decided that his empire must surrender . Many of the heads of military only agree grudgingly . Many of their underlings rebel . Hirohito makes a recording of his surrender message , to be played at noon on the 15th . A group of soldiers tries to rally others not to listen , and they attempt a coup and try to steal the record . The film is long ? 2 hours and 37 minutes . We are given the names of every single character in the film ? I would venture to guess that over 100 names are thrown at us over the film , right up until the end . It's difficult to follow , but I don't believe it's necessary to understand every nuance of what was happening . The previous year , Kihachi Okamoto made what is probably his best ( and best-known ) film , Sword of Doom . Why choose him for this project ? Well , there is at least one scene where that is pretty much answered ( just remember that the Japanese soldiers still had samurai swords ) . Really , though , I don't think the direction is that impressive . As a film , it's nothing fantastic . But for the depiction of the minutiae of history , it's well worth watching . Toshiro Mifune , Takashi Shimura and Chishu Ryu all have large roles , but I honestly didn't even recognize them . They fade into these historical characters perfectly .
Well made adventure yarn	A great action / adventure movie ! I was surprised at just how good it was , as it has received so little attention . Viggo Mortensen of Lord of the Rings plays Frank Hopkins , a real-life cowboy , although probably much fictionalized in this movie . He is a half-breed , part Native American and part white . In the film's prologue , he works for the cavalry and witnesses the massacre of his people at Wounded Knee . The event scars him and he becomes a lush . For some easy money , he and his horse , Hidalgo , enter Buffalo Bill's roadshow . Hidalgo is so famous that a sheik has sent a servant to invite him to participate in a race across the Arabian desert , which he accepts , it being a better alternative to the humiliating performances . It's really a classical adventure movie , with princesses and scimitars and sandstorms and swarms of locusts . Omar Sharif co-stars as the sheik . Its nice to see a movie like this made with care . It never gets stupid , and , while it moves quickly , it isn't too fast , either . The director is Joe Johnston , whom I think is an undervalued filmmaker who specializes in these kinds of enjoyable yarns . His previous films include Jurassic Park 3 , which is my favorite of that series , Jumanji , The Rocketeer , Honey I Shrunk the Kids , as well as episodes of The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles , which I loved in my tween years . He also made October Sky , which I haven't seen , but has been recommended . The film also features good performances from Zuleikha Robinson , soon to be a star , I'm sure , Louise Lombard , and Adam Alexi-Malle , one of my favorite character actors ( he was the guy who wrote Chubby Rain in the movie Bowfinger ) . .
Very good , for the most part	A biopic of Vincent Van Gogh , played with much passion by Kirk Douglas in one of his very best performances . Douglas perfectly captures Van Gogh's intensity and twitchy genius . I really can't believe he lost to Yul Brynner's iconic but ridiculous performance in The King and I . Anthony Quinn won an Oscar for his performance as Van Gogh's friend and fellow painter , Paul Gaugin . The best scenes in the film are when the two get together and argue over painting techniques , styles , and worth . James Donald is also very good as Theo Van Gogh , Vincent's brother and art dealer . Add to that the marvelous score by Miklos Rozsa and beautiful cinematography , which attempts to mimic the painter's work , by Russell Harlan and Freddie Young . Yet , with all these great elements , the film disappointed me . It lacks the power that its title suggests ; there really isn't a lust for anything . Minnelli fails at capturing the force of Van Gogh's painting , even when all the other artists involved were so on the mark . Perhaps I shouldn't blame the director , but rather the screenwriter , Norman Corwin , or the original novelist , Irving Stone . Yeah , I suppose Stone is to blame , judging from the other adaptation of his I've seen , The Agony and the Ecstasy , a biopic of another artist , Michelangelo . It was similarly weak , although I'd really have to read the original novels to know if he was more to blame than the screenwriters . The concentration on the narrative and not the emotions is the biggest mistake . Really , Van Gogh didn't have any more interesting life than I did , so to concentrate on what happens isn't the best choice . But Minnelli could have chosen to change the focus . His better films , most notably An American in Paris , are more abstract than general Hollywood fare . Still , with all the greatness that can be found in the film , it should not be missed . .
Odd and Engaging	This Lon Chaney vehicle , directed by the great Tod Browning , is the story of three circus performers who begin to thieve jewels . They open a shop that sells parrots as a front . Chaney , a ventriloquist , dresses up as an old woman , one of his cohorts a man posing as the old woman's son , and the third , a midget , as his infant son ( one of the major reasons to see this flick is that the same midget , here named Tweedledeedee , also plays Hans , the midget who marries the acrobat Cleopatra in Browning's later masterpiece , Freaks ; in this film he actually is seen smoking a giant cigar , which , in Freaks , his fiancee suggested that he shouldn't smoke ) . One other circus performer , a woman , knows about their plans . Chaney loves her , but she doesn't reciprocate his feelings . The Unholy Three also hire a young dufus to help with the store . In case they get into trouble , they can always pin it on that guy . The store also sports a chimpanzee , humorously filmed so that he seems as big as a gorilla ( when it is to walk through a doorway , it walks through a smaller doorway , for instance , than the actors do ) . The story of the film is very interesting . It can also can be quite funny , quite suspenseful , and quite pathetic , especially when Chaney is trying to court the young woman . There's at least one masterful sequence , where a policeman almost discovers the jewels the gang has stolen . They hide it in a toy elephant , which amuses the officer very much . The film also uses ventriloquism quite marvelously - I assume that a lot of the audience of this film in 1925 only knew of ventriloquism by second-hand knowledge - they just knew that ventriloquists could throw their voices , not knowing what it would actually look or sound like . In a silent movie then , you could take full advantage of the audience's ignorance . When Madame O'Grady ( Chaney's aka ) is trying to sell parrots that don't actually talk as talking parrots , she throws her voice to fool the customers . Browning actually shows that the parrots are supposed to be speaking by drawing speech bubbles on the film in front of the birds ! The climax also uses ventriloquism wonderfully : Chaney throws his voice to a man who is on the stand , apparently testifying - he moves his lips , but Chaney supplies the voice . Of course , we know that's ridiculous , but only a few in 1925 would have scoffed . .
Not Tsukamoto's best work , but still quite good	It's his least wild , though it does have a certain sense of weirdness to it . The story involves a medical student ( Ichi the Killer's Tadanobu Asano ) who experiences a bout of amnesia after a car accident . When he re-enrolls in school , he finds himself in a dissection class taking apart his former girlfriend , who was in the passenger seat during the accident . There's a subtext of necrophilia , which Tsukamoto explores in the film's first half . But he ends up veering away from any taboos and into more conventional drama . Actually , it's still pretty unconventional . It gets a bit too ponderous in the second half , and there are some scenes that drag . But Tsukamoto captures some brilliant images , and his infamous editing style pops up frequently , and is put to great use . There are some truly wonderful sequences . I especially loved all the sequences where the protagonist visits his dead lover in a fantasy landscape . The film ends beautifully . I really liked Asano's two female co-stars , Nami Tsukamoto ( not sure if she's any relation to the director ) and Kiki . Both are gorgeous , though each of them could eat the occasional burger . They're absolutely skeletal . Thank God for companies like Tartan Asian Extreme . This DVD is an especially nice edition with quite a few worthwhile extras .
I don't have much new to add , but this film is unfortunately being overlooked	I'm a sucker for movies about people and their pets . This film stars former SNL player Molly Shannon as a secretary whose personal life revolves around her beagle , Pencil . When he passes away unexpectedly , she has to find another reason to go on . The film first hints that she'll discover the world of humans around her , particularly men , as two new ones ( John C . Reilly & Peter Saarsgard ) enter her life . But it smartly steers away from the obvious and veers into a more original voyage of self-discovery . My only real problem with the film is that a lot of the supporting characters are a little too caricature-esquire ( notably Shannon's boss , played by Josh Pais ) , but writer / director White does a good job of redeeming them for the most part . A very touching , gentle film that's well worth your time .
A little overrated , but certainly very good	Although probably not one of the greatest and most profound films ever made , as many have claimed , Abbas Kiarostami's Close-Up is certainly a notable achievement , a very interesting and often fascinating film . Either a pseudo - or semi-documentary , Kiarostami keeps everything very ambiguous . The " story " is a true one . Hossain Sabzian is unemployed , divorced , and a pathetic human being . He enjoys the cinema very much and , when the chance presents itself , he tells an aging woman , Mahrokh Ahankhah , that he is the famed director Mohsen Makhmalbaf . She and her family had recently enjoyed one of his films , and she invites him to dinner . At the Ahankhahs ' home he continues his charade , and begins to lie about wanting to make a film starring the family , using their home as the setting . He searches through their house and the surrounding area and even borrows money from the youngest son . Their relationship continues , but soon they are tipped off to the fraud he is committing . They have him arrested and take him to court on fraud charges . Now a good portion of this narrative that I've described is not shown on screen . Close-Up begins with Sabzian's arrest as viewed from the outside . I don't know when else I can do it in this review , but I'd like to express my fondness for the two scenes where the camera watches an empty can of spray paint roll down the street . I'm not sure if it's supposed to represent something or not , but the camera captures it beautifully as it rolls over top of a couple of dried leaves , lifting them up and tossing them mere centimeters in the air . Moving on , we watch Abbas Kiarostami ask Sabzian if he can document his trial on film . Of course , as a huge film lover , he agrees . Most of the film takes place at the trial , where Sabzian defends himself and the youngest member of the Ahankhah family prosecutes him . A judge presides . It is never really revealed whether the footage of the trial is real or a recreation . I read up on the film a little , and both circumstances are claimed by different reviews . Personally , I think it's all a recreation for a couple of different reasons ( that I don't feel like going over ; it's not really that important ) . A couple of times the film goes into flashback . We see Sabzian and Mrs . Ahankhah on the bus . We also see the arrest again , but this time from the inside . During the trial , Sabzian explains his reasons for impersonating Makhmalbaf , which are actually very touching . The film also has some subtle humor and it refrains from making fun of its subject . Questions are raised on the cult of identity and on the power of the cinema . They aren't really fully explored however . I think Kiarostami's biggest problem is his undying faith in his film's utter ambiguity . The idea is interesting and rather successful , but it shouldn't be taken as profundity . Other films have explored the documentary genre with as much or more success . Orson Welles ' final film , F for Fake , is a lot more entertaining than Close-Up , although it has its flaws , as well . The best film like this that I've seen is Victor Erice's masterpiece Dream of Light ( aka Quince Tree of the Sun ) , which was made a couple of years later . That film left me with more to think about , both in its themes and its playfulness with the documentary genre , than this one does . However , Close-Up , as I've said , is an achievement , not to be scoffed at . .
A Lesson that Ought to be Learned by American Animators	Don't get me wrong , I did really enjoy this film , but it is also a good example of why I think American animation is far inferior to Japanese animation . And I am talking solely about the animation ( i . e . , character design , movement , and scenery ) , not the story complexity . There is no doubt that the stories of Japanese animated films are more complex than those of American animated films . The Iron Giant's story is basically taken straight from E . T . Anyhow , watch how mannered the designs of the characters ' faces are in this film . Check out how large Hogarth's ears are . And check out how exaggerated the characters ' movements are . This becomes staggeringly unrealistic very quickly . It begins to look , well , just plain goofy . People don't really look like this . They don't make these sorts of expressions . People always complain about the eye size of Japanese anime characters . Their eyes are big for a simple reason which was stated in ancient Rome by the neo-Platonist philosopher Plotinus : the eyes are the windows of the soul . The sculptors of the later Roman Empire always made the eyes on statues enormous , just like the Japanese animators do . Most human expression comes from the eyes , so Japanese animators made the eyes on their characters bigger . What most critics of the Japanese anime eye-size have failed to notice is how large the American animators have made the eyes on their characters . The Americans are obviously learning something from the Japanese . Disney animators have said that there is not a work day that goes by where they do not watch parts of films by Hayao Miyazaki . These films have influenced them greatly . But what American animators have missed in the Japanese animation is that the other pieces of their characters ' faces are extremely downplayed . Their mouths , ears , and nose are all very small . Humans express much less in these areas of their faces than the characters of American animated films . This over-exaggeration has occurred in all Disney movies after The Little Mermaid , The Iron Giant , The Road to El Dorado , and I can even see that this is a problem in the upcoming animated flick Titan A . E . It is a big problem , and it must be solved . As for the film itself , after I got around those technicalities , I was quite touched . I liked the anti-violence theme a lot . I think it is a very good film for children . I give it an .
Kind of unfocused , but Sally Hawkins can melt even the most frozen of hearts	Loose , even for a Mike Leigh film . It's focus is on an extraordinarily joyful woman named Poppy ( Sally Hawkins ) , who will not allow the weight of the world to wear down her natural high . Plot-wise , not much happens except for that her attitude is challenged by a few people she runs into , most notably her mean-spirited driving instructor ( Eddie Marsan ) . I'd probably rank this last among all the Leigh films I've seen . It's just too unfocused . That said , I have to admit that , while I assumed from the previews that I'd end up utterly annoyed by Hawkins ' manic state of existence , she captured my heart from the beginning . Poppy's happy-go-luckiness is infectious , and I was not immune . And I'm a pretty cynical guy . I would predict that this infectiousness will lead Hawkins to a deserved Oscar nomination in January . I also think Marsan is award-worthy . The climactic scene where his increasing anger finally erupts raises the film to a higher level .
Good Fassbinder with a great Brigitte Mira	Good Fassbinder , if a little lethargic . Brigitte Mira , who just passed away earlier this month , plays a housewife who has long settled in her uneventful life . One day , however , her husband commits murder-suicide at the factory in which he works . Suddenly she has to deal with the media , as well as her uncaring family . She can't really figure out why her husband did what he did . Luckily , some local communists show up to help her figure it out . Soon she's a pawn in their politics . And , when they don't satisfy her need for an explanation , a group of anarchists steps in to use her for their own political purposes . The film ends twice ? once we read Fassbinder's original scripted ending , then we see the ending he did use . Both work , though I think the first , unfilmed one is a lot more Fassbinder-esque . Mira is wonderful , as usual ; some of the family material is too close to Fear Eats the Soul , and is rendered somewhat ineffective because of that .
Mostly great , with a few bad sequences that significantly harm the film	I'm not especially familiar with all aspects of the Kennedy assassination ( it was well before my time ) , but one thing's for sure : the Warren Commission's final word is more than a little incredible . I don't know how much of Oliver Stone's film is provable fact , how much of it is loony conjecture , or how much he just plain made up ( he says none , but others have denied that ) . What I do know is that the film , even though it runs at 3 and a half hours , is engaging , exciting , gripping and suspenseful . I'm not a big fan of movies that follow investigations , but it's great here . And I especially hate courtroom dramas , but the final sequences of the movie represent an extremely tight tour-de-force . The film is at its best when it's exploring the mystery , and , confoundingly , at its very worst when it takes time to develop its characters . There are two scenes particularly when Jim Garrison's wife ( played by Sissy Spacek at her very worst ) accosts him for not spending enough time with his family . I'm thinking , " HELLO ! Most important investigation in American history going on here ! " I think his kids would forgive him in the future for being a bit inattentive at the time . The second of these scenes , where Costner explains to his kids that he won't be leaving their mommy , almost had me throwing stuff at the screen it was so sappy . Kevin Costner isn't very interesting , and , besides , from what I've read Stone really softened the character of Jim Garrison , so any character development on that front is dishonest . Most of the best acting comes from the massive supporting cast , where almost anybody is liable to show up . I was quite happy when John Larroquette showed up , and even happier when Donald Sutherland appeared . And Brian Doyle Murray as Jack Ruby ? Awesome . My favorite performance by far was Kevin Bacon . I always feel bad for the guy , because he's spent such a long career acting in middling roles . He really is a fine actor , which he gets to prove every so often . He only has five or six minutes in this film , but he's great .
Pretty funny	The Man Who Came to Dinner is a little uneven , but it's mostly entertaining . The unevenness comes mainly from the dullness of the budding relationship which the film holds in focus . The original play is very well written , especially the dialogue . It was actually performed at my high school when I was there . But its the cast here that excels . Monty Woolley is great in the titular role . He plays Sheridan Whiteside to absolute perfection . Bette Davis is quite good as his secretary , but the role is actually somewhat below her standards . I'm sure she took the role because she loved the play so much and was sure it'd be a hit , but that role is pretty dull . Ann Sheridan perhaps gives the film's most memorable performance as an egotistical Hollywood diva who's not sure whether she wants to marry British nobility for money or just chase around cute guys . Also noteworthy are Billie Burke as Mrs . Stanley , the Ohio society woman who invites Whiteside to dinner , Reginald Gardiner as an eloquent celebrity friend of Whiteside ( far underused ) , and the incredibly insane Jimmy Durante as Banjo . He comes into the film very late , but he very nearly steals the show . .
The central gimmick is confusing , but the film is quite good anyway	Solondz's most recent film ( he's supposedly returning later in 2009 ) is about a 13 year-old girl , Aviva , who wants nothing more than to have a baby . The plot line of the movie is quite surprising , and I don't want to spoil anything . Much like his other films , Solondz is a master of manipulating the audience's emotions , and also a master of making the audience examine exactly why they feel like they feel . This might have been his best work , but the central gimmick of the film is too confounding and doesn't strike me as anything besides an art-house gimmick : Aviva is played by eight different actresses who generally exchange roles from chapter to chapter . These actresses range from a six year-old black girl to Jennifer Jason Leigh . For the life of me , I never could think of a good reason for Solondz to have done it this way . Various critics have expressed their theories , none of them the same , it seems , and none of them satisfactory to me . The DVD could really use some kind of participation from Solondz , just so he could have defended this concept ( perhaps he did have a reason ) , but there's nothing . With that major flaw , it's quite amazing that the film succeeds so well . The film is also a semi-sequel to Welcome to the Dollhouse , and some of that film's characters return in surprising ways .
Rather good John Ford Western	It's no classic , but it is quite a good film . Jimmy Stewart plays a gruff , old , drunken sheriff who can speak Comanche and Richard Widmark plays a cavalryman assigned to accompany him on a mission to buy white captives away from the Comanches . The first half of the film can be called Searchers-lite . They buy back two captives , a young white man stolen in his youth and a Mexican woman stolen five years earlier . Other non-Comanches they find are unsalvageable . Now , The Searchers ends ambiguously . We're not sure what is going to happen with Natalie Wood's character . Two Rode Together goes into that part of the story a bit more . Stewart falls in love with the Mexican girl , but she cannot take the way other white people treat her . The boy is so far gone that he is entirely violent to everyone around him . The second half of the film is actually quite great , and the film has an extremely powerful climax . Jimmy Stewart is beyond excellent in the film . Could you ever imagine a bad performance from this man ? It's rare that he plays such a cheating btard , but he's no villain , either . The actress who plays the Mexican girl is very good , too . The rest of the cast is more than adequate . There's a funny scene where Ford regulars Andy Devine and Ken Curtis fight in a slapstick fashion . Ford's direction is rather flat . The story goes that he did this only as a favor , not by any real choice . Frank Nugent's script is quite good , especially in the second half . The score is excellent . The photography is weak , but good sets and costumes make the visual aspect of the film decent if not great . .
Highly recommended for fans of depravity and outlandish cinema	I think I'd probably categorize this as a guilty pleasure . It has an amazing amount of flaws and general silliness . It's incredibly violent , nasty and dark . The plot is way too complicated and there's a last-minute twist ( more like cop-out ) that is incredibly stupid . But , hell , it's a lot of fun . Paul Walker plays a gangster given a gun to hide after a shootout . His son's best friend steals the gun in order to shoot his abusive father . The kid runs away and Walker desperately searches for him and the weapon . The adventures that the characters go through turn out almost like a demented version of Alice in Wonderland . While most of the film is constantly dark ( the bulk of the film takes place during a single night ) , the creepiest part of the film enters a brightly colored world , a den of child pornography . The film is also notable for having one of the most memorable pimps in cinema history ( David Warshofsky ) . Paul Walker , best known for being that boring guy who tries to take down Vin Diesel in The Fast and the Furious , just swears his way through this movie . The real acting honors belong to the two kids . Cameron Bright has been good in several movies now , most notably in the film Birth . Alex Neuberger is a newcomer , but he has great potential .
Flawed , but mostly excellent	Up front I must admit that I have a certain weakness for apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic scenarios . I can't think of a single movie in that genre that I dislike , and several are among my favorite movies ever . I liked Blindness , very much . A man suddenly goes blind in the middle of rush hour traffic . Every person with whom he comes in contact catches whatever strange disease he has , and suddenly , within a few hours . It spreads like wildfire , and the government ( undefined ) hastily throws the first wave of victims into an abandoned hospital , guarded by military personnel in biohazard suits . They have weapons and aren't afraid to use them if any of the infected , who of course , can't see a thing , stumble toward them . Among the prisoners are Mark Ruffalo , an eye doctor , and his wife , Julianne Moore . Moore , for some reason , has not lost her sight . She pretends to have so she can stay with her husband . She keeps her sight hidden from the rest of the victims , but does as much as possible to help them . Eventually , the hospital is filled to capacity , and food is scarce , so the situation devolves into a Lord of the Flies-like state of humanity . Gael Garcia Bernal plays a man who declares himself king of the compound , and demands payment for food , first in the form of whatever possessions his " subjects " have brought with them , and , once that has been spent , sex . This is perhaps the most bothersome part of the film . At this point , and even at the point where Bernal first takes over , I was wondering why Moore didn't just put an end to this nonsense . Meirelles doesn't do a good job in convincing me that Bernal and those who side with him couldn't easily be defeated by someone who could see . I can understand that Moore would have a difficult time committing murder , but as soon as food is cut off , it would be a matter of survival . Once sex is on the table , it's absolutely ridiculous that she just submits to it , and lets the other women do so , too . The possibility that the women could get pregnant is never mentioned , but it surely would have to be an issue . By this point , the hospital has become a trash-ridden hellhole , and it would be doubtful for anyone to even survive childbirth , mother or child . The fact that Moore doesn't do anything about it is just upsetting . And then there's the rape sequence itself , which made me feel about as uncomfortable as any scene ever has , and I've seen Salo ! Meirelles completely fails with this sequence . Yeah , it's meant to be hard to watch , but that doesn't forgive the seedy way in which he films it , or the godawful score ( which is sometimes good , but often horrible , elsewhere ) , which is almost jaunty . I'm also mixed on the ending of the film , which seems abrupt . But there are some things I like about it , too , especially Danny Glover's subtle last moment . A lot of reviewers have complained that Meirelles visual style is too showy . I didn't find it so . I thought it was pretty much the perfect way to put the viewer in the position of being blind . It's perfectly disorienting . The film is clearly an allegory . I'm not exactly sure about all the symbolism , but I've been assured by many reviewers that it's obvious . Strange , though , that they all give different interpretations on what it's about .
Underrated - one of the funniest films of the year	A big surprise , probably because I was expecting it to suck . The reviews were pretty dismissive of it , even though they all seemed to agree that the concept was golden : a man finds out his new girlfriend is a super hero , and finds , when he wants to break up with her , that she's kind of a psycho . I kept expecting it to fall apart , but it never really did . Sure , it doesn't make as much of its awesome premise as it could , and chooses to be short when it might have been better to expand the film's universe . But I can't blame it for that . Uma Thurman is great as the bipolar superhero , G-Girl . And I've discovered , after several years of disliking him , that Luke Wilson can be absolutely perfect when cast as a schlub . He's given two of the best comic performances of 2006 ( the other in the pretty much unreleased Idiocracy ) . I absolutely cracked up at the expressions on his face when he and Thurman first have sex . It's one of the funniest sex scenes ever . My only real complaint is that they make G-Girl a bit too much of a psycho , like almost unbelievably so . Maybe with some background I could have accepted it better . I can forgive its flaws , though , because I had a really good time watching it . Underrated , for sure .
Pretty good Hitchcock .	Hitch is the Master , hands down . His Dial M for Murder is generally considered to be a good but mediocre effort . I myself give it an , which is good but low for Hitchcock . It basically consists of a murder plot gone wrong , and it's a good example of one . The writing is often amazing , and you're always trying to guess what's coming next . What results is quite spectacular . Dramatic irony is used to the max . I happened to see it in 3D before I saw it in regularD , which I was glad to get a chance to do . Unfortunately , the Master does not use it very well . I cannot imagine a single film of his that would benefit from such a gimmick . To do so , it would have to be rather light , which this one is , and also contain action . Perhaps To Catch a Thief would be best . Maybe North By Northwest , but that one is probably far too good for that . Dial M for Murder is one of Hitch's talkiest films , and only during the murder scene is the 3D used to great effect . Otherwise , it just distracts .
Sweet , fun , and lovable . With at least one deadly flaw .	A flawed but lovable little indie comedy about an unhappily married waitress and pie-making genius ( Keri Russell ) who begins an affair with her gynecologist ( Nathan Fillion ) after discovering that she's pregnant . Let's get the film's biggest flaw out of the way first : Russell's husband ( Jeremy Sisto ) is such a tremendously despicable character that he feels like he was just written to be hissed at . And I actually heard people hissing . Surely people as cruel and as ape-like as this man exist , but in the film it feels so easy and obvious that I ended up becoming enraged whenever he would pop up on screen . Really , if this character had been toned-down , or at least if he didn't have so much screen time , this would have been a shoo-in for my top 10 list this year . After the husband , the only other fault I could find is that it ends a tad too patly . Otherwise , I pretty much loved this movie . I love the quirky dialogue , and the comic performances are just perfect . Russell's and Fillion's initially awkward relationship is especially hilarious . And there are wonderful supporting performances by the director herself , Cheryl Hines and Andy Griffith ( so nice to have him still around , although with an actor that age you can guess what happens to him in the end ! ) . Of course the film can hardly be mentioned without bringing up Adirenne Shelly's tragic death . She was murdered this past November . It felt especially sad after the film was over . Waitress was such a lovely confection , you just want more .
Hadn't seen this since I was in grade school , and surprisingly it held up wonderfully !	This is a movie that I watched a lot as a kid , having taped it off ( I presume ) HBO . It's one of those movies that stays with you . I haven't seen it since I was in grade school , but , watching it now , I'm not sure if I forgot even a second of it . It was the first feature film made entirely with clay . Mark Twain plans to fly his airship to meet up with Halley's Comet . Three of his most famous characters , Tom Sawyer , Huck Finn and Becky Thatcher , stow away on the ship . When discovered , Twain makes them his crew . On the ship , they are told some of Twain's stories , and here plenty of his famous witticisms ( almost all of Twain's dialogue is made up of his nuggets of wisdom ) . The movie starts off pretty slow , and some of the comedy early on is only moderately amusing . However , as it moves on , the film becomes darker , discovering the cynicism and sadness that exists in the works of Mark Twain . The most memorable sequence has the children meeting Satan , inspired by the posthumously published work The Mysterious Stranger . My other favorite segment is from The Diaries of Captain Stormfield , where a man arrives at an alien version of Heaven . Thanks go to the Onion's A . V . Club for pointing out that this was released on DVD a while back . I never would have caught that myself .
Quite good , but I was expecting a little better	They Were Expendable opens on December 7th , 1941 and takes us through the opening of the Pacific leg of WWII ( from the point of view of the U . S . ) . Most of the film takes place in the Philippines . Most of the major characters are sailors on P . T . boats , which the navy doesn't believe are going to be very useful . The film is handsomely produced , with some of the best battle scenes of its time ( the boats take on destroyers and planes ) . The battles with the planes are spectacular and gripping . The film should be better than it is , but there are some major doldrums in its run . Unlike some of John Ford's better films , They Were Expendable is only sporadically great ; several individual scenes are beautiful . John Wayne is great in it ; it's definitely one of his best performances . Perhaps I might like it better if I watched it a second time ; I had a long break in the middle , and that can always harm films . .
A film that can really , really make you angry	The Thin Blue line shows how wrong our legal system is here in the US . Trials are run not as a celebration of justice but as a purveyor of revenge . Prosecuting attorneys are not men who believe in doing what's right , but what will most successfully add to their reputation . A psychologist testifies against over 99 % of those criminals he interviews so that they will get the death penalty . The police choose to believe a juvenile delinquent's testimony against a man who has never done anything majorly illegal in his life just because they cannot send a 16 year old to the chair , and they cannot fail to execute someone over the death of a police officer . Every single police officer and witness who had anything to do with the trial was discreditable , yet no discrediting evidence was ever allowed in the court . You may have guessed that this all takes place in Texas . Even with the power it carries , The Thin Blue Line has some structural problems . I wish that we had been given some more information on Randall Adams ( although maybe there just wasn't too much to say ) . And I wish that we would have been able to hear the " thin blue line " closing argument of the prosecuting attorney , a speech that made the judge's eyes water . If you like this film , search out Paradise Lost : The Child Murders of Robin Hood Hills , a documentary obviously inspired by this . That one is a little more convincing and powerful than The Thin Blue Line ( although this one apparently helped to get Adams off the hook ; of course , with the amount of evidence that the film amassed , it is difficult to let the man rot without one more chance ) .
Very strange film indeed by iconoclast filmmaker Takashi Miike	This is the second of his films that I've seen , after Audition , and , while I wouldn't call him a genius after seeing these two films , he's clearly got a lot of talent . He's an original artist , that's for sure . Ichi is rather undescribable . It's actually a bit difficult to get into ; the plot is difficult to understand for a while . It's more or less a yakuza film , perhaps mixed with a bit of superhero story . A gang boss has been murdered , and his men , lead by the sado-masochistic Kakihara ( Tadanobu Asano ) , are out for revenge . They know only the name of the killer , Ichi , and that he's a very messy murderer ( the room where the first murder has blood spattered everywhere ; even the ceiling is covered , and there's nothing on the ground by guts ) . Ichi himself takes a while to show up , but when he does he is a snivelling mess ( played by Nao Omori ) . Working as a waiter in a restaurant , he cries when his boss yells at him . It seems that his super killing ability comes from outside , from a man who is controlling him , Jijii ( film director Shinya Tsukamoto , whose films appeal much more to me more than Miike's ) . Having developed a suit with special powers , he gives it to Ichi and convinces him to kill ' bullies , ' because the same kind of bullies beat him up in high school and even raped his girlfriend . Ichi's memories are sketchy at best ; in reality , Jijii invented them , but Ichi is a very impressionable person . I really liked the inventive villain and hero in the film . Kakihara is one of the all-time great bad guys . His character design ( which appears on the DVD cover ) is wholly original . Even though Ichi is also a very original character , most viewers , I think , will go away with the memory of Kakihara's open maw . I don't know , though . There are so many moments of utter brilliance here , but I really can't get into Miike's sense of pacing . It's certainly unique . People have gone so far as to compare Audition with Ozu . That's simplistic . Miike's films are probably slower to develop than Ozu's ! I can appreciate it , but , man , when I'm in the mood to watch something culty and violent , I really would rather watch a faster film , like the ones made by Shinya Tsukamoto . I did have a level of fascination with Ichi the Killer and certainly plan to watch other Miike films in the future ( I know at least one more that my video store has so I'll have to pick that up soon ) .
Mostly excellent story of a man who wants out of life	The true story of a Spanish paraplegic , Ramón Sampedro , who fought for decades for the right to be euthenized . This film , along with the Best Picture winner of the same year , Million Dollar Baby , caused a stir that year with their depictions of disabled persons desiring death . Both advocates for the disabled and ( unfortunately for the disability advocates ) conservative pro-life groups protested both films , and their Oscar nominations . The nominations also came during the entire Terry Schiavo debacle , just to put it all in some historical perspective . The protests , especially from the disability groups , against Million Dollar Baby make some sense ? the film clearly depicted , without wavering , the life of a paraplegic as worthless . The film's central character , Maggie Fitzgerald , becomes a paraplegic , doesn't seem to get any counseling whatsoever , no help whatsoever , and immediately wants to die . The film is , honestly , pretty dumb and uncomplex . The Sea Inside , based on the true story , is certainly a lot more thoughtful on the subject . It most likely got railroaded into the same category as Million Dollar Baby without its protesters having even seen it , an incredibly common phenomenon . The film does give time to many different sides of the argument . And it immediately declares that the wish to die is that of the protagonist and the protagonist alone . It is guilty of a couple of crimes , though , and I'd still understand why disability groups could have a problem with it . First and foremost , there's the protagonist's meeting with a paraplegic bishop . I don't look kindly on the way he's depicted . His orally operated wheelchair is depicted as absurd , and there's almost a comic sequence where his effeminate , boy-toy servants are dragging him , in his chair , up the stairs . He can't even reach the room in which Ramón is located , and one of the boy-toys is forced to carry the conversation between them . I had to think , gee , maybe if Ramón lived in a slightly more wheelchair-accessible household , he wouldn't spend his entire life in bed , and might find life more fulfilling ( who knows how closely the film depicts the reality ) . Director Amenábar ( The Others ) also includes some laughable scenes that try to make this film about suicide more life-affirming , like a cross-cut sequence where Ramón looks thoughtful and his lawyer's baby is born . But besides a few ugly moments , the film is very good . It hurts that someone may want to die when they have the ability to bring so much joy and insight into the lives of others . However , in the end , our lives do belong to us . Shouldn't we have the right to choose ? The film's strongest asset is its supporting characters , and the actors who play them . It depicts how Ramón's fight and decisions affect those around him with a beautiful precision . The family members in particular are great , and Ramón's final departure from them is absolutely heartbreaking , and had me in tears . My favorite performance in the film comes from Lola Dueñas , whom I also felt gave the best , or at least certainly most undervalued , performance in Almodóvar's Volver last year .
Fun and pretty ! Françoise Arnoul - Ou la la !	Although it doesn't seem very promising for a long stretch , Renoir's French Cancan ends up being an effortlessly charming film . The story is cliché : a laundry girl , Nini ( Françoise Arnoul ) , is discovered by a night club owner , Danglard ( Jean Gabin ) . Danglard steals her from her baker boyfriend and drops his current girlfriend , both of whom come back for their former lovers . Nini has to choose whether to go back to her humble life with the baker , go on with the show with her employer , oh , or become a princess , as a prince falls in love with her at one point , too . I'm glad the film didn't go for the most obvious choice , as a lesser film certainly would have . The film ends with the opening of Danglard's new night club , the Moulin Rouge , and a couple of gorgeous song and dance numbers . The first of them , " Complainte de la Butte , " which also provides the base of most of the film's musical score , is simply one of the most gorgeous songs ever written , and Renoir himself wrote it . If you're a fan of Baz Luhrmann's 2001 film Moulin Rouge ! , you'll recognize the tune , as it comes up near the beginning of that film , sung by Rufus Wainwright . Although it isn't very prominent in that film , everyone I know who owns the soundtrack loves it . In addition to having one of the most lovely songs ever written , French Cancan also boasts one of the cutest leading ladies ever to grace the screen . It's hard not to fall head-over-heels in love with that girl . .
Solid work from Altman . A very good film indeed . ( and Andy Richter is thy God ) Contains Spoilers	I haven't read through the other comments yet to see why such a sharp animosity for Dr . T exists ( 19 % of voters gave it a 1 , the lowest score ) , but I really liked it . I am a Robert Altman lover myself , but have not been afraid to criticize his films in the past . I'm probably the only one who will say that I hated The Player . I felt it was a rather childish lash out at Hollywood . I also criticized greatly Short Cuts and Brewster McCloud ( although I ultimately gave them the thumbs up ) . But he has made at least one of the best films ever made , Nashville , a masterpiece through and through , and several other very good films , including MASH , McCabe and Mrs . Miller , and his previous film , Cookie's Fortune , which I would deem wonderful . Doctor T struck me as also very excellent , and I'm giving it an , which , in four-star criticism , equals a stars . First , before I discuss why I liked the film , I must point out its most glaring fault , the one which , I think , must sour the film for most of its viewers . This is the whole " Hestia Complex " deal to which Dr T's wife , played by Farrah Fawcett , becomes subjected . Obviously a made-up complex , it seemingly insults our intelligence . According to her psychiatrist , it is a complex which crops up when a woman is " loved too much . " When she has everything she could possibly want . It happens because " the mystery " of existence no longer exists . Thus , a woman with this complex reverts to a childlike state . This whole complex thing pops up within the film's first act , and , since we don't believe it , we just say , " Oh , that's so stupid . That could never happen . " And then we just block it out of our minds for the rest of the film . Whenever it crops up again , we just try to ignore it . Fawcett's acting skills make the whole thing seem even more stupid . This is not the right attitude to take . It is not stupid , per se , but what is truthful to say about it is that it is contrived . Contrivances are not a no-no when it comes to art . If you think they are , then you obviously don't remember Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliette , among others . You have to just accept the contrivances as much as you can , suspend your disbelief a little . This whole Hestia Complex thing is utterly important for your understanding of Dr . T . Now , onto the rest of the film . Another reason why , it seems to me , people would complain is the lack of a plot , or a conventionaly plot , anyway . These people would have to fully admit that they are completely unfamiliar with Robert Altman . Even if they are not , they still have a semi-legitimate complaint . The film's meaning takes a long , long time to reveal itself . One could easily get lost in the meantime , especially if that person has chosen to disregard the Hestia Complex portion of the film . I still don't see how it's all that different from films like Nashville and Brewster McCloud and Short Cuts . Nashville is a very difficult film , and , as Pauline Kael asks in her famous review of it , " What does it mean ? " Actually , I think I myself have figured that out ( and I'd be willing to share my views on it upon request ) . But for several of his other films , I have not . To tell you the truth , that is why I have always been so ambivalent towards Brewster McCloud and Short Cuts . I may have liked a lot of both of them , but , when it all comes down to it , I never really saw the point . However , I still enjoyed them . With Dr . T , I believe I did get the point . It's just that it isn't revealed until the film's climax , the wedding scene . By then , I'm sure a lot of viewers have already thrown up their hands . Yes , it is a long time to wait , but you just have to be patient sometimes . Altman is not interested in spoon-feeding us any answers . Okay , so here's my interpretation , so maybe you should skip this paragraph and the next if you want to figure it out for yourself or if you are just so angry that you don't give a care what some other idiot thinks it means : it's all about stability , to put it simply , the possession of it and its lack . To be stable may seem like a wonderful thing , but it can also get mighty boring . Dr . T appears to be a near-perfect human being . While it would have been simple to make a stupid comedy about a sexy male gynecologist ( see the Saturday Night Live sketch , Mel Gibson : World's Sexiest Gynecologist , to see how it could have turned out ) , this is just not done here . Women crowd to get into his office not because he is sexy , but because he is just so good to them all . He's warm , and he obviously cares for everyone around him , strangers included . The rich-and-unsatisfied wife is a stock character in drama . We don't ever see Dr . T's wife in that characterization , but she was obviously in that position . Dr . T's daughters , Connie and Dee Dee , appear at first to be pretty stable . They're a doctor's daughters and dress very beautifully . Dee Dee is a cheerleader , kind of a dream profession , but she's not very good . She's also about to get married , but she will regrettably have to abandon a more rewarding relationship to do so . To get married is , of course , the American symbol of stability and normalcy . Connie is in bundles , although she constantly asserts to her father , " Don't worry about me . I'm fine . " Hardly . She is constantly in knots over her sister's foolhearty decision and she obsesses about JFK's assassination ( the film takes place in Dallas ) . To boot , Dr . T's sister , Peggy , has arrived at his home , divorce pending , with her three daughters . Peggy is completely unstable ; she can hardly deal with her young daughters and she drinks like a fish . Dr . T also has an assistant , Carolyn , who constantly interrupts personal conversations and rest time with the pretext of anxious patients ; the truth is that she is lonely and secretly in love with her boss . Dr . T is being crowded by these and many other women in his life , and , like any doctor , relaxes on the golf course . There , he meets Bree , a woman pro golfer who has decided to relax a little herself . With all of his burdens , Dr . T immediately becomes involved with this source of stability , someone who is confident in her current decisions . All of this may seem like a mess to many , but it shouldn't be if you know a film like Nashville . As Altman likes to do , the climax takes place at a marvelous setpiece , Dee Dee's wedding . It is outside , and it's threatening to storm . A bundle of problems are arising , and , as it begins to pour , chaos ensues . Dr . T's experiences an epiphany : stability is overrated . Not everything can be perfect , so it is pointless to exhaust oneself trying to make it so . A similar theme runs through Cast Away of the same year . Dr . T embraces the chaos and jumps into a covertible . As he puts the top up , the wind rips it apart . He laughs and drives off in the rain towards Bree's apartment . He has chosen to convince her to run away with him . She wants no part in it . She is happy where she is , is stable . She knows that she cannot control her life perfectly , but she knows that she must exert some control . Hurt but not destroyed , Dr . T drives away . We don't know where he's going , and I doubt he does either . As he drives , a tornado descends upon him and sucks him away . This part probably angers a lot of viewers also because it is so random and untelegraphed . But I think it works . Fantastically , Dr . T survives the tornado , but has ended up in an isolated area of Mexico . The village nearby is isolated and in need of a doctor to deliver a baby . He does so . He is there to begin a new life . Again , he exists in a state of possible stability as the town doctor , but also there exists the possibility for random events , i . e . , the mystery .
I think the surprise ending hurts the overall greatness of the film	I saw this film months ago when it first came out , and I never stopped thinking about it . It is the only film of this year that deserved to make a lot of money ( The Matrix and The Phantom Menace disappointed me terribly ) . It is unlike the rest of the movies Hollywood throws out . Unlike the empty Matrix and the Phantom Menace , the Sixth Sense is a character driven drama . It comes to a conclusion that no other ghost movie ( that I've ever seen ) has touched on . I think the film has a good chance to snatch up some Oscar noms . I think it deserves nods for script and definitely Best Supporting Actor in Osment ( though he really is the main character , he is pushed to second string because of the bigger star ) . I wouldn't even be offended if Willis got a nom , seeing that this is his best film besides maybe 12 Monkeys and Pulp Fiction . Now for the ending that I mentioned in my summary . Most people will know about it this late in the game , but I won't tell . I think it pulls attention away from the true greatness of the film , which is the characters . It is what we were talking about after we left the theater , and I'm disappointed at myself for doing so . Sure it was neat , but I have gone through it in my mind several times , finding flaws within the film . Surprise endings are almost always detractors . If you remember a film just because of its surprise ending , it is a worthless film , just like The Usual Suspects , a very bad film if anyone would actually think about something besides the ending . overall , being a 9 originally , but losing 1 point for its supposed hook .
Incredibly sweet and charming film	This is Federico Fellini's first solo effort , his first film , Variety Lights , having been co-directed by Alberto Lattuada ( although it is unmistakably in the style of Fellini's early films ) . The White Sheik is quite underrated - there's no reason why it should be so much less respected than the other early films , particularly La Strada and Nights of Cabiria , the two most often cited as masterpieces ( and I'd agree ) . I actually like The White Sheik quite a bit better than I Vitelloni , Fellini's next film ( Il Bidone is the only one from his early period that I have not yet seen ) . The White Sheik is quite humorous , perhaps Fellini's funniest ( although so many of his films contain a great amount of comedy ) . No Fellini fan should go without seeing it , because so many of his themes and images are established in it . In fact , no one should miss Variety Lights , either , for the same reason . But The White Sheik , unlike Variety Lights , stands by itself as a great film . .
The Ozu that I've heard so much about but couldn't find in his other films	Not that I've seen too many Ozu films . This is only my third , after Bakushu and Tokyo Story . Both of those I found dull , even Tokyo Story , which is often considered one of the best films ever made . I don't know the critical reputation of Autumn Afternoon , but I liked it a lot . In fact , it continues with Ozus favorite themes ( which I do sincerely hope aren't the same in all his films , and that I've just accidentally picked similar ones ) : aging , marriage , and Westernization . Autumn Afternoon is less pushy than those other two films . I thought that Ozu was making a lot of judgements in those films ( although others have said that Ozu less judgemental than any other auteur ; I don't believe it ) . In Autumn Afternoon , everything is observed without judgement . It's about life , it's about Japanese culture , and it's about human beings . I won't go into a deep examination of the film . I'd like to praise the musical score specifically , which is very charming and beautiful . Other than that , I'd just like to say that Autumn Afternoon is a delightful and touching film . See it if you're an Ozu fan , see it if you are not one . .
Keeps reinventing itself ; highly recommended	A film that's exceedingly difficult to pin down . It would be easy to dismiss it , but it's just as easy to be startled and amazed by it . The story's simple enough : a shaggy , dark-skinned man ( played by Giancarlo Gianni ) works under the thumb of the bourgoisie on a hired yacht . He despises them , and they despise him . One of these rich people is particularly annoying , a blonde woman ( Mariangelo Melato ) , who spends her days incessantly bitching , spouting capitalist slogans , and putting down the servant class . These two characters , not surprisingly , end up together on a dinghy whose motor has broken . She never shuts up , he stares at her murderously . They eventually land on a deserted island , where he refuses to help her whatsoever . She eventually has to submit to whatever abuses he chooses to dish out . Yes , that does include physical and eventually a near-rape , which will certainly disgust and upset a lot of the film's audience . The film can actually be sort of perverse . I'm sure many have marvelled that , with some of the film's crueller scenes , the film was directed by a woman . It is actually , in its way , nearly as perverse at some times as The Night Porter , directed in the very same year in Italy , also by a woman . That film's merits are more dubious than Swept Away's , however . The film is unexpectedly hilarious , at least for the first forty-five minutes or so . When the abuse starts , the film begins to shift to a social issues picture . Class issues are important , as well as racial issues ( which kind of amount to the same thing ) . I didn't mind seeing the woman verbally abused - she spent the first forty-five minutes doing the same to the guy . The smackings she receives were hard for even me to take , however . The politics are nevertheless exceedingly interesting . The film has some very good material on the social constructions of class . After this section of the film , the story shifts to erotica , and it is very erotic at times . In this section , the film is a direct descendent of Bertolucci's Last Tango in Paris ( as was The Night Porter , incidentally ) . After that , the film shifts once again to romantic melodrama , as the two are rescued . The man makes the decision to signal a yacht that he sees in the distance simply because he wants to test the deep love that the woman swears by . These shifts in narrative can be clearly felt , like upshifting in a manual transmission vehicle , but it works rather well . I was always right with the film with its emotions ( although it took me a good twenty minutes to get into the film ) . I ended up rather loving it , despite its flaws . Now I actually want to see the Madonna version to see how bad that hack Guy Ritchie screwed it up . At one point in the film the man tells the woman that she looks like the Madonna . Pretty funny , no ? .
As good as the first two	The Last Crusade is the Indiana Jones film I've seen least . In fact , I may be lying if I were to say I've seen it more than once all the way through before this viewing . Having watched all three of the original trilogy last week , I have to say , there isn't a great gap between them in quality . They're all three excellent movies with brilliant direction by Spielberg , and pitch-perfect action sequences , paced just so as not to overwhelm the viewer . The Last Crusade is the most comic of the three films , adding Sean Connery as Indy's father and pairing the two as a kind of Abbot and Costello team . It's shocking just how well it works ? if I hadn't seen the movie and you told me Harrison Ford and Sean Connery would be the perfect comic duo , I'd have been more than a little dubious . Connery isn't known for his comic chops , but , if he didn't have them before , he definitely earned them here . I think , after James Bond ( and I'd say unfortunately so ) , his Henry Jones Sr . will prove to be his most remembered performance . Denholm Elliot and John Rhys-Davies both return from Raiders , and both are more comic characters this time around ( Elliot in particular is hilarious ; I think Sallah is kind of wasted in this one ) . Alison Doody plays Indy's double-crossing love interest . I had remembered her as being particularly forgettable , but this time around I thought she was quite good . I still have to wonder what happened to Karen Allen ( which is kind of explained in Kingdom of the Crystal Skull ) , who was by far the best of the Indy girls , but Doody is good at what she does . River Phoenix appears in the brilliant opening sequence as young Indiana Jones . What a sad waste his death was .
Nearly equal to Sturges ' more acknowledged classics	The Great McGinty is Preston Sturges ' first film , and an oddity amongst them . This is the closest that I've seen that he got to drama . And herein lies its biggest problem , although , in my opinion , it is not a very big problem at all : Sturges ' patent slapstick comedy is still present in great force . It does not always mix well with the melodrama of the rest of the film . The other problem is the relatively weak resolution . I had come to know and love these characters , and I would have liked a little more at the end . SPOILERSStill , it works quite well . The story , reminiscent of Citizen Kane , though released the year before , is about a bum from the streets , McGinty , who is recruited to illegally vote for the incumbent mayor . In exchange he will get $2 for every vote . He not only does this , but does it an amazing 37 times . The same political party , impressed with his abilities , hires him as muscle . From there , the party decides to get him elected as mayor . There is one condition : he must be married . Women can vote , and they will not vote for a bachelor . His secretary , a divorcee with two children , agrees to a marriage of convenience with him . This is the relationship in the film which manages to touch deeply . It is entirely believable because of Sturges ' writing and the two wonderful actors . The film has a basic rise-and-fall structure , and McGinty's fall is truly heartbreaking . The Great McGinty deserves to be up there with Sturges ' other masterpieces .
Outstanding tale of survival	If you're a big fan of the mad German genius Werner Herzog , you might be disappointed in this , his first foray into Hollywood film-making . This is polished and not at all experimental . However , to me it feels like Herzog , when he stepped up to the plate , said to himself , " Well , I can make an American film . And I can make a better one than 95 % of American films . " And there's nothing wrong with that . The film is a dramatization of the events retold in Herzog's earlier documentary Little Dieter Needs to Fly . Christian Bale plays Dieter Dengler , an American citizen and German emigré who had one of the most impressive survival instincts ever seen in a human being . Shot down in Laos in the opening throes of the Vietnam War , he was taken to a brutal POW camp where he met two other American POWs ( Jeremy Davies and Steven Zahn in the film ) and three Asian men who had worked with the enemy . The two Americans had been there for an average of a couple of years , and had all but given up hope ( the Davies character is sure there will be peace soon enough ) . Through his amazing ingenuity , Dieter planned a heroic escape . Most of the movie takes place in the POW camp . Most of what I remember from Little Dieter Needs to Fly , which I saw around two years ago , is the escape . It's a disturbing , horrifying tale of survival . I would have liked this part to be the longer , but it works very well . It's certainly harrowing . I was disappointed that one of the images I really remember from the original film did not appear : the bear that stalked Dieter during his final days wandering in the jungle . He considered it almost a friend , but in the back of his mind realized it was following him because it wanted to eat him . Herzog keeps things extremely subtle , telling them very much the way they happened . The story develops more like real life , not like a movie . It keeps melodrama to a minimum . My only problem is how it ends . The ending is way too boisterous and uplifting . Dieter Dengler was most definitely an upbeat kind of guy , but his suffering and the awful things that he saw ? heck , with the awful things that we just experienced with him , so vivid is this movie ? don't lead well to the celebration that ends the movie . I very much liked this film , and think it is one of the best I've seen so far this year .
An excellent film	It begins with a scene without context , and then proceeds for a good quarter of an hour somewhat randomly , but then it pulls itself together and ends up being very good . Actually , I now have an inkling that , if I were to see it again , those opening 20 minutes or so would seem a lot better and the film would be nearly a masterpiece . Mestizo ( a word that I don't remember ever being defined , by the way ) is a Venezuelan film about the son of a wealthy , white man and a poor black woman whose people are fishermen . This boy is named Jose Ramon , and he lives in an extremely confusing society . He is brought up as a white man , though he is visibly mulatto . The aristocratic community , with whom his father is trying to assimilate him , does not entirely trust him . Later in the film , when he tries to live amongst the community of black fishermen , they trust him even less . SPOILERS : Eventually , Jose's boss , a judge , leads his wife , Gregorina , into sleeping with Jose , which arouses the judge . This is Jose's first sexual experience , and from that point on sex runs his life . He believes that he loves Gregorina , and he convinces her and three other white women , daughters and wives of rich , white men , to take a boat ride with him and another black man . The sequence in the boat , where the six of them play a game where they similize the moon convinced me that the film was very good ; it's a brilliantly edited sequence . Soon , Jose figures out that Gregorina and the other white women were only slumming . And because he took his relationship with her so far , his boss fires him . His father , who wants to mold him into a respectable aristocrat despite his African roots , verbally assaults him over the affair . Jose runs away to his mother , who also kicks him out of the fishing village when he allows the other fishermen to rip off his share of the profits . He does this , obviously , because he has never needed money . Now he does , and he won't take it . His mother is offended that her son is just a chump , and that he is treating the fisherman's life as only a game . With both of his potential homes off limits , he becomes a homeless man on the beach . It's an idyllic life , but he misses people , well , more specifically , sex with women . In the film's most amusing scene , he builds a woman out of sand . When the scene opens , you see Jose resting in the sun , but there's an odd lump of sand closer to the camera with some bits of driftwood or seaweed on top of it . Then Jose begins to caress the sand , and we realize that he has sculpted a woman ( we only see it from the hips down ) . He has used driftwood and seaweed as pubic hair ! He brushes his hand and fingers over the faux crotch , but he sharply pulls his hand off of it . The pubes fall off , and under them is a crippled tarantula , pushing itself along with its few working legs . It is a spectacular scene , lasting only a minute , if even that long . Eventually , he is convinced to come home ( by sex ) , and his father apologizes . He has planned to send Jose to Caracas ( I can't remember the name of their town ( maybe it's Mestizo ! ) , but it's a rather small fishing village ) to learn law . Before Jose leaves , he visits his mother , who also forgives him and wishes him good luck . As he stands on the ship to Caracas ( which is contrasted with the small fisherman's boat that he has used so often elsewhere in the film , including the preceding scene ) , his racial conflict has been solved : he is now a white man , in a white suit and smoking a cigar . He tips a black man for helping him . But the solution has rough edges : he begins to hear the sounds of the city in his head , and they disturb him greatly . We end with this notion . END SPOILER : The style and rhythm of the film is akin to French New Wave films , which means it's quite choppy . Some shots are on and off so quickly that they never have time to register , which is a problem a few times during the film . The acting is exquisite . Marcos Moreno plays Jose Ramon Vargas to perfection , and everyone else is as good . The direction , by Mario Handler , is quite good , especially during the boat ride I mentioned and the sex scenes that follow it . Perhaps someday others will have a chance to see it . I implore you to do so . I myself really want to see it once more , to see if the beginning was as bad as I perceived it to be . My guess is that the previous film that I had watched , the awful Natal da Portelo from Brazil , was still influencing my mind for the first 20 or 30 minutes of Mestizo , because I had a lot of the same criticisms . To think , I nearly left the theater ( it was a double feature ) after Natal da Portelo ended ! Thank God I was too lazy to get up off my butt ! I give it a .
Uncompromising masterpiece from perhaps the cinema's greatest female director	Vagabond begins with the discovery of a woman's corpse in a ditch . She has frozen to death in the night . Police officers lift the lifeless body out of the ditch as if it were a rigid statue . The rest of the film follows the last leg of this woman's life . We drop in on interviews with people who had come into contact with her in the recent past . Sometimes it is a police officer interviewing , sometimes the bits of information are given without solicitation , as an aside to the camera . Agnes Varda's presence is always felt behind the camera . She speaks aloud at the beginning of the film , announcing the subject of the film . Vagabond is a study of this woman , Mona , and also of the different thoughts projected on her by different people . To some , she was a piece of meat , to be screwed . To others , she represented freedom . " I wish I were free like her " we hear from a couple of speakers ( incidentally , not all of the interviewees know that she is dead ; the interview structure is never clearly defined , giving it a ghostly feeling ; oh , and also incidentally , the structure of the film is co-opted from Citizen Kane ; that's not something that most will notice ( the film is too strong on its own to be reduced like that ) , and it's not something that's at all important , but it's kind of a neat fact ) . To others , she represents a lost cause . Yet others feel pity towards her . A college professor whom Mona meets gives her a long lift in her car . Later , when this professor has a near-death experience , she violently regrets that she left her alone on the side of the road . Varda refuses to judge Mona or to idolize her . The film is not very emotionally draining . Neorealism isn't the goal here . If you do want to see a related film more in the melodramatic style of Neorealism ( and there's nothing wrong with that , of course ) , try Erick Zonka's excellent 1997 film The Dreamlife of Angels . But not Vagabond , no . I'm guessing that this film is actually based on a real person . It certainly could be , anyway . Varda's only purpose seems to be the questioning of how this could happen . What kind of person is Mona ? How did she end up where she did ? Bringing back Citizen Kane , Vagabond's point isn't too different from that all-time great masterpiece . As much as you can possibly learn about Charles Foster Kane or Mona , you can never know enough to understand them .
Lovely	I suppose I should be embarrassed after going off on director Billy Wilder last week over his overrated 1957 film Witness for the Prosecution , because I absolutely loved his other 1957 film , Love in the Afternoon . I guess when he gets it right , he gets it right , because the direction here is fantastic . This is one of the most romantic romances , and one of the funniest comedies I've seen in a while , told with such a sense of style and wit that I enjoyed it more than I believed possible . Audrey Hepburn stars as a young student of the cello . Her father ( Maurice Chevalier ) is a private detective , and she loves to follow his sordid cases . One particular character appears in many of his cases as a cuckold , Gary Cooper . When one of Chevalier's clients plans to shoot Cooper , Hepurn overhears and sets out to warn him . Afterwards , they begin a romance . She's very inexperienced , and obviously a little afraid that he'll so thoroughly outclass and manipulate her that she decides to play some head games with him , telling him that she has had many lovers . By driving him to insane jealousy , she thinks she can see if he can possibly be in love for real . The biggest fault of the film , one that everyone agrees on no matter at what degree they love the movie , is that Gary Cooper is horrendously miscast . This has got to be one of the worst cases of casting in history . He's a thousand years older than Hepburn . Well , a lot of Hepburn's co-stars were far too old for her , and it harms any number of her films . Weren't there any actors in their 20s , 30s , or , heck , even 40s who were good enough to match Audrey ? Why did directors and producers of her films think she would rather sleep with someone 30 years her senior ? Has it something to do with her as a person ? You know , this might have been the perfect opportunity to put Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn together again for a reunion . Fortunately , Cooper's presence ( or poor performance ) doesn't hurt the film anywhere near as much as you would suppose , or as some have suggested . I guess Cooper is such a blank actor that you can more or less ignore him . The movie is , after all , about Audrey ; Audrey is everything to the film . And she is perfect . She plays it so subtly and wonderfully ; it's really one of her greatest performances . The humor is very good . I love the picnic scene , the way that chicken leg is used as a prop . And those gypsies are great . I might have been annoyed at them in a lesser movie , but they are always used very well . The scene where Cooper is becoming obsessed with a recording that Audrey has made , which lists all of her love affairs , is a highlight , with Cooper and the gypsies rolling a cart full of alcoholic drinks on it back and forth in his hotel room . This is a gem , one of the best romances ever . .
Far more entertaining than I expected !	I love unexpected surprises . I was expecting a dull , 19th Century affair . Instead , I got one of the biggest melodramatic potboilers of all time . It's passionate , pulling me along and hardly letting me catch my breath . It's powerful , and it's actually hugely entertaining . Joan Fontaine plays the title character . Treated like garbage her whole life ( we follow a few of her childhood adventures ) , Jane finally ends up in a tolerable place , hired as a governess . Well , it might not be Heaven , but Thornfield is , if nothing else , an interesting place . A cute , little French girl ( Margaret O'Brien ) ; an overbearing master of the house ( Orson Welles ) ; creepy halls ; unexplained fires and a frightening entity hiding behind a gothic wooden door , bolted tightly shut . Heck , this film is a good 60 % horror film . 1943's best film , I Walked with a Zombie , is also based on the novel Jane Eyre . That film is pure poetry , but the 1944 version might actually be scarier ! The black and white cinematography is awe-inspiring , some of the best ever captured . It can be very , very eerie . It's actually inspired - perhaps even pilfered - by Orson Welles ' films to date . I wonder if he thought he was being ripped off ? The acting is not perfect . Joan Fontaine , as a thousand other people have probably pointed out , is anything but plain , as the character is supposed to be ( I've never read the novel - hell , I probably should now ! - but her plainness is expressed in the film ) . It's also easy to point out that she wears one expression throughout the film . However , I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing . The backstory is so well done that that expression seems to fit the character quite well . Orson Welles either seems to be not in the mood to star in this film or he seems too eager to be superb . I can't decide , but the result is curious . I wouldn't call it a bad performance , certainly , but it is not especially satisfactory , either . Whatever other criticisms could be expressed , he certainly never comes off as actually experiencing these situations with true emotions , unlike Fontaine . Perhaps the best performance in the film comes from young Peggy Ann Garner , who plays Jane as a young girl . She's simply amazing . Elizabeth Taylor appears in a small , uncredited role . Wow , she's young . All in all , I really loved Jane Eyre . While I recognize its imperfections , I wouldn't be surprised if my cable box gets stuck on Turner Classic Movies the next time it airs . .
Very highly recommended	Fun movie about a cowboy named Quirt ( John Wayne ) who is wants to reform his ways after he meets a sweet Quaker girl . When he is shot , the Quaker family takes care of him , and after he wakes up the daughter ( Gail Russell ) falls in love with him . It's goofy and cliché , sure , but there's a really fine movie to be found in the familiar setup . Writer / director Grant create many good vignettes . There are several wonderful supporting characters who add a lot of worth to the proceedings , including Harry Carey as a marshall , Lee Dixon as one of Quirt's friends and old partners in crime , Tom Powers as the local , scientific , atheist doctor , and Olin Howlin as the town telegrapher . Howlin's character is pure comic relief , very humorously claiming a long friendship with Quirt , though he only saw him once when he was almost unconscious . Then Carey's character is wryly comedic : as the marshall , he's constantly stalking Quirt . He's sure that someday he'll get to hang the guy , and he harps on it constantly . The chemistry between Wayne and Russell adds an unexpected poignancy to the film . The scene where the two pick blackberries is simply beautiful , and their wordless climactic exchange is perfectly performed . Good action sequences , as well . .
Everyone has their guilty pleasures , don't they ?	I'd like to defend this particular pleasure of mine as not particularlyguilty . I don't feel guilty when I'm enjoying it in any way . I'm one whocan really enjoy something with enormous camp value , and this isdefinitely a film that fits into that category . Its existence is bizarre . Who would ever think that anyone would want to see a musicalplay about a whorehouse ? Who would ever even think to write amusical about a whorehouse ? I assume that that musical wassuccessful , because Hollywood bought it in order to make a film ofit . And in the 1980s , long , long after the musical was long dead asa genre . I'm sure critics of the time saw it as yet another nail in thatalready much-nailed coffin . And then , who would ever think ofcasting Burt Reynolds , whose career was faltering at this point ( and yet another coffin receives yet another nail ) , and Dolly Parton , the queen of all big boob jokes , as lovers ? Dom Delouise as apudgy sensationalist , Jim Nabors as a bone-headed deputee , andCharles Durning as a politician who never gives straight answers ( perhaps just " politician " is good enough ) ? When it was released , I believe it actually did some decent business . Charles Durningwas so unforgettable that he was nominated for a Best SupportingActor Academy Award ; he's in the film for a total of 8 minutes andhe sings one song . Nowadays , it's as forgotten as almost any filmmade in the 1980s . I bought it out of an enormous bin of videos allcosting $3 . 99 . It does have enormous camp value . That's obvious ; it's why I firstsaw it . Like all films that I watch for camp value , I tend to watch iteven more than those films which I , a self-proclaimed film buff , have declared great masterpieces . And the more I watch it , themore I appreciate its other , non-campy aspects . Besides its camp , it actually works as a musical . There aren't too many songs , butthose that there are , some written by Parton herself , are uniformlyexcellent . " Texas Has a Whorehouse in It ( God Have Mercy on OurSouls ) " is very humorous ; Dom Delouise's performance is on themoney . " Sneakin ' Around with You " , the only song in which BurtReynolds participates ( along with Parton ) is quite good . DollyParton's final two songs are not only good but great : " Rock CandyChristmas " and " I Will Always Love You " . In addition to its value asa musical , it works as a very good melodrama . Take those twosongs I just mentioned . After some dozen times seeing thismovie , " Rock Candy Christmas " I find really touching . And " I WillAlways Love You " , which is , of course , the same song whichWhitney Huston sings in The Bodyguard , a film and a song whichmade enormous amounts of money , is a thousand , at least athousand times more touching here than it is in The Bodyguard . It's also hundreds of times better performed in The Best LittleWhorehouse in Texas . It actually means something here . Yes , in fact , I love this film . I will not back down from that .
wonderful !	I have been scouring imdb trying to find the three movies I saw of Svankmajer's . They were all perfect . I think this one was the third best of the three I saw , but that's hardly a bad thing since they were all masterpieces . This one , about a man watching soccer and drinking , is really crazy and wonderful . If you can find anything by this animator , rent it or buy it ! He's marvelous !
I love Tsukamoto !	Based on a novel by Edogawa Rampo , a Japanese author whose name transliterates to " Edgar Allen Poe " . This story is very Poe-like , covering the subject of doppelgängers much like " William Wilson " . Gemini is somewhat confusing , but overall it is a haunting film that actually generates fear and a deeper feeling of uneasiness . A rich doctor marries an amnesiac whose origins are unknown . Soon , her former lover ? who happens to be the doctor's twin brother who was abandoned and then raised in the slums ? comes back to claim what is his . The doppelgänger throws the doctor into a well and tries to win back his former wife . Soon , the twins begin to exchange personalities until , by the end , it's not entirely clear which one is the victor ? or even if the final version of the man doesn't share the minds of both brothers . The film is slow to start , but it climbs to a high level . The technical aspects are especially amazing here . The makeup , the sound , the editing ? everything is top notch . The acting is also great . Masahiro Motoki ? whose other starring roles include Miike's exceptional The Bird People of China as well as a tryptich of Rampo adaptations named after the author ? plays the doctor and his evil twin . A woman simply known as Ryo plays the doctor's wife . She's got a particularly intriguing face . She also starred in Ryuhei Kitamura's Alive . Gemini is not an easy picture , nor is it entirely satisfying . But it is great .
An excellent treatment of the last days of Socrates	Apparently , no one else has seen this . That's a pity . Anyone who has studied Plato would love it , I think . Of course , it doesn't beat the actual reading of Plato's dialogues , but it's a nice supplement . The adaptation is straightforward . The Euthyphro , Apology , Crito , and Phaedo are reduced in size , but their contents are there . Also there is to be found pieces of The Republic and many others that I probably haven't read yet ( the Protagoras and Lysias are mentioned directly ) . The Symposium , which is the only dialogue that I can say I know particularly well , is briefly alluded to . There's also a great scene where a man teases Socrates by citing Aristophanes ' The Clouds , which was the play that , according to the Apology , sowed the seeds of his death . Rosselini's direction is subtle and exquisite . The camera moves perfectly . The production design is great . A lot of research went into this to make it as accurate as possible . I don't know of any film that has done as well in these aspects . The acting is also perfect . The man who plays Socrates IS Socrates . .
Underrated Hitchcock	The only thing generic about this British thriller is its title . After that , it's a rather remarkable and suspenseful Hitchcock movie . John Gielgud plays a WWI pilot who is hired by his government as a spy . He meets up with two operatives , one who is playing the part of his wife ( Madeleine Carroll ) and one who is just Peter Lorre . I'm not sure what his cover was ( perhaps this is just a small flaw ; I think that if these were real spies they wouldn't make it very far , but I think I'm mature enough to suspend my disbelief on this kind of thing ) . They are in Switzerland to root out a German spy . Robert Young plays an American tourist who has a thing for Carroll . The script is excellent , with some fine dialogue . The characters are well developed . Hitchcock's direction is super-taut . The acting is just great here , especially Peter Lorre , who is just delicious . One thing to note in this movie , as well as Hitch's other 1936 film , Sabotage , in my opinion one of his greatest achievements , is the weight that death carries . In most of his other films , the death of a human being is treated rather cynically . One need only view The Trouble with Harry , which displays Hitch's wildest cynicism . I don't particularly mind this normally , but it's interesting to see the moral implications explored more fully in Secret Agent and Sabotage . .
Think it over before you react	This film will never receive a clean bill of political correctness , but neither will any film made before the 1960s . In fact , Song of the South presents some of the least offensive portraits of African Americans you can find from the time . If you really need to compare , go find any other film starring Hattie McDaniel ? start with Gone With the Wind ? and note how much more dignity she has in the Disney movie . Uncle Remus ( James Baskett , who is utterly , utterly exceptional ) is perhaps the most charming character you'll find . He's much more stereotypical of an elderly man than a black man . A smart man with strong morals and a clever way of delivering them , he seems to see things more clearly than anyone else in the film . No , Uncle Remus is a kind man who loves humanity , and this love is infectious . The movie made me very happy to be alive . A more politically correct version of the film would have him rebelling against white society with violence . It's kind of sad that we can't abide blacks and whites actually getting along , preaching brotherhood . The live action bits are very good ( although I think Bobby Driscoll is a bit weak in the lead ) , but it is the animated pieces ( and the live action / animation sequences ) that make Song of the South great . Br'er Rabbit , Fox , and Bear are wonderful characters , and these three segments represent some of the best animation Disney ever did . The mixed scenes are amazing ( was this the first time it was done ? ) . I especially liked when Uncle Remus went fishing with Br'er Frog . Uncle Remus lights his pipe with an animated flame , and blows an animated smoke ring that turns into a square ( which is , of course , also politically incorrect ) . I suspect that the biggest reason this film stirs so many negative emotions is the black dialect used in the film . I think that bugs people a lot . Really , though , blacks from the rural South have and have had their own accents and ways of speaking just as they have and have had in any other region . While the accents in this film are somewhat fabricated , I'm sure , I think that it would be a far cry to think of them as harmful to anybody . The hurt that people feel over this movie is the real fabrication , induced by PC thugs who seem to want to cause rifts between peoples . I think that a re-release of Song of the South could possibly have a beneficial effect on race relations in the United States , as it does depict dear friendships and respect between the races , something that I think we quite need at the moment .
Very suspenseful	An excellent thriller about a mute girl ( Dorothy McGuire ) who is the next victim of a serial killer intent on strangling women with disabilities . Of course , the girl's muteness multiplies the suspense hugely , as she has no way to tell anyone that she's in trouble . The loudest screams are the ones that come out as silence . The production is fine , and Siodmak's direction is pretty much impeccable . The camera glides around effortlessly , and shadows and dark spaces cover the screen strategically . At one point , a strangling victim is completely covered with a splash of shadow , and all we can see are her outspread hands ( Nicholas Musuraca is responsible for the masterful photography ) . The acting is also quite good . McGuire expresses her emotions perfectly through her face . Ethel Barrymore , Gordon Oliver , Elsa Lanchester , and Sara Allgood , among others , make up a great supporting cast . Kent Smith plays McGuire's love interest ; he is probably best remembered for his lead role in the Val Lewton vehicle The Cat People ( and his reprise of the same character in Curse of the Cat People ) . I always find him rather adequate , but nothing more . There a couple of things I do dislike . There are a few hackneyed elements in the production , most notably the cliche of the dark and stormy night . The film is also a whodunit , a genre which has some major drawbacks . It seems worthless to me to sit there guessing throughout the film , as some people undoubtedly will . But people should realize that , in a whodunit , it could be any character who has been introduced . The writer doesn't even have to decide until the end if he doesn't want to . There's kind of a slip here , and the killer is revealed at least ten minutes too early if you're paying attention . It would have been better if the serial killer were just some stranger . Ah , I shouldn't end my reviews on flaws , because The Spiral Staircase surpasses them by miles . .
excellent performances	It's unfortunate that this film is so little known . I caught chunks of it on television a few months ago and found the idea of a Satan worshiping Kirk Douglas a bit more than interesting . I didn't know the title , but came upon the film again in the tv listings . Since it also included Burt Lancaster and Laurence Olivier , I figured that I could only gain something by recording it . And I'm very glad I did . The film is a historic drama set during the American Revolution with a lot of comedy thrown in . These varying aspects mix quite well in the film for the most part , and , even when they don't , there're always those three great actors to save the proceedings . Lancaster plays an American priest who is hoping that his community takes no part in the rebellion . Douglas is the self-described devil worshiper and ne'er-do-well who is the community's most outspoken rebel . Olivier has a major supporting part as an English general . These three performances are impeccable . The dialogue is also so ( it's based on a G . B . Shaw play ) . SPOILERSThe script has a couple of large problems . The biggest is that the writers seem to have no clue how to treat the role of the priest's wife , Judith , well played by Janette Scott despite the script's flaws . I have a feeling that Hollywood conventions are getting in the way here . Judith reacts violently to the cynicism and cruelty of Douglas ' character , but , for some odd reason , the screenwriters have her fall in love with him . This is pure Hollywood hokum . Even at the film's end , the writers have not decided what to do with her character : the priest , now transformed into a militiaman ( he dresses like Davy Crockett ) , hands over his wife to the devil worshiper because of a heroic deed he has accomplished . His response to the priest is confusing . I think he refused the offer . Still , Olivier asks Douglas to join him for tea with Judith , to which Douglas agrees . Instead , Judith runs off with her original husband . It is very odd . The writers should have never pushed Judith into Douglas ' arms . One other scene is very hard to watch , too : the scene where Lancaster attempts to sabotage the British troops . It is well meant to show the priest's transformation , but they play it as an action sequence . It is quite poorly staged - one of those scenes where you are always wondering why that one British soldier doesn't kill the priest when he has the chance . Anyhow , it is pointless to complain . These inconsistencies and missteps don't harm the overall effect of the film . I watched this movie for its actors , and , boy , do they give awesome performances .
Huge improvement over the first installment	I found the first installment of this series pretty good , but ultimately sloppy . It was just too repetitive , with the characters doing nothing but travelling forward , stopping sporadically to fight battles against forces of faceless monsters which ridiculously outnumbered them . The second installment , of course , picks up right where the first one ended , although it has broken into three narrative tracks . The cutting between the three makes the first half of the film rather uneven . The plotline of Aragorn , Gimli , and Legolas defending the people of Rohan is especially slow , and there isn't enough exposition to explain what the heck is going on . I'm actually glad for that , as I'd rather sit through incomprehensible plot than have to listen to twenty more minutes of explaining who the heck these people are and what the heck is going on . I turned to my friend , a long-time lover of the novels , and asked him and he quickly caught me up . Pippin and Merry , the two Hobbits who were captured by orcs at the end of the first movie , escape and run into a sacred forest and are captured by a giant talking tree called an ent . This plotline is slow , too , but the tree monsters were neat enough to hold my attention . The third plotline , the one with Frodo and Sam , is by far the most interesting . Gollum , the former owner of the ring , now obsessed with it , attacks them and is captured . He soon becomes their guide when Frodo begins to sympathize with his downfall . Gollum is by far the most interesting character in the film , like Yoda in The Empire Strikes Back . This is the first computer-generated character to work completely . Except for his eyes , I'd accept him as a physical entity . And his story and performance are just so tragic that these parts were nearly overwhelming at times . It's too bad they don't award voice characterizations ( and I can't find who did it on imdb ) . The special effects guys really , truly deserve to win an Oscar for their work here . He was so interesting , I wanted the whole movie to be based from his point of view for a lot of the film . Fortunately , the other two stories do begin to work after a while . There's a great , kinetic battle scene with some wolves that was apparently not in the novel , which , of course , angers all the nerds . This leads to some material about Liv Tyler's character which was also not in the book . My LOTR nerd friend admitted that these scenes were good , and , in my mind , that was the first real scene that got me to give the slightest care for Aragorn , who seems so important but , to me , seemed so uninteresting in the first movie and a lot of this one . The elf and dwarf also begin to come into their own , although the dwarf is often used solely for comic relief , and it's not especially funny . A lot of the movie focuses around a huge battle fought by these characters . They have armies now , so this battle scene is much less ridiculous than the ones in the first film . It's actually enormously entertaining . Pippin and Merry also become more interesting , although they're never going to be , I fear , as interesting as anyone else . The ents whom they hang around with are really cool , though . The ents ' attack on one of the towers ( I do have to admit that I didn't even realize there were two myself ) makes for a very neat scene . My biggest complaint is about the same as my biggest complaint about the first film . Why are the villains so boring ? The orcs and their kin are just dull , faceless villains . They're fodder for the good guys ' armies . They run around and yowl , and that's about it . Why can't there be a few generals or something that have interesting things to say ? Christopher Lee , who did make a bit of an impression in the first film , is totally shafted in this one . He does little more than sit in his tower and watch his troops march away . There's also a new villain , an Ozzy Osbourne-looking guy named Wormtongue , who is controlling the king of Rohan with magic . Do you really believe that they would allow a guy named Wormtongue to come into their palace , let alone advise the king ? Despite this film's numerous flaws , I can't think of another film of 2002 that really entertained me more than this one . .
A legitimately great movie	An adventure movie to match the great ones of the past , and the one to beat for the future . The culmination of this ambitious trilogy is more than fitting ; it surpasses the first two films by quite a distance . Almost nothing disappointed or bothered me . All parts of the story were equally interesting . It was sweeping , it was involving , it was beautiful . One of the few thing I would complain about is the villain . Sauron is boring and more or less unseen . He does not feel very threatening . And his army of orcs has been dull since the first film . They're just not very interesting creatures . Fortunately , The Return of the King really makes up for these monsters with a gallery of better ones . Some of them have been present in the other two films , trolls and those flying dragons that the ring wraiths ride on . They're more present here , however . Even better , though , those gigantic elephants , ten times the size of a normal one . Oh , man , those are cool . Star Wars fans might grumble that they were too much like the AT-AT walkers from Empire , and they are . One scene where Legolas , the elf , triumphs over one of them feels like a sped up version of Luke Skywalker's attack . But the very best thing is a giant spider . Everyone knows that there was originally a giant spider on skull island in King Kong , cut from the film because it really disturbed a test audience . Seeing the spider in Return of the King is like having that famous piece of lost footage restored . When all three films are finally out on their special edition DVDs , I'm going to spend a month combing through them to see whether or not the entire series of films isn't just as good as this one , or perhaps as good as many of my younger friends have sworn they were .
Eric Rohmer , how did I ever exist without you ?	Sure , other artists , countless others , have spent their lives depicting the interrelationships of men and women . But I don't know of anyone who so consistently seems to understand human relationships than Eric Rohmer . So few can build as believable characters , such believable situations . Full Moon in Paris concerns a young woman , Louise ( Pascale Ogier ) , who has arrived at a point of extreme confusion : she loves her long-time boyfriend , Rémi ( Tchéky Karyo ) , but she desperately wants to be alone for once in her life . Rémi likes his life the way he has it , living in the suburbs , doing his job , coming home to Louise . But it's all too stifling for her . She rents an apartment in Paris , but that only partly steadies her mind . Louise also has another , more ambiguous boyfriend , Octave ( Fabrice Luchini , who appears in several Rohmer films and stars in my very favorite , Perceval le Gallois ) . Their relationship is definitely on the romantic side , but both seem to be in it , at least most of the time , for each other's company . They can talk , where Rémi isn't an especially gifted conversationalist ( not a good character trait if you're in a Rohmer film ! ) . The film moves along as well as any Rohmer film , but for a long time I was pretty sure that Rohmer wouldn't be able to end it in any significant way , that it would end up being a great film ( like I say , I couldn't find one of his films any less ) , but not one of his best . Fortunately , Rohmer really does find the perfect ending , which ends up lifting the film up and making it one of the director's best . The film really benefits from its perfectly written characters and amazing acting , as well . Ogier gives one of the strongest central performances in Rohmer's canon . Fabrice Luchini , man , I love this actor ! He stars in my favorite Rohmer film and has a small roll in my second favorite ( the vastly underrated 4 Adventures of Reinette and Mirabelle from 1987 ) . Luchini is so perfect here , so subtly hilarious that most will not notice it . During one of Octave's many conversations with Louise , he rattles off a really good line and has to stop to write it down . Louise understandingly excuses herself to the restroom to give him time to get his quip recorded . .
Undervalued work by one of America's greatest filmmakers	It has generally been thought of as a minor Sayles work , but I think it demonstrates his talent to the utmost . No other filmmaker I know of is so skillful at creating a believable community , one that feels like a real place , while at the same time illuminating the sense of community throughout the entire United States . Sunshine State focuses on a Floridian community , of course , on a small island off the coast . A lot has gone on here during the last half-century . The island is populated mostly by blacks and whites , most of whom remember the old days of racial tension well . The two races still don't interact much , but they now live side by side in peace . Mostly they hold on to their values as a small community , where individuals owned the businesses and land . At least they try to hold on to those values . Corporations are threatening to turn their paradise , which is actually called Paradise Island , into strip malls and golf courses . Some choose to protest what others see as progress , others have given up . The film has two main characters , a black woman and a white woman , who never meet during the film and , though they know the same people , might never have met , they share similar life experiences . Edie Falco plays Marly Temple . She runs a local motel / restaurant that stands in a location that developers desperately want . Angela Bassett plays a woman who has just returned to Paradise Island after a long absence . Yes , the film is far from perfect . Some of the supporting characters , of which there is an enormous amount , end up as loose threads . And the climax is sort of a weak deus ex machina . But , generally , Sayles creates an utterly complex work that explores its themes in a manner that compels , teaches , and deeply satisfies . It isn't his best film , but it's one of his best . It is perhaps his most ambitious film and it certainly didn't deserve to be passed over like it was . .
Why isn't this more well known ?	I can't believe this isn't a huge cult hit . Perhaps people in 1968 , thinking of the Monkees as a silly factory-made pop band rip-off of the Beatles , refused to see it . That cynicism probably covered it from sight ever since . Don't make this mistake . _ Head _ is an amazing film that most open minded people will appreciate . It is very funny and very intelligent ( and very trippy ) .
I heard the title a long time ago . How can you forget it ?	This is one of the weirdest and most unique films I've ever seen . It's artsploitation , and like most artsploitation , its art is questionable . In the end , though , I judged that it was more art than exploitation . Others , and probably the majority , would probably feel the opposite . A shy young man follows a group of men who are dragging a woman up to his apartment building's roof . He watches quietly as they rape her . When she awakes in the morning , she asks him to kill her , for she's too unhappy to live . We discover that he himself is suicidal , and that he harbors a deep curiosity and fear around sex , which has lead him to murder before . It does cross the line several times , especially with a series of photos of Roman Polanski and Sharon Tate , among which is a picture of Tate's corpse , but there's a lot of interest to grab onto . If nothing else , the stark black and white cinematography is gorgeous , and director Wakamatsu's use of music is masterful . A trip some will definitely want to take , while others , and you probably know it already , should avoid . The director later went on to produce Oshima's In the Realm of the Senses , which , while certainly a good film , is far less daring and compelling as Go Go Second Time Virgin . .
Fascinating film . . . . . . . so bizarre . . .	Most will dislike Josef von Sternberg's Dishonored . The plot is often ridiculous , and that's what most people like to comment on . I found it hypnotic . The inconsistencies didn't annoy me so much as entertain me . In a way , this could be called a camp classic . Whatever type of classic it is , though , it is an amazing film . Confer the scene nearer the beginning when Marlene Dietrich walks right up to the camera , within inches of its lense . How about the scene where she plays a Russian peasant girl to infiltrate the Russian army ( she's an Austrian spy ) ? She climbs up on a high ledge and starts meowing at the man whom she is seducing . The final sequence is stunning and audacious . I'm skipping a few lines in order to give sufficient room to write thisSPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Who else but Marlene Dietrich would insist that her lipstick were on straight before she was executed by firing squad ?
Marvelous	Made in the middle of WWII , One of Our Aircraft Is Missing is quite a great film . The technical aspects and special effects are extraordinary . The script is wonderful ( Oscar winning ) and the British RAF members are all well developed . Some of the Dutch could use a little more characterization , but it's not too bad . One might think that the Archers ' strengths lie in fantasy films , but they stick to realism here , and they do a great job . If you are a fan of the Archers , don't miss it . If you are a WWII buff , also make sure you catch it . .
Exceptional . Actually changed my opinion !	Very strong documentary about Illinois Governor George Ryan , who was faced with the decision of whether to commute all of the sentences of capital punishment in his state to sentences of life in prison . I'm a liberal Democrat who actually supported the death penalty , and Deadline is a rare film that challenged my views and made me rethink my opinion , and , in only 90 minutes , almost entirely changed my mind . Not that I haven't heard most of the arguments in the film before , but the film presented it in a way that made me consider the issue on a deeper level . It hasn't convinced me 100 % that the death penalty should be abolished , but I do see how arbitrary the practice can be , and how poorly our system works at times . In that way , I am almost at the point where I think that the system perhaps should be abolished completely , because there is no way to perfect it . There will always be flaws . It's hardly a perfect film , and , at 90 minutes , it isn't nearly long enough to explore all the issues . But it is amazing how much it does in an hour and a half . One of the best movies of 2004 so far . .
Fantastic . Bertolucci has not lost it .	SLIGHT SPOILERSI can't fairly claim Bernardo Bertolucci as one of my favorite filmmakers , because I've seen relatively few of his films . However , he did make my third favorite film of all time , Last Tango in Paris . Besides Besieged , the only other film of his I'd seen was The Last Emperor , which I like very much , also . Now , I vividly remember seeing the episode of Siskel & Ebert ( or whatever it was called at the time that this film was released ) and hearing Ebert proclaim that Besieged was racist and crying , " What has happened to Bertolucci ? He used to make these beautiful and personal films ! " I want to know what the hell movie he saw in place of Besieged , because the Besieged I saw was " beautiful and personal , " and it was certainly not " racist . " The film is about an African woman ( Thandie Newton , who was later to star opposite Tom Cruise in Mission Impossible II , which I now have to see ) whose husband was arrested for political reasons ( we're never really told in which country they lived , nor is the political climate explained or described ) . Some time late ( that , too , is unspecified ) , she immigrates to Italy where she is hired as a live-in maid by an English pianist ( David Thewlis ) . He is extraordinarily shy and inhibited ; he barely even leaves his lavish home . Soon , he is attracted to Newton's exoticism and tells her he is in love with her , even asks her to marry him . She's terribly offended and feels used : she shouts that she already has a husband , and that he was arrested in Africa . Thewlis yields from his pursuit , and , because of his guilt ( and also because he is still attracted to her ) , he begins on a quest to find and set free Newton's husband . What results is one of the more complex films of the past few years . The art film is not dead . Bertolucci's direction is filled with interesting angles , camera movements , colors , jump cuts , and all sorts of beautiful and effective tricks . The only thing I didn't like was the use of slow motion - that's one technique that is difficult to use well in the cinema , and , with hand-held cameras , it looks awful . A couple of individual scenes were clunky , especially the scene in which Thewlis declares his love for Newton . It's not bad , per se , but , well , like I said , it's a bit clunky , if you know what I mean . It doesn't work completely . The film relies on very little dialogue , which makes the whole thing more sublime . Thandie Newton and David Thewlis are both excellent . I can't wait to see Newton in other films . To answer Ebert's claim of racism , if he had said that Thewlis ' character was a racist , then that would have been understandable . His " love " is just lust , and what he is really attracted to is her Africanness , her exoticness . And also her perceived primitiveness . This is not an uncommon attraction , even if it is offensive . But these feelings are actually DEALT with , they're not just simply accepted . Ebert also said that the goal of the film , its entire point , was to get to the sex . Not so . The way Thewlis uses and manipulates Newton caused me pain . It caused HER pain . The final scene is just overflowing with power . I loved this film . Please see it and see it with an open mind . .
Beautiful peace of work	I had never seen this ten minute long Chuck Jones cartoon before . It's one of his very best . The colors are mindbending , as are the animation and drawings . I felt alternately robbed that I had never seen it before , and happy that I finally did get to see it !
Excellent all around	Gripping account of Richard Nixon's first television interview after resigning from the Presidency . It was conducted by a man who was strictly an entertainer , Englishman David Frost , who believed it would be a great way to become famous in America . At the beginning , he has no real convictions , but the researchers he has hired ( Oliver Platt and Sam Rockwell ) motivate him to attempt to give Nixon the conviction he never received from the American justice system . When the interviews begin , it turns out to be a David and Goliath story , with Frost unable to compete with Nixon . The strongest point of the film are the performances . Langella in particular hits a homerun , giving perhaps the best fictional performance of Richard Nixon yet in cinema . Much like in The Queen , which was also written by playwright Peter Morgan , Michael Sheen holds his own against a powerhouse performer . Also great are Kevin Bacon , playing Nixon's former Chief of Staff , now a defeated , hurt man desperately trying to redeem his boss , and Sam Rockwell , as Frost's most passionate researcher . Though based on a play , Frost / Nixon almost never betrays that origin . It's intimate , but open . I don't know how much you can credit director Ron Howard with the film's success ? I imagine that its success belongs more to the actors and Morgan ? but it is by quite a distance the best movie he's ever directed .
It's funny reading these comments . . .	I think this film is hilarious and classic camp . I think it is one of those so-bad-it's-good films that many people will look at and just get ticked off . I mean , for God's sake guys , have a freakin ' sense of humor ! ! ! Could anything be funnier than the Computerettes ? My God , no way ! Or how about the hilarious cameos of those such as George Burns , Steve Martin ( because of this number , " Maxwell's Silver Hammer " has always been one of my very favorite Beatles songs ) , and Alice Cooper . My favorite scene has to be where the weather vein comes to life , dances around singing " Get Back , " and brings Strawberry Fields back to life . You're right if you say this film was a disaster , but it's one that turns out to be not only watchable , but great , although not exactly in the way they meant it to be great .
Best film I've seen so far from ' 07	I'll follow Joseph Gordon-Levitt wherever he chooses to go . After two knockout performances ( Mysterious Skin and Brick ) , it was clear that he had something . With his new film The Lookout , he more or less solidifies the notion that he's one of this generation's best actors . That is , if he even needed to do a third film to prove that . But , yes , he is just as impressive here as he was in his previous two films , playing a young man who has suffered major brain trauma . He himself is responsible for the injury , having crashed his car in a silly fit of teenage romanticism , killing two of his friends and maiming his girlfriend besides what he has done to himself . Now he mainly pines for his old , normal life , and browbeats himself with guilt . He works at a small town bank as the night watchman / janitor , and his disability ( and his guilt and anger ) makes him the perfect target for conman Gary Spargo ( Matthew Goode ) . Looking at it from the outside , The Lookout contains a lot of clichés , especially in the colorful supporting characters . It also shares a lot of similarities to Christopher Nolan's Memento . But the film survives for a couple of reasons . First , the actors are all just excellent . Even though inhabiting cliché characters like the kindly Midwestern cop ( Sergio Di Zio ) , the bimbo stripper ( Isla Fisher ) or the wisecracking blind guy ( Jeff Daniels ) , every actor brings his or her A game . And I wouldn't discount writer / director Scott Frank's abilities either . I mean , these people are cliché in a lot of ways , but he brings them all a step up with his smartly written dialogue . I especially like how he gives Isla Fisher's character a very human face even while simultaneously joking about how dense she is . And that's the second reason that the film turns out to be really good , that Frank focuses so much on the characters . The protagonist , Chris Pratt , is one of the more tragic characters to come out of Hollywood in recent years . The crime film / thriller elements of the film probably wouldn't be half as involving if not for characters that I really cared about . All in all , I was extremely entertained by The Lookout . It's the best film I've seen so far this year .
I'm impressed	The original Toy Story was a pretty good animated film , especially good for kids . It was inventive and consistently entertaining , but for some reason , it never quite gelled . I'm beside myself trying to explain what was lacking . I don't know . At the end , I just went about my day without thinking about it much . And I wasn't all that excited about Toy Story 2 . I had heard that it was better than the original , but I was skeptical . Well , I finally got around to watching it , and it blew me away . It was extraordinarily good . I have hardly ever laughed as hard . It also has an amazingly intelligent script . Its only problems are a little hyperactivity , which all American animated films are guilty of ( if you don't know what I'm talking about , rent Kiki's Delivery Service or My Neighbor Totoro , both children's movies from Japan , and you'll notice how much more relaxed they are ) , and one TERRIBLE song . Oh my God , it is sickeningly sappy . Otherwise , a nearly perfect film .
There's a reason why John Ford is my favorite director of all time	Probably the least of the Cavalry Trilogy , at least in my opinion , but there's no shame in that . It's an excellent picture , and quite an entertaining one . Where Fort Apache ended with a mock fall of Custer , Ribbon begins with a voiceover announcing Custer's defeat . The younger generations of several Indian tribes , some once hostile with each other , have taken command from their elders and joined together in a war pact against the U . S . Cavalry . John Wayne plays Capt . Nathan Brittles , who has spent his whole life in the military and is just a few days from retirement . The plot of the film has the Cavalry first trying to deliver two women to an outpost where a stagecoach will pick them up and bring them back east . Unfortunately , the hostile Indians attack the outpost first . The Cavalry then has to deal with their enemy before they can do anything else . I'd rather not give away the climax , as it is quite unexpected , but I like how this installment of the Trilogy eschews the violence that I was so sure was coming . She Wore a Yellow Ribbon is perhaps most notable for having John Wayne actually cry in a beautiful scene where he addresses his troop for the final time . It's very subtle and well acted by Wayne , an actor who almost never gets his due respect nowadays . Perhaps the only scene that really fails is Victor McLaglen's slapstick fight with seven men who are trying to arrest him ( Wayne sends them after him as a joke , because he knows that not even seven could take that gorilla down ! ) . Ford often includes such moments of slapstick in his films , and usually I find them humorous , especially when they concern McLaglen . However , this scene just goes on far too long . I think I like Fort Apache and Rio Grande better at least partly because they're in black and white . Of course , I have nothing against color , but the cinematography in this particular film is a little bland . Ford made several movies in color with more brilliant photography , most notably The Searchers . But even 3 Godfathers , from 1948 , one year before Yellow Ribbon , has better color cinematography . .
See it on the new Criterion disc	Difficult to describe , but amazing as hell . Derek Jarman examines the punk aesthetic , with a framing device that Queen Elizabeth I has asked her court magician to show her England's future . And I doubt she likes what she sees , a post-apocalyptic wasteland . The prophecy follows a group of punks who rebel and murder pretty much randomly . The film's likely to disgust many ; it lives in much the same world as Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange , and , just like that film , we are expected both to revile and have fun with the horrors that are perpetrated on screen . Criticism has been all over on this film , but it's mostly been negative , with a few cultists embracing it . This is the kind of film that I can really love , as I am a kind of pseudo-revolutionary myself . I enjoy observing rebellion in all of its forms , anyway , and I like to think I would like to somehow take part in it . Yes , that could be considered pretentious , but that especially fits in with this film . Jarman was never of like mind with the movement he was depicting , and he himself is emulating what he perceives as punk . And he's partly horrified at what he's observing . I loved watching this movie , in all its simultaneous beauty and ugliness . The documentary included on the Criterion disc , Jubilee : A Time Less Golden , convinced me that the film wasn't only impressive on a primal level . It's one of the best of this kind of documentaries , in that it doesn't at all slavishly tell us how great Jarman or Jubilee is . Instead , it clearly outlines all the contradictions of the artist and the film . Strangely enough , it helps solidify the importance and greatness of the film , while pretty much quashing the many criticisms that have been leveled at it throughout the years . The review of the film at DVD Verdict ( www . dvdverdict . com / reviews / jubilee . shtml ) was also a big help . Jubilee is definitely a must-see , an outrageous and remarkable cinematic experience . .
Exceptional !	This is McDonagh's first feature , and it's a sure bet that he's a writer / director to watch in the future . In Bruges was advertised as a straight comedy featuring gangsters who like to shoot at each other , so the three-dimensional characters and emotional depth come as a nice surprise . Colin Farrell , who , if he hadn't already convinced me he was a great actor , certainly wins that title now , stars as a green hit-man with a short attention span who messes up his first job by killing an innocent bystander . Things seem to be okay with the boss ( Ralph Fiennes ) , who sends Farrell and his partner , Brendan Gleeson , to the beautiful Belgian town of Bruges to wait for their next instructions . The fact is , Fiennes plans for Gleeson to snuff out Farrell . That's the basic set-up , and it would be criminal to reveal too much more . McDonagh's script is a thing of beauty , quick-witted , smart and frequently touching . I did think that the final twists were a bit overly clever . Jordan Prentice , who plays the dwarf Jimmy in the film , began his career as one of several dwarfs inhabiting the Howard the Duck costume in the film of the same name .
An enormously sensitive film about human beings	MINOR SPOILERSAmong the many virtues of Monster's Ball is its amazingly well structured narrative . It begins with a slew of tragedies , and the first half climaxes with a stunning sex scene that people are going to be talking about , whether in shock or criticism , for years . After that , the drama is very level . Nothing all that dramatically weighty happens , at least compared to the first half . But all the little things that do happen are moments of beauty and humanity . The film even avoids a melodramatic denouement that I thought was sure to come . The setup is there , but the screenplay allows the film to end in a way more perfect than was imaginable moments beforehand . The screenplay represents something extremely original , and , although people have certainly responded to the writing ( it was nominated for an Oscar ) , I think people might overlook how well written it is . Of course , people are going to go see this because of Halle Berry's Oscar . She deserved it . I think her acceptance speech was curious , almost racist itself , as if The Man were secretly pulling strings to keep her down . I think it's unfortunate that she implied what she implied in that speech , because the film is about acceptance and togetherness . This is her first good role , at least that I've seen . I've definitely seen her in several bad roles , and you could always tell she was acting far below her ability . This is the kind of role every actress wants , and I'm glad that she did come into her own . Now let's just hope she doesn't go back to doing bad films ! Hint : Halle , whatever you do , turn down B . A . P . S . 2 ! What's painful about the Oscar success is that Berry's co-star in the film , Billy-Bob Thornton , was not honored with a nomination . That's an insult . His performance is at least is strong . Thornton's acting ability is no secret - he's been nominated before , one for Best Actor and one for Best Supporting ( for A Simple Plan , for which he really deserved the award ) . But why would they turn him down ? He does a lot of garbage , too , but he's generally had a good career , both as actor and director . The supporting cast is also excellent here . Though their roles are small , Sean Combs ( yes , Puff Daddy ) and Heath Ledger ( you know , the guy whom David Manning called " this year's hottest new actor " or something like that ) give award-worthy performances . Also , Peter Boyle , best known as the monster from Young Frankenstein or as Grandpa Munster , or maybe even as Raymond's dad in Everybody Loves Raymond , is excellent as the bitter and dying patriarch . That sex scene is going to be argued over forever , I think . I've heard some refer to it as pornography , and some as a very dramatically effective scene . I say that it is impossible to deny that that scene is not awkward . However , I think that its awkwardness is part of the point . The film really doesn't idealize any of its characters or situations . What one should notice about that sex scene is how it changes midstream from screwing to lovemaking . The second sex scene is very adult . I think it embarrasses some men because it depicts oral sex on a female . Usually when that sex act is performed on screen it is treated as a joke . I just think that men , who really do control the entire industry , find that act less erotic because they don't want to see themselves as a submissive sexual partner on film . Monster's Ball is not a perfect film , but any little flaws along the way don't harm much . It's certainly a film that must be seen , and I hope others love it as much as I did . .
Surprisingly great !	A big surprise . It wasn't especially heralded by critics , and pretty much thought of as just a vehicle for the talents of Annette Bening . Though Bening is the film's strongest virtue , it's a fine work in all departments . Based on a Somerset Maugham novel , this is the story of Julia , a famous actress on the London stage in the days before WWII . Julia is a fantastic actress , and she knows it , but she also knows that she's aging and that she won't be in the limelight forever . Furthermore , her husband ( Jeremy Irons ) is distant . She becomes romantically involved with a young American man ( Shaun Evans ) , but he's only using her . Julia is one of the most well developed characters to be found in 2004 movies . Bening's performance is absolutely flawless , and easily the best of last year . I had a couple of problems with the movie . First off , the spector of Julia's acting teacher appears at times and coaches her on her performances ( mostly her real life performances ) . This technique is becoming a cliché , I think . However , it does help get into Julia's mind a bit more . It would have been impossible to communicate her inner mind in any other way , so that's forgiven . The outcome of the film's main conflict also should have been a little more complex . What happens is satisfactory , but I don't believe there wouldn't be a little more hurt spread around . Small quibbles , really . The film is exceptional , and Bening should have won the Oscar .
Flawed , yet great	An epic about Italian political history of the first half of the 20th Century , detailing the lives of two men born on the same day . Olmo ( played by Gerard Depardieu as an adult ) is the bastard child of peasants and is raised to be a socialist . Alfredo ( Robert De Niro ) is the son of a wealthy family and will someday become lord and master of all the peasants on his land . He's a pleasant man , not cruel like his father , but he won't go out of his way to help those below him in status ( including Olmo , who is his closest friend and companion ) . It's a huge film , and very sloppy . I would guess it would be very sloppy even in its original version ( the English language version is an hour shorter at least ) . My biggest problem with the film is the character of Olmo . As a child ( played by Roberto Maccanti ) , he exhibits daring and independence . As an adult , he seems like a sponge and he kind of drops out of the last third of the picture , it seemed to me . My interest dropped in the character because , first , the character does not seem to follow from childhood to adulthood , and , second , Depardieu gives a dull performance . He's handsome , but in the kind of way that makes you forget that he even exists . Maccanti , as young Olmo , leaves a much bigger impression . My second biggest problem with the film is the treatment of politics . It's no secret where Bertolucci's sympathy lies , with the communists . That's fine by me , and it's good that he has Alfredo not as the villain but as a man who turns his back and continues to live his life as a wealthy man . But there are Fascists in the film , and they are lead by Donald Sutherland . Sutherland is so evil in this film it becomes amusing . He'll do anything to get what he wants , including killing old women , children , and he even headbutts a cat ! I have no real problem with showing the Italian Fascists as evil , but this is cartoonishly evil . Sutherland's character's name : Attila . No sht ! On the other hand , I cannot help but admit that Donald Sutherland has all the most memorable scenes in the film . He may be more or less one dimensional , but I'll never forget his wicked grin , and I'll never forget the splattered blood on his forehead from that cat ! Robert De Niro does a lot with his role , which is the most complex in the film , probably . His performance here matches his best work . Alfredo's wife is played by Dominique Sanda . She also gives an exceptional performance , although her character could have been ( and might have been , in the full version ) better developed . While I have some major problems with the overall substance of the film , there's no doubt there's a genius at work here . Several , actually . Bertolucci's direction is as good as it ever was , and his ambition seems , at least for a while , peerless . He may have had several better films , but this is as much a peak in his direction as Last Tango in Paris or The Conformist . Helping him achieve greatness far beyond what should have resulted are Vittorio Storaro , providing gorgeous , sweeping photography , and Ennio Moricone , ever the trooper with another exceptional musical score . 1900 , despite heavy flaws , is indeed a great film .
Hilarious ! One of Peter Sellers ' best films ! .	The Party begins with a kind of lame parody of Gunga Din's final scene ( I guess you might consider it a SPOILER to Gunga Din , so consider that before you check this one out ) . Hrundi Bakshi ( Sellers ) is playing the main character of the new film production Son of Gunga Din , but he's little more than a series of accidents waiting to happen . He ends up ruining a set piece , which gets him fired . The producer of that film tells a studio exec to blacklist him . That exec accidentally adds Hrundi's name to the bottom of a party list . He goes , and , as you might expect , ends up destroying everything around him like a small tornado . Most of the film takes place at this party ( and the film only really gets funny when Hrundi gets to the party ) , where we meet various Hollywood phonies and stars who are full of themselves , as well as a few innocent newcomers being beckoned to the infamous casting couch . All these people react in different ways to Hrundi , but most like him and see him as a nice guy who probably doesn't belong there anyway . He becomes enraptured by a young French newcomer named Michelle ( Claudine Longet ) . Peter Sellers made a lot of films , and I have to admit that I haven't seen many . What I particularly like about The Party is the character of Hrundi and Sellers ' performance . Sellers ' films are usually very funny , but the characters are often just caricatures . I really like Hrundi . He could have easily been a gross stereotype . Sellers wears dark makeup to appear Indian , and he speaks in an accent . But Hrundi is not just a stereotype . He is a genuinely lovable person . He does some stupid things , but he always means well . I actually think the character would have been worth sequels . I am sure that Sellers and Blake Edwards were studying the French comedic filmmaker Jacques Tati when they were making this film . There are several scenes very , very reminiscent of M . Hulot's Holiday , Mon Oncle , and Playtime . Hrundi seems to be clearly based on M . Hulot . Of course , I am not accusing The Party of stealing or anything . I'm just happy that someone in Hollywood was a fan of Tati's films , and felt that his formulae would work in an American film . I wonder how well this film did financially . It's not well known at all today . One more note : my Lord , Claudine Longet may be the single cutest girl I've ever seen ! I don't know if I've seen her elsewhere . I can see why she didn't become a huge star . She's not imposing like others . Nor , truth be told , is she a great actress . But wowza ! I think my heart just stopped !
Highly underrated	Sam Fuller's reworking of the Tombstone story , with the Earp family replaced by the Bonnells ( Barry Sullivan , Gene Barry and Robert Dix ) and the Clanton family replaced by cattle baroness Barbara Stanwyck , her wild younger brother , John Ericson , and forty loyal servants who together run the Arizona town . The Bonnells come to Tombstone to be federal marshals , to the chagrin of Stanwyck , who made the town and runs it under her own charm . Eventually Sullivan captivates her , but she still has to protect her law breaking brother and her other underlings . The film runs a brisk 79 minutes , but there's enough plot to fill an epic . Amazingly , Fuller never messes things up : not a moment is wasted , but the film never feels too fast or overstuffed . The director is at the top of his game here , and this is easily one of his best movies .
Fantastic in every way	Possibly the gentlest movie about incest and murder ever made . Gael García Bernal stars as Elvis , a man who has just been released from the Navy . He has no one , so he seeks out his father , a man whom he has never met . He discovers the man ( played by William Hurt ) is an evangelical priest with the perfect American family ( wife : Laura Harring ; children : Paul Dano and Pell James ) , and that he doesn't want to acknowledge Elvis as his son . Meanwhile , Elvis starts up a flirtation with his half sister ( who doesn't know ) . We realize quickly that there's something not quite right about the guy mentally . The film plays kind of like a really low key Cape Fear . Except that Elvis seems , for all practical purposes , a really sweet and gentle man . The movie got some flack for its treatment of evangelical Christians , but I can't think of any movie that's more fair about the subject . Sure , William Hurt is kind of a hypocrite , but when he tries to make amends , he's sincere about it . Not much happens in the film , but the characters ' relationships are drawn masterfully with few brushstrokes . The acting is excellent ( if the film had been better received , Pell James would have been a breakout star ) , and it has the second best musical score of 2006 ( after The Fountain ) . It's an extremely sad picture , and one that I'm sure will haunt me for a long while afterward . One of the best of the year .
I liked this even more than The Squid and the Whale	A box office flop , even for an independent film . It's not hard to see why . This is one of the most emotionally violent movies I've ever seen , and I'm sure many people would find it more than a little unpleasant . But for those of us who can appreciate this kind of material , Margot at the Wedding is a great movie . Even if for no other reason , Nicole Kidman delivers her very finest performance in it . She's kind of going through a Katharine Hepburn-esquire box office poison thing right now , but , as with Hepburn , she's as strong , if not stronger , than ever . Jennifer Jason Leigh and Jack Black , as well as the rest of the cast , also deliver excellent performances . There are some issues in the periphery that are kind of weird and underdeveloped , especially concerning the bizarre , half-seen activities of the neighbors . On the other hand , there are some other bits that sit perfectly in the distance , only partly explained , like the entire portrait of Margot's and Pauline's childhood . The movie leaves a lot to ponder about these beautifully written characters . It's rough around the edges , but wonderful for that .
Well observed teen drama	A stunning directorial debut by production designer Catherine Hardwicke . She collaborated with Nikki Reed , a thirteen year-old girl who had been experiencing some major hardships . What results is a very honest portrayal of a teenager going down a steep slope to hell . Reed herself plays the most attractive girl in her middle school , Evie . A slightly nerdy girl , Tracy , played by Evan Rachel Wood , is sick of being ignored and courts her friendship . She fails repeatedly until she proves her worth by stealing a woman's handbag . The two become hopelessly entangled . Evie's past is unclear , as she can never be trusted to tell the truth . In one story , her mother's dead , in the next , her mother's addicted to crack . We know that she lives with a somewhat irresponsible , probably too young cousin who raises her in a way that she maybe wishes that she herself could have been raised , that is , with complete freedom to do whatever she wants . Tracy lives in a typically broken family . Her mother , played by Holly Hunter , is a recovering alcoholic who clings to a man who was recently released from a halfway house ; he has had a past addiction to drugs . Hunter is a loving mother , but her own problems make it difficult for her to take care of her two children ( Tracy also has a brother , who is himself doing drugs and drinking a lot ) . The two central relationships in the film , Tracy / Evie and Tracy / her mother , are perfectly observed . The three characters are remarkably written . It's easy to see Evie as some kind of demon ? she's a vile manipulator in all respects ? but the screenplay never loses her humanity . She may lie about her past , but it's obvious she's been broken down at an early age . And , as the story progresses , she is as emotionally attached to Tracy as Tracy is to her . The film also captures a particular jealousy that Tracy has for Evie . In a way , it's kind of a love / hate relationship . And then the mother / daughter relationship is just heartbreaking . I suppose it is the more cliché relationship , but it's only cliché because everyone , boy or girl and no matter how far the teenager descends into the abyss , experiences . Since the characters are all so perfectly observed , the relationship transcends its commonality . The script has a few clunks along the way , which isn't too surprising seeing as its Hardwicke's first screenplay ( my guess is that Hardwicke created the basic structure and Reed provided the anecdotes ) . The racial attitudes may cause a specific pause for some viewers . Evie and Tracy start to flirt with and date a couple of older black boys , and it feels like the interracial relationship is one of the steps down to hell . However , racial attitudes in the United States are too complex to insist on this simplistic reading . I think this issue is too complex to go into here , and , if I were to elaborate on my feelings about this part of the film here , it would double the size of this review . .
Truly beautiful and unique film	If you can find this film , and can take slow-moving cinema , definitely pick it up . I came to it via Spirit of the Beehive , Victor Erice's first film , made in 1973 . This film was his third , made nearly twenty years later . It's somewhat sad that such a marvelous artist as Erice has only produced three films in almost thirty years now , but I think Quince Tree of the Sun works in one way as a forgiveness for that fact . This film teaches nothing if not patience , not only in the viewer , but in the artist . It is a documentary about a painter who spends September through December painting a quince tree . Not a picture of one , mind you , or even one he has memorized . He sets up an elaborate system so that he can paint the tree as it exists before him . We see him working well at first , with the sun hitting the tree and its fruit exactly how the painter wishes . But then the weather becomes uncooperative for a long period of time . It's cloudy or rainy , and the sun is not working the way that it's supposed to . By the time it becomes sunny again , the Earth has moved , and all hope of painting it in the way he originally intedended is squandered . Of course he can't just wait until the next year . The fruit and leaves will be different . During the film , there are several discussions about art and life . All are interesting . Too bad the subtitles on the Facets video are kind of hard to read at times . There is a lot to get out of it , surely more than I did in one viewing . A second viewing is definitely in order if I have time before I have to return the video . It is one of those films that suggests that there is a ton more under the surface that will take just a tiny bit of digging . Of course , this film would bore the socks off of 99 % or more of the population . I definitely suggest it to fans of Spirit of the Beehive . Also , fans of Andrei Tarkovsky should check it out , this and Spirit of the Beehive . I generally think of Tarkovsky as the most original of all film artists , but Erice may be the most similar . He's a very good auteur for Tarkovsky fans because he is similar , but he has a remarkable essence all his own . Perhaps I would consider him above Tarkovsky , if only Erice would make more films . But , as this film has delicately taught me , an artist must work at his own pace . .
Bittersweet coming-of-age story	It's actually a bit difficult for me to pull myself out of this material . Enid's life is a lot like my own experience , or at least my own attitude , when I reached the end of high school . And now , half a decade later , I'm growing into Seymour at a rapid rate ( with movies instead of music ) . I imagine that Seymour is a lot like Zwigoff , and I feel like I must be like him . His misanthropy is very much like my own . You stare at everyone , and they all seem to fit into a specific slot so entirely well . The concept of individuality seems like a joke . How about the guy with the nunchucks ? A character who should have seemed like a gross cartoon , hell , can anyone honestly say they haven't seen people just like him ? You think you're the only person who differs at all from all the others . Do you hear the kind of crappy music they listen to ? The kind of bad films they watch ? But then , take a step back . That is what this film does for me . Seymour and Enid think they don't fit into a slot , but , well , unfortunately they do . Which is why I can so easily fit myself into their places at different times in my own life . And make sure to note that Seymour says to Enid several times during the film , " Yeah , I felt like that when I was your age , too . " Sometimes it's sickening how no one seems to differ . The film is not perfect , however . Enid's schitck does get old after a while . My biggest problem , though , is the ending . SPOILERS . The trip on the mystery bus seems like a poetic ending at first , but , really , to me it seems more like a cop-out . The film isn't exactly going for realism . There is a lot of exaggeration . However , I think that it needed a more down-to-earth ending , one where some sort of decision was made . That would show that Enid has passed a point of no return , that she has grown . That magical bus ride is nothing more than an escape , an easy way out , an evasion . END SPOILERSThis film was directed by Terry Zwigoff , who directed one of my favorite films of all time , Crumb . Crumb , in my not-so-very-humble opinion , is one of the most perfect films ever made , and easily the best documentary I've ever seen . That film was released in 1994 . Zwigoff made one documentary before that , I think in the mid-1980s , but I'm not sure . I haven't seen it , but perhaps I should seek it out . Anyhow , please , please , please , Terry , don't let another seven years pass before you direct another film . I'm pretty sure that Ghost World was relatively successful . It has been a critical smash , at any rate ( well , that hardly matters ) . Please , find something or write something that you find worthy and make another film out of it . Trust me , if you send out another one as good as this in a couple of years , you'll be a household name . .
If this is the Star Wars of my generation . . .	and Harry Potter is the Wizard of Oz of my generation , then my generation is truly pathetic . Okay , it's not like FotR is a bad movie . In my opinion , the first two hours are flawed but very entertaining . It is the third hour where it gets really clunky , repetitive , and nonsensical . First off , I have not read the books . I claim that as an advantage , since I cannot criticize the filmmakers for skipping my favorite parts . No one else should be doing this either , but it is inevitable . But my first major criticism has to do with the novels . This film has the same setback that all fantasy novels do - too many characters . It works better in novels , to be sure , but it certainly is a disadvantage to a film . I knew only about three or four names among the main characters by the end . Also , character development is impossible here . I knew only two characters by the end of the movie : Gandolf and Bilbo . You wanna know why ? Because the actors who played them , Ian McKellen and Ian Holm , are masters . Their characters are not developed in dialogue , but by acting . Elijah Wood is almost there . None of the others comes close , although Liv Tyler didn't seem too bad ( her character was too small here to judge well ) . It's also true that none of the situations were at all well developed . The whole film feels rushed , which we might expect in a movie based on a long novel . That still isn't forgivable . A lot of references get thrown out in the air with little explanation , and I heard several groups of viewers talking amongst themselves to see what was going on . But that's not all . There's plenty to criticize elsewhere as well . The story itself is lame . Let me guess : another uber-evil villain wants to control the world . How uninteresting can you get ? I guess these novels may have started that trend , although I doubt that . Still , it was lame when Tolkien invented it and it's still lame in fantasy novels today . Then there's the cinematography : it's repetitive . The novel's structure is basically one of an endless parade of locales , and the basic shot is an aerial view of the umpteen good guys walking in a straight line across whatever locale they've reached . Peter Jackson must have spent at least half of the 16 months it took to make these three films sitting in a helicopter ! Also , the battle scenes are ridiculous . Anyone who complains when the rebels live in the battle scenes in Star Wars , or how the Storm Troopers always miss is going to laugh themselves silly when they see these nine fellows , four of whom barely fight ( the hobbits ) , dispatch hundreds of drooling orcs in a matter of ten minutes . So what did I like ? Well , some of the action sequences are awfully entertaining , despite their ludicrousness . I especially like the special effects of the troll , and his fight with the group . That was very exciting . To further criticize the poor structure , I felt that the Balrog sequence was quite boring after that . It looked far too much like the devil from Fantasia's Night on Bald Mountain number . The Balrog in the Ralph Bakshi cartoon looked much cooler , actually . The showdown between Balrog and Gandolf was rather lame considering . I also liked the lovingly created and detailed locales , except for the Shire , which is boring . But most of everything else was great . The Ring Wraiths were pretty cool . I especially liked the way everything looked when Frodo puts on the ring . Other than those scant things , this was a huge disappointment considering the recent imdb fiasco . This truly is a blight on our great site . Embarrassing to the highest degree . .
Keep in mind that the VHS I watched was in awful quality	I'd like to suggest that this is Tarkovsky's least successful film that I've seen ( the others are Andrei Rublev , Solaris , and Stalker ) . It is a masterpiece in a lot of ways , especially visually , but , where you can hook onto a mood in the other three films of his that I've seen , I found Mirror impersonal , or , at least , introspective and abstruse . Compared to those other three , this one is short , yet I had a lot of trouble keeping my mind on the film . And I only finished it on the third attempt . Now , after I have not only finished it but read up on it , also ( basically you have to do so ; maybe if you watched it several dozen times ) , I feel that the themes are still difficult to understand well . But you still have to see it , if you are a Tarkovsky fan . I will remember it for several reasons : 1 ) the wind blowing through the field 2 ) the barn burning in the rain 3 ) a man prepares to die as he jumps on a grenadeI give it , for now , an . Perhaps the poor quality of my video , which didn't translate , it seemed , more than of the lines , has hindered what would be my passion for this film . If I ever see a better version , I hope I like it a lot more .
A visual feast	I don't like Hou Hsiao-Hsien much . He's not a very well known director , but those who do know him often praise him as if he were Christ risen on Earth for the second time . It gets very out of hand . I personally liked two of his earlier films , Dust in the Wind and City of Sadness , but found them rather flawed . The other films I've seen of his , A Time to Live and a Time to Die , The Puppetmaster , Good Men Good Women , and Goodbye South Goodbye , are profoundly flawed with only a little worth each . I wasn't too excited to see Flowers from Shanghai , but its gotten such continuous praise , even from those who had seen only it from Hou , that I decided to give it a chance . I'm happy I did . Very happy , indeed . I had dismissed the burgeoning camera movements in Goodbye South Goodbye as a phony advance in Hou's style . I'm glad I was wrong . In Flowers of Shanghai , Hou effectively pans his camera back and forth and around in spirals in every single shot ( and , of course , " shot " in Hou Hsiao-Hsien's vocabulary is a synonym of " scene ; " most shots last a very long time ) . The cinematography , too , is a lot better than it has been ( although he has plenty of beautiful shots in his other films , as well ) . The film seems tinted with gold , and beautiful reds take up most of the space in each frame , until a beautiful blotch of yellow or blue arrives . Mixed with that slowly panning camera ( sometimes it's a bit reminiscent of Tarkovsky's shots ) , that makes for pure sensuousness . It can be simply orgasmic at times . The mise-en-scene is also fabulous . The film takes place in a Shanghai brothel ( the " flowers " of the title are the prostitutes ) , and every inch of the each set is decorated perfectly . And aurally , man , the subtle music is just powerful . It's all so damn beautiful that I kind of ignored what was happening with the characters on screen . It's so damn beautiful that it's rather easy to forget that there are people acting here ; their movements and actions are so elegant ( and their language sounds so beautiful ) that they might as well be thought of as objects , not people . When I finally started to pay more attention to the plot and the characters , it seemed a bit banal . The story revolves around the prostitutes and their frequent customers . The film says nothing new about the subject , and it comes off a bit trite . I'm hoping that I just didn't follow it well enough , that , if I were to buy the DVD and watch it again , I would feel the emotions more . However , I don't believe that that's true . Although his fanatics would fiecely deny it , Hou has never done very well in expressing emotions in his films . Dust in the Wind and City of Sadness are the best in that respect , but take the cheap melodramatics of A Time to Live a Time to Die in comparison . Or take The Puppetmaster : its cinematography is rather boring , and the film comes off as extremely dull . Luckily , I appreciate direction and visual splendor much more than a good story . If I wanted a good story , books would probably be a better medium . Flowers of Shanghai gets a from me . I hope that Hou evolves ever more in the future . His style seems perfected in this film ( perhaps he should even scrap his signature style and reinvent himself ; just a suggestion ) . Now he needs some substance . Hopefully he'll work again with Wu Nien-Jen , who wrote his Dust in the Wind and City of Sadness , his most substantial films ( he also wrote The Puppetmaster , though ) . I just saw Wu's own directorial debut , Dou-San , this past weekend and it had an emotionally devastating script . I'll cross my fingers !
Sweet	Having previously seen Branded to Kill on its Criterion release , and having found it to be utterly brilliant , I had to buy the Criterion release of Tokyo Drifter . It is not as good as Branded to Kill ( heck , nothing can be ) , but it is still great . The color composition is particularly masterful . So what if the story is difficult to follow ? It is still entertaining . I really wish more of Sezuki Seijun's films would be released by Criterion , or anyone else , for that matter . He's an extraordinarily interesting and gifted filmmaker who is very underappreciated in cinema history .
A vastly underrated film	Barbara Hershey plays a hippie girl who is hired to have the baby of a middle class couple ( Collin Wilcox-Horne & Sam Groom ) . The film deals with the clash of values between Hershey , along with her boyfriend ( Scott Glenn ) , and the couple . It also deals honestly and surprisingly fairly with the emotional turmoil all four characters go through . Supposedly the film was dismissed upon its released because of the way it depicted hippie culture , but it is much more positive than a good amount of the films of the day ( see Joe , for instance ) . It neither accepts nor dismisses either of the two classes , but instead deals with the four principals as individuals . The four characters are sensitively written ( director Bridges , most famous for writing and directing The China Syndrome , wrote the script here , as well ) . Hershey , Wilcox-Horne ( AKA Wilcox Paxton ) , Groom , and Glenn all give exceptional performances .
A fine film	Very good film from director Wyler , although it is its star , Bette Davis , upon whom its high quality mostly rests . This is perhaps Davis ' best performance that I've seen . She plays a spoiled Southern belle whose fiancé ( Henry Fonda ) leaves her after a socially embarrassing event . As he leaves her , she swears that he will return , as he has in the past . And he does , one year later , with his new Northern wife in tow . The film does wonders with its historical setting , New Orleans a short while before the Civil War . A year before Gone with the Wind cooed over the fancy lives and manners of the Ante Bellum South , Jezebel was exploring them in more detail , and with a more intelligent eye . Also lurking about is the threat of Yellow Fever , which devastated New Orleans in the 1830s and is starting to grow rampant again . Another thing I really liked about Jezebel was its ending . Perhaps when it was released in 1938 there would be a feeling that Davis ' character has turned a corner and has become more selfless , but to me her motives seemed awfully suspicious . That ambiguity is fascinating . Along with the leads , Donald Crisp and George Brent give fine supporting performances , and Max Steiner's score is one of the best of its era . .
I am going to commit blasphemy here . . .	I actually like Fantasia 2000 better than the original . OH MY GOD ! I CAN'T BELIEVE SOMEONE SAID THAT ! This is why : I do love the original Fantasia , but I find that the animated segments resemble each other too much . Only Night on Bald Mountain ( and Ave Maria , which is attached to Night on Bald Mountain ) is completely unattached from the style of the rest of the animation from the film . Everything , from the abstract Toccata and Fugue segment , the Nutcracker Suite , The Rites of Spring , even The Sorcerer's Apprentice tend to look as if they were animated by Disney artists . This is why , I assume : Disney was the greatest producer of feature-length animation . The styles of other animated films , such as Warner Brothers and UA ( e . g . , Popeye ) , were rough and obviously made for sort subjects . Disney probably did not think that his animators needed to look at other artwork in order to inspire their drawings . Therefore , everything begins to look the same , except for the final two pieces , which are completely different . This film's sequel , Fantasia 2000 , obviously searches around more to find different inspirations . You cannot tell that the Rhapsody in Blue segment , inspired by the caricatures of Al Hirschfeld , was created by the same person who did The Carnival of Animals , a work on watercolor that looks inspired by Matisse or other similar artists . The Symphony # 5 piece does not in any way resemble any other piece . This can be said about every segment in Fantasia 2000 . Different art styles , different colors , different media were used in every segment . I gave them both a , but I do think Fantasia 2000 provides more variety .
Thank God ! A movie that is actually funny !	I was afraid I'd be getting another Dodgeball here , especially when I saw that the completely talentless Vince Vaughn was on the payroll , but nope . This doesn't pull any punches . It's also the movie that Will Ferrell deserves to star in . He's far too funny to make crap like Old School and Elf . This is his movie and he dominates . His talent with words is unmistakable . He plays arrogant anchorman Ron Burgundy , of course . Christina Applegate wants to take his job away from him and become the first anchorwoman in the United States ( the story takes place in the 1970s ) . Applegate doesn't have too much to do here , although some of her insults are classic . She's mostly the straightman here . Most of the laughs after Ferrell come from his news team , made up of Paul Rudd , David Koechner , and Steven Carell . They're all funny , but Carell , as a weatherman with a tiny IQ , gets the most laughs . The movie is successful both when it is playing jokes on Burgundy's arrogance and when it gets entirely surreal . The funniest scene in the film involves a huge rumble between five different news teams . I could hardly breathe during this sequence . And the climactic scene is outrageous ! Anchorman also employs two devices that usually betray a sense of desperation , the celebrity cameo and outtakes during the credits . It might be the only time these cameos ever made me laugh , and the outtakes are really funny mostly because they are made up of alternative improvisations . Except for an outtake from Smoky and the Bandit that hilariously sneaks up . I can't imagine that there'll be a funnier movie this year . In fact , as it is easily the most consistently good movie I've seen in 2004 , it probably qualifies as my favorite film of the year , at least so far . .
Very good , and not as wacky as has been previously suggested	Great film about an American G . I . who quits the army to marry a German girl who saved his life in the last days of the war . She accepts , but does she do it because she really likes him , or because he can support her with easier access to food and such ? Meanwhile , her brother and an old friend form an anti-American terrorist group called the Werewolves , their purpose to drive away the occupants ( you might remember the same group playing a major part in Lars von Trier's film Europa ( Zentropa ) ) . James Best , best known for his role as Roscoe P . Coltrane in the 1980s television show The Dukes of Hazzard , is shockingly excellent as the American . He should have become a big movie star ? at this age he reminds me very much of Warren Beatty . The other main actors are good , as well . Fuller's direction is quite good , using a lot of long takes again ( although they are not nearly as complex as they were in Park Row ; the long takes more often than not consist of long scenes with a lot of dialogue ) . The only problems lie in the script , as seems to be the case with all of the Fuller films that I've seen . It's not too badly flawed , but it ought to have been expanded , fleshing out major characters and parts of the script . Helga , the wife , goes through a major change , but completely off screen . Therefore , the emotional center rests squarely on Best's shoulders . Fuller also should have killed off the sick mother early in the film . I hope that doesn't sound too harsh ! She just doesn't really do anything throughout the film except lie in bed . She has so few lines . But Fuller keeps bringing her up as the film goes on . I would have had her death solidify David and Helga's relationship myself . And the film ends too abruptly , and it lacks payoff . These aren't really the biggest flaws in the world ( the way I described them makes them sound bigger than they are ) . .
Brush up your Shakespeare . . . ( wow , I bet I'm the tenth person to use that line for a summary ! )	A spectacularly entertaining back-stage musical about a group of actors putting on a musical version of Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew . The two leads in the play , Lilli ( Kathryn Grayson ) and Fred ( Howard Keel ) , were formerly married , and have a lot to fight about . But can they keep it out of the show ? Hardly ! We see the first fifteen or so minutes of the actual play ( which is entitled Kiss Me Kate ) with Lilli and Fred following the script to a T . But when Lilli discovers that Fred's boquet , which she had thought was meant for her , was actually meant for the second most important actress ( strangely named Lois Lane , and played exquisitely by Ann Miller ) , she flips out , begins adding lines , and starts smacking Fred around in front of the audience . Fred responds by bending her over his knee and giving her a ripe spanking as the curtain falls on the first act . From there on out , it's warfare , and it's really funny . The funniest bits involve a couple of gangsters , Keenan Wynn and James Whitmore , who are at one point forced to don costumes so that they can keep Lilli from fleeing the stage in the middle of a show . Why they are there is a little too complicated to explain . There's also one very funny moment that is unintentional . Ann Miller sings a song about her three suitors ( one of whom is played by the great Bob Fosse , whose part is so sadly small ; but , man , can he dance ! ) , in which she nicknames them Tom , Dick , and Harry . When the song begins to break down , she starts chanting : " I'll take a Dick Dick Dick Dick Dick Dick Dick . . . " Boy , how words can change . Everything about the picture is fantastic except for the songs . The lyrics are always top notch , but the music is generally not very memorable . Ann Miller's first number , " Too Darn Hot , " is the best , and you've got to love " Brush Up Your Shakespeare , " the only song which the two gangsters participate in . I think it's just amusing to see the two thugs dance around . .
Gorgeous and frightening	Every bit as good as Henry Selick's masterpiece , The Nightmare Before Christmas . Like that one , the film finds a perfect balance between beautiful and creepy . I would describe it as a children's horror film . In fact , I think this might go down as one of the scariest children's films ever made . The story is about a young girl , Coraline , who finds an odd doorway in her new house that leads to a mirror-image world , where her parents pay attention to her and give her anything she wants . It's wonderful , but odd ? everyone has black buttons for eyeballs . Coraline's first few trips to the alternate world are fun , but soon her " other mother " insists that she get her own buttons . The story is familiar . It reminded me a lot of Pan's Labyrinth and Spirited Away . The plot also takes a couple of obvious shortcuts that don't make a lot of sense . Fortunately , these things are hard to notice when you're watching Selick's eye-popping design . Pixar's got its work cut out for it if it wants to win Best Animated Film at next year's Oscar ceremony . It also has one of the most amazing musical scores I've heard in a while , by Bruno Coulais .
Underrated	Hardly perfect , but this really did not deserve to be dismissed as thoroughly as it was . It's one of the most outstandingly awesome animated films ever made . The visuals are simply eye-popping , and the action and adventure are top notch . This film imagines an alternate route for science where steam is harnessed to its fullest extent , producing unimaginable energy . A small sphere works as some sort of super-engine , and several different groups are after it . A young boy in Manchester , England , Ray Steam , whose father and grandfather invented the sphere , must try to keep it out of the wrong hands . Unfortunately , he has no clue which hands are the wrong ones . Even his relatives might be using the power for the wrong reasons . The story isn't deep , but it's exciting . The main reason to watch is the animation , which mixes traditional and computer animation in fascinating ways . Katsuhiro Otomo , who directed the animé masterpiece Akira so many years ago , has had a small output over the years . He directed a live action film in 1991 known as World Apartment Horror . The only other animated work under his direction is the third part of the portmanteau film Memories , one of the most remarkable animated shorts ever , entitled Canon Fodder . He also wrote the screenplay and worked on the storyboards of Rintaro's Metropolis , of which Steamboy reminds me most . I think Metropolis is one of the best films of the 2000s so far , and Steamboy is only a step behind it .
Great	Reminiscent of The Wizard of Oz , The Princess Bride and Pan's Labyrinth . It's the story of two people convalescing in a hospital in 1910s Los Angeles . One is a foreign girl around 4 ( Catinca Untaru ) , who fell from a ladder while picking oranges and broke her arm and collarbone , the other is a Hollywood stuntman ( Lee Pace ) , who paralyzed himself during a stunt where he was to jump from elevated train tracks onto the back of a horse . He agreed to do this mainly so he could impress his ex-girlfriend , a movie starlet who has recently moved onto her co-star . Crippled and alone , he meets up with Untaru , and begins to weave a fantastic tale of bandits , a princess and an evil prince . The fantasy sequences are perhaps what this film will always be known for . Director Tarsem , a famous and popular director of music videos and television commercials , filmed these sequences all over the world when he was on location doing his other work . If you've studied architecture or archeology or art history , you'll recognize many of the locales he used . Basically , he used his own money to finance these expeditions , filming at some of the most beautiful places on the Earth . The fantasy world that is created in the film is pretty thin , and definitely just an excuse to create some beautiful images , but that works well narratively . After all , Pace is creating this story out of thin air , and the only person he's trying to impress is a four year-old girl . Plus , he's incorporating a lot of her ideas into the story . It is , after all , pretty much a bedtime story . The breathtaking images of the fantasy world may make the film memorable , but it is the emotional grip of the Los Angeles portion of the film that makes it a great movie . The Fall does have its flaws , mostly when Tarsem reverts to more commercial - and MTV-like sequences , as in one sequence with native dancers and a completely unnecessary dream sequence , but , in general , I was involved in the main story and in awe of the images I was seeing .
Don't listen : It's great ! PART 1	All film buffs spend a good deal of time imagining what movies they would make if they only had a chance . For years , I've been thinking up various cinematic adaptations of The Iliad , which is probably my single favorite work of literature . I would not have come up with the same film Wolfgang Petersen has , but I am satisfied with it . In fact , regarding its reception by critics , both amateur and professional , I would say that my expectations were wildly exceeded . I quite loved the film . Yes , it is far from perfect , but it succeeds beautifully . I was especially pleased and impressed with the impeccable casting . I think I'm the only one who feels this way , but there is not a single character , not one , who is miscast . Yes , that includes Achilles , played by Brad Pitt . Pitt has received all kinds of flak , but he is as good an Achilles as I could imagine . I don't even like Pitt as an actor generally ; the only other performance of his I like is in Twelve Monkeys . That , although it served its purpose well , was a performance of twitches . This performance shows more maturity than the actor has ever demonstrated before , and perhaps suggests that he might someday be a truly formidable actor , instead of the pretty boy star he is always dismissed as . You can just feel the violence oozing off of Achilles ' body as he charges into battle after deadly battle . Pitt has the presence to make Achilles the lion that he says he is . But it's not only the presence that Pitt has . He also successfully demonstrates Achilles ' existential dilemma throughout the picture . I really do think Pitt gives an Oscar-worthy performance . Eric Bana plays the film's second lead , Hector , and the film works just as well under his performance . Bana is definitely an actor who will figure prominently in the years to come . He was fine in last year's Hulk , but here he doesn't have to compete with a CGI version of himself for dominance . Orlando Bloom , who is also suffering a lot under the critics , is Paris , and , in my opinion , is perfect . His fight scene with Menelaus ( Brendan Gleeson , one of my favorite current character actors ) is the film's greatest moment . Brian Cox , who never disappoints , is Agamemnon . Peter O'Toole is fine as Priam , and , although I didn't think he was given quite enough to do , his confrontation with Achilles near the end of the film is as powerful as the scene in the Iliad . Rose Byrne plays Briseis , a character who figures more prominently in this film than in the original poem . This works well , and Byrne's scenes with Pitt are excellent . Sean Bean ( Boromir from The Lord of the Rings ) gave my favorite performance of the film as Odysseus . Perhaps the only real disappointment is Diane Kruger's Helen . A German , she makes the classic acting blunder of fluctuating in her accent . She seems like an American at first , but then her German accent starts slipping in from time to time . Kruger may have fared better if the screenwriter , David Benioff , had handled Helen's character better . As far as the characters go , Helen is the only one who isn't handled very well in the script . It's easy to see how Helen could get lost in the proceedings ; after all , she's a difficult character to figure . Even the Greek authors after Homer had a difficult time dealing with her . They never really understood her role in the story , nor her intentions . Of course , that's not true when you're actually dealing with Homer's two epics ; I think Helen comes off as a very strong character in both The Iliad and The Odyssey , and her character is consistent between the two . continued below ( further comments were destroyed by jackass IMDb editors )
A far better film than people have given it credit for being	Richard Linklater examines the cogs in the giant machine called the fast food industry . The film is much like its much more successful competitor , Babel , in that if follows several story threads . Much like Babel , it doesn't quite make any real points by the end . Unlike Babel , I don't think Linklater especially wanted to make anything like Iñarritu's grandiose statements , except a very broad one about how the industry does some sort of harm to everyone involved , from CEO to customer . I thought Babel was successful in its view of the everyday lives of its characters , but Fast Food Nation is even more successful in that way . It doesn't live on big moments . For the most part , Linklater's talent shines in the individual vignettes . His characters feel like they had lives before the film began , and like they'll have lives afterward . We learn surprisingly little about most of them , but the few moments we spend with them are enough to get a good sense of the characters . I thought the most successful storyline centered around actress Ashley Johnson , a bright teenager who works in one of the fast food chain's restaurants in Cody , Colorado ( her not-so-bright co-workers , including actor Paul Dano , work in the back ) . The other major threads follow Greg Kinnear as an exec who has come to inspect the possibly poorly run mega-factory where the meat patties are produced , and a group of illegal immigrants ( including Oscar nominee Catalina Sandino Moreno and surprisingly good TV comedian Wilmer Valderrama ) who work at the mega-factory in dangerous conditions . The film certainly has its faults ( the film ends on the most groan-inducing note since the final scene of John Sayles ' last film ) , but most every scene is so beautifully observed that I'm more than willing to overlook its faults . 2006 may not have been a great year for Richard Linklater financially , but he was firing on all of his artistic cylinders with both this and the even better A Scanner Darkly . One of the most underrated films of last year .
Hilarious and intelligent	A fantastic satire of the modern world of business . Tony Randall stars as Rockwell Hunter , a writer for television advertisements . He's not really making it at his job , and is about to go under . By a couple of coincidences , he finds out where Hollywood starlette , Rita Marlowe ( Jayne Mansfield ) , is hiding out in New York and thinks he can convince her to endorse a certain kind of lipstick . When Hunter arrives at Marlowe's apartment , she uses him to make her boyfriend , the star of a television Tarzan show , jealous . The boyfriend reveals Marlowe's secret love affair to the tabloids , and , in an instant , Rock has been reborn as " Loverboy " ( no , not the ' 70s rock group ) , and the girls go wild over him . He's famous , and thus begins his meteoric rise to his company's presidency . But the further up he goes , the more he realizes that this was never what he wanted , despite what he once thought . The moral of the story is a bit pedestrian , but it's one that ought to be reinforced at times . It's also delivered in quite an original way . The film is full of the kind of innovations that the undervalued Frank Tashlin was so good at . Particularly memorable is the mid-movie dig at television . Television is a constant target in the film - it was presumably making the lives of many in Hollywood a bit miserable . At the halfway point of Rock Hunter , Tony Randall pops out from behind a curtain to address those in the audience who are more the type to watch television than go to the movies . " I wanted to interrupt the film you are watching so the T . V . people can feel at home . " The acting in the film is universally superb . I would never have imagined that Tony Randall could carry a movie , especially playing an everyman ( I always think of him as a prissy , refined gentleman ) , but he does a great job . I saw Frank Tashlin's The Girl Can't Help It just last week . It also stars Jayne Mansfield , and I thought she was pretty bad . They tried to make her too sweet in that film . Here , she's more wicked , and thus a hundred times sexier . Mansfield is hilarious at times , especially with that little high-pitched squeal she does . It should get old , but it's very cute and always funny . When I was exiting the theater , there were a handful of women trying to duplicate the sound , unsuccessfully . The supporting cast is also wonderful , especially Henry Jones as Hunter's immediate boss . The film does have a couple of problems . The script seems to forget about characters every once in a while . Although she seems important in the beginning , Rock's niece , April , basically drops off for most of the film . Likewise his fiancée ( the one before Rita Marlowe appears , that is ) , Jenny . She comes back near the end , but her role is minimized quite a bit in the middle . Even Mansfield drops out near the end . The subplot which strictly involves her is resolved rather poorly , with a cameo appearance that should have carried more weight and really should have been funnier . All in all , though , Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter ? is a great success . .
The critics really dropped the ball and turned a cold shoulder on a fine film here	( note : this is a review of the director's cut of the film , which has a completely different ending than the theatrical release ) The Butterfly Effect was either ignored or ridiculed by most major critics . Most minor ones , too . In reality , while it has its flaws , and some rather big ones , too , it is one of the best films to be released so far in 2004 . It is already being rediscovered by audiences , and I think it will find a home amongst the lovers of gimmick films such as Memento and Donnie Darko . I am a fan of all three of these films , and it's not because they're based on clever gimmicks . Plenty of films have clever gimmicks and completely fail . I like these three particular films because they're intelligent and have strong stories that move them beyond their central gimmicks . The Butterfly Effect is about a young man ( Ashton Kutcher ) who experienced severe blackouts during traumatic moments when he was a child . As an adult , he discovers that he can travel back to these forgotten events and change their outcome . Unfortunately , every time he changes things for what should be the better , some individual always gets the shaft . Besides himself , the major players in the story are his mother ( Melora Walters ) , his girlfriend , Kayleigh , her brother , Tommy , and their friend , Lenny . The story is gripping . It's hard not to imagine situations in your own life that you'd want to change , so the appeal is universal . As Kutcher changes time and time again , he starts to lose grip of reality . His desperation grows deeper each time he changes the past . The movie does lose its footing as it nears the finish . One can imagine how hard it must be to end a story like this . It looked as if they were going to go with the ' It's all just a dream ' ending , which really ped me off . Then they cheated their gimmick a little , which , as annoying as that was , it wasn't as annoying as the previous option . Then came kind of an ugly ending which really angered me , and which upsets a lot of what happened in the film in the first place . After a bit of time thinking it over , though , it didn't seem quite as bad as it first did . There are still some major holes this way around , but it made sense thematically . As for the technical feats , The Butterfly Effect is very well done . The writers / directors , Bress and Gruber , may not get everything right , but they have delivered an ambitious and thoughtful film . Better yet , they delivered it right to a multiplex audience who doubtless went in expecting escapism . What they'll get is something ten times more challenging than anything else they'll see this year . The look of it is good , it's well edited , and there's really good use of music and sound . The final question has to be this : so , can Ashton Kutcher deliver a dramatic performance ? The answer is yes , but not an unqualified yes . Truthfully , the protagonist of the story could have been improved . He's more of cypher than anything , and a lot of the emotional value comes from the side characters whose lives he effects . Kutcher isn't asked to do too much . Still , he holds his own in plenty of scenes . He was quite good , for instance , in the sequence where he goes to prison . I wonder if all the pans this film received came because it was a drama starring that goofball from Dude , Where's My Car ? I think , in the long run , if Kutcher wants to become a dramatic actor , he could pull it off . He's a handsome guy with a lot of charm . .
Remarkable rope tricks !	SPOILERS SPOILERS Will Rogers was apparently one of the most important figures of the first half of the 20th Century , but I have heard almost nothing about him myself , except that he is credited with the quotation : " I never met a man I didn't like . " Last week I picked up a tape from the library entitled The Saga of Will Rogers , which contained two shorts and a feature starring this familiar name but unfamiliar face . The first short on the video was The Ropin ' Fool . Rogers was an expert with the lariat , and this film showcases this amazing ability . The rope is painted white so it stands out from the background ( it also makes it seem like an animated addition to the film , even though in most shots it's clearly real ) . We watch Rogers lasso just about everything , from a goose to a man's hat to a mouse . The film uses slow motion so we can see just how remarkable these tricks are . There is a good ten minute sequence where Rogers lassos a horse and its rider in a variety of ways . Perhaps most impressively , he catches the rider by his waist throwing the rope [ i ] under [ / i ] the horse and then pulling it up to the man's torso . He also uses two ropes simultaneously to catch both the rider and the horse . In another scene , Rogers ties a knot just by pulling the rope with the right force . Strangely enough , the film also has a plot , a very minimal one . At the film's end , some townsfolk find a man who has been dragged to death by a rope . They figure that only the ropin ' fool would have enough skill to kill a man like that . These townsfolk drag Rogers out to a tree branch and , as they are about to hang him , we find out that the director of the film we are watching set him up so he could get a better end to his film . That was quite clever , I thought . .
Great	While not quite at the same level as _ Breaking the Waves _ , the only other Lars von Trier I have seen ( his films are quite hard to come by in Midwestern American video stores , you understand ) , _ The Idiots _ is still a great film , and , in some ways , is just as important . I have to comment on a lot of the reviews I've seen for this movie . A lot of viewers judge the film by the theories and views about the group's existence ( particularly the view spoken by the most outspoken of the Idiots , Stoffer ) . This is surely not the way von Trier meant his audience to take the film . If you paid any attention to the film , you'll notice that the Idiots ' lifestyle is never glamorized . Everyone's experience in the group ends in embarrassment and despair . You should also note that none of the Idiots has the same opinion of why they like to act the idiot . Stoffer might say that they do it to upset the bourgeosie ( I don't pretend to know how to spell that word ) , but the next person might be doing it just to play around . The artist ( whose name escapes me at the moment ) is doing it to become a better artist , and the doctor is doing it almost for experiment . There is never a reason for the groups ' existence that the entire group agrees upon . This is extremely important for understanding this film . The way _ The Idiots _ particularly hit me was in the characterizations . The actors are so great in this film that they hit the level of : " Is this really acting , or is it just being ? " von Trier hit the same level in _ Breaking the Waves _ . These actors were so good , their characters just jumped out of the script . There are many characters , and only a few of them are characterized in the script extensively . Stoffer , although not the main character , is the most prominent character in the script . Many of the characters don't have all that many lines or screen time , but I felt I knew them all well . I also appreciated that it actually entertained me . I wasn't expecting to enjoy it so much . It is often very , very funny ( if offensive ) . It also gripped me emotionally . I did not particularly comprehend the ending's meaning , but it left me with a powerful emotion . I did have tears in my eyes when I left the theater , and a lot of thoughts in my head . When a man outside the theater stopped me to ask me how I liked it , my lips and my brain were too dry to actually answer anything but , " I liked it . I liked it a lot . "
Brilliant filmmaking , but von Trier misses his mark a bit	A brilliant film , no doubt , although I think I prefer almost all of the other films I've seen by Lars von Trier . His work is always problematic , but he has such a mad genius that even something as questionable as Idiots ( or , indeed , Dogville ) succeeds even as it kind of fails . This is the story of a small town of little means in a remote area of the United States called Dogville . One day a young woman , Grace ( Nicole Kidman ) , wanders in while being persued by gangsters . The townspeople are afraid of what might happen if they harbor her , but they like her and they decide to do so . But the thing is that they have something on her , and they own her . She depends on them , and they quickly begin taking advantage of her , and ruthlessly . She even tries to escape , but the town refuses to let go of its toy . It's a pessimistic and entirely misanthropic viewpoint , the cruelest situation that Lars von Trier has ever depicted ( and that's saying something ! ) , and I suspect that many will be sickened by it . To add injury to insult , the theme to which the director has been continually returning , the theme that upsets many , that of the suffering woman , is on full display here . Kidman is raped and later used as a sexual object , and the narrator of the film informs us that the men use her like a hillbilly uses a cow . After she tries to escape , she is fitted with a cowbell and tethered to a heavy wagon wheel . The purported anti-Americanism in the film is strange , to say the least . It reminds me a lot of the way Zhang's Hero ended . That film veers towards nationalism very near the end , and it really doesn't follow , like the director had to do it but had no real interest in doing it . I'm sure Lars von Trier did have interest , however misguided , in making Dogville into an anti-American statement , but it just doesn't work . The credits play over numerous pictures of poor and homeless Americans , with David Bowie's ' Young American ' playing . What has this at all to do with Dogville ? The story is set in the USA , but the same observations about human nature could be made about any people in any part of the world . I suspect that only a few elements would need to be changed to set the film in Denmark and it would not ring any more or less true , depending on whether or not you buy the moral of the story . But it is most certainly anti-American , as was Lars von Trier's previous film , Dancer in the Dark . But like Dancer in the Dark , Lars von Trier's observations about America ring false . There are plenty of gripes to be had with the US , and it would be very easy to make much more potent works of art that explore its faults , but neither Dancer nor Dogville make very effective statements about America . I've yet to see a European film that said anything substantive about the country that I live in . Well , whether or not Lars von Trier has skewed his target , I would never suggest that he hasn't produced something original and interesting , and he has definitely produced a film that will inspire discussion for years to come , and that's always worthwhile . Dogville will be a big candidate for repeated viewings , as I probably didn't take it all in on one viewing .
Lang's first American film is a visceral experience	An idealist sets out to visit his girlfriend , whom he hasn't seen for a year , but he is picked up by the cops for no real reason and thrown into a cell because a flimsy piece of evidence hints that he might be the kidnapper of a young woman . A rumor flares in the small town and soon most of the populace is standing outside the police office demanding retribution . I won't outline the plot any further , because there are many twists and turns to come . Fury is basically a study in justice , guilt , revenge , and mindless fury . Spencer Tracy and Sylvia Sydney star and are exceptional . The supporting cast is excellent also . Lang's direction is often amazing . It is always stylistic , expressionistic and it challenges you every step of the way . Watch for one scene near the center of the film where Lang cuts together a series of close-ups . His timing is incredible here . The script is imperfect . In fact , there are a lot of instances of unbelievability and silliness in the film . It is a testament to the rest of the script ( and the other aspects of the film , too ) that Fury ends up being such a great film . I like it nearly as much as M . It may not be quite as good , but it moves at a brisker pace and is thus often more exciting and suspenseful . .
amazing .	What can you say ? It's Godard . If you appreciate Godard , his early stuff , particularly , Les Carabiniers fits in perfectly with films such as Breathless , My Life to Live , Une femme est une femme , Band of Outsiders , and Pierrot le fou . It is utterly complicated , and seems to be saying dozens of things at once , none of them becoming clear enough to formulate a satisfactory thesis . The film starts off with two brothers and their wives living in a shack in the middle of nowhere . Two carabiniers ( riflemen ) arrive , basically assaulting the four of them . They come with a proposition , though : join the army , be one of them . You get to travel everywhere , and you can do anything you want . What a proposition ! The two men join , leaving their wives ( tellingly named Cleopatra and Venus ) at the shack . What follows is a fantastical account of war . The characters speak French , but they don't seem to be meant to be any specific nationality . Their supreme commander is " The King . " They travel around the world , including Egypt and the USA , killing whoever gets in their way . They play sickening games with their victims . Why ? Because they can . They have guns , their victims don't . Between the scenes where our heroes reak havoc , Godard inserts stock footage of real wars . Over the fictional footage , Godard inserts the sound of explosions and gunfire . This lack of realism creates a stunning surrealism . At first , I was thinking the film was about the fact that your average soldier is an ignoramous with a deadly weapon . Transferred , this speaks illy of the government who willingly supplies its young morons with deadly weapons . One particularly hilarious scene ( yes , it has elements of comedy , too ) which shows these folks to be country bumpkins occurs when one , Michelangelo , attends a movie , his first ever . It begins with a train arriving at a station , a la L'Arrivée d'un train à la Ciotat , a Lumiere film made in 1895 , often regarded as the first film ever made ( though it wasn't , not even by the Lumieres ) . Michelangelo covers his face as it moves forwards on screen , as everyone has heard the first movie patrons ever did ( which isn't true , either ) . The film he watches moves on to a scene where a woman undresses and takes a bath . Michelangelo is so impressed , he jumps up and tries to jump into the action , a la Buster Keaton's Sherlock Jr . The results are hilarious . I don't think this theme holds up through the whole film , but , c'est le Godard ! Further on , it seems to take more of a Marxist viewpoint ( I believe Godard was a Marxist at this point in his career ) . Two communists ambush the carabiniers at one point , claiming that , though they may be allied with the carabiners ' country , they are obliged ideologically to murder capitalists . Here I realized that a large number of aggressive nations during this time were capitalist . Later , near the end , a very long scene serves to criticize capitalism : the boys return home , saying that they have gathered everything in the world for their girlfriends . Yet they carry nothing but one suitcase . Here commences the longest single scene in the film , where the men reveal the contents of their suitcase . They have not collected everything on Earth , per se , but rather photographs of them . For one thing , this depicts Godard's main objective in life : to make us realize that we are watching a film , not involved in any sort of reality . With just photos , the lack of the real objects is even more ironic . Also , most of these objects photographed are objects that can never be owned : natural wonders , man-made wonders , and tons and tons of women , including ones long since dead . This petty ownership of photos ( they also call them deeds ) is a reductio ad absurdum for capitalism : the most important things in the world are unownable , and thus to own pictures of them is truly absurd .
A wonderful film from Disney's classic era	As a kid , I would watch over and over several Disney features : Pinnochio , Peter Pan , Bambi , Alice in Wonderland , Lady and the Tramp , and Dumbo . When I come back to those films now , I recognize that they are all marvelous films and gave Walt Disney much deserved success . It's truly sad how far Disney has fallen . All kids ' flicks now are awful . I revisited Dumbo , by the way , on the same night that I first watched Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone , destined to be one of the most successful films of all time . It is execrable , and it is simply pathetic how bad films like it are nowadays . I say , bring your kids back to Dumbo , Pinnochio , Bambi , and the like . They may not be as harmless as the kind of movie Disney and others shove out today . You shouldn't be afraid of your children showing emotion . I can remember more than anything being profoundly affected by the " Baby Mine " number from Dumbo , where he visits his imprisoned mother . Films like these will mould your children's emotional stability instead of keeping them at a safe distance and selling them toys .
A strange and amazing film	Like most Fassbinder films , it's seemingly simple , but there's a lot too it when you walk a bit closer . This one sets up a great tragicomic situation : a disabled teenager manipulates her parents each to bring their lover to their summer mansion for the weekend . When the father arrives with his lover ( Anna Karina , in a very quiet role ) , he finds his wife pinned to the floor by her boy toy . A bit later the daughter arrives with her caretaker ( and possibly her lover ? ) who is deaf and mute . Mrs . Kast and her blonde son , Gabriel , take care of the mansion , cook , and so forth . Kast is played by Brigitte Mira , who was so wonderful two years earlier in Fassbinder's Fear Eats the Soul . She's a lot more cruel in this one . With the situation as it is , their true characters quickly rise to the surface . The parents get the most time ; father is loving in his way , but his love is probably only a result of the guilty feelings he has towards his daughter . Mother , on the other hand , is quite the psycho . At one point , as she sees her daughter lumbering along on her crutches from a second story window , she picks up a pistol and aims it at her daughter's back . She uses no euphemisms : her daughter , she believes , has ruined her life . Fassbinder's direction is exquisite . His framing is so complex , but it's invented to look simple . The simple set might be called stagey by those who are not paying enough attention . When the four lovers meet , Fassbinder circles the camera around them as they pace around each other , creating a dizzying dance . Peer Raben's gorgeous and unique music also should be pointed out . Not everything works out perfectly . The titular game is an interesting idea to do on film . The eight characters split into two groups , the first picks a person in the house and the second has to guess after they've asked a certain number of questions . I think Fassbinder has a difficult time making the questions and answers meaningful for the film as a whole . These exchanges get a little ponderous as a result , and the only thing that keeps the sequence alive is Raben's score . Like I said , it was quite a daring thing to do , so the fact that it doesn't work out perfectly doesn't harm the film too much . .
I love everything about this installment , except for Willie Scott	It was definitely Indiana Jones week in my home , as I watched the original three films , several episodes of The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles , and on Thursday ( I really couldn't wait ) the new Indy film . I was actually not an Indy fanatic before this week . I like all the movies , but have only seen Raiders in recent years , a few times . Temple of Doom I haven't seen all the way through for over a decade , I'd guess . The same probably goes for The Last Crusade . After reacquainting myself with the series , I have to put myself in the company of the fanboys . I loved the original series to death . Yes , even Temple of Doom . This was certainly my favorite of the trilogy when I was a kid , probably because it aired a lot on HBO and I saw it the most often . And I have to say , I almost agree with that still . Temple of Doom is probably the least perfect of the trilogy , but Spielberg is at his absolute best in his direction . I think the film has many of the most memorable moments of the series . Everything that happens in the titular temple is fantastic , the Thuggee ceremony , the fight on the conveyor belt and the mine cart chase . And the climactic battle on the rope bridge ( which I never knew before was not a special effect ) . And the booby trap with the spikes in the ceiling and the floor , which contains my favorite Indiana Jones moment ( Harrison Ford's facial expression when he tells Willie Scott that " We are going to die ! " ) , and the infamous dinner with the eyeball soup , live baby snakes and , for dessert , chilled monkey brains . I understand the criticisms of racism in the film , but I think the complaints are exaggerated . Maybe Spielberg and George Lucas didn't need to be so nostalgic about Kipling and Gunga Din . It certainly isn't very politically correct , even in 1984 . But I don't think the depictions of the Chinese and Indian characters , most of whom are villains , do much to demean entire races . I mean , I was a kid when I first saw this , so , if anyone was going to be aversely influenced by the supposed racism it would have been me . I knew these people were fictional characters , and that even if people like them existed , this didn't represent everyone who looks like them , and even the few it might represent were long since lost in time . These movies are so pulpy , it's hard to take them at all seriously . And as bug-eyed and crazy as the Eastern characters are , the three Western characters are all wildly exaggerated as well . You don't hear many British people bitching that Captain Blumburtt made all British people look stuffy and colonialist . And in all honesty , I would rather spend an evening with Mola Ram than I would with Willie Scott ! Oh , I totally agree with anybody who would say that Kate Capshaw is absolutely intolerable throughout the picture , shrieking and whining endlessly . The movie needs a woman , for sure ? I think the " five minutes " sequence is one of the best parts of the movie , and Willie eating the apple in Indy's hand is one of a hundred images from the film seared in my mind . But they needed to tone her down , and a lot . On the other hand , I'm a big fan of Short Round , as well as Ke Huy Quan's other famous performance from The Goonies . Come on , everyone when I was a kid wanted to be Short Round ( and I distinctly remember wanting to go as Data from The Goonies one Halloween ) . He was a kid who got to tag along with Indiana Jones ! He even saves Indy's life not once , but twice , and , watching it this time , I was sincerely moved by the scene where Short Round brings Indy back to his senses and the two embrace . I really want to know what Indy did with him in the other movies ( as Temple of Doom is chronologically Indy's first adventure , at least as far as the movies go ) .
a beautiful coming of age story	There have been a million coming of age stories in the history of the world , most of them probably in the film medium . What a pathetic thing to have to endure something as trite as the American film American Pie when something like The 400 Blows exists . Murmur of the Heart will remind most of that classic , and , akin to French films such as Zero for Conduct , The 400 Blows , and Malle's own Au Revoir Les Enfantes , it is excellently acted , both by the adults in the film and the children ( here , though , they're teens ) , and it is infinitely more truthful than most American films of the same genre . Murmur of the Heart falls just short of The 400 Blows , but it is a worthy successor to it . Beware , though . This film's main theme is sexuality , and there are some very disturbing scenes , even thought the mood of the film is quite light-hearted .
Wow ! It turns out Michael Bay can actually make a good movie . Even a great one !	Maybe I was just feeling easy , but Bay's The Island strikes me as the most satisfying film I've seen all summer ? very possibly the best film I've seen so far from 2005 . Is it brilliant ? Perhaps not , but it's a gripping sci-fi thriller that works on almost all levels . As sci-fi , it reminds me of stuff from the 70s like Logan's Run . I'm a big fan of Utopian / Dystopian sci-fi , and it pleased me enormously on that level . As an action film , it has a lot of stunning set pieces and chases . The action sequences are a lot clearer than is usual for Bay . Unlike two other actioners I've recently seen , Mr . & Mrs . Smith and The Devil's Rejects , I was never at all confused at what was happening . There aren't too many action bits that made me think , " Yeah right , " and at least one of those over-the-top moments had a punchline that was so funny that it was very well worth it ( it was probably the only one liner from an action movie that ever made me laugh out loud ) . The actors are all just models here ( Scarlet Johanssen is some very good eye candy ) , but I did like a few of the supporting character actors , notably Ethan Phillips , Brian Stepanek , and the always reliable Steve Buscemi . Michael Clark Duncan is also good , though his part is too small . Sure , the film's political agenda skews to the right , but the story follows a common science fiction motif which questions a scientific moral issue to a ridiculous extreme . Frankenstein is pretty conservative , as well . I think that the politics in The Island are historically interesting , but not something that could effect anyone's opinion . The production design is outstanding , as are the cinematography and score . I couldn't have believed that Michael Bay could actually produce something not only watchable , but damn good . I think if it hadn't been him who directed it , the movie would be getting a lot more praise .
Great pulp Western by the great Fritz Lang	Rancho Notorious is a gorgeous film , with beautiful Technicolor cinematography . It almost reaches the poetry of a John Ford film , or a great film noir , but falls just a little short . Arthur Kennedy plays Vern , a rancher whose fiancee is brutally raped and murdered . He goes out for revenge , following the clues . He ends up at Rancho Notorious , a hideout for outlaws run by Alder Keane , played wonderfully by Marlene Dietrich in one of her most memorable roles . She's fully in her philosophical mode here , like she was in Touch of Evil a few years later . She's so sad , so beautiful . She also has a great musical number . Mel Ferrer is also quite good as Frenchie Fairmont , a lethal cowboy who loves Alder . There are also a lot of great supporting actors playing colorful villains , especially George Reeves ( T . V . ' s Superman ) . The story is quite great . There are a couple of problems with characterizations , especially Vern . He's mostly great . He's mostly a noir hero , flawed in his own right but always believing that he's on an entirely moral quest . The film goes wrong when he becomes the romantic hero . He's too creepy . Dietrich simply dominates him . Mel Ferrer fairs much better in that way . The climactic sequence also disappoints . The other major flaw is that damn theme song . Rancho Notorious is pulp , it's very over-the-top , but that goofy song would make anybody laugh . Also , the name Chuck-a-Luck inspired a lot of laughs in the audience ( I was lucky enough to see it at a theater ) . Overall , though , Rancho Notorious is a great film , quite haunting in its own right . It's one of Lang's best , by my reckoning , up there with Fury and M . .
There are a couple of themes that don't seem entirely worked out , but it's an exceptional film	A startling and powerful film by the man who would direct The Third Man two years later , and a big spit in the face of anyone who has ever said he only made one great film . It's not quite as good as The Third Man , but it definitely nears its greatness . The visual style for The Third Man was being developed in this film , and perhaps earlier ( I'm very interested in seeing other films by Reed in the future , and have had The Fallen Idol , the film he made between Odd Man Out and The Third Man , on tape for a while now ) . There is a scene in this film which is close to identical to the scene in The Third Man where we see Harry Lime's gigantic shadow running across a wall . We don't quite have the quirky angles , but there are some odd shots that look like they are moving in that direction . Odd Man Out is the story of an IRA leader , Johnny McQueen ( James Mason ) who kills a man during a robbery , is injured shot by that man , and is then separated from his partners as they flee the scene . The story follows him through that night as he stumbles home , bloodied and dying . Various characters help or hinder , going through moral dilemmas as they make their decisions . It's generally very fascinating , and always very tense and entertaining . The one thing that causes me a major problem is the IRA connection . The organization's name is never mentioned ; in fact , it is referred to as ' The Organization ' . I suspect my problem is due solely to my own ignorance , but , from the little I know of the IRA , it's difficult for me to think positively of that organization . We know that Johnny wants to go about the organization's business nonviolently , or at least he has worries about violence or the possibility of violence . The whole movie seemed to skirt the whole issue of the IRA in a way , so it was difficult for me to completely care too much what happens to Johnny . My sympathies started moving towards the more colorful supporting cast . And the finale seemed to me little more than a romantic , semi-dodge of the issues of the film . The way Johnny is created in the screenplay also creates this problem . While he is coherent and thoughtful at the beginning of the film , he becomes weak and delirious immediately after he is shot . I am confused by the massive praise I've found for Mason concerning Odd Man Out ? he spends the majority of the film stumbling about , not saying anything . Yes , he has a soulful look on his mug , but this didn't impress me all that much and two minutes of Mason's Captain Nemo far outweighs this performance . He delivers a speech from the Bible late in the film , in what I would call the film's least successful scene , but its meaning in the film seemed obscure to me . The other actors , though , deserve nothing but my highest praise . Kathleen Ryan plays Johnny's girlfriend , Kathleen Sullivan , and she is a real soulful performer , much more impressive than Mason's sweaty , hangdog look ( he begins to look more and more like Edward G . Robinson as the film progresses ) . Her sadness and love are deeply felt . The supporting cast is so good , it would almost be a waste of space to write of all of them . Perhaps Peter Judge ( aka F . J . McCormick ) deserves special praise as Shell , a destitute man trying to make a little money out of Johnny's wretched situation , as well as Robert Newton , who has the most flamboyant role as a starving artist who wants to paint Mason as he is nearing death , because he feels that his soul is as expressive as any ever was in this state . .
Another enormously touching Ozu film	Incredibly gentle and touching Ozu picture about a single mother who works her butt off to send her only son off to school . Many years later , we follow her journey to visit that son in Tokyo . He hasn't kept in contact very well . His mother doesn't even know about his wife and infant son , nor that he is a grade school teacher , a rather low ( and low-paid ) position . Simply put , he's embarrassed at the little he has accomplished and he thinks his mother will be gravely disappointed that she went to so much trouble to educate him . The whole situation really hit home , and I was deeply moved by it . The film also features incredible cinematography and editing .
Very nice	A beautiful little film by Ozu , only 72 minutes long , about a young boy who was apparently abandoned by his father . He shacks up with Tané ( exquisitely played by Choko Iida ) for the first night , but when she can't find his father , he becomes a permanent fixture in her household . At first , she's bitter and mean about it . A middle-age widow , she believes , shouldn't have to deal with snotty-nosed bedwetters . But eventually her resolve weakens and she finds that she has missed a lot by never having had a child . The plotline is predictable and a little cliche ( it's the kind of movie that Vittorio de Sica would be criticized relentlessly by trendy critics if he had directed it ) , but the breezy style of Ozu makes everything wonderful . It's really funny at times , and always very touching . I think it's the most enjoyable Ozu film , with the possible exception of I Was Born But . . . , that I've ever seen . .
Excellent epic by DeMille , probably my favorite of his films	It doesn't suffer from any of his usual flaws . The pacing is perfect , the acting is not at all stilted , and the technical aspects don't dominate the story or the characters . The story centers around the building of the titular railroad . A banker hires a motley group of gamblers and whoremongers ( led by Brian Donlevy ) to slow down production and then invests in the Central Pacific . Joel McCrea plays a railroad cop , basically , who sees that Donlevy is trouble . He can't outright kick him out , because his army buddy and best friend ( Robert Preston ) is Donlevy's partner . To further complicate the relationship between McCrea and Preston , there is a girl caught between them ( Barbara Stanwyck ) . It's a great story supported by fine performances all around . While the film runs for 2 hours and 19 minutes , it never seemed boring at all . There are several exciting setpieces , most notably an Indian attack . There are also a couple of great suspense sequences . I loved the scene where McCrea corners Preston and Stanwyck after the payroll has been stolen . It goes on for a long time but the suspense never breaks . Generally I don't think DeMille has skill enough to pull something like that off . My only real problem is that sometimes the good guys are as bad as the villains . McCrea has two sidekicks , played by Akim Tamiroff and Lynne Overman , who can't help but be referred to as henchmen . I mean , even the characters ' names are sinister , Fiesta and Leach . Donlevy has a couple of henchmen as well ( Anthony Quinn in an early role and Robert Barrat ) , and they aren't any scarier .
Surprisingly excellent	René Clair lost some of his charm when he went to Hollywood , but chances were good that he couldn't lose it all . I quite love his 1942 film I Married a Witch , starring Veronica Lake . I think I like this Marlene Dietrich vehicle even better . Oh , this is a charmer , all right . The plot is too complicated to describe here , but the story is very clever and very entertaining . The film is sweet , romantic and quite funny . The cast is exceptional . Bruce Cabot is surprisingly great as the leading man . You might remember him as the block of wood who won out over the monkey in King Kong . He must have gained some talent as he aged ; he's much more handsome at this point , and has an effortless charm , reminiscent of Clark Gable . Roland Young plays his rival . One thing I'll always love about Golden Age Hollywood is the bevy of character actors , something we have entirely lost in the present . Here we have Mischa Auer , Anne Revere , Andy Devine , Theresa Harris and Franklin Pangborn . I had thought for sure Morocco was the best reason to own Universal's Marlene Dietrich set , but , so far , this is the best .
Powerful	Let's get this straight right off the bat : I have read William Faulkner's novel Pylon , and Douglas Sirk's cinematic adaptaion of it , Tarnished Angels , lives in the original's shadow . Pylon , which for some reason is the only Faulkner novel currently out of print , is one of that glorious author's best works . Still , the film is an excellent achievement . The story's power may be a bit lessened , but Sirk's direction as well as the performances of Rock Hudson , Dorothy Malone , Robert Stack , and Jack Carson make up for it . And while the plot suffers from reductions , the dialogue , much of which , I'm pretty sure , was not in the novel , is very good . The best scene in the film is Rock Hudson's drunken and passionate speech in the news room near the end of the film . In the novel , the equivalent of that speech is found in a garbage can . The final image of the novel is of the newspaper editor reading Burke Devlin's impassioned , prosaic description of the final pylon race . It's a perfect ending for a novel , but the screenwriter here was right in putting those words , or at least the idea of those words , back into Devlin's mouth . Tarnished Angels is equal in artistic accomplishment to the other great Sirk film I've seen , Written on the Wind . Both star Rock Hudson , Robert Stack , and Dorothy Malone , but there is a big difference between the two . Written on the Wind is a florid melodrama , the kind that Sirk was famous for . The colors are almost psychedelic , and the level of melodrama makes it feel like the world is about to end . Tarnished Angles is filmed in black and white , and , while it is melodramatic , it never feels like it's going over the edge . Sirk plays it at a level where you can feel the desperation of the characters ( the novel , which isn't as prudish ( the film , of course , was made under the Hayes Code ) , depicts a level of loss and desperation that is simply murder ; the ending of the film , which I wouldn't exactly call happy , is a hundred times less depressing than that of the novel ) . But , unlike in Written on the Wind , it never seems like Sirk is laughing at or making fun of the characters in Tarnished Angels . It seems like he meant this film to be an honest adaptation of a great novel . He succeeded quite well . . PS : The Criterion Company recently released Written on the Wind and All That Heaven Allows on DVD . I beg them to release this one next . The version on VHS is cropped from its widescreen glory , and you can tell . It feels very cluttered and claustrophobic , and often the panning and scanning seem choppy . The opening credits keep the widescreen , and it looks like it might be an even more visually spectacular film than I noticed . I really wish that they wouldn't get my hopes up by holding the original aspect ratio through the opening credits . What I want to see one day is the word " CINEMASCOPE " cropped to " EMASC " at the beginning of a film in a 1 . 33 : 1 aspect ratio .
Quite a brilliant piece of Godardian cinematic anarchy	Easily one of Godard's best films , although I'd hesitate to call it the best as many have in the past , Weekend is without a doubt his biggest film . Whatever its worth in Godard's canon , it is undoubtedly the summation of his early career and it is , indeed , a great film . See it if you like Godard . If you don't like Godard , don't see it . This is certainly not going to convert you . .
Very Effective DRAMA . This film is not a comedy	Spanking the Monkey was clearly not meant to be a comedy , but I found it in the comedy section , it had a quotation from Peter Travers that said : " Shockingly Funny , " and most of the other reviews on the imdb and from professionals have called it a dark comedy . I think if it had not been advertised as a comedy , it would have been accepted as a drama . This film deserves to be taken more seriously than it is . First off , the film's title is completely misleading and inappropriate . Maybe this film should have been called Flirting with Disaster . That would have been much closer to the situation . In fact , the title is so inappropriate , that I have doubts that that is what its original title was . Anyway , I was completely surprised by it . I was expecting a run-of-the-mill Indie romantic comedy ( notice that on the back of the box , the only romance mentioned is that between Ray and Toni . It says something to the effect : " Will Ray be able to win over the shy girl next door ? " ) . I usually avoid Indie films like the plague , because , truth be told , they're usually much more infantile than even Hollywood films . People who believe that Reservoir Dogs was the pinnacle of filmmaking this century have much more in common to those who think the same thing about The Phantom Menace than they would like to think . And the worst type of independent film is the independent romantic comedy . I rented Spanking the Monkey because I very much liked David O . Russel's Three Kings . So if you are looking for a comedy , stay the heck away from this film . This is a very complex drama with very taut situations and rather highly developed characters . Therefore , if you are looking for a good drama , do please rent Spanking the Monkey .
Almost a horror movie at times , this is one fantastic thriller and one of the Coens ' best	I'm not sure one viewing can do this film justice . It leaves a lot to think about , and I spent a good portion of my Sunday reading other people's views to see if I can come to some sort of conclusion about it . But I can't yet . Well , I can come to the conclusion , in any case , that this is a fantastic movie . There's no doubt about that . The Coens go back to their darker , noir-inspired sides , making the barren Texas landscape feel as cold as the Minnesota winter . The central story has a Vietnam veteran , played by Josh Brolin , finding a bundle of cash on the scene of a drug deal gone wrong . Meanwhile , a methodical killer by the name of Anton Chigurh ( Javier Bardem ) hunts him down . On the sidelines is an aging sheriff ( Tommy Lee Jones ) who works something like a Greek chorus , commenting on the main action but never able to have any effect on it . Looked at as a simple piece of film-making , No Country is brilliant . The Coens create a couple of the best setpieces they've ever done . They crank the tension up so high that I ? along with the entire audience ? was holding my breath . This is the closest thing the Coens have ever made to a horror movie , too . At times , it reminded me of a slasher , where we're waiting to see Chigurh dispose of his next victim in a gruesome way . But unlike your common director of a slasher movie , the Coens know how to make movies . It's not enjoyable when someone gets killed here . It feels all too realm and frankly it was scaring the hell out of me at times . Bardem plays the most memorable movie monster of the current decade . The character even sees himself as a monster , of sorts , as a hand of fate . In that way , Chigurh reminds me of another movie character , Ryunosuke Tsukue , Tatsuya Nakadai's character in Kihachi Okamoto's Sword of Doom . The two films share some similarities ( surely unintentionally ) , for example the almost Brechtian dodge of a conventional climax that forces us to reconsider what ? and who ? the films are actually about . I think one big question that I've come up with is whether the film sees Chigurh as a force of nature , or whether it is just Chigurh seeing himself that way , and that he is as much subject to the forces of nature and fate as anyone else in the story . No Country started to lose me a little when it went after some big themes at the end . I feel like I didn't absorb everything there was , and maybe I just didn't " get " what the authors ( the Coens and Cormac McCarthy , with whose work I'm entirely unfamiliar outside of this film ) were going for . But I also have a sneaking suspicion that the big themes get a little lost , that the Coens don't accomplish everything they set out to do . But I am eager to see this again ? and again ? to see if I can work it all out .
Cagney is amazing ! So is Wellman's direction !	Public Enemy is a rather flawed film . Several scenes drag on . A lot is left unresolved ( most notably Jean Harlow's role ) . The plot is a bit plodding . And a lot of the performances are not very good . That seems like a lot , and it is . However , the rest of the film is so shocking , so brilliant , that most of it is forgivable . James Cagney was made famous by this film , and it's easy to see why . God , I don't think I could ever gain the courage to look at James Cagney . I'd be afraid that he'd kill me on the spot . Or , at the very least , shove a half a grapefruit into my open eyeball . William A . Wellman's direction is haunting and often startlingly beautiful . I especially like the scene where Cagney raids his enemies in the rain . And the final sequence , oh man , how jaw dropping can you get ? I give The Public Enemy a solid !
Self-congratulatory , but , without a doubt , brilliant	A brilliant movie from a brilliant artist , and you'll be reminded of that constantly as you sit through All That Jazz , both in positive and negative ways . This , Fosse's fourth and also penultimate film , is his version of 8 ½ . But the great success of Fellini's semi-autobiographical masterpiece , easily one of the five or ten best films ever made , is that its author depicts himself with the greatest humility . And not only great humility but , most importantly , honest humility ( or at least believable humility ) . Fellini's constant self-deprecation felt like honest self-criticism , and it felt as if he was truly exposing his inner self to his audience . In All That Jazz , Fosse tries to do the same , but the self-deprecation comes off almost as back-patting . Fosse presents his alter ego , Joe Gideon ( well played by Roy Scheider ) , as a lovable cad . Oh , he might bang every chick in sight , but it's very much applauded . I can complain about these more arrogant aspects of All That Jazz , but what is undeniable is how great a filmmaker Fosse really is . It may be extremely self-congratulatory , but , judging from this film itself and its three predecessors , it can be argued that Fosse deserved the adulation that he supplies himself . As a fan , I loved the way he incorporates semi-fictionalized versions of his previous films into this one . 1974's Lenny plays a major part , as Gideon is going through the process of editing his new film The Stand-Up throughout the film . He brings his daughter to its premier , and , it being her first R-rated movie , she thanks her dad and then asks him why that guy wanted to sleep with two women at the same time . The reference to Cabaret is less pronounced but clear , when , stemming off from the daughter's question about threesomes , Gideon flashes back briefly to himself recreating the " Two Ladies " number . This number , of course , was famously created for the film version of Cabaret by Fosse . I'm not 100 % sure if there is a reference to Sweet Charity ( which would make sense , since it bombed horribly and almost ruined Fosse's filmmaking career ) , but the musical number with Gideon's girlfriend and daughter begins sort of like the " If They Could See Me Now " number , with Shirley MacLaine in Ricardo Montelbahn's bedroom . The musical numbers are something to behold . I think this is a given in a Bob Fosse film , but every single one is breathtaking . The sexy rehearsal number , which leads into the even sexier " Airplane " number , would be pilfered by singer / choreographer Paula Abdul in her video " Cold Hearted Snake . " More silly trivia , John Lithgow was so goofy looking in his relative youth , that guy who was the captain of the Love Boat and also the dad in ALF has an important part , and Wallace Shawn , of Manhattan , My Dinner with André and The Princess Bride fame appears in the most poorly calculated scene in the movie ( Fosse wasn't scrutinizing his film enough if he left it in ) , has one line , and it is the worst line in the entire film . Damn , I wish I could remember it ! .
A beautiful film	A flawed film , certainly , but also an enormously beautiful one . It seems like simple , frivolous fun at first , but I also found it quite moving . I love the setting , above all else . The film is set on a small island in the Pacific where elements from a handful of cultures have been mixing for many years already . There are the Polynesians who originally inhabited the island , the Japanese who took it over during WWII , the French who established a mission there , the Americans who washed up there after their ship was sunk during WWII , the Australians who occasionally dock there , and the various Asians who have established themselves there . Perhaps the most beautiful scene takes place on Christmas Eve , where all the people of the island celebrate in a joyously syncretic festival . " Silent Night " is sung first in the Polynesian and then in English . During a Nativity play , the three wisemen are the ancient Polynesian king of the island , then the emperor of China , and then the king of America . After the king of America delivers his gift ( a broken phonograph ) , a cloud bursts into torrential rains that easily penetrate through the roof . The audience unfurls a gorgeous rainbow of umbrellas . This sequence brought me to tears . The film's problem is its plot . It seems to just want to exist in its state of sheer beauty , but is worried that its audience will walk out if they aren't spoonfed a conventional romantic plot . A young , would-be heiress from Boston , Ameilia ( Elizabeth Allen ) , goes to this tropical paradise to find the father whom she has never met . She was born near the beginning of WWII , and her father , although he had survived , had decided against coming home . Now he stands to inherit millions of dollars unless she can prove that he is morally undeserving of the inheritance . When she arrives , she finds not her father but his friend , " Guns " Donovan , who owns a local saloon , Donovan's Reef . Donovan is afraid that an uptight Boston woman would immediately reject her father , who has since had three children by a Polynesian princess . The most cliched part of the plot has to do with the burgeoning relationship between Donovan and Ameilia . It's basically adopted straight from The Quiet Man , which is , despite its fame , one of my least favorite of Ford's films . Not too much time is wasted on this part of the plot , and what is there isn't too bad . Lee Marvin and Cesar Romero have really nice supporting roles , as well . In fact , Lee Marvin is so funny in his role that I almost wish he had more scenes . .
Mamet's ugly staccato dialogue harms what is otherwise a perfect film	Okay , so I hate David Mamet's dialogue style . Whatever critics came along in his early days and convinced him he was a genius for writing like this deserves torture . However , Spartan succeeds despite the dialogue , and perhaps because , by the film's nature , dialogue is sparse anyway . In fact , Spartan is one of the best films so far of 2004 , one of the most stunning and gripping thrillers I've ever seen . If Mamet had the ability to write better dialogue , the film would have been a full-blown masterpiece . I rented the movie because I missed Val Kilmer , an actor who is admittedly far from great . He's likeable , though , and I generally enjoy his work . Here he plays a Marine who is on a mission to save the President's kidnapped daughter . As more facts are uncovered , the situation becomes more murky and frightening . The only other Mamet film I've seen is The Spanish Prisoner , and few films have seemed as weak to me . The dialogue was painful to listen to , and the directorial style was unremarkable . The latter statement certainly cannot be made about Spartan , which has some of the best visual direction in the last few years . I have to say ' visual ' because Mamet's awful dialogue stilts almost all of the actors . Kilmer walks away relatively unscathed , as does Derek Luke , who co-starred in one of my favorite 2003 films , Pieces of April . Tia Texada and Ed O'Neill are pretty good . I think O'Neill has always been a fine actor who was pigeonholed by his famous character Al Bundy ; here he plays a Rumsfield type and comes off very well , especially in the film's final scene . Newcomer Kristen Bell is the most successful of the cast . I hope to see more of her in the future . William H . Macy can be particularly embarrassed at his performance here . .
Just excellent	A strange and difficult film , but also an amazing one born from the world of dreams . I think it can best be described as a mood piece . The film runs two and a half hours , and not much really happens plot-wise . But a lot does happen emotionally . The film is about a teenage boy in Japanese junior high school ( early to mid teen years ) who is caught up in some rather nasty circumstances that occur within his peer group , including robbery , rape and prostitution ( the same set of circumstances that brought about a movie like Battle Royale , and you'll recognize some of the character types that the two films share ) . To escape from the horrors of everyday life , the boy , named Yuichi , listens to the ethereal music of Lily Chou-Chou , and chats about her on the internet . As dark as the subject matter of the film is , its point of view is stuck in the dreaminess of Lily Chou-Chou's music . The hazy digital photography , with its glowing aura , communicates this beautifully ? let no one say that digital doesn't have a place in the world of cinema . The film is not cohesive , but it would probably be a mistake if it were . It would lose that haunting tone that makes it so special . It's outstanding .
Has some minor flaws and not the strongest storyline , but is so astoundingly created it's hard to care too much	Impressive as all Hell , at least from the standpoint of direction . There are a couple of long takes that are just about the greatest sequences I've ever seen . Cuarón is a master of putting the audience in the middle of the action . I've never felt more like I was in a war zone before . The collapse of society has never been more vividly depicted . However ( and I hate to say " however " when there's so much to be amazed at ) , I didn't absolutely love the movie . It creates a frightening world , but the story that goes along with it is not equal to the creation . It's decent , but nothing fantastic . And the characters weren't especially great , either . Only Clive Owen gives a notable performance , and he was even better in Inside Man . I also thought that exposition in the film was handled clumsily . How many left to right tracking shots do we need of photographs and newspaper headlines ? Every time Cuarón wants to tell us something about a new character , or explicate something that has happened in the past , that's how he does it . Okay , despite some complaints , which I guess are major but I was too impressed to care too much , this is still one of the best of the year .
One of the funniest comedies of the 30s	International House is an entirely insane and hilarious romp . A bunch of wacky characters travel to Wu Hu , China in order to bid for the rights to manufacture the new invention of television . W . C . Fields is the standout here , giving perhaps the funniest performance of his early career , rivaling such other classics as The Old-Fashioned Way , You're Telling Me , and It's a Gift . But there are others in this film who are just as good . Franklin Pangborn is as easily upset as ever . Bela Lugosi turns in a wonderfully hammy performance as a Russian General . George Burns and Gracie Allen deliver one corny joke after another ( most people will find them annoying in any of their films , but I find that they begin to grow on you ; those jokes , I contend , are supposed to be groaners ) . Perhaps the only character to get lost in the proceedings is Tommy Nash ( Stuart Erwin ) , a representative of an American company who is the front runner in the race to win television . The movie tries to make him the main character at the beginning , but , with all the other zaniness , Erwin , a straight man , is understandably left out of most of the picture . Also in this film are some amazing musical numbers , including a song entitled " Reefer Man , " sung by a black jazz group . Because of the marijuana references , this segment was long thought lost . Whenever they show this film on TCM , they include that scene . Marvelous stuff , all of it .
Takeshi Kitano is evolving as a filmmaker	Strange and far from perfect , but an amazing cinematic experience . Takeshi Kitano is best known for his yakuza films , but , with Dolls and Zatoichi , I think he's moved beyond and become a more well-rounded artist . Dolls is a highly aestheticized film that intertwines three stories about undying , insanity-causing love . The structure is very strange , and it doesn't work perfectly . One story , the most effective one in my mind , about a man who tethers himself to his brain-damaged ex-fiancée , takes up the most screen time . However , most of that screen time is devoted just to watching the two stumble solemnly through the seasons of the year . It becomes quite poetic , and a good excuse for creating gorgeous visual compositions . The other two stories take up relatively little screen time , and feel more prosaic ( though with a definite tinge of myths ) . One involves a yakuza boss who , nearing death , visits a park bench where he used to meet his sweetheart when he was a young man ? and finds her still waiting for him . The third tale involves a man who is obsessed with a pop star . When she is injured in a car accident , he is not allowed to see her disfigured face . So he removes his own eyes in order to spend time with her . The secondary stories are far less satisfying than the tale of bound beggars , but the three stories do meld into a very satisfying whole . The film also seems to hint at more , and a second viewing might tie everything together much for satisfactorily . It's visual beauty is only surpassed by its highly advanced editing rhythms , and perhaps also its exquisite score , by Jo Hisaishi , frequent collaborator of Hayao Miyazaki .
One of Fields ' Best	Well , what did W . C . Fields ever do that was bad ? Even in lesser works , he's still at least interesting to watch . You're Telling Me is his second or third best of all those I've seen . The opening sequence , the suicide sequence , and the ostrich sequence are its highlights . The golf sequence might be counted , too , but , if you've seen the short film The Golf Specialist , the one in You're Telling Me is less perfect . For one thing , Fields plays one of his nicer characters in this one . He's rather good on the dramatic side , actually . I liked the scene where he tries to convince the princess not to kill herself very much . Fields showed some true range there . Anyway , as most Fields fans know , the Great Man had two basic characters : the hen-pecked husband and the flim-flam man . In The Golf Specialist , Fields is a flim-flam man , and he needs to be quite mean-spirited to play that role . The nice character from You're Telling Me seems out of place being cruel to the caddy , no matter if the caddy deserves it or not . Also , the caddy and the woman watching Fields were much funnier in the short film than in here . I suppose if I hadn't have seen The Golf Specialist just recently , the golf sequence in You're Telling Me would have seemed a lot better . Still , the film is certainly worth a . See it if you get the chance .
A little-known Kurosawa that's well worth rediscovering	I had said two weeks ago , in a review of Scandal , that Eclipse's new Kurosawa box set could just as easily be called Lesser Kurosawa . That's not fair . I know there are those who champion The Idiot and No Regrets for Our Youth , and even the one film I had previously seen from the set , I Live in Fear , is quite good ( though it's hard to argue with it being a lesser film is such an outstanding oeuvre ) . The truth was , I was hoping very much to find some lesser-known Kurosawa classics . Which brings us to One Wonderful Sunday . Judging solely by IMDb's votes , it's Kurosawa's third least seen movie . And it ranks # when listed by ratings . Well , I'll be happy to act like I was the first who discovered this hidden gem in Kurosawa's catalogue . This really is a wonderful little film . Influenced very much by Vittorio de Sica , one of Kurosawa's favorite directors , One Wonderful Sunday follows two young lovers , Yuzo and Masako ( Isao Numasaki and Chieko Nakakita ) , spending the titular day together with nothing but ¥35 between them . The two experience sadness and hardship as they go about their date . The structure is episodic , as the lovers experience odd vignettes , meeting various post-war types , like bums and orphans and ticket scalpers . The two try to be happy with each other's company , but Yuzo's poverty makes him feel like less of a man . In one of the strongest sequences in Kurosawa's career , Yuzo decides to act like a cad to drive Masako away . Kurosawa was hardly ever the subtle type , and he is not known for long periods of silence or long takes . This sequence demonstrates a different side of the director . The climax of the film involves an odd breaking of the fourth wall resembling the device in J . M . Barrie's Peter Pan . As far as I know , this is the only time Kurosawa ever attempted such a thing . That wouldn't be too surprising , though , as film audiences rarely interact with characters on screen . It's just too out there for the medium . But God bless Kurosawa for trying it . It's kind of schmaltzy , but I loved the characters so much that at least I thought about clapping for them . A forgotten near-masterpiece .
One I think that people will be watching over and over again	Hilarious and smart teen comedy , without a doubt one of the funniest of the year . Michael Cera and Jonah Hill play two high school seniors who are best friends . When invited to a cool chick's party , they try to get their über-geeky friend , played by Christopher Mintz-Plasse , to use his fake ID ( on which he is now infamously renamed " McLovin " ) to get them some alcohol . From there , everything goes awry . It's really a laugh-a-minute movie . The previews and commercials ruined a few of the best jokes , but there is no shortage of laughs anywhere in the movie . It also manages to be fairly touching , without devolving into schmaltz ( a problem that the film's producer Judd Apatow has yet to solve in his own films ) . The awkward dialogue is wonderfully convincing , and completely recalled high school for me . Very enjoyable , and one that I hope to enjoy very often in the future .
Sumptuous , but difficult to follow	That's probably because the version I saw was cut somehow . The video box swore it wasn't , but the copy I rented was only a bit over three hours long . That's quite a bit more than the version that was originally released in the U . S . the first time around , but there's obviously something missing , somewhere around 20 minutes . As it was , I found it difficult to follow . Especially near the beginning : I had no clue what was going on or who the characters were . They refrain from telling us When and Where for a long time . If you come here before you see it , it's Sicily circa 1860 . Burt Lancaster plays Prince Salina , a man of distinguished family who can trace his line back to Emperor Titus ( why not Vespasian , Titus ' father ? ) . The film seems to be mainly about the end of an aristocracy . Salina's nephew , played by Alain Delon , very sexy with his mustache , fights in a rebellion on the mainland . I don't know . I don't want to speculate on The Leopard too much . It's a beautiful film , obviously . It's much better than the other Visconti costume drama that I've seen , Senso , even if it didn't make too much sense . My favorite , by far , is Rocco and His Brothers , made three years before The Leopard . Still , The Leopard is more than noteworthy . May it get a proper , 205-minute DVD release sometime soon , hopefully with a commentary track that helps with the obscure history . for now , which perhaps will rise in the future .
Worst ending to a great movie ever ; SPOILERS	For a majority of its running time , A . I . promises to be the best movie this year , and possibly one of the best films ever . There is hardly a wrong step in the script , acting , direction , scoring , set design , special effects , or cinematography for the longest time . Then , the film comes to a dead end : David , the robot child ( mecha ) played by Haley Joel Osment , is trapped underwater at the end of a long journey . His programming becomes caught on an endless loop , and the camera begins to zoom out . It would have worked as the end of the film . A depressing end , but one which the film lead to the entire time . Instead , Spielberg delivers the most outrageous deus ex machina I've ever seen in a film , or even a Greek tragedy . A narrator , a tool which is very out of date , begins to speak : " David stayed that way for two thousand years . " In those two thousand years , another ice age arises , and with it the extinction of mankind . We see the frozen landscape that used to be NY City underwater , and through it flies an alien spacecraft . The aliens have uncovered David , and they revive him in order to learn all they can about the extinct human race . They bring David to a research center , designed after his former home , a la 2001 : A Space Odyssey . The aliens , who have apparently learned English from studying Osment's program , choose to revive his mother , because that is what he wants more than anything . What results is meant to be touching , but it is the least truthful and most cloying ending you could ever imagine . This is a worse cheat than the bookends of Saving Private Ryan or the modern day grave sequence in Schindler's List , a scene that more or less diminished that otherwise great film significantly . The mood of the rest of the movie was one of mourning and cynicism . Human beings are shown to be liars and users , uncaring murderers . David's original owners abandon him because of their impatience , and treat him as if he is a toy , not a human being . And the most ironic thing about that ending is that , although all the cues tell us that we're supposed to be sentimental about this whole meeting , we know as an audience ( or at least I knew ; many people were , in fact , crying ) that this mother is entirely fabricated . After she dies , which will happen when she falls asleep after the first night , David will be the subject of study for the aliens , as much as Dave Bowman of 2001 was in that film . If Spielberg would have held that irony at the surface , instead of burying it under craploads of false sentimentality , it had potential to be profound . I still could have done without the ridiculous looking aliens , but I also could have accepted it . The film ends on such a blatantly false moment that most of the audience , any who are intelligent enough to be able to identify and follow the themes of the rest of the film , will stumble out dumbfounded at the way Spielberg shoots himself in the foot . Others will coo like the dumb pigeons that they are .
Powerful , painful Depression-era tale	Found on the same disc as my favorite Wellman film , Wild Boys of the Road . Anyone interested in Depression-era movies should throw that disc up on your Netflix queue immediately ! That's got to be one of the all-time great double features ( which lasts only just over two hours ) . Heroes for Sale is an episodic , sometimes sloppily constructed story , but it's very involving . Richard Barthelmess stars , and the plot follows him from a soldier in WWI to the present , in the middle of the Great Depression . He experiences much hardship and betrayal through his life . Some hugely positive experiences , too , but when you have something good in your life , there's always the possibility of losing it . This is one of the most cynical , heartbreaking movies of all time . It certainly wouldn't be the film you saw to forget about the horror of modern life . The Fred and Ginger movie's playing down the hall . The film has been frequently accused of having socialist or communist leanings . This is partly true . It's certainly not very trustful of capitalism . But it's just as distrustful of communism . One of its main characters , played by Robert Barrat , begins the film as a communist in a flophouse . He later becomes successful and ends up screwing over his friends and scorning the poor . The film also stars Loretta Young , Aline MacMahon , Charlie Grapewin and Gordon Westcott , and all are very strong . A gut-wrencher which , like Wild Boys of the Road , ends with a faint glimmer of hope . Very faint , with the Depression going strong .
Beautiful accomplishment	Exceptional , affecting melodrama about small-town life in America . The story is at times a bit tawdry , but it is always intelligent , complex and it is populated with many memorable and realistic characters . They're people to care about . Better yet , the actors portraying them are mostly brilliant . I had some problems with Arthur Kennedy's performance ; it's too over-the-top , and not up to the same level of maturity as many of the others . I also thought Lee Philips was weak in a key role . But Lana Turner , Diane Varsi , Russ Tamblyn , Terry Moore , Barry Coe , Mildred Dunnock , Lloyd Nolan , Leon Ames , and Hope Lange give enormously sensitive performances that will live with me for a long time . Especially Ms . Lange , who is just heartbreaking as a young woman who is sexually abused by her alcoholic stepfather ( Arthur Kennedy ) . The story is frank ( 1950s frank ) and intelligent about sex and the way that small towns treat it . I would surely credit director Robson with keeping this film , which could easily have been a disaster , flowing like a gentle stream . It's a rarity that a Hollywood film like this could be so insightful about small-town life . It does have one big narrative problem , and that is that its climax is a trial . It's not often that a climactic trial works well , and there is no exception for Peyton Place . It seems fake , and the lawyers and defendants don't present evidence in an at all believable fashion . And then there's this cringe-inducing third-act speech . It belongs in a lesser film . .
Far from perfect , but somehow perfectly satisfying	The story involves a Mexican woman ( Paz Vega ) becoming the maid for a dysfunctional , wealthy white family . Other characters include the white family's son and daughter , the grandma , and the maid's own daughter . The plot is very loose , and is more an excuse for well developed characters to interact in complex situations . The film balances its comedy and drama pretty much perfectly . The biggest complaint is that Téa Leoni's character , the wife and mother , is far too psychologically messed up , and maybe even that Leoni overplays it ( by a country mile ) . But I did like the character , at least the intentions that Brooks had for her . It's interesting that you have a kind of distaste for her , but can also sympathize . Adam Sandler plays her husband and gives his finest performance yet . Like Paul Thomas Anderson before him , Brooks really knows how to find a perfect character for Sandler to play . Paz Vega is great . She has previously starred in films by Almodóvar and Medem . I am a bit disappointed to discover that she's Spanish and not Hispanic . The film is intentionally aimed at a segment of the white population that hasn't quite gotten used to the fact that America's Hispanic population is not going away , and it would have been nice to have an actual Mexican to play the part . Shelbie Bruce is excellent as Vega's daughter . She's far better than the two white children . Speaking of the white children , they're another of the disappointing aspects of the film , as they are given stories and characters but then forgotten amidst the other characters ' problems . I can probably pick out a dozen more flaws , some of them major , but the strong characters and excellent dialogue work so well that I enjoyed it completely .
Weird and wild	Miike's best film since Gozu . It's an eye-popping , furious , hilarious pastiche of spaghetti Westerns . Of course , the spaghetti Western was invented by stealing from Akira Kurosawa , but then of course Yojimbo was invented from stealing from American sources , too . It goes back and forth and cuts across cultures . I'd definitely categorize this as a substance over style exercise , but , man , is the style a lot of fun here ! The story is pretty much the same as Yojimbo / A Fistfull of Dollars , with a mysterious warrior entering a town divided into two fighting factions . I think the biggest flaw in Sukiyaki Western Django is that the mystery man is not an especially interesting character . My attention was mostly on the wacky characters of the two factions . Doesn't matter too much , because , as I say , it's all style here . I enjoyed the crazy character design and spectacular cinematography . The action sequences are brilliantly directed and edited by Miike , and are some of the best gunfight sequences ever . My favorite bit has the leader of the white team ( yes , the two sides are divided by colors , red and white , to distinguish them visually ) shooting at the leader of the red team from a great distance . He has to aim his pistol high up in the air and at an angle to adjust for the wind and gravity . Quentin Tarantino has a small role . Don't let that scare you away . You're not going to be watching for the acting , either , as Miike has all of the Japanese actors speaking English phonetically , which just adds to the weirdness . Sukiyaki Western Django is a lot of fun , if you're game .
Great work by Scorsese and his cast	Well directed biopic of Howard Hughes that's probably too ambitious and original to be called a biopic . This is simply the story of Hughes ' early , gigantic life where he imagined giant movies , glamorous women , and futuristic airplanes , but was crippled by an obsessive-compulsive disorder . Sure , this isn't Scorsese's most personal film , but I never quite thought of him as a straight auteur . A lot of his films do share common themes , but there's always Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore , The Age of Innocence , and After Hours . I think of Scorsese first and foremost as a master of the medium , an especially skilled director , and I think The Aviator is one of his greatest directorial triumphs . He is a master of developing the mood of the picture and controlling its pace . It flows beautifully . The film boasts some of the very best acting of the year , too . Leonardo DiCaprio is just coming into his mature period as an actor , and this is his best performance to date . It's definitely Oscar worthy . Cate Blanchett is a marvel playing Katharine Hepburn . At first I wasn't sure if she was just doing a crass imitation , but her character really develops nicely . Cate disappears and we then have Kate . Just try to keep her from carrying home the statuette ! Another Kate , Kate Beckinsale , is also very good as Ava Gardener . She's not a great actress , but she holds her own here . Add to them fine supporting performances from John C . Reilly , Alec Baldwin , Alan Alda , and Ian Holm . Also Jude Law , in his fiftieth film appearance of 2004 , plays Errol Flynn and is so good that I wanted a lot more . I love films about Golden Age Hollywood , and I like trying to spot the references . One of the best and most entertaining movies of 2004 thus far . .
A gem	When people ask the question " Why don't they make musicals anymore ? " I find that it is quite easily answered : " Well , the genre was perfected in classical Hollywood . " We can never get to that point again , and can only hope for re-invention , which we kind of got this past year with Moulin Rouge . However , that film cannot compare with the musicals of the 30s and 50s , nor can any other musical ( at least from what I've seen ) of the past 20 years . I had never heard of Two Weeks with Love , and only began to watch it because there was nothing else on when I sat down to eat my lunch . I missed the first 15 minutes or so , but the plot was simple enough to reconstruct : a family goes on vacation in the Catskills around the turn of the Twentieth Century , and the middle of three daughters ( Jane Powell ) , Patty , 17 in age , feels that she is becoming an adult . Her parents treat her like a child , though , and won't allow her to where a corset , the symbol of young womanhood . Another guest in their hotel is Demy , a Cuban gentleman played by none other than Ricardo Montalban ( how old is this guy ? this film was made in 1950 ! ) . He's a bit older than Patty , but she is extraordinarily attracted to him . Her older sister , Valerie , tries to trick her into screwing up when she's in front of him ( she wants him , too ) , and her younger sister , Melba , thinks Patty's a nut . Debbie Reynolds , cute as ever , plays Melba , two years before Singin ' in the Rain . This film has a lot of great musical numbers , but it can go a long time at some points without one . However , it's so entertaining even without the music that I was never impatiently waiting for the next one to occur . The humor is marvelous . The dialogue is very clever , and there are actually a lot of sexual innuendoes . Some of them may not have been meant . For instance , one scene has Patty explaining to Demy how she would cling to him if she fell into a lake . She wraps her arms tightly around this pole that looks far too much like a penis to suggest anything else . I hope someday that I'll be able to see the first 15 minutes that I missed . Perhaps then I'll give it a 10 , but for now I'll give it a .
I have to admit that I liked it a lot !	Surprisingly great John Ford film starring Shirley Temple . I was unsure if I could stand her cuteness for an hour and forty minutes , but I was never as annoyed as I expected to be . She's actually quite - good ( I'll probably never live that down , will I ? ) . Once in a while , she got a bit cloying , but for the most part I enjoyed her performance . Believe me , though , John Ford and his screenwriter were careful to balance her with the rest of the film , which is indeed quite masterful . All of the other performers are pitch perfect , including C . Aubrey Smith , Cesar Romero , Michael Whalen , Constance Collier , June Lang , and especially Ford regular Victor McLaglen . He's amazing , as always . The story , based on a Rudyard Kipling book , is very good . Lang plays Temple's mother . Her husband has apparently died , and she accepts the gracious invitation of her father-in-law ( Smith ) , a colonel in India , whom she has never met . While there , Temple becomes a sort of a mascot of the soldiers , with Sgt . MacDuff ( McLaglen ) taking care of her and teaching her how to be a soldier . Another soldier ( Whalen ) courts Temple's mother . Cesar Romero plays Khoda Khan , a bandit prince who is being held prisoner in the fort . Ford's direction is as exciting as ever , and the cinematography is halfway between the expressionism of The Informer and the naturalism of Stagecoach . The musical score is also quite good . One might object to the colonialist viewpoint of the film , but , to be fair , Wee Willie Winkie is a lot more palatable in that respect than George Stevens ' much more famous Gunga Din is . .
A wonderful romantic comedy from Wilder	Humphrey Bogart and William Holden star as rich brothers , the former an ever-busy CEO the latter a lazy , womanizing playboy . Audrey Hepburn plays their chauffer's daughter , Sabrina , who is in love with Holden . He doesn't even know she exists . Hepburn's father sends her to Paris to forget , but she comes back with the sophistication necessary to conquer Holden , and does so effortlessly . Unfortunately , she's threatening a major corporate deal with Holden's new fiancée's father . Bogart steps in and tries to seduce Hepburn away from his brother , for reasons of business only . Who would guess that he falls for her as well ? Well , anyone who's ever seen a romantic comedy , I suppose , but the film's lack of surprises is no major fault . Hepburn could carry the movie by herself without a problem . Bogart and Holden are good , but I for one never looked at them , except to be slightly disgusted at Bogart's romantic leanings towards a 20-something gal ( what happened , did Bacall get too old for the guy ? ) . Hell , Harrison Ford and Greg Kinnear were as good in the 1990s remake ( which I saw when it first came out ) . Sabrina also benefits from some truly skillful direction from Wilder . I am not a Wilder fan , in particular . I do recognize his talents , but , as far as I've always thought , he was a talented mortal working amongst the classic Hollywood deities , the directors and stars of that era . Sabrina increases my opinion of him , both as a director and as a writer . The film has some unusually extended sequences . For example , the first time Bogart tries to get Sabrina from his brother's charismatic grasp , when he meets her on the indoor tennis court . The audience understands exactly what's happening plotwise within ten seconds . But the scene is protracted beyond our expectations . When Bogie kisses Hepburn , we sit there watching her slow reaction . This is quite the good film . .
Excellent film ; could possibly be a critical hit in the U . S .	When you read a synopsis of Beijing Bicycle , it may remind you of Vittorio de Sica's 1948 masterpiece The Bicycle Thieves . A poor man , having recently come to the city from the country , wins a job at a bicycle courier business , and , on a delivery , gets his bike stolen . He then proceeds to search the city of Beijing to retrieve it . Luckily , it quickly veers away from being a simple update of that classic story . He finds the alleged thief , a high school kid , and steals it back . For the first hour or more , the bike moves back and forth between them . The two characters are compared and contrasted , and it works as an effective class study . The direction and editing are particularly great in the film . The climax involves two intersecting chases , and it is one of the best stages sequences I've ever seen . There are a couple of problems , small ones for me , but perhaps big ones for critics and audiences . The high school kid is extraordinarily unlikable . A person behind me declared loudly , " What a brat ! " And he is . I personally don't mind if a character is unsympathetic ( although we are asked to sympathize with him , I believe ) . My own biggest problem is that the ending is slightly unsatisfactory . There's not much closure . Still , Beijing Bicycle is an excellent film . .
Must-see for any Bergman fan	Made for television during what is probably Bergman's most innovative period , around the same time as Persona , Shame , A Passion , and Cries and Whispers . Three actors , played by Bergman regulars Gunnar Bjornstrand , Anders Ek , and Ingrid Thulin , are brought up on an obscenities charge in an unnamed European country . A judge ( Erik Hell ) interviews them over a period of several days , first all together , and then each one separately . We also see scenes of the actors outside of these interviews interacting in pairs ( never all three together ) . There is also a scene in which the judge visits a priest , in a re-enactment of a certain scene from The Seventh Seal , the one where Antonius Block confesses his chess strategy to death . Here , Bergman himself plays the priest / death ( in the interview book Bergman on Bergman , he jokingly brags that he got paid extra for having a speaking part in the film ) . The film as a whole is difficult , as are the other films around this period . But it is an amazing film when taken scene for scene . It's a showcase for these amazing actors . Thulin , Bjornstrand , and Ek are amazing as these absolutely deranged characters . Ek plays the most arrogant person in the world , and he has a little problem with pyromania . Thulin , who is married to Bjornstrand but sleeps exclusively with Ek , has some serious mental problems ( and a wig that makes her look like Anna Karina from Vivre sa vie ) . Her neuroses make Woody Allen seem relatively calm . Bjornstrand is a desperate character who wants to get away from his wife and her lover ( also his best friend ) , but he's not sure if he can live without her . The Rite is actually quite graphic . There are a few very erotic scenes , and Thulin was never more desirable . In one scene , Ek asks Bjornstrand how he can bring Thulin to orgasm , and the description made me blush , of all people . The film would probably have been rated X in the United States . Needless to say , it would never appear on television ! When it was originally broadcast , Bergman had a disclaimer placed before it telling everyone that they might want to read or go to the movies instead of watch The Rite ! .
Marvelous John Ford	Watching The Wagonmaster is not likely to result in deep thoughts , unlike many other great Ford films , like The Searchers , My Darling Clementine , The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance , and The Grapes of Wrath among others , but it is likely to produce a feeling of awe and deep satisfaction . The story is very simple : two cowboys decide to help a wagon train of Mormons get to California . Along the way , they run into a medicine man whose mules ran away , a group of bank robbers , and some Navajos . There's a lot of adventure and excitement on the trail , and the film is imbued with fun and beauty . The music is absolutely beautiful . The scenery , again from Monument Valley , is as beautiful as it ever was . Plus , how can you go wrong with James Arness ? The Wagonmaster might not be one of John Ford's better known films , but it is nonetheless a must-see if you get the chance . .
A charmer	It's the kind of movie that reminds me that the words " cute , " " sweet " and " quirky " ought not to be criticisms in and of themselves . The film is about two pre-teens , a troublemaker ( Will Poulter ) and a sheltered kid from a strict religious sect ( Bill Milner ) , who decide to make a sequel to First Blood . Poulter fancies himself a filmmaker , and hopes to win a BBC contest with the movie . First Blood is Milner's first movie ever ( the movie begins with him and his family holding a vigil over the lost souls who are in a theater watching it ) , and it fires up his already vivid imagination . The plot is generally predictable , but the themes of friendship and the love of creating art are well done and very touching . Most surprising is the frequently exciting direction by Garth Jennings , whose first film was the mediocre-at-best adaptation of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy . I would never have expected him to produce an original screenplay of such wit , pacing and attention to detail . It's an absolutely satisfying film , and one of the few I've seen so far in 2008 that I genuinely loved .
A great film	I don't have too much to say about the film itself . I think anyone can agree that it is a great film . Kenji Mizoguchi is a great humanist here ( this is my first film of his ) . It is a very polished film , too . The acting is marvelous , the direction and cinematography are great , and the script is the highlight of the whole project . It's enormously touching . I wouldn't , however , place this amongst the best films I've ever seen . It's definitely close , but I don't think I will remember it forever . I would gladly watch it again , but not for a long while . And I don't think I'm going to be telling everyone I know how great it is , unless someone were to specifically inquire about it . I have to admit , the reason I'm saying this is because there is always a bitter resentment against Akira Kurosawa from Mizoguchi ( and Ozu ) fans . I have seen one Mizoguchi , this film , and one Ozu , Early Summer ( Bakushu ) which is horrendously boring , but I know that that film is not exemplary of Ozu's canon . I have seen 14 or maybe even more Kurosawa films . His are generally more available , not to mention that he made more , I believe , than both Mizoguchi and Ozu put together . Averaging my ratings for the film , he has an average of 8 . 79 . 8 . 79 ! That's enormous , possibly , very probably , the highest average of any major director as far as my ratings go . I would bet he is rated as highly on most other film buffs ' lists . My point is that it really bothers me when Mizoguchi and Ozu fanatics try to knock down Kurosawa . Even Andre Bazin , of all people , does so ! ( see Truffaut's preface to the second book of Bazin's collected essays ) . People also try argue that Kurosawa's direction falls far below Mizoguchi , and Mizoguchi's is also much more unique and original . From seeing this , which , from my research , is his most famous and popular film , I really have to disagree . I think Kurosawa could have even made this . I think that the level of intellect and emotion in the screenplay and the direction of Sansho the Bailiff is on the exact same level as The Seven Samurai , a film generally considered one of the ten best films ever made . I myself prefer several Kurosawa films to it , and give it a . This is what Sansho the Bailiff gets , too . It is a great film , but it failed to bowl me over . I may have had some tears in my eye , but right now , only ten or so minutes after turning it off , I'm only thinking about it in an intellectual capacity , not an emotional capacity . In fact , as this review testifies , I'm really not thinking about it in an intellectual capacity very much , either . I'm actually talking about something only vaguely connected !
Probably my favorite film of Visconti's	He's not a director I'm overly enthusiastic about , but he's good . This is a simple love story , based on Dostoyevsky . Marcello Mastroianni plays a man who meets a beautiful young girl ( Maria Schell ) . He falls for her instantly , but finds she is awaiting an older man ( Jean Marais ) with whom she fell in love the previous year . He is supposed to be coming back for her . Mastroianni attempts to prevent the reunion . This reminds me more of Fellini than Visconti . There's a dance sequence in a night club that almost escapes from the movie . It's like a centerpiece , and like a small masterpiece existing within an otherwise excellent film .
Battle of the sexes : Spencer Tracy vs . Katharine Hepburn	The comedy and romance in this film are so well scripted , directed , and acted that it seems absolutely effortless . It's grace , pure grace . Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn play two lawyers married to each other . Tracy is assigned to prosecute a wife who took a couple of pot shots at her cheating husband and his lover . She pulled the trigger with her eyes closed , and ended up just wounding her husband . Hepburn chooses to defend her because , as she believes , if a husband had done the same he would get off scot-free . A woman , on account of the prejudices of the jury , would be certainly convicted to the full extent of the law . So by day Tracy and Hepburn battle it out in court , and at night in the bedroom . The humor is wonderfully elegant . They're not always belly-laughs , but they're quite satisfying . The best moments come as the husband and wife testify . Judy Holliday , who plays the woman , is perfect . Jean Hagan , who , of course , would go on to play Lena Lamont in Singin ' in the Rain three yearts later , is great as the paramour . It's unfortunate that she doesn't have more scenes . And , as I said above , the romance between the Tracy and Hepburn is delightful . It's a great film . .
A fireball of a movie	I am absolutely embarrassed right now that I have never watched a Spike Lee film before . I have always wanted to see Do the Right Thing , which is generally considered his best film , and I even rented it once , but never got around to watching it . When Bamboozled opened last year , it sounded very interesting , but after the critics dismissed it as a failed attempt at satire , I decided to catch it later on , perhaps after I saw Do the Right Thing . Then I saw it was going to be played on television , so I found the time and sat down to watch . What I saw was something absolutely amazing . And that's not to say that Bamboozled doesn't have its flaws . I would personally deem it a flawed masterpiece , a very flawed masterpiece . The critics were right : Lee's satire is misplaced . He's far too hotheaded an artist to have realized this immediately , but he should have when the New York Times refused to run the movie's add , which depicted a sambo character eating a watermelon , because they feared protests . Bamboozled asks us to suspend our disbelief - a disbelief which Spike Lee may not have had himself - and accept that a TV network would produce the New Millennium Minstrel Show and that the public , a la Mel Brooks ' The Producers , would eat it up . Lee's argument in the press is that this was already happening . His targets were rap videos and a show on the WB network that only produced something like 6 episodes ( the show was about Abe Lincoln's black servant who single-handedly ran the country ; Lincoln was the buffoon ) . The reason that the New York Times didn't run Lee's add is the exact same reason Lee wrote the film in the first place : African American political activists , including Lee , often have very knee-jerk reactions to such things . The show about Lincoln , which Lee argued was set during the " holocaust " of his people , actually showed the white people to be the buffoons and the blacks to be their manipulators . He missed the point ( which could very well have been due to the fact that the show sucked anyhow ) . Add to this the fact that , besides clips of Good Times and The Jeffersons , both of which , I ought to add ( in my own opinion ) , Lee is taking out of context ( he would have been much better off to feature Diff'rent Strokes , which is somewhat offensive ) , all of the clips he uses to demonstrate the abuse of his race must have been downright difficult to dig out of film archives . None of these cartoons or movies that are shown , nor most of the sambo toys , have been seen for some thirty years or more , most probably not since before Spike Lee was born . We all know they exist , and , as Sloan ( Jada Pinkett Smith ) says in the film , we oughtn't to forget whether we're black or white , but it doesn't work as satire to show these things . They aren't at all harmful now , not until you drag them up again . Then they're only offensive when knees start jerking . None of this matters , in fact . Not to me , anyway . In my opinion , film today has become far too complacent . Bamboozled is an enormous jolt to our current , apathetic world . The fight may be misdirected and wholly fabricated by a paranoid man , but Spike Lee is indeed a masterful director . In fact , I would very favorably compare this film to Jean-Luc Godard's Le Week-End , which was also somewhat misdirected in its satire . Both of these films are excellent . Bamboozled moves with a speed and passion almost completely foreign to the world of filmmaking today . It's angry , it's brazen , and it makes your heart pound with fear , sadness , and intensity . It also raises more difficult issues than any film I've seen in a very long time . It manages to do this while remaining funny , too , although I was always wondering whether Spike Lee would slap me for laughing at this stuff . I especially loved the Tommi Hilnigger Jeans commercial . But even the New Millennium Minstrel Show is presented in a humorous way . A lesser artist , I believe , would have made it more clearly offensive . As it stands , it's difficult not to laugh at Mantan and Sleep-N-Eat ( probably the most jaw-droppingly funny and ballsy name I've ever heard ) as they perform . Tommy Davidson and Crispin Glover put enough energy in these stage performances to electrocute you . Their performances are awesome - often the dialogue they do have is cliched , but in many small moments their faces clearly express , and subtly , too , how their lives are crumbling . I would also like to compliment Jada Pinkett Smith , who turns in the film's finest performance . I have a feeling she's just going to get better and better , if someone would give her another decent role . Michael Rapaport , although perhaps a little too cartoony , is still very funny . Damon Wayans has the most difficult part . I'll bet money that he and Lee KNEW that the critics would immediately jump on Wayans ' fake white accent . I can't imagine they thought it was all that funny or believable . However , I'm not sure why they did it . It does detract a little from the film , though not as much as many critics claimed it does . Personally , I would have either had that accent fade as the film went on . It sounds especially bad when it comes back at the end , after all those powerful ( if pointless ) scenes of African Americans in the cinema . Although , as that very phony voice is brought back , we recall the way the film began . . . Other aspects of the filmmaking are excellent as well . I have already praised Lee's direction . It is quickly paced and he really knows how to move his camera . The editing is fantastic . A powerful rhythm is established right away and never abandoned . In fact , the film pulls a daring change from satire to melodrama about halfway through , another aspect of the film that people complained on end about . It is all done with gusto , especially in the editing . The cinematography - wow ! This and Lars von Trier's Dancer in the Dark show how worthwhile digital video is . Lee and his DP use it to an amazing degree ! When characters are moving fast , which happens most often when Mantan is tap-dancing , a blur is left on the screen for a split second . Late in the film , when Mantan is trying to free himself from the show , Lee causes these blurs to remain onscreen for a prolonged period of time . The effect is simply powerful . One major complaint I have is the score . It's often manipulative . I think it would have been better to have had a minimalist score , which would have made the film seem even more immediate . Like I said , there are many major and legitimate complaints against Bamboozled , but critics and audiences forgot what's going for it : it is EXCELLENT CINEMA . .
Underrated Bergman	Bergman made this film in Germany , while in exile from Sweden for tax-related reasons . It's a dark and disturbing psychological portrait of a man , Peter , who murders a prostitute in the opening scene . The film moves back and forth in time , using title cards to establish the setting in time , trying to explain Peter's troubles . It's reminiscent of Scenes from a Marriage , as Peter has problems relating to his wife , Katarina . A few weeks before the murder , he started having fantasies and dreams about murdering her . The prologue , depicting the murder ( or , more precisely , the moments before the murder ) and the epilogue ( Peter in prison ) are filmed in color , but everything else is in black and white . The composition is generally not showy , but there is an amazingly filmed dream sequence , the film's centerpiece . The script is generally brilliant , very observant . The only thing I felt was a little underdeveloped was the homosexual character , Tim , and Peter's supposed latent homosexuality , which the psychoanalyst character describes near the end . I wasn't quite sure what to make of that material . .
Would have been my favorite film if I had seen it when I was a kid	If I had had this video when I was 8 or 9 , I think I would have watched it as much as or more than I watched any other video that I had at the time . It's quite an extraordinary film . I'm 21 now , and I found it very exciting and involving throughout . The only problem is that it always seems like the episodes in the film happen a bit too quick , making it pretty obvious that it was adapted from a much longer novel . Episodes that seem very important only last for three minutes or so . And they never did free the rabbits in the pen at the farmhouse . Still , it's a great movie . While not for the very young children ( there is a bit of violence and gore ) , I think any kid 8 or above would really love this film . Learn that you don't have to just buy videos of recent films for children . Some of the older films are much better . .
You really couldn't hope for a better film version of the novel	And saying that , I also should clarify that I've never seen more than a few minutes of the 1990 remake . I have read the novel , though . It is good , but its none-too-subtle parable make it sort of a weak read to an adult . I was 15 when I read it , and I thought it was obvious then . As far as the prose goes , it could have been written by an intelligent teenager . Peter Brooks , when adapting the novel into this film , decided to go with a cinema-verite style , obviously influenced by early French New Wave films like Breathless and The 400 Blows . What results is amazing : an immediate and believable telling of events . The amateur actors are excellent , and cast to perfection . The cinematography and editing make the film much more frightening than the novel was . All in all , the only real problem is the often inappropriate scoring , especially at the film's end . I give it a .
Great , but takes a stupid turn near the end that harms the overall product	I loved nearly every moment of MASH . It balanced its drama and comedy quite perfectly . The acting was great and the characters were well developed . This is also one of the few episodic movies which works well . Episodic films usually become tedious . Every episode in MASH is entertaining and works towards developing its characters and its mood . My only complaint , which was originally going to be a small one , but as it went on and on and on , it became a big enough problem to knock the film down a notch in my opinion : the football sequence . This sequence goes on for nearly twenty minutes , and occupies most of the last moments of the film . Before this , the film kept getting better and better as it went on . Then , with the football game , it hit an insurmountable wall . The one thing this film did not need was a sports finale . Everything seems to depend on the game , even though absolutely nothing does depend on it . I was interested in the characters , and during the game , I couldn't even tell which one was which . Therefore , I could have cared less about what was happening here . I became terribly bored , almost to the point of fast forwarding through this sequence . To boot , Hot Lips becomes insufferably annoying and uncharacteristically bimbonic as she dresses up as a cheerleader . We were told in a previous scene that Hot Lips rebuked the others for playing football , so it seemed unlikely to me that she would turn into a cheerleader . I was praying that the film would not end at the end of the game , and luckily , it didn't . It does have a rather classy ending , as I would expect from Altman . The credit sequence is very unique , kind of like the end of Welles ' Magnificent Ambersons or Altman's own opening credits for his greatest masterpiece , Nashville . I still give MASH a , but it should have been a , because it was going that way the entire picture .
Better than the more famous " The General "	I thought this film set up a masterful comic situation . The train jokes in this film were much funnier than the ones in The General . Also , there are a lot of great close ups to Keaton's hilarious deadpan expression . He probably has the funniest face of any actor who ever lived .
The most ambitious miniseries in a very long while	I despise David Lynch's Dune . In my not so very humble opinion , it is the worst film I have ever seen . It is utterly nonsensical and impossible to follow , the actors are almost all miscast ( except for Sting , Dean Stockwell , and Patrick Stewart , who all mainly work as novelty ) , and the visuals are hideous . I also tried reading the novel once , but got bored after the first chapter . So when a friend asked me whether I wanted to watch the Sci-Fi Channel miniseries of Dune , I wasn't too enthusiastic about the whole thing . By the end of the first episode of three I was impressed at the technical side of the film . Vittorio Storaro , the same cinematographer who photographed Apocalypse Now and Reds , did an amazing job on this film , even if the visuals do go overboard sometimes . The gimmicks that the filmmakers employed most often worked well , especially the bizarre primary color lighting schemes . By the second episode , I felt I new the plot . By the end of the series , I felt that I knew the characters . While the narrative is still choppy and sometimes hard to follow ( the biggest problem is that there are far too many characters in it ) , it ultimately works well . I felt that I had finally seen what Dune fanatics were raving about . This series is great . See it and forget that David Lynch ever dirtied his hands with his version .
Excellent	I haven't read Stevenson's famous novel , but this film is adapted from a play which is supposedly a lot different anyway . The story is really not especially great . A scientist makes a potion that turns him into a total spazz . The spazz version ruins Dr . Jekyll's romance with Rose Hobart and tortures a loose woman , played by Miriam Hopkins . The film turns out to be completely amazing , however , thanks to the lead performance , by Fredric March , and the elegant direction by Rouben Mamoulian . Every time I see March in a film , I become more impressed by his range . Of course , this is a perfect vehicle to demonstrate one's range , and he excels as both Jekyll and Hyde , though his Hyde is what most will remember . Looking at his filmography , Mamoulian directed relatively few films for a director of his era ( not to mention talent ) . I need to see more , most notably Love Me Tonight , but he will always be a genius in my book for Queen Christina . His direction of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde is beautiful and nearly flawless . A lot of the film is made from the direct point-of-view of Jekyll , and he uses a first-person technique that works brilliantly . Between March and Mamoulian , the general silliness of the story is completely made up for . March's female co-stars , Hopkins and Hobart , are quite good , as well .
Brilliant , for the most part	Tsai's unique style gives rise to another film about isolation in urbanization . Hsiao-kang's father has just died , and he and his mother must hold together . He doesn't have much problem doing that , but his mother is going insane with loneliness , so much so that she entirely imbues herself in her religious beliefs . Around this time , Hsaio-kang sells his personal watch to a girl about to fly to Paris . Soon after this , Hsiao-kang becomes obsessed with her ( or is it the watch ? ) and decides to set all his watches ( he sells them on the street ) to Paris time , and then all the clocks in his house , and then all the clocks he can find . The girl gets stranded in Paris , having lost her plane ticket . The film moves slow and it has little dialogue , as is Tsai's style , but it is incredibly beautiful in its composition , editing , everything . The story is quite great , too . Tsai is a wonderful humanist . The film builds up to a silent crescendo , where the three main characters each endure cold acts of love and failed attempts at communication . When the film closes , all three are asleep , two in Taipei and one in Paris , all three alone . Okay , I should have ended it there , but I do have two problems with the film , go figure . First , Hsiao-kang's clock setting is highly amusing at first , but it does get very old after a while . The sequence that ends in the movie theater bathroom is gold , perfect , so Tsai should have just stopped there with that motif . The scene where he sneaks into a clock store and the scene where he resets the clock tower are superfluous . We got the point , and it should have been moving forward . Secondly , I think it's about time Tsai moved on . I love the three films of his I've seen , including The Hole and Vive L'Amour , but the style is the same in all three , as is the theme . Michelangelo Antonioni , who is obviously Tsai's main inspiration ( though this particular film has a lot of references to the Truffaut film The 400 Blows , including a very funny cameo by Jean-Pierre Leaud ) , had a problem moving on from this material , as well , with everything from L'Avventura to Red Desert being very similar ( although his style evolved more than Tsai's has ) , and even after that his films had comparable themes . As much as I like Tsai ( and Antonioni ) , if his next film is just like this , I'm sure it will hurt my presently high opinion of him . .
Excellent Ford / Will Rogers film !	This film is pure Ford , so , if you're a fan , definitely seek it out . Will Rogers plays the title character , a relaxed judge in a small , Southern town at the end of the 19th Century . He's a kind man with a homespun sense of justice . Others in the legal profession around him disdain him for his casualness , and Judge Priest dislikes their rigid sense of formality . The film opens with the dour Berton Churchill ( best known for playing the wicked banker in Stagecoach ) prosecuting an ignorant black man , Jeff , for stealing chickens . Jeff claims that he was out fishing for catfish at the time he is supposed to have nabbed the poultry . This activity excites Judge Priest so much that he lets Jeff go and they both go off fishing for catfish . Jeff afterwards becomes his servant . The plot of this film , which was the kernel for the plot of Ford's later ( and lesser ) Young Mr . Lincoln , involves a stabbing in self-defense . Judge Priest's young nephew , Jerome , back from law school , takes it up as his first case . The courtroom scenes are good for courtroom scenes , but that was never what interested me . The sense of Southern nostalgia , which I love so much from William Faulkner , is enveloping in this film . Will Rogers ' kind judge is such a good character . He apparently improvised most of his dialogue , which was his style . He speaks slowly , but with conviction . It's a very good performance . People will certainly object to the treatment and characterization of black characters in the film . This is more just a product of the times , and it doesn't worry me much . Besides , I really found Judge Priest's interactions with Jeff and his maid , Dilsey ( played by Gone with the Wind's Hattie McDaniel ) , touching . Aunt Dilsey , as she is called , is also the name of one of Faulkner's more memorable characters , the black maid in The Sound and the Fury . She and Will Rogers actually have quite a fantastic duet at one point . Rogers also sings with McDaniel and a few other black women , as well . .
Surprisingly great given what I had heard	It boggles my mind how down the critics were on this . It's at the same level as the first one , which everyone seemed to love . Yes , there are some things to complain about , mostly that there's just way too much going on . Characters from the first one that , if you last saw it when it was in the theaters ( as I did ) , you won't remember pop up at regular intervals . There are several separate plot lines going on at the same time , and once in a while one character will be away on his or her own adventure for a long time and then come back to the main plot line without explaining where they've been or what they've been doing , and requiring no explanation for what has happened with all the other characters . But , really , so what ? There's more than enough exposition elsewhere , and as long as the audience understands what's going on , it doesn't matter too much . The story may be overcomplicated , but it's generally very good . The bottom line is that the movie is a hell of a lot of fun . Of all the movies this summer , this is the one that doesn't disappoint at all . It's a thousand times better than Superman , that's for sure . Where Superman was slow and dull and ponderous , Pirates ' action never stops ( which I'm sure will annoy some ) and it doesn't aspire to be anything more than a really fun ride . There're a lot of cool monsters , too . If you liked the first one , definitely don't miss this while it's still on the big screen .
My third favorite Gilliam film , after 12 Monkeys and Brazil	If you're a fan of Terry Gilliam's films , I think you'll like Tideland . Gilliam has always been a champion of style over substance , so I wasn't particularly expecting a masterpiece of ideas here . Tideland , on the other hand , is a visionary fantasy / horror film seen from the point of view of a young girl , Jeliza-Rose ( played remarkably by Jodelle Ferland ) . The setup definitely reminds me of one of the better liked films of 2006 , Pan's Labyrinth , but I liked this one infinitely better . It doesn't have Guillermo Del Toro's pretensions . Gilliam sets out to give us something weird and wonderful , and he succeeds with flying colors . After Jeliza-Rose's mother dies , she and her father ( Jeff Bridges ) flee to her grandmother's rural home , a house that is reminiscent of the Bates Motel . Soon after , her father dies ( a fact which Jeliza-Rose , who lives pretty much every moment in her mind , ignores ) , she meets her two quirky neighbors . The movie is fun and genuinely unsettling . I mostly loved it , except for one part : I don't like how Gilliam tries to build suspense over whether the retarded neighbor ( played by Brendan Fletcher ) will take advantage of Jeliza-Rose . It makes plenty of sense that Jeliza-Rose would develop sexual feelings toward him ( she's a pre-teen with natural curiosity toward sex , and he's mentally even with her , or possibly even below her ) , but that threat that Gilliam leaves hanging over the latter third of the film made me a tad queasy . Otherwise , I think I might have been gung-ho for it . As it is , I still loved it .
Depressing , but impressive	A forgotten animated film directed by the man who made Watership Down in 1978 , and also adapted from a novel by the same author who wrote it , Richard Adams . Watership Down is famously not for small kids , although it's smart and good for older children . The Plague Dogs , on the other hand , is so relentlessly bleak that it makes Watership Down look like The Rescuers Down Under . You might call it All Dogs Go to Heaven , but Only After They've Been Through Hell . That's not to disparage it , but just to paint the mood . The story follows two dogs who escape from a government lab where they've been cruelly experimented upon . The film opens with one of the two protagonists , Rowf , struggling to stay afloat in a giant tank of water as two researchers take notes . We watch the poor lab sink to the bottom of the tank , drowned . The scientists pull him out and revive him . The second protagonist , Snitter , has had experimental brain surgery performed on him , and he has trouble distinguishing fantasy from reality . After the two escape , they forage the rather bare countryside for food . Finding little , they end up going after sheep . This puts the local farmers on the defensive , and they begin to hunt the two down like , well , dogs . When the laboratory releases information that the dogs may also be carrying bubonic plague , the military is called in to get rid of them . It's an extremely difficult movie to watch , especially if you love animals . A lot of people will be turned off because there is just no hope to be had . We know there is no real escape for the two . There's also constant talk about death between them , and how it might be better . It's dark as hell , and you should only show it to children if you want to give them nightmares or screw them up . Personally , I was deeply moved by the film and highly recommend it . Too bad Rosen didn't produce anything other animated films besides this and Watership Down . Both are beautifully animated ( well , the animation is a little bit choppy in The Plague Dogs , but the drawings themselves are gorgeous ) , and he tells stories well . Supposedly this movie is a lot more solid than the original novel .
A great film !	Probably the most well liked movie of 2004 that I missed . I'm glad I finally decided to sit down and watch it , because it really is one of the best films of that year . There was a glut of biopics at the time , but I think this one is the best . It's just a truly fascinating movie about an important individual . It argues well for his case in history , and builds a three-dimensional portrait of him . It explores his successes and his failures , his strengths and his shortcomings . I didn't necessarily avoid the film when it came out , but , since I didn't have much affection for Condon's other biopic , Gods and Monsters , I didn't feel it was a must-see . But Condon really excels here as both a writer and a director . And the cast is simply fantastic . Liam Neeson stars . I'm not a big Neeson fan , but he has given a few great performances and this is probably his second best effort after Schindler's List . Laura Linney , the sole Oscar nominee from the film , gives a wonderful , subtle performance as his wife ( I think Catherine Keener in Capote fills the same space among the 2005 Supporting Actress nominees ; these two performances are excellent but easily overlooked ) . Peter Sarsgaard , one of the best actors among the current crop , gives the best supporting performance among the many good ones here . I also loved Carter Burwell's wonderful score . It's a great film .
For what it's worth , it fully lives up to its reputation	If you're curious about Salo , and can stand anything , no matter how depraved , then go for it . I think it wins the award for the most profane and pornographic film ever made , beating the hell out of its closest competitors like The Night Porter or In the Realm of the Senses . However , I think Salo is a better film than those two . Pasolini actually has some sense of artistry , and , if you can stand it , Salo is actually a very well made film . It's agenda is nothing but a front - yes , we already know that fascism is bad . No , this film reveals much more about its own creator than anything else . It's a playground for his fantasies . But I believe he must have known that . The plot proceeds very logically and the suspense and horror grow exponentially . Pasolini knew that he who had free reign would end up going too far . The final act is as brilliant as it is stomach-churning , and it's no coincidence that the President and many of his top-ranking men only watch it indoors with binoculars . I think this wins the contest for the best movie that you can hardly bring yourself to watch . .
An excellent film about rival New York City newspapers in the 1880s	Its main draw is Sam Fuller's direction ? he is , without a doubt , one of the most skillful American directors to have ever lived . You have to see some of the brilliant long takes in Park Row to believe them . The flowing shots make the rather brilliant moves in Alfred Hitchcock's Rope look trite ( which is no dump on Hitch , mind you ; Park Row is just that impressive ) . Unfortunately , Fuller's screenwriting ability is quite a bit below his directorial prowess . You've got to admire any director who was working in Hollywood at the time and was also able to write his own scripts . There is only the smallest handful of writer / directors at the time . But , man , can Sam Fuller be overbearing at times . Fortunately , the sillier pieces of the script , as well as bad bits of dialogue , fuel the madness of it all in Park Row . I found myself utterly entertained by the larger than life situations and the hamfisted attempts at symbolism . I laughed quite hard at a scene where Phineas Mitchell , the film's protagonist , attacks a hired thug from the rival newspaper and pounds him repeatedly against the statue of Ben Franklin . I also loved the overwrought symbolism of the scene where Phineas hangs the final issue of his paper on a hook labeled ' Deaths . ' Or how about the ridiculously over-the-top editorial that Davenport writes near the end ? And you've just got to love the final scene , with the word ' THIRTY ' boldly replacing ' THE END ' . You'll understand what that means if you see the picture . The only piece of the film that should really have been subtracted is the horribly clunky romance ; it seems like an afterthought developed to capture a greater number of female moviegoers and it doesn't work a lick . .
Chaplin's Best Talkie .	Charlie Chaplin is one of the undisputed masters of the cinema . He was one of the funniest actors of the cinema , and he was also one of the greatest directors . Of course , the films that he is most famous for are his silent comedies , especially The Gold Rush , City Lights , and Modern Times . The latter two were the product of Chaplin's stubborn clinging to the format and conventions of the silent cinema , though everyone else had gone to sound . This stubbornness was certainly sound . His contemporaries such as Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd lost popularity when they moved to sound . Chaplin's last two silent films were popular and made a lot of money . Audiences may have craved sound , but they craved Chaplin , too , and did not disdain his silence . He was one of the silent artists who thought that they were just achieving the peak of their medium when sound came in . He proved himself right , since City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) are probably his two best films , and both are two of the best films ever made . Finally , in 1940 , Chaplin directed and starred in his first talkie , The Great Dictator . Three more followed , Monsieur Verdoux , then Limelight , then King of New York , which happens to be the only one of these four I have not seen . The Great Dictator and Monsieur Verdoux were both good films in their own way , but perhaps Chaplin's in depth political commentary in these films detracted from them . The type of comedy that you find in his silent films did not mix well with this social commentary . The simple juxtapositions of the worlds of the poor and the rich in City Lights and Modern Times were far more powerful than what his first two talkies had to offer . Then came Limelight , one of the most bittersweet films ever made . It is not perfect , but it achieves a grand melodramatic beauty that few films have ever even approached . The story is simple : a washed-up , old vaudvillian rescues a young ballet dancer from suicide . He takes care of her until she is healthy again , and even restores her confidence . The story may be simple , but the character dynamics are very complex . As the dancer , Theresa , is recovering , Calvero is not only rebuilding her confidence , but also his own . Theresa , because of his kindness towards her , finally believes she has fallen in love with him , even going so far as proposing marriage to him . Whether she actually loves him or not , and Calvero strongly asserts that she shouldn't and doesn't , these two characters have a constantly evolving relationship that does not end until the credits role . It is utterly fascinating , captivating , and dramatic . There are a couple of problems , and though they're small , they deserve attention . Perhaps the biggest problem is that Claire Bloom is quite guilty of overacting . Her line delivery is bizarre and overdramatic . This isn't a big deal , since you ought to be keenly aware that the film takes place in the world of melodrama , and is thus exaggerated . Another thing that irked me is Buster Keaton's role . It is little more than a cameo . In fact , his character doesn't even have a name in the credits . This is truly disappointing , seeing that he , although Chaplin may have had the most heart , was the all-around funniest silent comedian .
Great flick . Can't wait for the special edition DVD !	Although I've pretty much despised every film David Fincher has made up to this point , I'd always readily admit that he was a pretty good director . If only he had decent material . Zodiac is a super-detailed account of the Zodiac murders that occurred in California in the late ' 60s through the mid ' 70s , one of the most famous unsolved cases in American history . One would expect , given the director's previous Se7en , that the film would be horrifyingly gory and unrelentingly nasty . The big surprise is that it isn't at all . We do witness several of the murders , but Fincher doesn't attempt to gross the audience out as he did in Se7en . This is all done in a matter-of-fact way , in the manner of a procedural . It's amazing the way that Fincher and screenwriter James Vanderbilt , as well as Robert Graysmith , who wrote a book on the subject and is one of the key participants in the story ( played by Jake Gyllenhaal ) , construct the screenplay . They feed us just tons of details , but it doesn't at all feel like a dull list . The story also skips ahead in time constantly . Every few minutes , there's a new subtitle , telling us that this is " 4 months later " or whatever . It's easy to lose the mood with such a fragmented structure , but Zodiac works perfectly . What's really amazing is how the details build . They're absorbed by the audience . There's so much there that , by the end of the film , everyone looks like they could be the Zodiac . It's a great film , one of the best procedural films ever done , and one of the best , so far , of 2007 . btw , rent , don't buy , the first , bare bones edition of the DVD . The studio was desperate to release it , but Fincher has been working on a director's cut and tons of extras . The better DVD should be along sometime early in 2008 .
I may not have been entirely won over , but I certainly was wowed !	May be a ways down from perfection , but with such an ambitious project , that's more than understandable , as well as forgivable . It's a poetic , impressionistic mood piece on the desperation of man to escape death , told over three intermingled , interrelated stories , one of a Spanish conquistador , one of a modern experimental doctor and the final of a man in the distant future , hurdling through space . I don't quite like what Aronofsky's solution is , that death is a new version of life . As an atheist , I have a more existential dilemma when it comes to death , and Aronofsky's new-age-y thoughts on the subject are no more helpful than Christianity's . I may disagree with the film's thesis in part , but what I cannot disagree with is how outstanding a film it is . I would take it over almost any other film released this year , certainly most of the best reviewed ones ? it honestly kicks The Queen's ass . It looks and feels , and even sounds like almost no other film I've seen . The visuals are absolutely astounding ( and done without an ounce of CGI , so they have a uniqueness to them ) . Even the non-sci-fi or historical parts have extremely beautiful visuals . The musical score , by Clint Mansell , is easily the best work of the year . The film really does engulf you in its remarkable aura , like the bubble in which Hugh Jackson travels through space . And the theme of trying to reverse a loved one's mortality is always a powerful one , and something that will stand the test of time . My prediction is , although this seems to be a colossal financial failure on first release , that The Fountain will become a favorite of a lot of people as time moves on .
Much deserving of the first Best Picture Academy Award ( even if Sunrise is a better film )	As the answer to one of the most commonly known trivia questions in history , Wings is a rather overlooked film . It's often thought of as extremely dated , but that seems a silly notion after you've seen it . Wings actually stands as one of the best films made about WWI - the amount of detail that went into the production is astounding . And we see a certain liquid that we wouldn't see again until the 1960s : blood . Not to glorify violence ( which the film can probably be accused of doing without any argument coming from this sector ) , but the level of realism is greatly improved by characters who actually bleed when they get shot . The film is very graphic in the details of the violence of war . Wings may have the highest body count of any film until Die Hard 2 . The dogfights depicted in the film are remarkable and exciting . At first , the human story seems a little trite . Two men , David and Jack , are in love with the same woman ( played by frequent Harold Lloyd co-star Jobyna Ralston ) . She , however , only loves David , unbeknownst to Jack . Meanwhile , Mary Preston ( played by " It " girl Clara Bow ) is deeply in love with Jack . David and Jack struggle with the love triangle while they go to war , but are forced into a loving friendship through constant companionship in the air . Mary eventually goes to France to help the soldiers , working as a driver . You can't know how gorgeous Bow is when she's dressed in her uniform . As the film progresses , these characters become fully fleshed and their story is downright powerful by the time Wings ends . Wellman , always one of America's most underrated directors , constantly shines . There are several scenes that should be remembered as well as any of the silent cinema's other famous moments . Early in the film , David and Jobyna Ralston are on a swing together . The camera actually follows them swinging through an ingenious and absolutely seemless use back projection . When Jack goes on leave in Paris , there is a great shot in a night club where the camera moves forward on tracks and goes between several couples ( and through their tables ) on its way to a very drunk Jack . There are also a ton of much subtler cinematic miracles happening throughout the film . Do catch this one someday . It's well worth your time . .
A fine , forgotten film	Cacoyannis , best know for directing the film Zorba the Greek ( aka Alexis Zorbas ) in 1964 , explored some of its themes in this 1956 film , which stars Ellie Lambeti . She plays a young woman who is constantly harassed by the young bachelors who live on the island of Hydra because she refuses to marry any of them . When a worldly Athenian comes by and rents a room in her home , the rumors begin to fly . In The Girl in Black and A Matter of Dignity ( and even Zorba the Greek ) , Cacoyannis demonstrates a perfect and natural ability to explore moral issues within the culture , as well as create believable and moving tragedy . The earlier films came straight from his imagination ( Zorba was adapted from a novel ) , and they are the works of a great screenwriter , one of the best of the era . Cacoyannis ' direction in these two films is also flawless . He did really well in Zorba , too . One wonders why his abilities aren't more highly considered . I would guess it is because these early films are fairly obscure nowadays . I guess he's an artist who deserves to be rediscovered .
Seems Run-of-the-Mill at first , but soon blossoms into something very beautiful	Three of the greatest talents in filmmaking history , Elia Kazan , Warren Beatty , and especially Natalie Wood , make this film great . I've seen three of Kazan's films , and I would say that this one may not be quite as good as On the Waterfront , but I think it is better than A Streetcar Named Desire . It doesn't get the same respect , but it should . As this movie progresses , I thought I knew where it was going . It was just a regular romance . Oh , was I wrong ! I was expecting something really conservative because of Kazan's relationship with HUAAC . Instead , it is a criticism of the facile beliefs of Christian morality . It becomes extremely emotionally complex . See it if you get the chance .
Surprisingly excellent !	A surprisingly excellent adaptation of my very favorite novel , William Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury . A lot of things are changed - and I mean A LOT - but I would much rather see something new than a slavish adaptation of a great novel . Besides , Faulkner's novel would probably be impossible to adapt as written . The book shifts back and forth in time without warning . It can do that . Literature exists in the mind , while a film exists before the eye . Like Ritt's other Faulkner adaptation , 1958's wonderful The Long Hot Summer , based on The Hamlet , the mood is changed from dusty , Southern tragedy to hot-blooded melodrama . I would have been upset to hear that said about The Sound and the Fury , but it works out nearly perfectly . The narrative is made linear , and many of the distant past events in the novel are either removed or adapted into the latest time period of the book . The girl Quentin Compson ( Joanne Woodward ) is a wild teenager , and her uncle Jason Compson ( Yul Brenner ) , who is taking care of her because her mother , Caddy , ran away after she gave birth , is cruelly taking care of her . Jason is a little different in the film . Instead of being one of the Compson children , he is a stepson . Caroline Compson was the second wife of the other Compson children's father . She and Jason are now Cajun , which is kind of weird , but it works . The male Quentin is more or less cut out , except for a brief mention . In this version , true to its melodrama , Quentin shot himself instead of jumping into a river . His was always my favorite section of the novel , and I'm actually glad they set it aside . It's not very cinematic . Benji is still here , but his section of the novel is completely cut out . First person narratives are difficult to do in films , so I don't blame the screenwriter . Benji quietly watches his family fall apart and he seethes in silence as he watches his niece follow in her mother's tragic footsteps . There's also a new Compson child , Howard . He is probably the biggest mistake that was made in this adaptation . He's kind of a compilation of Uncle Murray and the first Quentin . He has become an alcoholic because of his obsession with his sister's sexuality . The problem is that he is only barely incorporated into the film . I was always wondering who the heck he was until they explained him more completely later on in the movie . I guess he doesn't harm the overall product that much . SPOILERSOne big change in character in the film is the second Quentin . She wasn't very sympathetic in the novel . Sure , we could feel sorry for her , but she's a rebel and she's heading for disaster , or , more correctly , non-existence . She vanishes at the end of the novel and is never heard from again . Here , though , Quentin is a more important character . She's the center of the film , and while she's bad in some ways , she's got potential . Jason is very mean to her , but it's not the jealousy and revenge that it was in the novel . He does care for his adoptive daughter , but he really doesn't know how to behave around women or children . His purpose is to prop up the decaying Compson family . There's also an edge of sexual attraction in the film . Caddy , in the film , comes back home to live . She reveals that when Jason first arrived in the Compson household , he had a crush on her . This crush has also fallen on Quentin . Did this exist in the novel ? I never thought it did , but the film has made me reconsider some things about the book . We know the first Quentin is sexually obsessed with his sister . Benji is also obsessed , although I never thought it was a sexual thing . Is Jason also obsessed in the novel ? I don't know , but I'll be looking for it the next time I pick it up . The ending has some problems . So did The Long Hot Summer . Both endings are happy , or at least partly so . I had said that Quentin originally ran away . In the film , she almost does , but Jason convinces her not to , that she has potential . It works well . However , the night before Quentin runs away in the film , Benji strangles her when he catches her being bad . For this , he is sent to the insane asylum . This doesn't happen in the novel . He does attack a high school girl when she walks past the gate because he thinks she's Caddy . For this he is neutered . And Jason does send him to the asylum , but not in The Sound and the Fury . Its just that the sadness of Benji's commitment still hangs over the film when it ends , but you wouldn't quite know it if you just saw the ending .
An incredibly beautiful mood piece	There's not too much to say about Picnic at Hanging Rock . It's one of the most beautiful films ever made . Technically , it's perfect . The cinematography is godly , and the musical score , much of which is performed by Zamfir , master of the pan flute , is exquisite . It's also wonderfully directed by Peter Weir - he shows a talent far beyond what I saw in The Truman Show , which is unfortunately the only other film by him I have seen . Hopefully , that will be remedied soon . What I didn't get was the actual point to the film . A film doesn't necessarily need a point , but this one seemed to be trying to say something , but it was never clear what . As near as I can tell , the metaphorical and allegorical content had to do with the state of repression these women were suffering . The camera even lands on a photograph ( or portrait ) of Queen Victoria at one point near the end of the film . However , if this is the case , it seems kind of pointless to criticize those values . I don't know when the original novel was written , but the film was made three quarters of a century after the events had taken place . Oh , and , by the way , is this based on a true story , I wonder ? If there was another point or metaphor being developed , the writers failed to express it . But who cares ? Picnic at Hanging Rock is an amazing piece of filmmaking . That's what's important , and that's where it succeeds . .
The Beverly Hillbillies as directed by America's greatest poet	The back side of the same coin whose front is The Grapes of Wrath . It's a Depression piece about a family of Georgia dirt farmers who are about to be driven from their home . Here John Ford stays much in his comedy mode , so most of his detractors will certainly want to stay clear of it . And even I admit that at times it can be obnoxious . Dude Lester , the youngest of the 16 ( or 17 ) children Jeeter and Ada Lester had , and one of only two who still live on the farm , is particularly hard to bear . One wonders whether Jeeter and Ada had the same parents . Dude runs around screeching and imitating his car's horn . He can be funny , but he's certainly the most grating element of the movie . Luckily , he gets his comeuppance , which makes it well worth putting up with him . The other child , a 23 year old girl , Ellie May ( Gene Tierney , in a very early appearance and gorgeous as the earthy farmer's daughter ? Ford really fetishizes her , to tell you the truth ) , is in love with her brother-in-law , Lov ( Ward Bond , whom I didn't even recognize ) . He chose Ellie May's younger sister because he wanted a young wife ? 23 is too old and he feared he'd be the laughing stock of Tobacco Road . Most of the movie focuses on Jeeter ( Charley Grapewin ) , who is trying to remain on his land . It's quite amazing . These characters are so stereotypical , and they can certainly be construed as highly offensive . The Beverly Hillbillies probably contains less offensive material about hicks . With any other artist at the helm , it would be completely reprehensible . Yet , in Ford's hands , Jeeter Lester exhibits as much humanity as Tom Joad . We laugh at his ridiculousness , but we care for him very much . His wife ( played by Marjorie Rambeau ) doesn't get a lot of screen time , but when she does , she reminds me much of Jane Darwell's heartbreaking role as Ma Joad . After Dude tears into his parents about being at death's door , the two have a solemn conversation about their numerous , departed children . ' I thought at least one of them would write , ' Ada sighs . The film also boasts the greatest number of occurrences of Ford's favorite hymn , ' Shall We Gather at the River ' . It even serves as the base of the film's score . If the wackiness doesn't put the detractors off , that song very well might ! I love it myself . As funny as Tobacco Road is , and it is quite funny almost all of the time , it contains dozens of moments of the greatest American poetry . .
Powerful , powerful movie	I almost skipped this one , given my distaste for British period pieces in general and the other Merchant / Ivory film I had seen in particular . I'm damn glad I didn't . This is a very subtle and quietly devastating picture about a butler whose major character flaw is that he's just too good a butler . Anthony Hopkins plays Mr . Stevens , a man who has given his entire being to his master and who allows himself no thoughts or emotions outside of his duties . The story has two major drives . First , his master ( played by James Fox ) is a Nazi sympathizer ( this is in the mid-30s ) and is a major force in the eventual appeasement policies that Britain took up before the war hit home . Second , the lead house keeper ( Emma Thompson ) becomes emotionally attached to Mr . Stevens , but , given his nature , it's absolutely impossible for him to return the affection , as much as he might feel it inside . I liked most everything about it , but I have to say the story itself was my main point of interest . I just thought it was brilliantly written , and I was deeply moved by it . In fact , as time goes on , my appreciation grows .
Gorgeous	A very beautiful film by master Ingmar Bergman . Four women , all sisters-in-law , await their husbands in a house on an island . They converse , and soon begin to tell each other the big stories of their lives . The first tells how she had an affair with her teenage sweetheart and how her husband reacts . The second tells of how she was seduced and became pregnant . And the third tells about how she once got her husband to admit his philandering when they were stuck in an elevator . Meanwhile , in the framing episode , a younger sister of one of the women has fallen in love with the fourth brother . The first and third stories are a little cliched , especially the elevator sequence , but they're still quite great . Being trapped in an elevator is a nice , easy , and overused way for two characters to solve problems , but the dialogue between Gunnar Bjornstrand and Eva Dahlbeck is so excellent that it works out wondefully . The heart of the film is in the second story . It's so simple and well-done , so utterly beautiful in its conception and execution . It is , of course , a flashback , like the other two stories , but the story itself is also told in flashbacks . It works far better than I would have ever guessed . Secrets of Women is an underrated Bergman film , a must-see for any fan . .
A great film	Katharine Hepburn plays an aging woman . She is alone on a vacation in Venice - she was alone before she left , and she has , for the most part , always been alone . To be on vacation alone is a sort of tragedy . Hepburn walks around the beautiful city with her movie camera and captures the spectacle of it all . Unfortunately , she can hardly keep the images of happy couples away from her lens . She even captures a pick up . She meets people around the city , but they are all paired off , leaving her alone with her camera . The enormous romance of Venice does little but remind her of what she probably will never have . But two days in a row she has chance meetings with an attractive Italian man , a shopkeeper named Renato ( Rossano Brazzi ) . He goes for her quickly , and though she's nervous , she falls for him as quickly . But the next day , he completely avoids her . What is this guy up to ? I could never fully trust him . And , for a while , that hurt the film for me . But I soon understood that Summertime was not the fantasy romance that many people seem to think it is . It has another layer . At one point , Renato , who has already lied to Hepburn a couple of times on important matters , tells her that she'll never have another chance at this . And it clicks with her : she won't . At this point , Hepburn just goes along with it and surrenders to her romantic fantasy . Renato is something of a scumbag , only really wanting to sleep with her , but she knows that their relationship is something that will last scant days . The dream of the situation is more powerful than its reality . I love the ending most of all , how Hepburn is still constructing this fantasy . She wills Renato to chase her train , a romantic cliche . As Renato brazenly holds up the flower , the one she was denied in her youth , her melodrama is complete . When she arrives home , she'll be able to tell people about her wonderful trip to Venice . It didn't really happen the way she will tell it , but who's to know ?
Forgive the cliché , but I laughed until I cried	If you're looking for great film-making or thoughtful satire , definitely turn around . On the other hand , if you're looking for a funny comedy , you're in the right place . Will Ferrell plays a character that would stand perfectly well next to all of his SNL characters , which , I know , is kind of a backhanded complement . But he's funny , God bless him , and the writers ( Jeff and Craig Cox , as well as several others ) give us plenty to laugh at besides him . John Heder was starting to suggest that he had nothing in him besides Napoleon Dynamite , but he's pretty funny here . Amy Poehler and Will Arnet are great as the villains , and Nick Swardson , a Minneapolitan whose stand-up act I'm going to see in June , has a great role as Heder's stalker ( stick around for the end credits to see a hilarious bit with him ) . There are so many great comedy moments , but the climactic chase sequence between Ferrell and Arnet , which starts out funny enough on ice skates but gets about ten times funnier when they reach dry land , has to be one of the funniest sequences of all time . This is the rare movie that I was sad to see end , because I just enjoyed it so much .
Excellent ! One of Hitchcock's most underrated .	SPOILERS : Like any good film enthusiast , I consider Hitchcock one of the best directors who ever lived , right along with the likes of Fellini , Bergman , and Welles . Hitch consistently made films that were not only as entertaining as a film can possibly get , but also films that were extraordinarily intellectual and human . Films such as Lifeboat , Rear Window , and Vertigo work as art as much as any other films ever made , studying the human condition and utilizing the tools of cinema to the utmost . Hitch was also the most prolific film artist of all time . He made over 50 films . He made more masterpieces than any other filmmaker , too . Several , such as Vertigo , Psycho , and Rear Window , are bona fide masterpieces . No one in their right mind would disagree with their status as some of the best films ever made . But everyone has that one Hitchcock film that they feel that they understand better than anyone else , and always claim that it deserves to belong in the same status as the more accepted masterpieces . I seem to have discovered several . In fact , every time I see one of his less popular films , I think that it has gotten a bum rap . Rope is my favorite underrated Hitchcock film , but I think that it is starting to be accepted by the masses more . Two other great ones that are less popular are Lifeboat and I Confess ; Lifeboat is well respected by Hitchcock fanatics , but I Confess is usually dismissed . This sort of dismissal happens because of financial failure upon first release . Hitch certainly was an artist , but , if you've read the Truffaut interview book , you realize that he took a film's financial success or failure very personally . Now we come to Stage Fright . I don't think that it was an enormous failure , but it was also not an enormous success . Truffaut says something like : " this film neither added to nor took away from your reputation . " The main complaint is that the opening flashback is a lie , and that audiences could never accept that . I think that that technique works better now than it may have in 1950 . It was sort of daring , but it failed at the time . Although most people still don't want to ever think that the characters in a film are lying , you still see it , especially in neo-noir ( think Chinatown , Body Heat , etc , although those aren't flashbacks , per se ) . Truffaut also derides it for being a whodunit , which Hitch did not like . I don't think that Stage Fright is at all a whodunit . We assume through the entire film that Marlene Dietrich is unquestionably guilty in the crime . There are just a few very minor problems in the film , most of them stemming from the trick ending : trick endings are in style right now , but they hardly ever work . This one does , mostly , but as soon as we realize we've been tricked , just as happens at the end of The Sixth Sense , a very good film otherwise , we begin to go over the earlier events to see if there was any cheating . There is in Stage Fright , and it loses a tiny bit of credibility from this . The other main problem is just how the police deal with the criminals at the end . It's hardly believable , and they kill the main criminal in a very gruesome way that I would think would get them reprimanded by their superiors ( although it was cool ) . Anyway , it's nowhere near as bad as the way the police act at the end of Hitch's next film , Strangers on a Train , where a cop shoots randomly at a crowd ( with the criminal in it ) and accidentally kills an innocent man ! The gold of this film comes in the complex situations and characters . One reason why Hitch's films stand so far beyond the run-of-the-mill thriller is that his characters are so well developed . The actors in Stage Fright are also superb . Jane Wyman , the main character , has an extraordinarily complicated role , where she has to act at several different levels ( she plays an actress who believes that her skills can help her learn more about a murder ) ; she pretends that she's someone else , and as she meets more people , the more difficult it becomes to handle the situation . She also " switches horses in midstream , " where she begins to doubt her relationship with the man whom she is helping and to fall for a detective on the murder case simultaneously . Richard Todd plays a man framed for murder . One excellent twist in the script is that his character is not intelligent . We're so used to characters being as astute as Sherlock Holmes in mystery films , but he's an illogical hothead who takes very stupid risks . Marlene Dietrich has a lot of fun here playing a demon-goddess . She's just hilarious , trying really hard to act depressed over her husband's death ( and she's one of the most terrible singers you'll ever hear ! ) . I love how she controls everyone in the film , even those who are trying to be her enemies . You just can't refuse Marlene ! Possibly the most memorable and amusing performance in the film is that of Alastair Sim , most famous for playing Ebenezer Scrooge a year later . He's hilarious as Wyman's father . Micheal Wilding , playing the detective who is falling for Wyman , is also great , especially when he finds that she is betraying him and may have only been using him . There are a few very memorable cameos , too , including the " bibulous gent , " a turtle-like man who offers Wyman comfort , and the shooting gallery matron ( the whole shooting gallery scene is great ) . Stage Fright has been trampled by the more outstanding Hitchcock pictures . It is a small gem , not boring in any way . It deserves to be rediscovered by more people .
7 . 1 ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?	Okay , in a year where you put American Beauty on a pedestal like it's some kind of divinity you also crucify possibly the funniest film of the 1990s ? It figures . I've hardly ever laughed this hard at a movie . I liked every piece of it , and think it should be up for a lot of Oscars this winter , though it won't , because it's a film that America forgot .
Exceptional ; a must-see for Tracy fans	A remarkable film , a Western based on Shakespeare's King Lear . It's nearly as good as Kurosawa's samurai Lear , Ran . Spencer Tracy plays the Lear character , Matt Devereaux . He made a fortune as a cattle ranger . He has four sons , three by a deceased wife and one , Joe ( Robert Wagner ) , the son of his second wife , an Indian woman ( Katy Jurado ) . Joe meets a lot of prejudice from white people , and his brothers as well . Those three brothers don't much like the way their father treats them . The oldest ( played very well by Richard Widmark ) seems obedient at first , but is quick to reveal his dark , sadistic side . The screenplay has a great flashback structure , and there is really a lot of emotion that is built throughout the story . Spencer Tracy is responsible for most of the film's success ( well , after Shakespeare , I guess ) . Every line and movement carries an enormous amount of weight , and the man's fall brings with it a lot of pathos . When the film opens , he has already died , but his enormous portraits seem to haunt the world . One technical aspect particularly worth noting is the fantastic score , by Leigh Harline . It's perfect when it's there - sometimes sweeping sometimes subtle - but what's even more amazing is how often the score is absent . There are many scenes that you would expect to be drowned out by the score in any other film from the time period , but instead we hear only the diagetic soundtrack . I hope someday I'll be able to see a nice widescreen version of the film . I hate when I put in a film with a big " Produced by Cinemascope " banner , only to find it castrated after the opening credits . The one big disappointment , although I can definitely live with it , is Katy Jurado . She's been praised endlessly for her role in High Noon , and she was even Oscar nominated for this film ( the only actor to receive that honor from this great , great film ) , but you haven't even seen her act until you see Luis Bunuel's El Bruto . She's not even the same actress , she's so fantastic there . Still , I loved the heck out of this film . .
Actually , one of Luis Bunuel's most interesting films	After Un Chien Andalou and L'Age d'Or had caused such earthquakes , Bunuel picked for his next project a documentary on the Hurdanos . These people live in mid-western Spain , near the border of Portugal , under the most horendous conditions possible . They are a primitive , almost neolithic people , who only barely understand the principles of farming and are otherwise so superstitious as to starve themselves rather than eat any animals besides disease-carrying pigs . Now , it is difficult to know how to take this film . Following Un Chien Andalou and L'Age d'Or , I personally expected a comedy , and took it as that when I was watching it . If you read down , you will notice the first person who commented on the film takes it this way . My reasoning went thus : Bunuel saw the Hurdanos in his peculiar surrealist light . Here was a people degraded to the point of utter absurdity . For instance , there is a scene where the farmers are working in a place where adders are plentiful . The adders frequently bite them , but these bites are not fatal . They would eventually heal , but these people don't know that . Instead , they use a kind of ointment to cover the wound , and this treatment actually leads to infection , which eventually mangles or even kills them . In another scene , we are told that the children only know bread from the bits that the local church gives them . They are not allowed to take these bits of bread home because their parents don't trust bread , and will confiscate it and toss it out ( this is what I read in an essay about the film ; the version I watched had an English voiceover , whose explanation for the parents ' actions was to steal the bread for themselves . I believe that the version in the essay is the more correct one ) . The surrealist aspects of the scenes I mentioned are there . But , reading that aforementioned essay ( and a second ) , I realize that I was wrong about the humor . Surrealism , you should note , does not = comedy . This is a more serious surrealism . In fact , Bunuel made the documentary as a political statement , showing how the Spanish government treated its people ( in fact , he was wrong on this point ; Franco idolized the area and had great sympathy for the people , believing them to represent the primitive aspects of Spain ; in later decades , he would pour a lot of money into the region ) . It caused an upset , though not as much as the previous two films . I imagine that people then didn't know how to take it either , since many critics were up in arms over this apparently massive change in Bunuel's style . Nowadays , Las Hurdes seems better than ever before . It is an amazing documentary , and the people represented in it deserve our sympathy . I wonder if their lives have now changed . .
Vintage Altman	Gosford Park is indeed one of Robert Altman's best films . Third best of all that I've seen , following Nashville and 3 Women . Still , I am a tiny bit disappointed with it . I was hoping it would be next to Nashville and 3 Women . I'm not sure if it will even remain in the third spot in my mind for too long . It's not as memorable as many of his other films that may not be quite as good . In fact , at this point I feel more of an affinity for his last film , the unfairly despised Dr . T and the Women . Still , one can't at all watch Gosford Park without being amazed at it . It ranks along with the many great European films in this tradition . It is undoubtedly most influenced by Rules of the Game , directed by Jean Renoir in 1939 . That film generally ranks at # 2 out of every film ever made on the Sight and Sound polls , taken every decade ( they're to be taken this year , 2002 , for the seventh time since the poll's founding ) . I don't agree with its high status ( refer to my own reviews , three of them , one individual and then two parts of a 1000 + word one , on imdb ) . I find it wonderful for the most part , but then it utterly falls apart by the end . Other films in the tradition include Ingmar Bergman's Smiles on a Summer Night , Luis Bunuel's Diary of a Chambermaid ( incidentally a remake from an American film directed by Jean Renoir , which I have not seen ) , and , most recently , Thomas Vinterberg's Celebration , aka Dogme 1 . These films all play with the relations between the master and servant class in varying degrees . Godford Park is perhaps the most complex in that respect : it gives equal time to both sides , allowing for a lot of character identification . It also contains an enormous cast , as you might expect from Altman , and all of the characters are perfectly developed , also as you might expect . The acting is brilliant . Helen Mirren and Maggie Smith were singled out by Oscar voters , both receiving a Best Supporting Actress nomination , but I don't know how they chose between the two dozen actors and actresses in order to arrive at those two . Everyone is equal to them , and I imagine a lot of the actors who didn't make it were suggested by the Academy members . The direction , of course , is beautiful . It's on par with the rest of Altman - I don't think he's ever directed poorly , even in his " bad " films . The score is beautiful . Stephen Altman's production design is miraculous - it was nominated for an Oscar , but defeated by Moulin Rouge ! . Moulin Rouge ! is merely showy . The production design here is subtle as hell . I do find some fault in the script . Most of it is brilliant . It won the Oscar for Best Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen . I would have chosen Memento myself , but Gosford Park is nearly as deserving . The dialogue is always spot on , and the plot is fantastic - that is , until the murder . I'm not going to spoil anything , unless you didn't know that there was a murder ( sorry if you didn't , but it was in all the ads ! ) . It's just that the murder feels forced - a lot like the murder in Rules of the Game . It just never seems necessary , and what results from it is not as interesting as I would have hoped for . There's also a ton of setup for the murder in the plot , with tons of bottles of poison being shown and the victim nearly getting shot and so forth . And not enough results from it . The mystery is also not interesting . It was much more interesting - and in line with the theme - when the two groups were simply interacting . The explanation doesn't say anything that wasn't already implied , and some of the unforeseen relationships between the characters don't add as much weight to the drama as they are meant to . That's all a rather minor criticism , to tell the truth . It still works , it's just not as strong as I think it could have ( or should have ) been . Of course , Gosford Park does qualify as one of the best films of the year and a very worthy addition to Robert Altman's stunning cinema . I've seen around a dozen of his films , and , while I really haven't ranked many a ( only Nashville , very nearly my favorite film , and 3 Women ) , Altman has the rare distinction of producing a body of work that is actually greater than the sum of its parts . I give Gosford Park a .
Godard's most beautiful film ; definitely the best of his later work that I've seen	Most people will not like this film . It's difficult to understand what's going on in the narrative . This isn't uncommon in Godard's work , but it's especially true of his later work . I've seen , besides New Wave , First Name : Carmen , Hail Mary , and his segment from the omnibus opera film Aria . That segment is actually one of his best works as well . Sticking with the two other features , they are both interesting and beautiful but very slow films . New Wave seems a lot like them at first , especially in its confusing narrative ( I had to read a synopsis on it to find out exactly what the plot was ) . It shares their beauty , but its even more pronounced . If I were advising someone on this film , I would tell them to disregard the narrative completely . Just watch it for its pictorial beauty . And its sound . Godard's experiments in sound have always been one of the most prominent traits of his cinema . It goes back at least to Une femme est une femme , way back in ' 62 . This film contains the most interesting experiments in sound . The music is absolutely beautiful , and , like many of his other films , it stops abruptly , pops back up when you're not expecting it , and shifts volumes randomly . The sound effects are also quite beautiful . While New Wave was perhaps dull in its narrative ( it's an examination of capitalism and consumerism ) , who cares ? This is film . Film is a visual medium , and this is a visual masterpiece . Remember : RES , NON VERBA ( " things , not words , " an intertitle that appears frequently in the film ) . Oh , and Alain Delon , star of such great films as Rocco and His Brothers , stars . He's still a major stud ! .
Great	The River is a very wonderful documentary , covering the importance of the Mississippi River to the United States . It's Depression-era propaganda , yes , but it's so beautifully filmed , edited , and written , as well as read . The narration is absolutely poetic . This is a must-see if for all documentary enthusiasts . .
Near masterpiece , at least ; the next time I watch it , it will probably be a masterpiece	Teshigahara's debut , at least as a feature length director of fictional films . Like his most famous work , his sophomore feature A Woman in the Dunes , Pitfall is based on the work of Japanese author Kobo Abe . While Pitfall is far less famous than A Woman in the Dunes , it is at least as good . It's been a while since I've seen Dunes , but at the moment I'd rate Pitfall higher . The story is about a man and his son who arrive in a mining camp to start a new job . The child notices a lanky man in white following them about . The father ( Hisashi Igawa ) notices nothing . Following orders , Igawa goes down to the beach . The man in white follows and attacks with a knife . The child hides , watching his father's murder from afar . The film is a murder mystery . It is also a ghost story , as Igawa rises from the dead and wanders the camp looking for answers to his murder . The child hides and avoids contact with the human beings around him . The film plays out as an existentialist nightmare , people wandering through empty landscapes , surrounded by distant hills of dirt and rocks , abandoned settlements and seemingly unmanned mining equipment . The film-making style is very cold , very distant , very geometrical in its compositions and editing . It's quiet and frightening . It's incredible sad . And it's one of the best films I've seen in a long time .
Best doc of ' 06 , and one of the best films , period	Well , I finally found the very best documentary from 2006 . This exploration of Iraq is reminiscent of the beautiful ethnographic documentaries ( and faux-documentaries ) of pioneer Robert J . Flaherty . The images are awe-inspiring and completely indelible . The film is broken into three parts . In the first segment , we follow the life of an 11 year-old Sunni boy in Baghdad . The second depicts Shia Muslims in Southern Iraq , particularly the followers of Moqtada al-Sadr . And the third follows a Kurdish family in Northern Iraq . Unlike Flaherty's documentaries , Longley's film is entirely real . The man spent two years wandering Iraq by himself with a camera starting in April of 2003 , less than a month after George W . Bush famously declared that major military operations were complete . He's a white man , and it's stunning that he was able to infiltrate these people and film them on such an intimate level . The first and third segments probably held their own danger , but the second segment is especially impressive . How in Hell was Langley able to accompany Shi'ites as they kidnapped alcohol-peddling shopkeepers ? It's mind-boggling . This is a rare documentary that is both informative and incredibly cinematic . As a whole , I think Iraq in Fragments comes pretty close to being a masterpiece . There's a silhouetted sequence of some Kurdish kids burning a tractor tire that is one of the most gorgeous shots I've ever seen . Definitely one of the best films of 2006 .
Great Fields , Great Entertainment	If anything , this film is a must-see for two of W . C . Field's scenes : 1 ) Fields ' first meeting with Baby Le Roy ( who also appears in It's a Gift ) , which is easily one of the best comedy scenes in the movies , and 2 ) Fields ' juggling routine , for which he was very famous when he was a vaudevillian , justly so . There are several other great moments of slightly lesser value . Also , the plot and the supporting characters are consistently entertaining and endearing , so this one's a real winner .
Very good	I taped this based on its title alone . It's the kind of classic Hollywood film I really love because , while it's definitely a quality picture , it's also goofy in a lot amusing ways . The Devil Is a Sissy stars three child stars of the time , Freddie Bartholomew , Jackie Cooper , and Mickey Rooney . Bartholomew is a young British chap who is staying with his humble father ( Ian Hunter ) for six months in the middle of New York City . At his local public school he meets up with Cooper and Rooney , two little toughs . It takes a while , but soon Bartholomew has learned the customs of the people around him , like how to play American football ( the ball has points , unlike British football ) and what people do to squealers . Near the beginning , Rooney's father is executed for murder . I wouldn't call it anti-death penalty by any means , but it's nice to see a movie from this time deal with the way it effects the family of the person who is executed . Over the course of the film , Cooper and Rooney learn what comes from being bad . The title of the film comes from a speech given to them by a judge , who tells them that it is easier to be good than bad . The angels were good , and the devil was the real sissy . The lessons to be learned remind me a lot of Michael Curtiz's Angels with Dirty Faces , but The Devil Is a Sissy is a much better film . The three kids here are professionals . They are the heart of the film , where the titular angels were merely plot devices . That was just a James Cagney vehicle . The script here is much better , as well . In addition to the actors I mentioned , Peggy Conklin gives a great performance as Mickey Rooney's rich aunt . She and the kids ( and also her black maid ) sing a nice little number , " The ' Ah ' Song . " The script kind of tiptoes around why the aunt has money . At first I assumed it was because she was a singer , but it seemed to hint later on that she may have been a kept woman . I'm not sure . Conklin's career seems to have sputtered and died , which is far too bad .
A great film , but it loses a little steam early on	I had been hearing about this film for years now , and I have finally seen it . I must say that I was enormously impressed with the first third , up until the courtroom sequence . After that , it gets a little random . There's nothing necessarily wrong with that - none of those episodes is less than great - but if it were a little more solidly structured , it would probably be more powerful and thus a masterpiece . The theme that the film explores is the difficulties of life for a beautiful woman . Sure , you might think they're luckier , but this movie argues that it can be hellish . Lulu ( Louise Brooks , luminous in one of the best performances of screen history ) cannot help being attractive . Without even trying , she leads men ( and women , too ) along , eventually driving everyone crazy with jealousy and lust . I'm a bit disappointed , having heard it built up so often , but I have to say that it's no less than great . .
A great adaptation	Holes , the novel , was forced on me in an education course . I didn't think I would like a children's novel ; plus , the other couple of books I was forced to read for the class were really bad . But , to my surprise , I absolutely loved Holes . It really is one of the most perfectly written novels I've ever read . I think it has the rare quality that makes it appeal to pre-teens , teenagers , and adults . Everyone who reads it , I think , will walk away a better person . While I can't quite say that for the film , I am happy to say that they got it mostly right . I don't think viewers of the film will walk away as enriched , but they will certainly be entertained , without the side effect of being stupider when they sat down . It is an intelligent story , and it's very well told . I think it moves a tad too quickly . The novel takes more time in developing the characters . And the flashbacks come in and out so quickly that they don't have too much time to register . The interracial romance in the past feels more cliché and trite than it does in the novel . And the ending , which ties together all the loose threads , seems very ridiculous . It's exactly the same in the novel , but there's a sense of the absurd that doesn't quite exist in the film . It works a lot better . I also don't like the multitude of pop songs . I wish Disney didn't feel it such a necessity to sell soundtracks . The cast is across-the-board excellent , from the young kids to the old pros . Jon Voight is especially great . Not quite sure why we need Catwoman and the Fonze , though . .
Fantastic film with Bogart at his very best . Gloria Grahame also gives one of her best performances .	The story concerns a Hollywood screenwriter ( Bogart ) who is suspected of being a murderer . Grahame , a neighbor , steps in to defend him ? she saw the murdered woman leave his apartment alone . Afterwards , they begin a relationship . But Bogart's nature is a violent one , and that violence keeps pushing forward . It makes Grahame rethink her earlier testimony , as well as fear for her own safety . It's quite a unique film for the time , one that actually deals with the possibility of an abusive man . Everything is perfectly done , and the script is wonderful . The film's tagline was ' The Bogart suspense picture with a surprise ending ! ' What is surprising about the ending is just how much weight it carries . .
Crazy send-up of American family life by John Waters	This is almost as good as Desperate Living , my favorite Waters flick . Divine stars as a beaten-down housewife married to a philandering porno theater owner . He leaves her for Mink Stole and hounds her relentlessly . Her daughter's a knocked-up skank and her son huffs like crazy and lusts after women's feet ? which he likes to stomp on . Meanwhile , her well meaning but mildly retarded friend ( Edith Massey ) , her former maid who received a hefty inheritance and is now nouveau-riche , tries to persuade her to take part in upper class activities . Like Desperate Living , the film is absolutely hilarious . It has some of the greatest lines ever . My favorite is " Don't you know it's bad luck to let retards in your home ? " , although " I never wanted to use macramé to kill ! " is pretty great , too ( nothing quite reaching " I don't want no white man touching my tampons ! " or " Your clothes are on backwards , stupid ! " ) . The film is especially famous for using a scratch and sniff gimmick , which it calls Odorama . Few gimmicks have been funnier . Unfortunately , I couldn't play along ( the scratch and sniff cards are fairly rare ) , but you could just imagine . It's probably funnier not to have smelled what's on screen .
Don't listen to the critics on this one	I'm not a big enough fan of Star Trek to deserve the title " trekkie . " I've only seen about six whole episodes of the original series , and only the last three of the original movie series . And I've probably watched about three episodes total from the three most recent series , Deep Space Nine , Voyager , and Enterprise ( I don't think I've seen the latter at all ) . But I am a pretty big fan of The Next Generation and have probably seen about 70 % of the episodes , and all the movies . I've never seen a bad episode of ST : TNG . Yes , some silly ones , and perhaps a mediocre one or two , but no bad ones . It was an extremely intelligent show , and easily one of my favorites . It's one of the few television shows where I can watch individual episodes multiple times . As for the Next Generation movies , well , Generations and Insurrection did not at all live up to the television series . Insurrection was particularly bad . But First Contact I consider a great film . Of the four of them , it is the best . But not by much . Yes , I really liked Nemesis . I think it is an extremely strong Star Trek film , and a great film . The whole NG crew is here , and they're getting older , but not lesser . Most of them don't do much new here ; Picard and Data have the most screen time . But that is not a bad thing . A two hour movie only equals a little less than three episodes , and individual episodes generally focus on a couple of characters at a time . The only thing else that happens with the crew is that Deanna Troi and Will Fraker get married in an opening scene . The Enterprise's mission arises on their way to Troi's Betazoid home world for a second wedding . As usual with the Star Trek series , a villain takes up a lot of the rest of the screen time . And one of the reasons that I found this film so successful is the successful villain and his great-to-look-at alien entourage . The race the crew is up against this time is the Remans , the Romulans ' alter-egos who have been long oppressed by the Romulan Empire . There has been sedition and , for the first time , Remans have control of the government . SPOILERSWell , not exactly . When the Enterprise is asked by the new Praetor of the Romulan Empire , Shinzon , to visit Romulus and talk about peace , a long-desired goal of the Federation . When the Enterprise arrives at Romulus , they are met by a dangerous-looking ship called the Scimitar , which has Praetor Shinzon aboard . When members of the crew beam onto the Scimitar to meet the Praetor , they discover something shocking : he is a clone of Jean-Luc Picard , now in his twenties . Picard later meets with him alone and learns the story : many years ago the Romulans attained some of Jean-Luc Picard's DNA and cloned him , planning one day to replace the real Picard with the double . Long before this plan could be accomplished , the Romulan government was overthrown and the plot was abandoned . They instead sent the cloned Picard to labor in the dilithium mines of Remus . Some critics have been complaining that Nemesis represents the dumbing down of a series appreciated for its intelligence , but they're wrong . There is a lot of great dialogue about how we become who we are . Picard and Shinzon have the same DNA , but the vast differences in their life have made them completely different people . Still , is there something innate in us that determines who we are ? Picard counts on that , as he tries desperately to sway the violent course of life that his clone is on . Shinzon likewise spends a lot of time trying to hold up a mirror to Picard . The conflict here is doubled with Commander Data . Near the beginning of the film the crew finds pieces of an earlier version of the android , named B4 . Data has come a long way in his understanding of humanity , and it is interesting to see him confront a completely ignorant version of himself . No , the themes presented aren't pushed out to the fullest . That would have required an extra hour , and I don't even think fans would sit through three hours of a Star Trek film . The presence of these themes alone contradict the reaction of the critics , and puts Star Trek : Nemesis on a much higher level than the rather brainless , if fun , Attack of the Clones and Fellowship of the Ring ( I seriously doubt that the Two Towers will be better than Nemesis , although there's no doubt it will stomp it to dust at the B . O . next week ) . And there is a lot of action in the film . Good action , too . I was gripping my armrests at times . The other three films , however , have been just as action-oriented as this one . I should also point out briefly that the technical side is flawless . The sets and cinematography are especially worth noting . So why are critics so down on Nemesis ? I can't even think of a reason why they're so nasty . Of course there are bits of silliness . A chubby Chicago critic complains that every time a photon torpedo hits the ship , everyone shakes around and sparks shoot out of the walls and ceiling . " This civilization should be beyond electricity , " he croaks like a know-it-all toad . I don't find it implausible at all that they would use electricity , and , even if they don't , they have to use some sort of energy which would , yes , produce sparks when they're massively damaged . A better question might be this : why , if every time the ship is hit it throws everyone out of their seats , don't they have seatbelts yet ? Hell , at one point a whole chunk of the ship is blown apart , and , before the shields can be reconstituted in that area , a member of the crew ( I actually believe it's Usual Suspects director , Bryan Singer ) gets sucked out into space ! .
A helluva lot of fun	They were aiming for pure cornball with the 1960s Batman television series , and they hit a bullseye . This movie , which followed the first season , was given a lot of money to work with ? all of which was promptly ? and happily ? blown on some new bat-themed vehicles , the bat-copter , bat-boat , and bat-cycle , whose sidecar conveniently can change into a go-cart just so Robin doesn't have to walk around to the other side of the bat-copter . A lot of people aren't fans of the movie , but , to me , it really is the pinnacle of the series . That extra budget shows up in the most obvious of ways , which makes it funny as hell . The rest of the movie is like an uber-episode with the four major villains , the Joker , the Riddler , the Penguin , and Catwoman , plus a load of pirate goons , every one of which , of course , has a mother . The highlights are too many to list , but I will happily list a few . Lee Meriwether plays Catwoman for the first and only time , and I think she easily outstrips Julie Newmar in the role ( I've never actually seen an Eartha Kitt episode ) . She's the sexiest Catwoman ever , beating out such hotties as Michelle Pfeiffer and Halle Berry . I also love her Ninotchka-inspired alter ego , Ms . Kitka , who hilariously refers to Batman and Robin as " masked Cossacks . " Everyone remembers the infamous " bat shark repellent " , but perhaps not the other sprays on that rack , which repel barracuda , mantis rays , and even whales . The Dynamic Duo are well prepared for any mantis ray attacks . And , of course , the film's greatest scene has Batman disposing of a Looney Tunes-style bomb with a never-ending fuse . You've got to love the detail of the two fat women who pay Batman no mind when he tries to evacuate the tavern . And the baby ducks are a stroke of genius . I do tend to think that they didn't really need that final line , " Some days you just can't get rid of a bomb . " Funny , yes , but I think the sequence itself is by itself funnier than that line . My favorite part of that whole bit is the fact that Robin thinks Batman should just have let everyone in the bar die a fiery death . The reason I watched this , of course , was because of the death of Frank Gorshin , the Riddler . What can I say ? I don't think it's insulting at all that he will always be remembered as the Riddler , even though his talent ran far beyond the role . If you want to see him give a really fine performance , check out Guy Maddin's Twilight of the Ice Nymphs . But Gorshin was a comedian first and foremost , and he is a delight in his most famous role . He brings it a strange , almost sexual subtext . He's very often thrusting his pelvis around . And there's a violence underneath the goofiness , much more so than his rogue-ish male co-stars , Burgess Meredith and Cesar Romero . Most of all , I just think Gorshin , as well as everyone else associated with the movie and the show must have had a load of fun working on them . It has a happy legacy that will last for a very long time .
Maddin should have dropped the narration for general release , but the film is still gangbusters	First of all , I have to say : finally ! I was almost positive that I was going to have to wait for DVD for this one , and God knows how long that was going to take . Secondly , I have to speak my only criticism of the film up front : the live show experiment might have been something truly awesome . I'll never know . But I do know that the disembodied voice of Isabella Rossellini , which you'll find in the general release , and presumably on the DVD , is extremely distracting . It works once in a while , but I would much prefer Maddin to have had a slightly separate version that was only silent . Unfortunately , several sequences wouldn't be comprehensible without the spoken narration , so I doubt we'll find it gone on the DVD ( though I do hope that they might include some of the other narrators they used in the live show ) . Thankfully , as the film progresses , she pops up less and less . If not for this , I would have had no problem calling this a masterpiece . What to say about Brand Upon the Brain ! ? It's a Maddin film , and if you've seen his other films , you know pretty much what to expect . Not that his style hasn't varied between films ( although all of his films since his first huge success , Heart of the World , have existed in a similar silent film milieu ) , but he is just so far beyond what anyone else has ever done , his style can be called entirely unique . As are all of the director's films , Brand is a hilarious nightmare . Maddin creates situations that can only ever exist in the subconscious . The plot of this one includes a lighthouse orphanage , a mad scientist and his sexually repressed wife , teenage detectives à la Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys , lesbian erotica , incest and the haunting presence of dead memories . Maddin is sometimes criticized as being little more than a snarky jokester , but the more I watch his films , the more I disagree with that assessment . His films are , of course , comedies . All of his films are meant to be funny . But I can also feel the pain , the yearning and emotional honesty behind his work . If the movies illustrate tapestries of the dreamworld , as I am certain they do , then the moods behind them , though melodramatized to high heaven , contain glimpses of the deeper truth . I think David Lynch is a rather similar director . Only where Lynch seems to look at the nightmares from the inside , Maddin's point of view is from that of a man who has just awoken . Nightmares sure are scary when we're in them , but they sure can seem ridiculous when recalled .
Truly , utterly brilliant	I had grave doubts going into this one . Its fans seemed to me to be the same people who like a lot of the movies I really hated over the past five years or so , movies like The Matrix , Run Lola Run , Fight Club , and many others . I avoided it for a long time , though I always thought I had to see it no matter what . And when the chance to see it for free came along , I jumped at it . Fortunately , Memento lives up to the hype . It's one of the few movies that can . Seriously , I wouldn't doubt that this movie will one day be counted as one of the best ever made . Perhaps not the ninth best ever , its current position on the imdb top 250 , but it will certainly have its place in the history books . The main reason for this is its unique narrative structure . Add this one to the ranks of Citizen Kane for its high level of narrative innovation . What it does is it tells its story backwards . It will give us one large chunk of narrative information , stop , and then rewind to the last place Leonard ( Guy Pearce ) began his small chunk of memory . You see , Leonard has this condition where he has little short-term memory . After a few minutes , he forgets everything that has happened to him since a serious injury . He reminds himself of his purpose every time he wakes up in a new chunk of memory through hosts of photos and notes that he has written to himself . His purpose : to avenge his dead wife . She was raped , and her rapist knocked poor Lenny on his head . This condition , which is the foundation of the narrative structure , is clearly false . You just have to suspend your disbelief as you watch , and , I promise you , you'll see something very unique . The best thing about this film is that it gives you some real mental exercise . It asks you to remember a large amount of information . Add to that the fact that not everything is trustworthy , and that truth and memory and facts and everything that we take for granted are constantly being questioned and warped , and you've got yourself an enjoyable uphill battle . The rest of the film is equally commendable , which ought to be remembered as long as you can retain it . The acting is quite good , especially Joe Pantoliano , so good in Bound , and Carrie-Anne Moss , with whom I was quite unimpressed in The Matrix . Here , she shows that she can play a complex character and that her main assets aren't her T & A . Guy Pearce is also quite good , though he was perhaps better in L . A . Confidential . I think someone else might have brought a bit more depth to the part , but perhaps not . One of the most difficult things about his role is the fact that he really has no complexities - he's a blank slate . One could honestly call him simply a tool of the plot . However , someone who would say that would be missing the fact that he is often being used as a tool by other characters . Christopher Nolan is not just a master scenarist , he's also an excellent director . Also great is the cinematography , sharp color with some spatterings of black and white . Perhaps there are some plot holes , but I didn't notice them . This is truly a masterpiece , a film to remember . .
Gripping Whodunit	This isn't a typical Tod Browning film . It's more or less a very basic filming of a stage play ( I gather ; I don't know that for sure , but it feels very stagey ) about a group of rich people who hire a medium to find out who killed their friend ( and , to some of the group , an enemy ) . When they go into their seance , right as the name of the killer is about to be spoken , one of the men in the circle , the one who was succeeding at questioning the medium , is stabbed in the back . They then call a detective ( Bela Lugosi ) who grills them , trying to discover who murdered both of these men . I don't generally like whodunits , especially the Clue variety , where a detective gathers all the suspects in a room and attempts to root out the real killer , but The Thirteenth Chair is exceptionally written . The characters , and there are many , are quite well developed . The climactic scene , while asking that we suspend our disbelief , is truly suspenseful . See this gem if you ever get the chance . .
Well deserved Oscar for Ingrid Bergman	Excellent film about a group of Imperial Russian expatriates who try to pass off a nobody as the Grand Duchess Anastasia , who was supposedly executed along with the rest of her family a decade ago . No one knows , not even the woman herself , whether she is or is not Anastasia . Ingrid Bergman plays this woman in her glorious return to Hollywood after several years of exile on account of the affair she had with Italian director Roberto Rossellini . History , or at least some of us film buffs , see her exile as something other than shameful , but you can't really judge Anastasia without seeing it as a homecoming . The story echoes Bergman's life , as I'm sure it was meant to . Can this Anastasia convince those who once knew her that she really is the long lost Grand Duchess ? Can Ingrid Bergman convince the American public that she is worthy to be taken back into their confidence ? To answer the first , you'll have to see the film . The answer to the second question is a definite yes , as the film was quite successful and earned Bergman her second Academy Award , which she much deserved ( her first was for 1944's Gaslight ) . She was not present at the ceremony in 1957 to accept that award , but I'm unsure of whether she was still in exile at that point . The film was made outside of the U . S . After Bergman , there is still a whole lot to love . As for the other actors , Yul Brynner , playing the man who enlists Bergman in his plot to win Anastasia's inheritance , gives a fine performance , easily the best of the three films he made in 1956 , even though he won an Oscar for his ridiculously over-the-top performance in The King and I . Akim Tamiroff , always reliable , gives one of his very best performances as Brynner's assistant . Helen Hayes is great as the dowager empress whose opinion is absolutely necessary to accept Bergman as the real Anastasia , and Martita Hunt gives a delightful comic performance as her attendant ( she was the best thing in the film , in my opinion ) . The musical score , by Alfred Newman , won the only other Oscar nomination for the film , and it is excellent . The dialogue is wonderful . There are only a couple of things I didn't like , and they are relatively minor . Nearer the beginning , for instance , the screenwriter ( or the original playwright ) has a problem keeping the ambiguity of whether Bergman is actually Anastasia or not . The hints the woman gives off are instantly convincing that she is the lost woman . Fortunately , this improves over the course of the film and the ambiguity becomes somewhat more pronounced . I'm not sure whether I liked the ending , either , although it has a great last line ( which I expect was even greater when it was a play ) .
The earliest Suzuki Seijun film available in Region 1 ; it's newly released on DV	For those who doubt the talent of Suzuki , for those who think that he was just some kind of a nut who really just didn't understand how to make a coherent film , I present to you his seventh film , Underworld Beauty , newly released on DVD by Home Vision Cinema . This is the earliest available Suzuki film , and the earliest I have seen . It is , by Suzuki's standards , very straightforward . The script , which is extremely good ( unlike some of his more famous films , e . g . , Tokyo Drifter ) , could just as easily been produced in America , or even by someone like Melleville in France . The director is already a master of style , and his brilliance is perhaps more recognizable even by those who don't like his later masterpieces . The story is too complicated to get into here . A gang is after some diamonds one of their defecting members swallowed just before he committed suicide . His close friend , Miyamoto , takes it upon himself to protect his younger sister , Akiko , who is now in danger , not only from the yakuza who want the diamonds but also from starting down the path of crime which led to her brother's death . Akiko doesn't even have the diamonds ; she never even knew about them . Instead , her boyfriend , a sculptor and a student of human anatomy , cut open her brother's stomach and took the diamonds for himself . IMDb doesn't have the actors credited to their roles , but the lead actress ( I think her name is Mari Shiraki ) is exceptional . The actor who plays her greedy boyfriend is also very good . My sole complaint about the film is with the lead actor , Michitaro Mizushima , and his character . He's just not that interesting , and the performance is rather dull . Other than that , it's a remarkable crime picture . The black and white cinematography , at which the Japanese were particularly excelling during this point in history , is gorgeous . I can't wait to get to the next two films that Home Vision has released , and I'm desperately hoping they'll release more in the future . You know how you can help ? Buy them now , silly ! ! !
A brilliant thriller	A brilliant thriller . It's not as beautiful as some of the other Val Lewton movies ( I really think the director must make a difference ) , but the script makes up for any lack in such a quality . Apparently the story was stolen ; a subsequent lawsuit is the reason that this one is so rare . The film concerns a ship's third officer going on his first voyage as an officer . The captain ( Richard Dix ) takes him under his wing and tries to teach him his philosophy about authority . At first , the third officer is receptive , but it soon becomes apparent that Captain Stone believes that he has the power over his sailors ' lives or deaths . To prove this , he purposely leaves a heavy metal hook loose at night . The sailors are forced to risk their lives to tether it down . Later , when one expresses a very formal complaint about the Captain's ignoring procedures , the Captain locks him in the small room where the men are reeling in the anchor's chain . The third reports the Captain's apparent insanity when they get to port , and , to his surprise , the rest of the ship's crew , even those who were his friends , turn against him . Of course , the third is forced to quit to avoid embarrassment . Unfortunately , through an almost hilarious ( although entirely believable ) set of circumstances , he ends up back on the ship . Captain Stone seems a little too eager to have him aboard , and he has to fight for his survival . Richard Dix is just wonderful as the demented Captain Stone . The touch with the mute sailor - who narrates through this really creepy internal voice - is clever . I'm almost shocked at how well that worked ! The final confrontation is exciting , as the Calypso singer Sir Lancelot ( who also appeared in 1943's I Walked with a Zombie , easily my favorite of the five Val Lewton films I've so far seen ) sings a pacific tune . .
John Ford is by far my favorite director	No director impresses me more consistently than John Ford . Add The Lost Patrol to the list of his second tier triumphs - it's a cliche , but if anyone else had made this film , it would probably be their masterpiece . A British officer , riding through the Arabian desert in 1917 , refuses to share his orders with his subordinates . When he is sniped by an unseen assailant , his six companions have to fend for themselves . They luckily run into an abandoned mosque , where they hold up . Their pursuers , on the other hand , now have them cornered , and start picking them off one by one . Victor McLaglen , a year before he performed his Oscar winning role in Ford's even better The Informer , was not yet pigeonholed as the Irish drunk . He has a straight British accent in this movie , which somehow makes him a bit less great , in my opinion . I just guess I have a soft spot for him as a lout ! He's still excellent , however , as the troop's new captain . The other actors are also good . Especially worth mentioning is Boris Karloff as an overly religious man driven insane by the situation . That's a cliche now , but I'm guessing it wasn't in 1934 . I don't think I've ever seen Karloff not buried under make-up . He's still playing a horror role , I suppose . At one point he slowly tries to escape the mosque , using a cross as a walking stick . God , what a beautiful scene . Ford's direction is brilliant . Although this is a slightly darker movie than many of his others , there are still several touching Fordian moments in which the soldiers discuss their families . McLaglen has a particularly wonderful moment as he converses about his son , whose mother died in childbirth . At first he hated the child , but he really couldn't help but love him . The smile on his face when he describes his son's life is enormously affecting . Max Steiner's score , although a bit overused at time , is mostly exceptional . At one point , the troop's situation seems about to be relieved . The music becomes triumphant . But a well-aimed bullet stops the score dead in its tracks . This is a great film . .
Almost perfect ;	One of Fields ' best ( is there anything that's not ? ) , Never Give a Sucker an Even Break is basically his swan song . Never again would he star in a motion picture . And it is a glorious swan song , nearly as funny as his greatest film , The Bank Dick . It may even be his second best film , although several fight for that position : The Old-Fashioned Way , It's a Gift , You're Telling Me , The Man on the Flying Trapeze , etc . In a somewhat mournful way , the plot revolves around Fields , playing himself , trying to sell a script to a producer played by Franklin Pangborn ( a bit confusing , seeing he retains his real name ; Franklin Pangborn was an actor , though , not a producer ) . The film Fields wants to make is a lot like many other classic comedies : a bunch of gags strung together in a haphazard fashion . Part of the joke is that the plot doesn't exist as such . Tastes were changing at the time , and Pangborn is flabberghasted at the nonsensical plot . The funniest moments of Never Give a Sucker an Even Break take place as Fields ' own screenplay plays out . Like a lot of classic comedies , this one is also part musical , but unlike those same comedies , the music in this film isn't painful to sit through ( I'm lookin ' at you , Marx Brothers ! ) . It's actually quite marvelous . The songs are sung by Gloria Jean , a teenager playing Fields ' niece . She is beautiful and a wonderful singer . She's also quite funny when the film gives her that chance ( her audition for Pangborn is gold ) . Also joining the cast is the Marx Brothers ' favorite foil , Margaret Dumont , playing a woman who hates men so much she brought her daughter up on top of a steep precipice to raise her without the impediment of that gender .
Underrated	John Ford's swan song is very underrated . Anne Bancroft plays a chain-smoking doctor who has fled the United States ( for reasons unknown , unless they were explained during the minute or so I was away to answer the phone ) to work at a mission in China . Margaret Leighton plays the head of this mission , a devout Christian who controls her underlings with strict rules . Various troubles ensue , the most prominent being the threat of a cholera epidemic , a raid by Mongolian bandits , and a pregnant woman who is nearing menopause , which makes the birth a very difficult situation . It is the second problem which I mention that takes up most of the plot . The mission has heard stories of these Mongolians in the nearby areas . Leighton is sure that they will never dare attack her mission , by the grace of God and America . But they do , and they keep all the white women hostage after killing off every Chinese person in sight . They believe that they can win a ransom for them . The tough Bancroft bravely opposes them , but she can make no headway by those means . Instead , the leader of the bandits demands sex . In this way , she is able to influence the way the women are treated ( especially concerning the birth ) . The main conflict of the film is between Leighton and Bancroft . It's very 60s , with the progressive , liberated woman fighting against the strict , sexless one . The role of religion is very interesting in the film . It's shocking that Ford , a devout Catholic , would make the headmistress so foolish . It's a very intelligent criticism of the holier-than-thou attitude of some . When death looks imminent , Leighton seems almost excited to become a martyr ; and she's willing and ready to take everyone else with her . When Bancroft sees her chance to save the others , Leighton viciously attacks her for being the " whore of Babylon . " The final scene is quite excellent . What a great way for the greatest director of all time end his career .
Almost as good as Tati's best films ; very underrated !	Tati's final theatrical film , which is often considered his greatest failure , is in actuality nearly as good as his masterpieces . In this film , Tati stars for the fourth and final time as M . Hulot . This time he has a job as an automobile designer , and it is his job to get his company's new Camping Car to Amsterdam for a big auto show . Accompanying him is a driver , François , and a public relations worker , Maria ( played marvelously by Maria Kimberly , who reminds us of the great lead actress roles played by Nathalie Pascaud and Barbara Denneck in M . Hulot's Holiday and Playtime respectively ) . Maria drives around in a little yellow convertible with her little fur-ball dog . Its fast and maneuverable . It can go pretty much anywhere it wants . Unfortunately , François and M . Hulot are driving a large truck . They often get into trouble when they're trying to follow Maria's car . Every problem that can happen does . Many observations are made about how people act when they're in their cars on the highway ( it's a non-stop traffic jam from Paris to Amsterdam ) . The jokes in Traffic are always hilarious . The first fifteen or twenty minutes are somewhat dry of them , which is mainly why I don't rank this one up there with M . Hulot's Holiday , Mon Oncle , and Playtime ( it's about even with Jour de fête ) . But when it gets going , it never stops . And it's beautiful , too , just as all of his other films . The final sequence is sublime , and the final shot will stay with me forever . .
Gorgeous piece of work	I thought Doctor Zhivago had totally ruined me for epics . I had taped Giant months ago , and had avoided it until this morning when , circa 5AM , I decided to watch it as an attack against my insomnia . It had quite the opposite effect . Giant is a marvelous film . I'll be the first to say that it has a lot of rough edges , but more often than not it works extraordinarily well . The rough edges actually give it character . James Dean is excellent , but you'd never know from word of mouth that he is a supporting player , albeit the most important secondary character in the film . Rock Hudson and Liz Taylor play the leads , the Benedicts , a rancher and his wife who marry and grow old together , in the meantime going through many trials and tribulations in their marriage . This may be Rock Hudson's best performance , although I cannot claim that I've seen him in too many other films . Taylor was better at least once , in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , but we all know that she had many great performances , and Giant's is certainly one of the best . James Dean was actually better in Rebel Without a Cause ( I haven't yet seen East of Eden ) . To be sure , he's quite good in Giant , but his accent and mannerisms seem clearly contrived , not to mention that it is difficult to understand him through his mumblings and accent . His final scene in this film , which ended up being his final scene in filmdom , for he died when Giant was being edited , is truly embarrassing . He stumbles around drunkenly , but his drunk acting is awful , as drunk acting often was in classical Hollywood , truth be told . A lot of the scenes when Dean is older don't work too well . He's much better when he is young ( Liz Taylor doesn't really pull off the old makeup thing , either ; Hudson was the most convincing of the three ) . His character has possibly the most movie-ish name ever : Jet Rink . If I met someone named Jet Rink , I'd beat the heck out of him on principle ! This is one Hollywood epic that I wish was even longer . Several sequences pass by too quickly , and long periods of time are skipped in the Benedicts ' history . These are really endearing movie characters , and , as much as Giant allowed me to know them , I wish I could have known them more . .
Fosse's first film ( and big bomb ) is remarkable	There's just something about this movie that I love . I had seen bits and pieces of it some half a dozen times in the past couple of years . Tonight I finally sat and watched all of it . In theory it sounds like blasphemy : a musical remake of Fellini's Nights of Cabiria . But somehow first time director Bob Fosse pulls it off , and enormously well . Fosse is daring and innovative in his direction . Not just in the musical numbers , where you would expect it , but in every scene . He plays , and he's obviously having a ball . After the direction , a high percentage of the film's success is due to Shirley MacLaine , who was never better as Charity Hope Valentine . As much as I love and care for Giullieta Masina's Cabiria , I love and care for MacLaine's Charity . She's such an enormously lovable character , and MacLaine is simply brilliant . Her comic timing is impeccable . Sweet Charity also proves an interesting time capsule of late 60s New York City . In the scene cognate to the Picadilly Club in Nights of Cabiria , we visit a trendy night club where the girls where blue feathers as hats . Clips of Cleopatra ( the one with Claudette Colbert ) and an unidentifiable W . C . Fields movie play on a big screen in the background . We visit a religious ceremony for hippies who sing The Rhythm of Life . Sammy Davis Jr . is the priest ! In Cabiria , a parade of young people cheer her at the end of the film . In Sweet Charity , a group of hippies , amongst them a young Bud Cort , hand out flowers in the morning , just saying good morning to everyone they meet . This movie was a huge bomb when first released . Fosse is actually really lucky they gave him another chance at direction , and then he made a film instantly recognizable as a masterpiece , Cabaret . Sweet Charity did not deserve to fail so miserably . Just the fickle fingers of fate , I guess .
Easily one of Hitchcock's greatest films	Ah , yet another Hitchcock movie that is less than famous but then turns out to be one of the best films ever made . Every Hitchcock film that I see just makes me want to the rest of his films . Sabotage has a lot going for it . It is based on a novella by Joseph Conrad , the master writer who wrote Heart of Darkness ( truth be told , that's the only novel of his that I've read the whole of , but I've been told that he has plenty of great novels besides that ; I guess after Sabotage , I'm now obliged to read up ) . The story is excellent . Mix that with great characters played by great actors , and you've got yourself yet another Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece . Maybe this film is not popular because it is atypical for Hitchcock . It contains tons of suspense , maybe more than any of his films besides Rear Window , especially in a sequence where he demonstrates his famous theory that a bomb that does not go off creates the suspense . No , this film is atypical because it lacks Hitchcock's masterful humor . This is usually taken as one of his trademarks , but I've seen several of his films that lack humor ( or at least reduce it ) , and I find them just as good ( I Confess , Rope , and The Birds ) . Instead , Sabotage may be the most emotionally affecting Hitchcock film , competing with the likes of Vertigo and Rebecca . It gives you characters to care about , especially Mrs . Verloc , played masterfully by Sylvia Sydney as a happy wife who discovers the hard way that her husband is a terrorist ( don't worry , no spoilers here ; we find this out in the first scene ) . John Loder plays Ted , a detective who falls in love with Mrs . Verloc , although she is clearly not willing , while undercover at a grocer next door . The best performance is Oskar Homolka's , who plays Mr . Verloc . Only Norman Bates is a more sympathetic villain than Mr . Verloc . We never do see why exactly he wants to sabotage things ( and in this way , this movie is quite xenophobic ) , but we see that he does not wish to harm anyone , and that when he does he only does it through compulsion . He also cares greatly for his wife and her brother . Even at the end of the film , we understand why Mrs . Verloc wants nothing to do with Ted's advances . The film ends with an easy escape , but guilt remains heavy .
Almost certainly the funniest comedy I've ever seen .	Yes , counting all the comedies I've ever seen , silent or talkie , this is probably the funniest . I was lucky ( boy , was I lucky ! ) to see this in a theater with a live piano player . Ever scene is brimming with comic genius , cinematic inventiveness , and just plain perfection . I laughed almost nonstop from beginning to ending . Jokes that seem liked they lasted 10 minutes were funny for their entirety . After the performance was done , I think the audience clapped for 10 minutes , and they ( the pianist and Buster Keaton ) deserved at least that much , if not an hour more .
Like Being Punched Really Hard in the Gut	I took a class in French Poetic Realism and Italian Neorealism this past Fall in which I saw many of the best films I will ever see . The third film we watched in the class was Jean Vigo's L'Atalante , which is just about the most gorgeous experience in film viewing I have ever experienced . I left the building in a cloud of euphoria , and I have never stopped thinking about it . One week later , we watched Le Quai des Brumes ( Port of Shadows ) . It affected me greatly in the opposite direction of L'Atalante . It made me lonely and grief-stricken . That is in no way a criticism ; for the most part , any film that transforms my emotions , whether for the better or the worse , is a great film . Le Quai des brumes is about a man played by the great Jean Gabin ( the star of La Grande Illusion ) who has deserted the army ( a fact that is never mentioned specifically , since the French censors refused to let the filmmakers portray such an immoral deed ) . Everyone who he finds around him is morally corrupt . He finally befriends a dog , the most loyal of all animals , and then Nelly , a young woman who is being torn apart by her gangster suitor , Lucien , and her foster-father Zabel ( played by L'Atalante's own Michel Simon ) . The whole film falls into unavoidable and quite grueling violence . It is so depressing that the French director Jean Renoir ( of La Grande Illusion and Rules of the Game ) accused it of being Fascist . Those who know the film know this quotation , and have pondered it for the longest time . It does make perfect sense however . Hope leaves quickly after it is seen , and it is hard to get rid of . It fascistically knocks you down .
Note Perfect	There's probably nothing new I could say about this film - just the regular and much deserved praise : John Ford's direction is perfect , perhaps only surpassing it in The Searchers , as well as Greg Tolland's cinematography ; the next year , he would photograph Citizen Kane , and his work there is just the slightest hair better than his work here ( which , of course , means that this is one of the most impeccably photographed films ever made ) . And then there's the acting . Henry Fonda was , no doubt , one of the greatest actors of all times , and this might just be his best film ( other great roles of his include The Lady Eve , made the following year , and Hitchcock's underrated The Wrong Man ) . John Carradine has his shining hour here - too often he was cast in B-movies . Even in Stagecoach , his role was kind of , well , cheesy ( I'm not a big fan of that particular Ford film ) . That scene where Tom Joad meets him in the tent is excellent ; Carradine is brilliant ( and so is Greg Tolland ; man , look at the lighting job ! ) . I do , however , wish he had kept his mustache . It's hard to picture him without it ! But even with those two masterful actors , a viewer's attention will always shift to Jane Darwell , who plays the Joad matriarch . She won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar , perhaps the most justly won Oscar in the Academy's history . There is a scene near the beginning of the film in which , as the Joad family is just about to flee their home , Mrs . Joad finds some old earrings . She puts them up to her earlobes and looks in the mirror . How long has it been since she was young or beautiful enough to wear earrings ? The past is past , and it will never come back .
A small masterpiece from director Tod Browning and actor Lon Chaney	Tod Browning is a marvelous director . I guess I've known this since i've seen his two most famous films , Dracula ( the Bela Lugosi version ) and Freaks . But neither of those films could have prepared me for the two films that I saw tonight ( well , okay , maybe Freaks did ; Dracula's not all that great a film ) . First , The Unknown from 1927 and , second , West of Zanzibar from the next year . Both of them starring Lon Chaney ( Sr . ) . They are two of the most well-acted , well-directed , inventive , literate , powerful , and beautiful films I've ever seen . The difference between the two is that I had before heard of The Unkown - it's plot is too bizarre to be all that unknown . It's easily mentioned in the same breath with Freaks ( in my opinion it is a step above it ; that film is only interested in showing the freaks , although there are a couple of great , great scenes ) ; there are thematic and plot similarities . But West of Zanzibar - it's not a typical film at all ( not that The Unknown is , either , mind you ! ) . In fact , it would be pointless to reveal any plot here , for if you've seen it ( and I have no clue how many have ) , you'll likely remember it . If you haven't , it would be nice to come in fresh . See this underrated gem , I implore you !
Preston Sturges just could not go wrong	Yet another perfect film from Preston Sturges , Hail the Conquering Hero is perhaps his most touching film , too . If you've seen Miracle at Morgan's Creek , then you have to see this one , and vice versa . They are sister films : Bracken plays a young sap who couldn't fight in WWII because of health reasons . Where Miracle was mostly about Bracken's quest to win a girl who's dumbstruck at the sight of a man in uniform , Hail deals itself an even better hand . Bracken's in a tight situation . The struggles are both comic and poignant .
Among the best animated shorts ever	I love musical animated shorts , so I was pretty much guaranteed to love this one . However , I think the animation of the title character , Sally Swing , who is discovered by Betty Boop when she's looking for someone to lead the swing concert at a college , is superb . I've never seen more fluid dance animation anywhere . Highly recommended ! .
A vile masterwork	Visitor Q is hard to deal with , but I think I'd call this a masterpiece . This is an update of Pier Paolo Pasolini's Teorema . It's often compared to Pasolini's Salò because of its shocking content , but , plot-wise , it's virtually a remake of the 1968 film , brilliantly updated and moved to modern Japan . Teorema is not Pasolini's best film , but I do consider it a great one . It is a very simple allegory . Miike expands the concept even further . A family is falling apart , and a stranger whom nobody seems to know moves into their home and starts knocking some sense into them ( sometimes literally ) . There are some truly disturbing things in Visitor Q that few people of sound mind and body will want to sit through . Fortunately , I am not of sound mind or body . If you can take it , the film can be extremely funny , as well . And I think it actually captures something truthful not only about the decay of Japanese culture , but also the rest of the world . It just does this in the most extreme way possible . Most will probably judge that it goes too far . I thought it was amazing .
The best film of 2005 , in my opinion	As this was one of the more memorable films I saw in 2005 , and as it was also one of the most obviously flawed , I was afraid it would be worse upon a revisiting . I'm glad to say I was entirely wrong about that . It got better . In fact , when you know the flaws are coming , it's easier to concentrate on its strengths . I'm starting to think this could be Spielberg's best film . I don't think its themes , its intentions , or its results have been completely considered by either the director of the screenwriters , so the messages it emits are mixed . But I think that makes the film all the more interesting . In Munich , Spielberg's far more critically lauded film of 2005 , we are told what to think at every juncture . War of the Worlds emotes and informs at a more intuitive level . There's a lot more to think about with this film than pretty much any other film the man has ever made . The logic of the film is often flawed , but the images and the feelings they produce are palpable . Is it just utilizing the post - zeitgeist to create an entertaining actioner ? I think it's deeper than that , certainly . It is an action film , a summer blockbuster , but it's more deeply felt than any other I can think of . It's entertaining , but it's not the kind of film that you can walk away from feeling good . I think that's one of the main reasons for its failure with much of the audience . Whatever the case , this is the most memorable and effective film of the year , and I am now confidently ranking this as the best film of 2005 .
PLEASE ! RELEASE THIS TO DVD ! ! !	I have been in love with Wenders ' Wings of Desire since I first saw it several years ago , so I taped this movie off of HBO2 or some such channel . I could NOT find this at a video store , and they don't sell it in any format anymore . The only thing left to be sold is the soundtrack , which doesn't make any sense to me ( although it is a good soundtrack ) . More than one person thought that this film was an utter masterpiece , so why keep it off video ? It won huge honors at Cannes , but it is completely unavailable . I loved this movie . It made me cry and it made me feel alive . The scene where Travis confesses his sins to Jane through the glass is so perfect and so affecting . Please , somebody , release this masterpiece to DVD . I want to see it again and share it with others .
One of the best films I've seen in a while	The setup sounds a bit like The Bicycle Thieves , with a poor Saigon teenager getting his rented bicycle-taxi stolen by a group of gangsters . I was pretty sure this was going to be a film of the " sucks-to-be-poor " genre so common throughout foreign cinema , but Cyclo veers into much darker territory . The teen is forced into crime by the woman from whom he rented the bike , and falls in with a gang she operates ( lead by Chinese actor Tony Leung Chiu Wai , the most familiar actor in the cast ) . Meanwhile , the teen's sister gets involved with Tony Leung , as well , becoming his girlfriend , as well as his prostitute . The film plays this all as a nightmare , which it doesn't spell out all at once . The shift in tone from neorealist to abstract is at first difficult to perceive . Much like its characters ' dilemma , the film sneaks up on the viewer and catches you from behind . You never know what's hitting you . The hypnotic mood engrossed me completely . The film reminds me a lot of the work of Tsai Ming-Liang , one of my favorite modern directors . This vision is actually more horrifying than any of Tsai's films . Where Tsai stresses loneliness in the big city , Tran makes Saigon feel overcrowded and the mood is akin to paranoia .
Beautiful - a masterpiece	Science fiction is the perfect genre for animation . Unfortunately , very few films have taken full advantage of that . Fantastic Planet , though , uses the medium to its fullest extent . It is , without a doubt , one of the most imaginative films ever created . The animation is simple , with few drawings per second , but those drawings are gorgeous . A gigantic , blue alien race has brought members of the human species to their planet . We're the size of insects to them . Some humans , Oms , as they're called , are kept as pets , while others are wild . Terr , the hero of the film , is a tame Om . Eventually he escapes and joins a tribe of wild Oms . The aliens eventually realize that the Oms can be a threat to them , and begin to exterminate them . The film is filled to the brim with remarkable images , bizarre forms of life and odd landscapes , weird customs and events impossible to understand . Most other science fiction films , animated or otherwise , stop so far below Fantastic Planet . Personally , I think it's one of the best films I've ever seen . .
Grade A Entertainment ! An Underrated Gem !	Flying Down to Rio will always be best known for being the movie that first paired Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers , but , believe me , its worth goes far beyond just that stunning accomplishment . The lead actor is Gene Raymond , who was one of the funniest actors in early Hollywood . My other favorite Raymond movie is Hitchcock's only foray into straight comedy , Mr . and Mrs . Smith , where he starred opposite Carole Lombard and was more than up to it . Raymond's female opposite here is Delores de Rio , an actress with whom I am unfamiliar , but , man , is she a beauty . Astaire plays Raymond's best friend and cohort and Rogers plays a singer who tours with them . The film is wonderfully witty and actually very inventive . The editor goes a little crazy with the different types of swipes he uses throughout the film , but they're still neat . It doesn't bother me much that the filmmakers ' experiments don't always work . I'm just happy they were trying new things . The cinematography is often great and much more unique than in other RKO musicals . The music is marvelous , especially the show-stopping Carioca ( as opposed to Karaoke ! ) , which seems to last forever , but in a good way ! This is the number with the Astaire and Rogers dance . The other dancers in the scene are also wonderful , and the editing of that number is particularly amazing . The climactic musical sequence is as amazing as it is silly : seemingly hundreds of women dancing on the wings of flying planes . It's meant to be entertainment for the people below , but , well , the intricate movements of the girls could never have been seen on the ground ( reminiscent of the Busby Berkeley number in 42nd Street where the camera shoots the dancers ' pattern from above ) . Again , the editing here is simply remarkable . I can only imagine that the daring stunts perpetrated in the scene , though obviously fake , would have stunned the hell out of an audience in 1933 ! Today , in the 21st Century , Flying Down to Rio plays as one of the greatest pieces of fluff ever produced . .
A vastly underrated masterpiece	An enormous step forward from his three neorealist classics listed above . Unfortunately , I think it might still be suffering from its original backlash . It was pounded by the critics at the time , but that was all for reasons outside the film itself ( well , not exactly ; the film seems to mimic real life at the time , even if it wasn't meant to ) . Of course , I'm referring to the affair that Ingrid Bergman , the film's star , and Roberto Rossellini , its director , had during the shooting , which resulted in the birth of an illegitimate child . Not only were they not married to each other , but they were both married to others at the time . That wouldn't , of course , cause most people living in the United States to even blink today , but it was a huge scandal at the time , resulting in a box office dud for RKO Pictures , who had produced it . Fortunately , we can look at Stromboli objectively today and recognize it for the great masterpiece that it happens to be . Bergman , in possibly her best role , plays a young Lithuanian woman who has lived a sort of decadent life . She is now in an internment camp in Italy , praying to flee to Argentina . Her only other option is to marry the Italian soldier , several years younger than herself , who is flirting with her all the time . The first option falls through , so she is forced to go with her backup plan . All's well , until she finds out where the guy lives and has every intention of going back to : Stromboli , a volcanic island where only the toughest farmers and fishermen live . Bergman is immediately distraught . She has grown up wealthy , had a lot of luxuries . Now she is living in a hut on a dusty , barren rock with a husband who can only barely understand English , which is , incidentally , only a second language for Bergman , as well . There is little communication between them , and , indeed , in this land , that is not exactly important . Still , the husband really cares for her . In all actuality , although we can jerk our knees at his conservative ways , Bergman is the one who refuses to compromise . From the first day , she demands to be taken away from Stromboli , to America or Australia , maybe . But there is no money to do so . There are a lot of customs on the island which she doesn't understand . She doesn't even attempt to understand them . Even when a friend tells her she shouldn't enter a certain person's home , she goes in anyway , completely embarrassing her husband . When she complains to the priest that she is utterly unhappy , he replies that he understands , but her husband is just as unhappy , maybe moreso . After all , the first thing she did when he went fishing was store away all the pictures of his deceased family and a statue of the Virgin Mary . Stromboli is an amazingly fair film in this way . In fact , my only complaint would center on the print I saw ( on TCM , of course ) rather than the actual film : it is unsubtitled , which means that we are meant to see everything from Bergman's point of view , at least in this version . I think that the Italian should be translated in subtitles , because there are a lot of long segments where the Italians are talking to each other that go untranslated . Rossellini wouldn't have had this dialogue if he didn't want us to know what they were saying . Of course , it's not usually very difficult to figure out what they are talking about . Among other things , Stromboli contains two of the most amazing set pieces in the history of film . First , Bergman has someone row her out to see her husband while he and other Strombolians are tuna fishing . In an extremely lengthy sequence , we witness this event . This is far more reality than Visconti ever gave us in La Terra Trema a few years prior . Second , the volcano at the peak of the island erupts and the residents have to sail out to sea in their boats for a very long time . The film also has a masterful finale , although I think I personally would have directed Ingrid differently in the final scene . It still works wonders . .
Weird and wonderful step away from Neorealism by Vittorio de Sica and Cesare Zavattini	Perhaps the last film you would expect to come from Vittorio de Sica and Cesare Zavattini ( who wrote the novel on which this film is based ) . It's a neorealist fantasy , kind of an oxymoron , really . An old woman finds a baby in her cabbage patch and raises him as her own son . After a few years , the baby is a young boy ( named Toto ) and the adoptive mother is dying . He goes to an orphanage and , when he finally turns 18 , he leaves . Immediately , he finds that he has no home . Toto is optimistic , though , and won't let anything get him down . A man steals his valise , and instead of getting angry over it , Toto becomes his friend and goes and stays with him in a small shantytown . Toto takes some initiative and organizes the many homeless living in the area and they build a better shantytown . Soon , the landowner is trying to sell this plot of land , and the citizens of the shantytown have to protect themselves . After many attempts , the owner mounts a force of police to get rid of the homeless . At this point , the film becomes full-fledged fantasy ( before this it was more comedic / fantastic melodrama in the style of Charlie Chaplin ) . This stuff is so weird and shocking that it's probably best for others to see it for themselves . It's quite amazing , and very funny . There are objections you could raise about the plot of Miracle in Milan , most certainly . Fellini and Visconti were greatly criticized when they started to stray from Neorealism . I think I read this was widely criticized at the time of its release . At this point , though , it's so enjoyable - I loved it very much . It might be my favorite of Vittorio de Sica's films , although Umberto D and The Bicycle Thieves come very , very close . .
Not only funny , but completely lovable	There are some scenes which are just perfect in their comedic ability , such as the scene where Trudy subtly tries to make Norval propose to her . Much of the comedy is not of the laugh-out-loud variety , but rather of the smile and maybe giggle variety . Plus , it may be a bit hard for younger people to enjoy , for it is certainly dated . I . e . , you have to be aware of code restrictions and you have to accept them . Even if it weren't for the comedy , though , this film would be just as wonderful , anyway , for Sturges , a comedy genius , gives us characters whom we truly care for . We love Trudy and Norval . They are amongst the most endearing characters I've ever met at the movies . Emmy and the constable are just as lovely , and by the ending , I hardly wanted to leave them .
Vastly underrated Welles - one of his best films , one of the best thrillers ever	The Stranger is a little slow to start . Edward G . Robinson , playing a war crimes detective named Wilson , lets loose one of the right-hand men of an important Nazi war criminal named Franz Kindler ( Orson Welles ) who escaped prison and managed to erase his identity . He was the mastermind behind the concentration camps . No photographs exist of him , and only this goon might know where he is . Wilson tracks the goon to a small town in Connecticut , where Franz Kindler is posing as a history professor about to marry the daughter of an important politician . Immediately the goon disappears , but the professor arouses Wilson's suspicion . After the setup is over , The Stranger bolts ahead at a breathless pace . All the clues point to the professor , though there is nothing definitive . When his wife , Mary , finds out ( played by Loretta Young ) , she refuses to believe it . Kindler feeds her a nice lie explaining everything , and she's desperate to believe it . He's not sure that he can trust her . Welles pulls a ton of suspense out of the situation . He's so good at creating points of tension out of both the simplest means , like a group of college boys on a paper chase , a dog who won't stop digging in the leaves , or something much more gothic , like the ancient , broken-down clock in the church tower . Kindler was an expert on clocks ( which is one of the biggest clues ) , and when he revives this old monster , an iron angel with a sword chases away the devil and then rings the bell to the hour . To get to the top of the tower , an extraordinarily tall ladder must be climbed . This leads to as much or more suspense as existed in the cognate scenes in Hitchcock's Vertigo . In fact , I'm sure Hitchcock watched and liked this film . Everyone knows he admired Welles ' later Touch of Evil , which he mimicked in his own Psycho , so why not this film ? The acting is quite brilliant as well . We would expect it from Orson Welles , of course . This is actually one of his very best roles . He is amazing at telling believable lies to his wife and friends , but with the dramatic irony in which the audience is in possession , we see the depth and the nervousness and the evil . Edward G . Robinson has a pretty thankless role for a long time , but nearer the end he begins to expand . We cringe when he coldly suggests that Mary is in mortal danger . He is simply great in the climactic scene ( which I won't mention except to say that it is one of the best in film history , although some might find it a bit silly ) . Loretta Young is also great as a naive wife who so desperately wants to be the perfect wife and believe everything her husband says . If this movie were to be remade today , her character would have been developed further psychologically , but what is here is good . She is also great in the climactic sequence . Welles ' films often have thriller elements , but this is his most thrilling . It's also probably his least philosophical , and almost certainly his most conventional . He made the film as a concession . I think he was allowed to make The Lady of Shanghai in return , which is an even better film than this . That is no matter , though . It's a masterpiece anyway . .
Probably the single most entertaining masterpiece ever made	Most movies that are agreed to be masterpieces are usually somber films that almost take a film class to fully " get , " or at least a few viewings . Touch of Evil is different . It is so entertaining , that I was thinking , " This is too easy to enjoy to be a masterpiece . " It is one of the most exciting and perfectly written films ever made . The actors are all great , their dialogue delivered impeccably every second of the film . But then if you do start to look at this film more closely , it is enormously complex . I did see this film in a film class , and my professor pointed out many little things throughout the film . There are so many hidden things around this film , one has to look very closely . So watch this film dozens of times if need be . Every time is just as good . And I pray that Criterion will do a version of this movie , the same way they did the Third Man . Then they need to do Citizen Kane and the Magnificent Ambersons . Chop chop !
Masterpiece ; one of John Ford's best films	Gypo Nolan ( Victor McLaglen ) is as poor as anyone on Earth . Living in 1920s Ireland , Gypo and his fellow Irishmen are part of an underground rebellion against the oppressive Brits . One particular rebel , wanted for murder by the English , arrives back into town secretly . He thinks he can trust his friend Gypo , but the £20 reward proves too tempting . Gypo gets his friend killed and sinks into a pit of despair and drunkenness . Meanwhile , the other Irish rebels are searching for the informer . Right away , Gypo , with money burning a hole in his pocket , is their main suspect , but they , who are his friends , don't want to believe it . The story of The Informer is simple in its plot , but complex in its moral and emotional issues . It's easily one of John Ford's most emotionally involving films . What Gypo did was wrong , but we can certainly understand his motives . We also understand his sorry character , and there's a lot of sympathy that arises for him . The script is very suspenseful , as well . It's the kind of suspense where we are pretty sure we know how everything will end up , so we have to grit our teeth and bear along with it . The acting is remarkable . Victor McLaglen , who acted in many of Ford's films , probably gave his best performance here ( and won an Oscar for it ) . Every other performer in the film deserves his or her kudos . In addition to an amazing script and acting , The Informer is one of John Ford's most expressionistic films . I love the darker side of Ford . In its mood , as well as in its themes , The Informer reminds me of two of my other favorite Ford films , The Long Voyage Home ( 1940 ) and The Fugitive ( 1948 ) ; it's also a bit similar to The Grapes of Wrath ( 1940 ) in these respects . .
Very creative ; a masterpiece	In the final days of the year 1999 , most everyone in Taiwan has died . A strange plague has ravished the island . Supposedly spread by cockroaches , the disease sends its victims into a psychosis where they act like the insects . Eventually , they die . The Hole takes place in a crumbling apartment building ( which is especially well created ; kudos to the set designer ! ) . Its two protagonists live right above and below each other . The woman is on the lower floor , and the pipes above her apartment are leaking fiercely , threatening to destroy her food supply , not to mention her sanity . She calls a plumber to go check it out , and he accidentally pokes a hole through the floor of the man's apartment . The two have never met before , and they come into contact through the hole . The script is quite brilliant . Few films are simultaneously this funny while remaining completely human , deeply exploring the human condition , especially feelings of loneliness and despair . Tsai's direction is simply beautiful . Like a lot of other Taiwanese directors , he uses a lot of long takes . But unlike , say , Hou Hsiao-Hsien , Tsai doesn't overuse them . In fact , I don't know if I've ever seen them used better . They're always effective and never tedious . It would be wrong to review this film without mentioning the musical numbers . Yes , The Hole is also a musical , and a great one , at that . In the film's best scenes - which is saying something , considering how good all the other scenes are - the man imagines that the woman is a singer , almost a cabaret singer . These numbers are fully choreographed , often with backup dancers and singers . In a stroke of genius , Tsai has these elaborately produced numbers take place in the crumbling building , the signs of apocalypse and decay unhidden . This provides both a sense of pathos and absurdity . The Hole is a film that begs to be seen . It ought to be a cult classic , if nothing else . Before I went to see this , I was told that it was a decent film , but probably Tsai Ming-liang's least good one . Well , if that is true , I just cannot wait to see another one ! .
A Whole New Ozu : The Old Ozu !	I like Yasujiro Ozu's work , but , even after seeing some of those works that are generally considered best , I was still skeptical of his minimalist style . But then I saw the New Yorker VHS of the silent I Was Born , But . . . Let me just say that it is absolutely amazing . It's a nearly perfect film , with great direction , great writing , great jokes , and great acting . This is easily one of the best film about children ever made . The story revolves around two young boys whose dad has just moved to the suburbs near his boss . The kids have some trouble fitting in , and a gang of bullies accost them at first . But soon they conquer the leader of the gang and supplant him . Later in the film , the kids are challenged with their perception of their father . They think he's everything , of course , but they soon find out that he is only a salaryman . They watch his boss ' movies , which include shots of the father fooling around for the entertainment of his employer . The children are flabberghasted , and rebel against their father . I have said it is a great film about childhood ; it is also a great film about parenting , as the father and mother have to deal with their sons ' disappointment . Please , please watch this film , especially if you have been disappointed with other works such as Tokyo Story . In my opinion , I Was Born , But . . . is a much better film . .
In desperate need of restoration . We should start a charity fund .	It has grown mythic in my mind since several Europeans that I talkto on the internet began to tell me many months ago that Chimesat Midnight was an Orson Welles film that they preferred even toCitizen Kane . Yet it was unavailable in the US , and I thought that Iwould never see it . But finally I found a copy at a local alternativevideo store . I must say , to suggest that it beats Kane is giving it more creditthan it deserves . That film is today generally considered the verybest ever made ( on my own list , the latest version , it lands at # 12 ) , though that status was hard fought over those who overrate thecastrated version of The Magnificent Ambersons , though that filmis indeed , too , a masterpiece in its own right . But Chimes atMidnight is itself also a small masterpiece . Considering howcheaply it seems to have been made , the results are jaw - dropping . It is among Welles best , though saying that is asredundant as saying a play is ranked highly in Shakespeare'scanon . I have to confess to not knowing much about which Shakespeareplays Welles was using ; I don't have the necessary research toolsas I write this . I believe that he used a mixture of several plays , butnothing in the film seemed familiar to me , who have read only aquarter of them . Whatever Welles did , though , the results areamazing . His direction and editing give the film an enormouskinetic energy . The famous battle scene , the centerpiece of thefilm , ranks among the best ever created on film ( I would saycaptured , but Welles , presumably on account of the low cost ofproduction , creates the tension and fury of it by editing mostly , notcinematography or complex direction ) . Welles the actor is at thepeak of his form , though that is redundant , too . Did Welles evergive a bad performance ? I haven't seen too many outside of hisown directorial efforts , but the few I have seen I must concedewere beyond excellent . One other mention of acting : what the hellhappened to Jeanne Moreau ? Was Orson Welles stealing hermeals ? For Christ's sake , she looks like she's dying . I've seen six of the , what , ten or eleven films that Welles directed . Five of those I've given a , including Falstaff . Only Macbeth , which I felt paid too much attention to the technical aspects andnot enough to the actual play ( although it was only the secondWelles film I saw and that was a while back ) , I have given lessthan that , a . Falstaff I rank fifth out of the remaining five ( inorder : Citizen Kane , Touch of Evil , The Trial , The MagnificentAmbersons ) . Perhaps I would rank it as highly as my Europeanfriends do , but there is one issue that may be destroying itsbrilliance : the tape that I rented was in the most awful condition . Generally , my credo is that I won't watch a direct cinematicadaptation of a Shakespeare play unless I have read the original , but lately I have noticed that I can understand his dialogue quitesufficiently . However , as Shakespeare is difficult to comprehend byear alone , imagine hearing Shakespearean dialogue spoken byCharlie Brown's teacher ! As the print I saw was terrible , voices aresometimes impossible to understand . I think I only caught around of the dialogue , which made the plot somewhat difficult tofollow . The picture's contrast was quite bad , too , but notunbearable . The sound was definitely the biggest wound the filmhas received . But as films are being restored every day , andWelles's importance has never been denied , we must pray thatthis one is on someone's agenda . I pray for a Criterion edition witha great commentary track on the side that can decipher everythingI'll miss .
One of Sayles ' very best films	Sayles ' second feature as director , and his first great film . It's not perfect , has its share of clichés and is certainly dated , but it's wonderful . Linda Griffiths stars as Lianna , a young mother of two who is constantly suffering under her smarter , controlling husband , a film professor ( Jon DeVries ) . Lianna doesn't have much of a life , but she manages to sneak in a night class twice a week . She develops what seems to be a non-romantic crush on her professor ( Jane Hallaren ) . When her husband cheats on her , the relationship with her professor changes to a sexual one . It would be easy to hold the fact that Sayles is a man against the movie . However , Sayles does here what he does best : create strong , identifiable characters for whom we care . Lianna is really one of the best developed characters I can remember . I absolutely love the way Sayles makes her intellectually inferior to both her husband and lover . It gives her struggle a lot of weight . And I love the line she says to her husband : " Just because you can argue better doesn't mean you are right . " She breaks my heart . The power structure between her and her husband is brilliantly written . I also liked that Sayles creates a new power structure , and not one wholly different from the marriage , between Lianna and her lesbian lover . My only complaint is that Sayles does sometimes treat Hallaren's character too kindly . She's clearly taking advantage of Lianna , and at times she's clearly treating her badly . In fact , the relationship starts exactly the same way as the relationship between Lianna and her husband . She was once his student , as well . The parallel isn't underlined as well as it should have been . I think Linda Griffith's performance here is one of the best ever . It's a tragedy that she didn't become famous after this . I know that Sayles isn't the greatest director ( specifically referring to the direction ) in the world , but this is some of his best work on that front ( his very best is certainly Matewan ) . Of course his greatest talent is his writing ; he is such a remarkable writer of human interrelationships . Sayles also gives his best performance as an actor in this film . Lianna is such a subtle work of human emotion . It really doesn't have any big moments , and it doesn't end with any clear resolution . The film's power only hit me about 20 minutes after it was over . It's a small masterpiece .
The best Faulkner movie out there ( of the many that I've seen )	This is easily the best cinematic version of William Faulkner's fiction that I've ever seen , and I've seen several of the most prominent ones . Filmed in Faulkner's hometown of Oxford , Mississippi , it really captures the feeling of Jefferson and Yoknapatawpha County . Intruder in the Dust is not one of Faulkner's best novel , but , even if it is a cliché to say this , it would be the crown jewel in any one else's career . It beats Harper Lee's good but simplistic To Kill a Mockingbird fifty feet into the ground ( I read that one in ninth grade , and that's exactly where it belongs ) . Two of Faulkner's most prominent characters play major parts in the film , Gavin Stevens and Lucas Beauchamp . Stevens is probably the single most common character in all of Faulkner's fiction . He's a lawyer and he works easily as a narrator , because , unlike many of his other characters , Stevens is a man of logic , not emotion ( at least when he's older ) . Lucas Beauchamp may be the most prominent of all of Faulkner's black characters ( he plays a major part in one of Faulkner's out-and-out masterpieces , Go Down , Moses ) ; unlike all of the other black folks in Yoknapatawpha , he refuses to bow down to any white man . He has pride , and many in the white population find that an execrable quality in a black man . One day , Lucas is found standing over a dead white man with a recently-fired pistol in his possession . Most of Jefferson and the surrounding areas don't see the need for a trial , and everyone's pretty sure that Beauchamp will be lynched before the evening's over , or at least the next day , as the murder and arrest occurred on a Sunday . Beauchamp , on the other hand , declares his innocence and tries to get Stevens to help him . Stevens refuses ; the case seems open and shut . But his young nephew , Chick Mallison , because Lucas had helped him in the past , is willing to help him now . As far as I know , no Hollywood film of this period deals with racism as overtly as this one . Hollywood films rarely persecute the black population , but instead prefer to relegate them to servant roles . If you're an African American actor , you might as well give up and accept that role as either the mammy , the maid , the servant , or the porter , because that's the only way you'll work . In Intruder in the Dust , there is to be found one of the most memorable non-porter roles a black actor ever had , Lucas Beauchamp . And Beauchamp , as I described above , is no stereotypical character , and might have been hard for audiences to accept . Even today , black characters are usually simple , magical , and kind . The recent arthouse hit Far from Heaven is a great example of that . Beauchamp is kind of a jerk , and he's very stubborn . Although he's perhaps a little less so here than he is in the novel , he's not any kind of stereotype . He's a complex human being . Juano Hernandez plays Beauchamp extraordinarily well . I haven't seen the film in a while , but he also appears in Robert Aldrich's 1955 film , Kiss Me Deadly , as well as the cinematic adaptation of Faulkner's final novel , The Reivers . All the actors are great in the film . I should also praise quickly Claude Jarman Jr . , who has the great role of Chick Mallison . The novel takes place from his point of view , and he is the conventional hero of the picture . Jarman is quite an actor ; he captures the character ( who also appears elsewhere in Faulkner's fiction , narrating , for example , events that happened a decade or more before he was born in the 1957 novel The Town ) perfectly . He would appear in another great role the next year in the underrated John Ford film Rio Grande . The only other film of Clarence Brown's that I've seen is National Velvet , quite a different picture than Intruder in the Dust . His job here is exceptional ; I really have to credit him with capturing Faulkner perfectly . Other famous Faulkner adaptations are too melodramatic ( The Long Hot Summer , filmed in 1958 , which I really like despite that ) or too cold ( Tomorrow , filmed in 1972 , which I do not like ; that coldness is a complete misunderstanding of Faulkner ) . The only other one that really does well according to its source material is Douglas Sirk's great 1958 filming of Pylon ( really a different sort of Faulkner novel altogether ) , Tarnished Angels . .
up there	Christmas in July is nearly as good as Sturges ' masterpieces , Sullivan's Travels , The Lady Eve , and Miracle at Morgan Creek . It's a nice film . The actors are good . It's funny and well directed . You couldn't ask for much more in a film .
May ( and should ) some day be considered a cinematic milestone	The worst part about Waking Life is that , after the lights come up , you find yourself sitting in a theater , stuck in utter reality . For 99 minutes , I almost believed I could fly , could do anything I wanted . Perhaps reality doesn't exist , I thought as the film progressed , and I am living in a dream . But then the lights come up , and I was still who I was 99 distant minutes ago . This is the power of film , and of art .
A milestone ; one of the best films ever made	When I recently , for fun , ranked my favorite films in a top 100 list , Planet of the Apes ended up at 33 . It was the second sci-fi on the list , after 2001 , which ranked # 1 . I have always been disappointed and irked at the ill-will that some people have towards Planet of the Apes . I almost assaulted someone who described Apes as " one of those so-bad-it's-funny type of movies " a few months ago . I take this film very seriously , and I wish others would do the same . I think one of the reasons there is so much animosity against this one is that it is undeniably dated . Not too much , but it would be difficult to sit a young teenager , raised on 1990s movies , down in front of it and have him / her enjoy it . Even a young adult , between the ages of 18 and 25 , would find it difficult . Planet of the Apes definitely exists in a specific time , the late 1960s . This was the best decade for film , churning out tons of both American and foreign masterpieces . Times were rough , and the Vietnam War was growing in intensity by the time Planet of the Apes was made . Because of this , we see many references to the current dilemma . The film willy-nilly debates issues like hunting , violence , animal rights , evolution vs creationism , class structure , and nuclear war . Taylor tells a young , rebellious , teenage chimpanzee not to trust anyone over 30 ( a common youth adage in the late 60s ) . Yes , it has so many topics that it seems to be about to burst at times . And , yes , the satire does go overboard once in a while . Still , it is all argued passionately . You can tell that everyone involved , even Heston , believes in what they are saying . In its own way , Planet of the Apes is as intellectual and philosophical a film as 2001 . I know that , when teens and younger people go see the Tim Burton remake ( which is not great , btw ) , there are going to be many who overpraise it and say that it is much better than the original . You would have to be mentally handicapped to honestly believe so .
One of the most satisfying Hollywood romances ever made	I really could not praise this film enough , nor could I really find adequate words to do so . All you have to know is that it is the most perfect romantic comedy I've ever seen , in that it is entirely successful at being both , a romance and a comedy . It's also a stunning drama with excellent characterizations . Holly Golightly , played by Audrey Hepburn , is a beautiful creation , a lot of which can be credited to Truman Capote , I assume , but it would be insane not to credit Hepburn , also . She is extraordinarily successful at expressing the innermost aspects of the character , her innate sadness and the intelligence behind the gold-digging , phony ( in a real way ) facade . I was very skeptical about George Peppard - I had never seen him without leather gloves and a giant cigar - but he pulls the role of Paul Barjak off with flying colors . Among many great supporting players , Martin Balsam , whom , the year before , was viciously murdered by Norman Bates in Psycho , has two especially hilarious scenes . I do have one complaint , and I'd bet , having not read through other reviews , that two out of every three reviewers bring this up : what the hell were they thinking with Mickey Rooney's Japanese landlord character ? I mean , talk about a major blemish on an otherwise masterful film ! I can't think of a more offensive racial caricature in ANY film , and I've seen a ton of other films , much earlier than 1961 , for Christ's sake , where white people played Asian , but I've never seen such gross stereotyping before . It's almost as if they started production on this film on December 8 , 1941 ! Besides that racist scar , the film has a couple of script problems , especially concerning the whole gangster part of the script . It feels very contrived , and they should have figured out a better way to shape the plot . Other than those two things , the film's perfect . If Mickey Rooney's part wasn't in the film , Breakfast at Tiffany's would surely make it onto my top 100 list . I'm still giving it a . I can't remember having cried as hard at an ending in the recent past .
One of Bunuel's top works	Perhaps my favorite of Buñuel's Mexican years . As a child , Archibaldo de la Cruz willed the death of his young , sexy nanny through the device of a magical music box . As an adult , he finds this box at a pawn shop , and it awakens the exciting feelings he had as he stood over the corpse of his nanny checking out her exposed thigh . He decides to become a serial killer , but it never quite works out that way . Every person he sets out to kill ends up being murdered by another's hand . Actually , I shouldn't say " person , " as Archibaldo's violent emotions only arise towards women . There is some heavy Catholic symbology to the picture , and the violence towards women obviously arises from the twisted mores of Catholicism . His first intended victim as an adult , for example , is a brazen tramp who openly expresses her wish to seduce him to get back at her husband . Buñuel had perhaps the most impeccable sense for creating finales , and the one here is as odd and remarkable as any other . Watch the two actions Archibaldo performs with his cane . I'm not 100 % sure what they signify , but I know that must be of the utmost importance . Ensayo de un crimen should be watched back to back with Buñuel's 1953 film , Él , also about a man being driven insane over his wife because of his strict religious beliefs . .
Beautiful , powerful movie	I love classical Hollywood as much as anyone I know , but I am also aware that the films are often mechanical and emotionally distant . Very few reach the level of Dance , Girl , Dance . The plot is great . It is not exactly original , but it seemed that way to me . I was entirely hypnotized . This is due to the direction , characterizations , and acting . This is one of the few Hollywood films of the era directed by a woman , Dorothy Arzner . Generally , you can't tell this fact , except for in the climactic scene of the film , where Maureen O'Hara delivers a powerful feminist speech . The direction is amazing , but it's definitely subtle and sometimes hard to catch . All the characters in this film , especially the lead two , are very well realized . They're people , and we believed them . The acting is the best of all . Lucille Ball may be best known for her television show , but she was a great movie actress , as well . I can't say that I've seen too many of her films , but it would shock me if she was ever better than she is in Dance , Girl , Dance . She is the spark of the film , and Maureen O'Hara is the emotional core . I think that her part represents one of the best female characters to be found in the cinema . O'Hara is simply fabulous as a ballet dancer who has to lower her artistic standards to make a living . And , like I mentioned before , listen for that speech she gives near the end of the film . I hadn't heard of this film before . I had never heard of Dorothy Arzner . I love the feeling that I've made a major cinematic discovery . This is most definitely one of those . .
A short comment	To see A Woman Under the Influence is to see how poorly every other movie about mental illness deals with its subject . Take 1975's Best Picture winner , One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . It's filled with quirky and amusing characters at whom we can giggle . If you extracted Gena Rowland's performance from A Woman , it actually might have easily fit in next to those crazies . Any other film would probably treat Rowland's illness as a joke , and we would have laughed at it . But this film shows us that there is nothing to laugh at . I could only cringe in horror and whimper at the events as they unfolded . There is nothing easy about this film . It's emotionally draining and it forces us to live through these pains . It provides no one to blame , and there is no kind of pat ending , neither happy nor tragic . Cassavetes ' realist direction is as perfect as it gets . Both Rowlands and Peter Falk give masterful performances . A powerful , powerful movie . .
Wow !	This is such a fantastic movie , a Western about a self-concerned man ( Jimmy Stewart ) going up to the Klondike for gold . On the way , he gets hassled by a local sheriff in Alaska ( John McIntire , giving a wonderfully evil performance ) , whom he hassles back . McIntire threatens that he'll be a dead man if he ever comes back through his town , which is , unfortunately , the only way back to the States . The main chunk of the story is about the peaceful Klondike town of Dawson being turned upside down by new residents from McIntire's town . Ruth Roman , for instance , who has come with Stewart and his two companions ( Jay C . Flippen and Walter Brennen , who plays Stewart's best friend ) , builds a saloon ( a Hollywood front for a whorehouse ) and tries to run the town's restaurant and hang-out place out of business . She paves the way for McIntire and his goons to come up , too . In 1953 , Jimmy Stewart and director Anthony Mann made one of the peaks of the Western genre , The Naked Spur . The Far Country is just the tiniest bit less , and it contains 99 . 9 % of what made that film so special without , of course , feeling like a cheap copy . Like The Naked Spur , The Far Country boasts beautiful , on-location cinematography . The landscape is gorgeous . Stewart gives one of his best performances ( nearly equal to his biggest success of 1954 , Rear Window ) . I suppose it could be considered cliche , as he starts out a selfish loner and learns how that kind of existence plays out in the end . Still , Stewart plays it so damn well , he makes this character very human . And the supporting performances are universally fantastic . In addition to those I've mentioned , the adorable French actress Corinne Calvet is very good . And I ought to single out Walter Brennen , as well . He seems to have specialized in playing best friends . His relationship with Stewart is very touching , since he is , at first , the only character who is able to bring out any humanity in the cynical man . The screenplay is very well written , and Mann's direction is impeccable . A masterpiece . .
A vision of pure beauty	I'm at a loss over what I could say about Eric Rohmer's Perceval . I was so deeply affected by it . I'm guessing that many will be annoyed at the French New Wave style , which I personally love . I'm definitely a French New Wave fan . I'm not really a Rohmer fan , though . This is only the second Rohmer film I've seen , after his 1997 film An Autumn Tale ( I think that's what it's called ) . I was unimpressed with that . Perceval will probably lead me to see more of his films , although , from what I've heard , this film is stylistically different than anything else he has ever made . Heck , I haven't seen anything at all similar in style in the many , many films I've seen . It's as if it takes place within the world of the theater . Naturalism is thrown out the window . The landscape is reduced to a bare minimum . Trees are sculpted out of metal , and are more symbols of trees than trees themselves . Castles are small , like the skenes of ancient Greek theater . The palette is made up of mostly primary colors . White appears frequently , and there are a couple of scenes with some purple . Silver and gold are abundant . This goes for the sets and constumes . The acting is exaggerated , I think , to imitate a Medieval style . Best of all , a lot of the narrative is sung to gorgeous Medieval arrangements . This is perhaps the most hypnotizing aspect of the film . The only thing that has a tendency to disappoint is the narrative . It's choppy , things go unresolved and so forth . It didn't bother me too much . I've actually read some Medieval literature , and it doesn't generally obey Aristotle's rules . The main piece that feels unresolved is the story of Gawain . Only after about one hundred minutes does he become important , the story follows him for a while , and then it goes back to Perceval , never to return again . Still , this didn't bother me too much . There's not an individual scene in the film that lacks beauty . Several are amongst the most beautiful ever captured on film . Perceval even contains the second most powerful version of the Passion of Jesus Christ I've ever seen in a film , slightly behind the one in Andrei Tarkovsky's Andrei Rublev . I know that I will come back to Perceval as soon as I can to study it closer and love it more . It's instantly one of my favorite films . .
Peak	I believe that I have seen all of Fellini's significant films now with the exception of Amarcord . There are two interpretations of his career . One opinion holds that his peak was La Strada , and as things went on Fellini became more self-indulgent . Of course , Nights of Cabiria is very similar to La Strada in a lot of ways . Andre Bazin called that film the end of neo-realism . The other opinion expresses that Fellini found himself in La Dolce Vita , and triumphed with it and 8 . My opinion is a mix between the two . I do prefer the neo-realistic films of his , especially La Strada , a film which is closer to me than any of his other films , and Nights of Cabiria , which also touched me deeply . I think that film is his most accessible ( though La Strada is in no way difficult to enjoy ) . But I do think La Dolce Vita was a peak of some sort , also . It is the most difficult of his films that is also worthwhile . It would be difficult to enjoy La Dolce Vita without researching it and its director afterwards . It still has some neo-realistic roots showing . With 8 , Fellini stood at the peak of his career . La Dolce Vita is rife with difficult symbolism , but it is restrained symbolism . One can enjoy the film without " getting " it . In fact , many people did , since it was an enormous hit all around the planet . 8 ' s symbolism is in no way restrained . It explodes with great fervor at the very beginning of the film , where the main character , a film director named Guido , dreams of being watched by everyone involved in a traffic jam , and then of being flown like a kite until someone yanks at his string , which sends him plummeting to the Earth . It would be simple to dismiss these opening images as pretentious nonsense . I personally think that symbolism is difficult to use in film , but that it can be done if used carefully . La Dolce Vita's symbolism seemed careful , while this seemed haphazard . However , this beginning symbolism does eventually help define the character of Guido . In fact , all of the symbolism of the film works excellently . It is not restrained , but it becomes integral to the film . It actually becomes fascinating . The final parade is miraculously effective , especially if you are familiar with Fellini's symbolic stock ( clowns , horses , prostitutes , people suspended in air , processions , magicians , musicians ) . Fellini made a film so thick with symbolism that a viewer may easily be overwhelmed . If that viewer is familiar with Fellini , he will not be . This was actually the second Fellini film I tried to watch , only after Satyricon ( far past his peak ) , and it just didn't work . I had watched about an hour and 20 minutes before I turned it off frustrated . Last night , I watched it without ever losing interest or involvement . So here is Fellini , standing at the very peak of his career , standing on a pile of symbolism that works , about to step over the peak and fall to his excess . His next film was Giulietta of the Spirits . It is bursting at its seams with symbolism , and it is all obvious , all drivel . I gave 8 a perfect 10 , but Giulietta a . It is sad when one does not realize when he has gone overboard . Well , here is 8 , and all the films he made before that , still great after 40-50 years . Enjoy them .
One of the best Silly Symphonies	This is just a superb retelling of the King Midas story , who asked that everything he touched be turned to stone . The jokes in this one are extremely clever . I especially like the visualization of the skeleton in the mirror and the elf . .
I think this is even better than ' 33	Even without Busby Berkeley's trademark musical numbers , Gold Diggers of 1935 would be an utterly delightful comedy . From start to finish , it's a ball . Dick Powell and Gloria Stuart star . The supporting cast is full of Hollywood's finest character actors : Frank McHugh , Adolph Menjou , Hugh Herbert , Alice Brady and many more . Every single performer is excellent . And then , hey , there are these musical numbers ! There aren't as many as in Gold Diggers of ' 33 , but they're just as good . The song " Lullaby of Broadway " won the Oscar that year , beating out Berlin's Cheek to Cheek from Top Hat ( probably undeserved , but it is a fine song ) . These gold diggers unearth a real treasure !
Kubrick's Second best after 2001	I think the critics , even the ones who like this film , are missing the point . When 2001 came out , most every critic panned it completely . Pauline Kael , the uber-critic , called it dull and unimaginative . At that time , I can understand her view . Kubrick's famous films that far were The Killing , Paths of Glory , Spartacus , Lolita ( the only one on this list I haven't seen ) , and Dr . Strangelove . All of these are wonderful films , Dr . Strangelove usually being considered his second masterpiece after 2001 , but they lack the style of all the later Kubrick films . 2001 may be somewhat tedious to the average person once in a while , and it's almost uninterpretable , but it leaves posibly the strongest after-thoughts of any film . Kubrick's target was our love for narrative , but our unconscious minds . The pleasure of watching 2001 and Kubrick's other later films resides deep inside . It is too bad critics only have a few days to write their reviews . But by this time , they should have seen enough of Kubrick's films to realize this . The Shining , A Clockwork Orange , and Full Metal jacket all aged beautifully in my perception , and they all get better with each subsequent viewing . No other director who ever lived can do this . Only 2001 effects the unconscious mind more than Eyes Wide Shut . It is truly his second best film . It's images wander in my mind two days afterward as if I saw it an hour ago . I lay in bed the whole first night thinking about it , not sleeping for ten minutes . I didn't need to go to sleep to dream that night . The film seemed as if I dreamed it . The grainy film really added to that effect . And the color scheme . God , Kubrick was a genius to set this film at Christmastime . There are several gorgeous shots of Christmas lights . And a neon rainbow that especially lingers in my mind . And the religious orgy scene , which will undoubtedly become the most famous scene in the film , has colors that just made me weep with their heavenly beauty . Oh , and those purple sheets at the very end of the film . Critics complained about a speech near the end that undermined and ruined a nice murder mystery thread of the narrative ( see especially Roger Ebert's review ; though I love him , I think he's dead wrong this time ) . I think it would have been below Kubrick to end the film with a mysterious twist . Any director can give us a narrative trick at the end to put a goofy smile on our face . The idiotic ending of The Usual Suspects comes to the head of my mind . It's usually misinterpreted as genius because people don't realize that the sum of the parts ought to naturally be greater than one clever scene . If you want to see real genius , see Eyes Wide Shut , the second best film that Kubrick made , the second best film of the nineteen-nineties , and one of the best films ever made .
Not really a documentary , but some sort of masterpiece	Previously Merian C . Cooper and Ernest B . Schoedsack made Grass , a very great silent documentary inspired by the success of Nanook of the North ( which they hadn't even seen when they were flying off to the Middle East to film the long migration of a group of nomads ) . Grass was a real documentary , with little staging . Nanook , however , had a lot of staging , and has suffered a ton of criticism since its first release because of it . No matter how clearly Nanook is staged , Cooper's and Schoedsack's Chang is a hundred times more staged . I don't care . It's an amazing film . Call it a fictionalized documentary , or a fudged one . Whatever . Chang is an awesome movie . The story is gripping , the cinematography is great , and the filmmaking in general is wonderful . I'm sitting there wondering how the hell they got these shots of tigers and elephants and stuff . I'm thinking Carl Denham , the risk-taking filmmaker from their own later King Kong . This whole movie seems like a preparation for King Kong . A couple of the scenes are repeated there . This may be preparation , but it is as amazing in its own way . .
Truly effective Gothic horror film	I wasn't expecting much from this movie . The critics passed it over rather quickly , saying a few kind words but without a strong recommendation . The couple of people I knew who saw this said that it was " good , " but never cared to say much more than that and have never brought it up again . As I sat down to watch it , I thought it looked nice but moved too fast , was a little dumb . But by the end , I was astounded . I think it's one of the best films of 2001 . Sure , it's a triumph of style over substance , but I think we need a couple of good films like this every year . I love style . I would compare From Hell most closely to Alex Proyas ' 1997 triumph Dark City , which , like From Hell , made almost nothing at the box office . I hope , like Dark City , that From Hell will win a larger audience on video . It's not as intelligent as Dark City , which was brilliant in nearly every way , but From Hell equals it in visual virtuosity . Its story , while sometimes lapsing into silliness , is enormously gripping . It's also one of the few horror films to succeed at inducing a sense of dread in the audience . A Scotland Yard detective ( played well by Johnny Depp ) is on the case of Jack the Ripper , who is himself on the trail of a group of five prostitutes . On the way , Depp discovers that the ritualistic murders are part of a larger conspiracy . The film is full of great twists , the biggest one being simply hilarious in its level of audacity . The end is quite unpredictable ( although the climax is a little too predictable ) . There are several minor flaws in the film . It does go a bit too fast , but its breathless pace ends up paying off well in the end . Many people will be turned off at the level of gore in the film . Seriously , avoid it at all costs if you have a weak stomach . But if you could take it in Silence of the Lambs , Se7en , or Sleepy Hollow , you'll be fine . I actually felt that those three particular films flaunted their gore and were tremendously ineffective in their horror . Yes , even ( and perhaps especially ) Silence of the Lambs . I don't know why , but I didn't feel that way about From Hell . .
Strange , hypnotic , and somehow quite affecting	Ciao ! Manhattan is an avant-garde film that makes the films of Jean-Luc Godard seem conventional . That's not to attack Godard , mind you . I'm just comparing the two to express how far out Ciao ! Manhattan is . The slight narrative concerns a young Texan hippie traveling the American countryside just because he likes to see things . One night , he sees something quite unexpected : a beautiful young woman with bare breasts hitchhiking . He picks her up ( who wouldn't ? ) and finds that she has a couple of dog tags around her neck with her name , Susan , and address on them . He takes her home . Susan's mother thanks him and offers him a job taking care of her daughter . Susan was a young model in New York , a discovery of artist Andy Warhol . She lived a life of hard partying , and is now paying for it with a severe case of brain damage . Now Susan lives in a drained pool in her mother's back yard , and she spends endless hours drinking hard liquor and rattling off stories about the old days in New York . At first , Ciao ! Manhattan just seemed to me an excessively playful experimental film with a bunch of bizarre imagery and editing and stuff . I was laughing , it was fun to see the excesses of that sub-culture which I know so little about . But after a while , the film just started working , and really well . Susan is played by Edie Sedgwick , who really was a protege model of Andy Warhol . The film works a fine balance between reality and fiction . How much of Sedgwick are we seeing ? Is any of it fictional . She died three months before the film was released , and , edited into the last moments of the film , there is a shot of a newspaper headline that announces the death . Whether Ciao ! Manhattan was meant to be or not , it serves as a dirge , not only to Edie Sedgwick , but to the young generation of the time . I don't know , maybe I loved this film because I grew to adulthood so far after the hippie generation , but I'll tell you one thing : I have seen a ton of the greatest films ever made . It's a rare experience to come upon one that is as unique as this one . Perhaps there were a thousand films like this at the time , but none are available except this . Well , I choose to praise this . .
Passionate , poetic , exceptional filmmaking	At its base , Bound for Glory is just a simple biopic about Woody Guthrie . In execution , it turns out to be a lot more . We actually learn very little about Woody Guthrie's life . I don't know the exact statistic , but I would guess that it covers no more than a few years , with an end title that tells us briefly of his death . And basically all of the experiences shown onscreen can be seen in other films , most notably John Ford's brilliant American masterpiece The Grapes of Wrath . To be absolutely fair , the scenes of migrant workers ' woes are at least equal to those in its predecessor . A good one-line summary of Bound for Glory might read " a modernist equivalent of The Grapes of Wrath told from the point of view of folk singer Woody Guthrie . " But Bound for Glory has a few things that make it stand out from other films , that make it as memorable as The Grapes of Wrath . First and maybe foremost , you have the brilliant and gorgeous cinematography of the great Haskell Wexler . I'm no expert on cinematographers , but Wexler is one of only three I can name offhand ( the other two being , if you are interested , Vittorio de Sica and Sven Nykvist ) . I love Wexler's work in films like Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? and Matewan ( a thematically similar film directed by the great John Sayles ) . But what Bound for Glory most resembles is Wexler's very controversial cinematography on Days of Heaven . Not controversial because of anything specifically photographed , of course , but , if you know the story , a different cinematographer took credit as lead DP , leaving Wexler with a credit that was something along the lines of " with additional photography by " . Wexler claims to have photographed more than 50 % of the scenes in the finished film . He has sat through the film several times , I have heard , with a stopwatch . Bound for Glory , at any rate , is one of the most beautiful films you're ever likely to see . It's golden colors are beautiful , and the camera is moved gently , but with precision . This film actually has the first shot that used a steadicam , although I had forgotten to keep an eye out for it when the film was playing ( I was far too engrossed ) . My favorite scene is one where Guthrie and a black hobo have left the boxcar of a train and move to the top of it . There they sit and converse as the most beautiful landscapes in our country pass by behind them . These are some of the best shots I've ever seen . And just because of those shots , even if the film didn't contain a plethora of other relevant materials , I would call this film one of the best ever made about the United States . Secondly and thirdly , this film is about Woody Guthrie , one of the greatest American artists of the past century . David Carradine , who , in other performances , has never convinced me that he was as good as his father , John ( who was in Grapes of Wrath , incidentally ) , or his brother , Keith , breaks apart my former opinion of him and delivers a masterful performance . I don't know whether I could identify why he is so good in this film . It's as if he has an aura about him . He really does , however , seem to enbody Guthrie's convictions . Throughout the film , Guthrie's music is played , whether sung or as an extra-diagetic score . This is great American music . So much of it has become part of the soundtrack to the American life . I mean , I remember learning songs like " This Land is Your Land " and " This Train " in elementary school music class . In his day , Guthrie had difficulty in getting those kind of songs out to the public . His bosses were constantly ordering him to tone down the political edge of his music . Luckily for America , he steadfastly refused to do so . Woody Guthrie was a true American hero . Bound for Glory depicts that as much as he could have hoped for .
Deeply moving	A gorgeous , all-black masterpiece . King Vidor directs a group of ( mostly ) non-actors to depict a picture of black life in the South . Daniel L . Haynes stars as Zeke , a none-too-smart cotton farmer who is tricked into wasting half a year's pay on gambling by a sexy little hoochie ( Nina Mae McKinney ) . When Zeke gets in a fight with the man who cheated to win his money , tragedy strikes . In a fit of grief , he begins to belt out a gospel song and the people around him think he should become a priest . Not only is this a great gospel musical , it's a great religious drama , one where the emotions of faith seem deeply felt and real . Vidor's direction is as good as it ever was . When a lot of the films of 1929 were clunky and static , this one has a beautiful visual and aural flow with only a couple of small stumbles along the way .
As much a masterpiece as any other bona fide masterpiece	The Voyage to the Moon should be included in the handful of bona fide masterpieces which includes Citizen Kane , the Godfather , and 2001 . It is short , but it is so delightful . The effects are not as crude as many might believe . The director was very surrealistic in his design . He had no misconceptions of what he was doing . He never thought that his models did not look like cardboard cutouts . The story and the acting is very funny . I watched this in a beginning level film class , so I may have a better understanding of it than many might , but I think I would have loved it as much anyway . This is the first film masterpiece I think ever made . without a problem .
Philip Kaufmann has produced yet another amazing piece of work	Quills is one of the best films of 2000 , in my reckoning , second best only to You Can Count on Me . It is one of the most brilliantly directed , acted , produced , and written films I've seen in a very long time . There is not a ( major ) character in this film that is not very complex , and the issues at stake are utterly important . Perhaps the greatest success of the film is how well it works on commenting both on its own time and situations and our own world today . The issues of free speech , creativity , dementia , corporal punishment , religion , sexuality and especially politics are woven into the film in amazing ways . Yes , politics , for it works as an allegory to the recent presidential scandals . There are two flaws , one major , one semi-major . The semi-major one involves the epilogue . It is not bad , but it is unnecessary . Perhaps the best way to describe it is superfluous and predictable . The major flaw would destroy any lesser film . Here , it is hardly noticable . Still , if one contemplates it , there is no getting around it . There is never a believable reason why Madeleine should be so helpful to the Marquis de Sade . They present a tiny one , but it is not good enough . Still , with its successes elsewhere , these flaws do not weaken this film . Without them , it would have been perfect . With them , well , just because it is flawed , doesn't mean it isn't a masterpiece .
A masterpiece	I saw this several years ago in a class . This was long before Criterion had a DVD , and the VHS we watched was simply awful . The subtitles were completely illegible , so I didn't get much out of it . I did like it , however . But revisiting it on DVD , the film is a revelation . It easily ranks as highly as any of Antonioni's other masterpieces . This may be his darkest , most frightening film . Monica Vitti plays a woman disillusioned with life . Her feelings are expressed in mostly abstract ways , via Antonioni's gorgeous visuals . I'm not sure any director expressed as vividly a person's feeling of being disconnected with the world around them . The story follows Vitti between two lovers , Francisco Rabal and Alain Delon . Both are self-obsessed jerks . As Vitti recedes from society , she leaves Rabal . She initially tries to resist Delon , knowing that fulfillment is equally impossible with him . But , in the end , she quietly fades back into a conventional life , giving up her existential crisis . It's a story of failure , really . And then comes the infamous finale : Antonioni separates us from the people we've become accustomed to , and we revisit the sites we've seen before . But we're alone . It's a severely ambiguous ending , and I'd guess that viewers have interpreted it any number of ways . My thought : Antonioni is challenging the audience with the same existential crisis that Vitti faced and then turned her back on . What is this strange world we live in ? When I used to recall this famous ending after the first time I had seen it , I remembered it without human beings . Not true . There are people in nearly every shot . We just don't know who they are . They seem completely foreign ( even though we've seen some of the people as extras earlier on ) , and it makes the world seem more alien , more severe . You go outside after seeing this film , you feel the same way . You feel all alone in the world . Like Tati's Playtime , it's the kind of film that can alter your perception of the world around you ( of course , Playtime has the opposite effect ? you feel more connected to the world around you ) . When he died , I was long past my Antonioni phase . I had seen all his best films years ago . It feels good to fall in love again .
The very definition of " Haunting "	I was quite interested in the film while I was watching it , but when it ended , I didn't feel impacted . Very soon afterwards , however , my mind began to feel very heavy . The first words of the film came floating back to me : " Last night I dreamt I went to Manderly again . " I ruminated over the events of the film , and I began to tear up a bit . It creates one of the most unsettling atmospheres ever to exist in a film . I still feel enshrouded in the mist and smoke that curled around Manderly . I can tell that this is going to be one of those films that , when I recall it to memory , I will fall back into its mood . I can't say this for too many films . One of the reasons that I connected with it so tightly was the main character , the narrator , the new Mrs . de Winter . Joan Fontaine was perfect in this film . Out of the ones with whom I am familiar , I don't think that there is another Hitchcock heroine who was as well developed . Kim Novak's character Judy from Vertigo was close , and so was Janet Leigh's character Marion Crane from Psycho . Those two heroines provoked great pity in my soul . But the heroine of Rebecca beats them all . I was completely involved with her . She begins as little more than a slave to a domineering woman , Edythe van Hopper ( their relationship was a little confusing to me ; a hired friend ? This made me suspicious . I think that there was a lot of suggestive lesbianism in this film , perhaps between van Hopper and the heroine , but definitely between Rebecca and Ms . Danvers . Watch as she delicately shows the second Mrs . de Winters Rebecca's underwear . Also notice that Rebecca used Ms . Danvers ' name at the doctor's office , having gone there to find out whether or not she was pregnant ) . The heroine only escapes from one owner to go to her next owner , Maxim de Winters . He treats her even more cruelly than Edythe van Hopper did , calling her a " little fool " and an " idiot . " When he called her those names and reprimanded her , I trembled . As the movie went on , I think my mind actually became fused with the heroine's . I started to cry when she did after Ms . Danvers tortured her psychologically . When Ms . Danvers tried to convince her to jump out of the window , I felt as if I was about to fall to my death . I became rather disappointed when the focus moves from the heroine to Maxim . His predicament became more interesting near the end , but my sympathies , my whole attention were squarely focused on Fontaine's character . Thus arose my initial impression of the film . This small disruption can be forgiven , because the film as a whole just remains in my mind as a sad , beautiful masterpiece . Rebecca is one of Hitchcock's best films . Definitely a .
I for one thought this was brilliant	Famously shoved aside at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival , which it opened , and barely plopped into theaters early in 2008 , with a couple of swears cut out to insure a PG-13 rating . I've seen all of Wong Kar-Wai's films , and while My Blueberry Nights has generally been considered a good example of wheel-spinning by many of his critics and fans , I'm going to go out on a limb here and say I think this is his best work yet . Sure , it's a Wong Kar-Wai film , there's no denying . It's mostly plot less , focuses more on mood and tone , and has its characters wandering through life listlessly . Wong is just one of those cinematic artists who inhabit their own universe and see no problem in returning to the same well over and over again . There are a lot of directors who are like this , and , for the most part , it seems useless to complain about it . If you don't like it , go somewhere else . For whatever reason , My Blueberry Nights captivated me even more than his previous films . The episodic plot involves Norah Jones as a New York City girl recently dumped by her boyfriend . In those stumbling moments right after that bomb has landed , she wanders into a diner near her former lover's apartment and makes friends with its owner , Jude Law . He also is a lost soul and a wanderer , who ended up where he is because of his own lost love . Every night , after standing below the apartment , Jones comes into the diner , sits at the counter and eats blueberry pie . It's the least eaten pie there is , according to Law , so it feels the most right . There is a deep connection between Jones and Law , but no true romance is able to form with Jones ' heart so recently destroyed . Eventually she wanders from New York to Memphis , and later on to Reno and Las Vegas . Each of these two sections includes its own adventure . The Memphis segment involves Jones coming into the lives of a broken married couple , David Strathairn and Rachel Weisz . Of course , this segment relates pretty directly with Jones ' own experiences . The Reno / Las Vegas episode has Jones meeting up with high stakes gambler Natalie Portman , a role that sounds , on paper , particularly ridiculous but in which she is entirely convincing . This is the best performance in her career . The two embark on a roadtrip to Las Vegas after Portman loses Jones ' savings in a poker game ( in which deal Jones receives Portman's new car ) . Portman needs to see her father to get a new wad of money for her habit , but she has a rocky relationship with the man . I admit this segment does not feel connected to the rest of the film . Still , I think it's meant to work as a buffer in Jones ' healing process . Plus , it's well worth having just for Portman's performance . I think what Wong and his co-screenwriter Lawrence Brock really capture in My Blueberry Nights is that drifting feeling that one gets when the life that they thought they knew and assumed that they would always know falls apart . It also beautifully depicts the way people can come into our lives like spirits , affect us , perhaps just a little or perhaps greatly , and then just vanish . And how we do that for other people as well . Wong frequently cuts back to Law in NYC , who is trying to find Jones , a spirit who disappeared from his own life before he could do anything about it . My Blueberry Nights is often a very sad movie ( the first two thirds had me constantly in tears ) , but it's also one of the most romantic I've seen . It's definitely a perfect movie to fall in love to . I hope history treats it better than the present has .
Simple , but labyrinthine . Truly fantastic .	A perfect sister film to one of my absolute favorites , Spirit of the Beehive . It also stars Ana Torrent and has similar themes . And I like it probably as much . Torrent , three years older but looking pretty much the same , plays the middle child of three girls . At the beginning of the film , their father has just died . Their mother ( played by Geraldine Chaplin ) died a while back . The film is told through the mind of Ana , who is still mourning her mother , and she often sees her . It can be confusing at the beginning . Chaplin also appears as the adult Ana , who narrates some of her thoughts , or possibly as what Ana believes she will become . This is very ambiguous . The girls ' aunt Paulina is now taking care of them . The duty was kind of forced upon her and , while she's trying her hardest , it's taking its toll . She's stern and not well liked by the girls , especially Ana . There isn't much plot , per se , and what little there is shouldn't be ruined . We often see Ana's imagination and memories come to life . We see her witness fights between her parents . Later on , she reenacts them with her sisters . The film is about what children observe , how they interpret it and how they act on those interpretations . The film also has political ramifications , subtle ones that are pretty difficult to grasp . The title is the beginning of a Spanish proverb that goes : " Raise ravens , and they'll tear out your eyes . " Like Spirit of the Beehive , the film depicts a child experimenting with her own cruelty and violence . Supposedly this is all a criticism of the Fascist government ( Franco had just died by this point , so his regime was just on its way out ) . It's a very dense and fascinating movie . You'd probably still be swimming through its mysteries on a hundredth viewing . If you thought possibly that Ana Torrent was not acting in Spirit of the Beehive , this will set you straight . Her blank , soulful expression is here in full force , of course , but here you see the slightest smile creep across her face , and you can just tell exactly what she's thinking . I'm afraid I've done an awful job reviewing Cría Cuervos . I haven't expressed how touching it is when dealing with Ana's loneliness ( there's a scene where she dreams that her mother pops into her bedroom to tell her a story that's just heartbreaking ) , or how it often straddles dark comedy , like the scenes between Ana and the maid . I think that difficulty in reviewing it shows just how layered and confounding the film is . It shoots right up my favorites list . It's easily the best film I've seen all year . Bravo to Criterion for bringing this one to DVD . Hope they also get to Saura's La Caza sometime in the future .
I love this film , but . . .	I think the dance numbers , and even some of the songs , are less amazing than those of its immediate predecessor , An American in Paris , made by gene Kelly a year beforehand . I know that the An American in Paris songs were just adaptations of Gershwin songs , but they're great , and they work . That rendition of " I Got Music " is wonderful , and the 20 minute ballet at the end is one of the greatest things I've ever seen in a film . There are several songs from Singing in the Rain which were a little weak , and the " New York Ballet " doesn't feel right at all in this film . It's obviously a grab for the success of An American in Paris and its amazing finale . That one made a lot of sense in that film ( and was itself inspired by the even more amazing ballet sequence from The Red Shoes ) . That ballet sequence had much more substance , and didn't seem excessive . The New York Ballet did seem a bit excessive , although nice to watch . What puts Singing in the Rain above An American in Paris is its plot . An American in Paris ' plot was almost completely filler material between the songs and dance . The ending to that film ( after the ballet sequence , that is ) was very abrupt and didn't even make much sense . Singing in the Rain is extremely interesting in its setting . It's very interesting from a historical perspective , and that's what pushes it to a for me , 1 above An American in Paris .
In the near future , say fifteen-twenty years , The Celebration will be ranked among the best films of foreign cinema	The Celebration is a remarkable film . It is actually the second Dogma film I've seen , after the Idiots . I am one of that film's few supporters ( there aren't even many people in the US who have seen it , and most who have , whether an American or not , don't like it ) , but The Celebration blows it away . Idioterne , though exhilarating , is flawed . This is partly due to the quickness of its conception , production , and editing . The Celebration , however , is flawless . It contains some of the greatest editing ever . Watch the scene where three characters are linked together in a split second around bath tubs and suicide . It is enough to make your heart skip a beat . Festen also has some of the most complicated characters you're ever going to see in a film , and they're involved in one of the most complex situations that could be conceived . You'll be laughing in one moment , then you'll be beaten down emotionally , and then you'll shake your fists in anger . There has been much said about the pretentiousness of Dogma ' 95 . I personally think it is a great idea . I have heard that " it seeks to destroy the very foundations of filmmaking that artists have tried for 100 years to build . " I say , good ! That's what Italian Neorealism sought to do , and it produced The Bicycle Thieves , Umberto D , and La Strada among others . It's also what the French New Wave attempted to do , and it produced Breathless , Shoot the Piano Player , and The 400 Blows . Need I say more ? I have hardly ever felt that a situation was more realistic in a film when the Dogma rules were used . The Idiots , The Celebration , and other films made in a similar style , Dancer in the Dark and Breaking the Waves . Dogma 95 is attempting to do something ORIGINAL . I know that scares the heck out of most people , but thank God for these directors . Even if they don't produce something as great as Idioterne or Festen , it will at least be interesting . I predict that in less than 20 years , The Celebration will be taught in film classes .
By Light Years the Best Film Ever Made	2001 warps beyond every other film ever made . I have seen it nearly a dozen times since I first saw it in 1997 . I bought it right away on VHS , and when I got DVD , it was the only VHS tape I replaced with a DVD . So why is it the best film ever made ? Simply because it transcends narrative . No other film has really done that . Even surrealist films are rooted in narrative . Avant-guarde films sometimes do not use narrative , but they become only moving paintings . 2001 has narrative , but it never insists on it . It lovingly displays the amazing visuals . The narrative itself makes me feel that humanity could be so much more . Kubrick usually is kind of pessimistic , but at the end of 2001 , he shows Dave's transcendence . And he is moving towards Earth to bring the rest of humanity with him . Although it shows the state of humanity as it exists now as violent and unsympathetic to the plight of others , it shows hope for our future . I have a rather large complaint about how some people look at this film , though . The introductory comment to this film on this site mentions understanding it more since that person has read the novel . This is all misinformation ! Kubrick was inspired by the Clarke short story " The Sentinal , " which I have read . It is not really worth it . If you've ever seen Clarke on The Discovery Channel's " Mysteries of the Unknown " or whatever it's called , you know how pompous he is . The visions in 2001 are completely Kubrick's . Arthur C . Clarke was just a trampoline off which he jumped . The novel is not an original . It was written alongside with the film , and it was published afterwards . The university at Champaigne-Urbana celebrated Hal's birth in 1996 , the date it gave in the novel . It is 1992 in the film , of course . Those ungrateful losers . That is the difference between a technology nerd and a cineast . Then Clarke completely milked the greatness of this film to make a living . If you want to see how terrible he really is , see the sequel to 2001 , 2010 , which he wrote . It was so awful that I killed it after 20 minutes . Pay no attention to Clarke and his leech-like behavior to this masterpiece . Those complaints , of course , have nothing to do with the actual film . To me , it is the most inspirational film ever made . I would watch it over anything . infinite / 10
One of the most ignored Masterpieces of our time	Crumb has not gotten its due credit . Very few films of the 1990s have been universally accepted as masterpieces . Crumb should definitely have been one of the few . On the back of the video's box , it proclaims " one of the most critically acclaimed films of all time . " It is probably the only film of the decade besides _ Schindler's List _ that could have claimed that without stretching the truth . Every critic proclaimed that it was one of the very best films of the year it was released . Gene Siskel put it as his # 1 picture for the year ( having said in his original review " I doubt I'll see a better movie this year " ) , and Roger Ebert put it as his # 2 only after _ Leaving Las Vegas _ ( the only 1990s film I'd put above it myself , too ) . So why do I claim that it is so great ? Well , I particularly think that documentaries are much more important than fiction films if they are done well . The purpose of [ great ] art is to study and try to educate us about human nature . Documentaries , since they are fact and not fiction , logically can tell us more about human nature than fiction films , which can tell us about human nature , but they necessarily teach it through the eyes of the artists who created the work . For instance , _ Hoop Dreams _ , which has been accepted by many already to be a masterpiece , s by far the best sports film ever made . No fiction film could have had more insight into the appeal of sports . Also , it is one of the most important films ever made to deal with racial issues for the same reason . Crumb is the most important film ever made on the subject of the artist . Never has a film had more insight into an artist's work than Crumb does into R . Crumb . Each time I watch it , his artwork becomes more deep and complex . Each drawing becomes extremely multi-layered . R . Crumb was hardly inhibited while Zwigoff was filming him , nor were the other people who were interviewed . Crumb spares none of his personal life . Because of this , we learn more about him than we have ever learned about a single fictional character in film history . Not Charles Foster Kane , not Jake LaMotta , not Travis Bickle . No one . R . Crumb is also extremely anti-capitolistic . I love this ! He has inspired me with his thoughts . He never existed as an artist to make money . He has enough to exist happily , but he does not live in a mansion , nor does he own a sports team . He does not own a fleet of vehicles . In fact , he can't even drive !
Underrated	This movie has suffered from an undeserved Oscar backlash . It is truly a powerful film experience . The writing , direction , and acting are all perfect . All the passion of this film is overwhelming ! What did this film do wrong to anger so many people ? Was it the complexity of the characters and the situations that they were in ? Was it some anti-British sentiment ? No , I'm willing to bet that it is just plain stupidity . So get a life and watch this masterpiece again .
A great masterpiece	Pier Paolo Pasolini might be the most underrated director of all time . You hear almost nothing about him nowadays , except how disgusting Salo was . But , in my mind , Pasolini ranks evenly with the other great masters , Fellini , Visconti , De Sica , Antonioni , and Rosselini , perhaps better than them . Pasolini is probably the most humane of all of them ( even when considering Salo ) . The Decameron is a perfect representation of Medieval European humor . Perhaps those unfamiliar with Medieval literature should avoid it , but all Medievalists must see it at some point . The stories are hilarious , and the human stories are beautiful . Just take a look at any face in the film . Pasolini is such a great lover of beautiful faces . Not that all the faces represent the standard concept of beauty , but the ones that might be considered ugly are exceedingly beautiful .
An S & M masterpiece ; Please , release more stuff like this !	A discovery like this reminds me how much more there is to Japanese cinema besides Kurosawa , Ozu , and Mizoguchi . Well , my two favorite Japanese filmmakers are Sezuki Seijun and Shinya Tsukamoto , maverick filmmakers in their own country . Yasuza Masumura may be thrown on that list pretty quickly here , although this production doubtlessly had more money than , say , Branded to Kill . I won't go into too much detail with Blind Beast . Suffice it to say that it's one of the best films I've ever seen . It's easy to compare it to some vaguely arty trash like In the Realm of the Senses ( and I say that in the best way ) . That film was discovered by the French . I wish they would have found this and canonized it instead . It's far more artistically accomplished , and much , much more emotionally and physically draining . .
Life's a bitch !	Kenji Mizoguchi's Life of Oharu is the tragic , humanistic tale of , well , the life of a woman named Oharu . Born into luxury , she errs with a man of lower class . For this offense , she is exiled along with her parents , convicted of letting their child run wild . As the film progresses , Oharu goes through about a thousand hardships - hell , any normal person would have killed herself after experiencing just the first of Oharu's hardships ! Life of Oharu is very heavy , but it avoids emotional manipulation . It even has a couple of humorous moments . If you doubt me , watch the scene where the jealous wife pesters her husband , trying to force him to admit that he first met Oharu at a brothel . The man is being shaved by his personal barber , and his wife keeps riding up on his side . So the husband lifts his mirror and walks a few spaces away , just to have his wife sidle up right against him again ! The climax to this particular episode ( the part with the cat , if you're confused ) is also quite humorous . Still , most of the film is heart-rending . It's also amazingly directed by Mizoguchi . His camera movement is exquisite , absolutely exquisite . I was left a little disappointed in Sansho the Bailiff , often said to be his best film , but the direction of Oharu is original and masterful . The acting is also wonderful . .
Angelopoulos can do no wrong	I think anyone familiar with Angelopoulos knows what to expect with his films : long , drawn out , meticulously planned shots that slowly scan environments , with the image composed of not only the foreground but hundreds of yards into the background . I guess some are not impressed with the director's style , but that really astounds me . I definitely see the man as a master of his medium , and The Weeping Meadow is as good as any of his other films ? every one I've seen so far is a masterpiece or close to it . This film has a lot in common with the director's first big success , The Traveling Players . It follows a little girl , Eleni , from 1919 to the time of the Greek Civil War , at the end of WWII . And , as the title implies , it's a great tragedy . There is a lot of weeping . It may be long and slow , but it's always gripping . Angelopoulos ' imagery is second to none in modern cinema . There are just so many jaw-dropping sequences . My favorite was the one where the camera explored its way through a maze of bed sheets drying on clotheslines , discovering various musicians hidden within . It's not a complaint , per se , but if you're going to watch the film beware of its chronological ellipses . The film can skip ahead years in just a second , when the pace usually makes each second feel like years ( in a good way ! ) . I hope New Yorker video , or some other company , digs up the Angelopoulos films that have been unavailable so far , and puts The Traveling Players on DVD , as well .
Beautiful masterpiece	This has dropped slightly in my esteem since my first viewing , when I thought of it as Miyazaki's second best and one of the best ever made . Well , yeah , actually , I still consider it one of the best films ever made , but that definitely covers everything he's ever done . What can I say ? I'm an unabashed fan . Porco Rosso may be Miyazaki's most insubstantial . There's almost no plot , and what little there is is downright goofy . But that's okay . It's all a lot of fun . Miyazaki captures so many moments of sublime beauty that the film does indeed turn out to be something of a masterpiece . A small one , but a wonderful one . And I think the love theme of score is the most beautiful piece of music that Jo Hisaishi has ever written .
Fascinating ; Freudian analysis of The Birds	One would think , not having seen this film , that it is just a normal horror film where a mass of animals attacks people who run from them and scream . Well , this film is different , in that it was directed by the single greatest director of all times , Alfred Hitchcock . The Birds was made during his peak . It follows on the heels of such films as Rear Window , Vertigo , North by Northwest and Psycho . It is as well directed as those films . In fact , it is even more daring than those . Several classical Hollywood elements are missing from this film . For one thing , and perhaps the most effective choice made by Hitchcock for this film , there is no musical score . Even in his best films , Psycho and Vertigo , for instance , the films are swept along by the score . They are great scores , by maybe the best score composer who ever worked in the movies , Bernard Herrmann , but to see a Hitchcock film without a score is just fantastic . Even the best musical scores are meant to manipulate your emotions , so here we get a chance to see just how effective a film can be without one . Also , the end of this film is perhaps the most unconventional you're ever going to see ( although Vertigo also has a very unconventional ending ) . It is possibly the most startling image I've ever seen . Even if it just had Hitchcock's amazing direction going for it , The Birds also benefits from an absolutely masterful script . It is never as if the story is just that birds attack people . It is much , much more complex than that . And herein lies my Freudian Analysis . Of course , coming right after Psycho , Hitch was probably jumping to keep the whole Oedipus theme alive here . Annie , the school teacher , expresses this literally . But I would like to interpret the birds as more of a symbol than actual matter . Think back to the film Forbidden Planet . Remember the Monster of the Id , the invisible and immaterial beast who destroyed every person who attempted to take Dr . Morbius and his daughter off the planet , basically whoever threatened to steal his daughter from him ? I think the birds in The Birds serve the same function for Lydia . When Melanie Daniels , a supposed sexual predator , enters the small , peaceful town of Bodega Bay , she does so to prey on Mitch Brenner . We find out , just as much by her actions as by Annie's speech , that Lydia is very jealous of her son's women . Melanie is also introducing her carnality onto the town as a whole . She brings the love birds for Cathy . Mitch had at first asked that the love birds not be too willing to display their love , and the first thing that Cathy asks is , " How can I tell which one is male and which one is female ? " Notice also that the mother in the restaurant attacks her for being responsible . This ought to seem ridiculous , but it seems perfectly logical in the text of this film . The woman says , " I think you're responsible . Who are you ? WHAT are you ? " At the end of the film , Lydia does seem to accept Melanie . The birds are still there , but they do not harm them as they leave . Too often this film gets shoved into the horror genre and left there . I believe it was Hitchcock's most successful film , and for some reason , I think that more people could identify it and identify it as a Hitchcock film than any of his other films except for maybe Psycho . The Birds , and Psycho , too , which is also often classified as a horror film ( which it is not in any way ) are far too complex to be labeled with such a small label . They are both masterpieces . Psycho has always been regarded as one . The Birds is sometimes , but not as often . It is certainly one of Hitchcock's best . This man was a god . The Birds is a godly film .
Far , far , far better than it is given credit for . A great film , really	I can understand some of the arguments that people have made against this film through the years . Its revisionist history can seem pretty simplistic , and its depiction of Indians seems stereotypical and not particularly enlightened . Or at least that all seems true on first glance . But I can also understand why a few revisionist film critics , including some of us on IMDb , are beginning to re-examine Buffalo Bill . I've seen a couple of people refer to it as a masterpiece , and I'm very much leaning towards that direction myself . Even if one were to find its themes and message poorly done , it would be hard to deny the grand vision of Altman in this film . This is one of his most ambitious , perhaps surpassed only by Nashville . The entire movie takes place in and around Buffalo Bill's theme park-like show . The Wild West is pretty much dead , and Bill ( played by Paul Newman ) , who famously hunted buffalo and fought with Indians , has encapsulated the experience in a little world all his own . He's shined it up into some rip-roaring entertainment , a sort of Hollywood before Hollywood existed . The film is as much a show-biz exposé as The Player ( and I would say it's much more effective ) . We meet a fantastic cast of characters , played by many of the best actors around giving wonderful performances . Among them are Joel Grey , Kevin McCarthy , Burt Lancaster , Harvey Keitel ( really playing against type as Bill's goofy , childlike nephew ) , and Geraldine Chaplin ( as Annie Oakley ) . Everyone , including Buffalo Bill himself , is deftly characterized in a very Altmanesque way . They wander through a semi-story , often seen and heard only in glimpses . Chaplin in particular , who gives probably the most memorable performance in the film , has very few lines . Mostly she characterizes Annie through her face . The Wild West Show is becoming more and more popular , and grossing more and more money . Their newest attraction is Sitting Bull , the man who famously defeated George Custer at Wounded Knee several years earlier . To have Sitting Bull for his show makes Bill extremely proud . In his mind , he has now defeated and subjugated the one Indian who really gave the white man a run for his money , and , by doing so , he has single-handedly tamed the West . Unfortunately for him , Sitting Bull is no subject . He has only joined the show because he has dreamed that , if in the show , he would get to meet President Grover Cleveland . We only once see Sitting Bull speak , when he attempts to talk to Cleveland . The rest of the time , his servant , Halsey ( Will Sampson , from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest ) , speaks for him . While he's participating in the show , he wants to change it in order to make it more factual . Altman's detractors will have a field day with Buffalo Bill and the Indians . The biggest complaint against the director , as it seems to me , is that he is overly cynical and hates his characters . I'll admit that that is sometimes true , but I also think that the detractors see that aspect where it just doesn't exist . It does exist in this film , however . Buffalo Bill is most certainly a target for derision . Most of the action in the film revolves around the man being humiliated by Sitting Bull . Bill thinks he's the greatest adventurer who ever lived , and the film delights in having him showed up by the Sioux chief . I do not believe that it is an artistically invalid to have a character as the central target of a satire . Network , made the same year , has Faye Dunnaway , for instance . Who can like her by the end of the film . The difference is , I suppose , that Dunnaway wins some pathos by the end of the film . Maybe that's a difference , anyway . Buffalo Bill might have a bit of it by the end of the film , I think . The character of Buffalo Bill is a wonderful satirical target because he really exists in such a state of absurdity . Once a genuine American military hero , Bill Cody wrapped up his entire experience and put it inside a bottle . In that bottle , the Wild West grew more and more fantastic , and less and less real . The environment is controlled , the goings on are fake , and any bit of history is freely created . It's not unfair , I suppose , to say Buffalo Bill and the Indians has a somewhat simplistic revisionist history behind it , but , in a big way , it is itself about revisionist history . Buffalo Bill Cody was revising history , creating entertainment out of true , historical human misery . And that's not only the suffering of the Native Americans , which is at the forefront of the film , of course , but also white settlers . The film begins with a rehearsal of an Indian raid on homesteaders . The bigger message is that was what Hollywood did , as well . Bill likes his world , loves it , in fact . It is a celebration of his ego ( the film often focuses on the gigantic portraits of Bill , which certainly would garner much criticism from some people ? and I would agree that it's not particularly subtle , but I would also say that it is pretty funny at times ) . Sitting Bull , one of the greatest Indian leaders and , from most accounts , an enormously clever and skilled man , completely undermines Bill's superiority as soon as he arrives . A blowhard as big as Buffalo Bill deflates pretty easily . Sitting Bull's presence also works to make Bill finally look around himself and begin to question the false world he has erected around himself . This thread of the film is resolved , at least as regards the narrative , in the climactic sequence , where Bill encounters Sitting Bull in a dream . This sequence is probably the low point of the film , I think . It more or less spells out everything that the film has been building to , and it doesn't really accomplish anything new . We know Altman for his amazing and original climaxes , and this one is certainly not one of his best . Still , it does work in a strictly functional way , and it is followed by a truly interesting and exquisite final sequence . This final sequence , which I won't discuss in this review , is not merely restating what has already come before , as I believe many viewers will take it . This , I think , is where the character of Buffalo Bill claims his pathos . Paul Newman's eyes in that final close-up are both frightening and quite sad , in any number of ways . Any film as shallow as many people like to claim this one is would never have given rise to this much depth in one man's expression . If you watch it and don't see it , I really think you've missed the point . Even if you don't buy into the content of Buffalo Bill and the Indians , it's hard to imagine being unimpressed by Altman's direction or any of the other technical aspects of the film . Many claim it to be a bore , but I think Altman was just light years ahead of his audience at times . It's very entertaining and especially very funny at times . There are any number of masterful sequences . In my opinion , it is second in achievement only to Nashville .
One of the great Westerns	I have seen the previous Budd Boetticher / Randolph Scott collaboration a short while back , Seven Men from Now . It was good , but not particularly memorable , except for Lee Marvin's ambiguous villain . The Tall T , on the other hand , is pretty much perfect , the kind of taut Western that Anthony Mann was making around the same time , and just as good as any of Mann's films . Randolph Scott is still a block of wood , but nothing more is really needed . He's a believably intelligent independent rancher , who uses his smarts to get out of a jam . That jam makes up the plot of this very short film . A newlywed couple , an accountant and the aging daughter of the richest man around , along with a stagecoach driver and Scott , a friend of the driver who has lost his horse and is just picked up along the way , are captured by a threesome of desperate rogues . They kill the driver when he makes a move , and , scared , the husband ( John Hubbard ) tells the bandits who his wife is and that they can ransom his wife ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) . They keep Scott for insurance , and for other reasons that are kept obscure for a while . It's the psychology of the three criminals that really makes the film . Richard Boone plays the leader ; he's smarter than his partners , makes them do the violent work . He actually has something of a soul . Henry Silva plays a half-Chinese man who is more interested in killing than money , and Skip Homeier plays a young , naïve man . As Scott learns more about them , he is able to use their personalities against each other . These three actors are superb , but my favorite performance of the film comes from Hubbard , who is so wonderfully slimy as the yellow husband . O'Sullivan is also very good . The film is one of the most economical I've ever seen . It skips out on so many scenes that any other movie would have included , and you see so clearly hear that these ellipses could have saved us hours and hours at the movies . If nothing else , The Tall T teaches us that a movie can be 78 minutes long and still as memorable as any three hour epic . .
Rambling on . . .	I don't know what to say about Persona , but I know I have to say something . I can say straight out that I did not fully grasp it , nor do I believe that it is fully able to be grasped . Like my favorite film , 2001 , Persona allows for a plethora of interpretations , none of which can ever be said to be correct . But I know now that I do not understand everything . And I love that about it . Jesus , it needs to be released on DVD . Criterion , are you listening ? ? ? Screw everything else for the moment , do a DVD edition of Persona complete with scholarly commentary ( and not the same scholar who commented on your edition of The Seventh Seal , because he did not answer my questions ) . Not that I want anybody to tell me definitively what anything means , because I doubt anyone can do that . I just want some people to share my thoughts with . I want to watch and rewatch this film dozens of times . With a DVD , a nice one , I could scrutinize it extremely carefully , as I have thankfully been able to do with such great films as The Seventh Seal , The Third Man , Nashville , etc , etc , etc . Watch a scene , quickly rewind , watch it again and memorize each and every word and motion . I'm starting to feel like the main character from Antonini's Blowup ! I rented this film two days ago and have watched it twice . If I had not been so tired the first night , I surely would have gone through it a second time that very same night . Doubtless , I would have done it again later . And I still have it for a couple of days , the rest of my life be damned ! All I can really comment on is the artistry of Sven Nykvist , the cinematographer , always been one of the very best , and on the acting skills of Liv Ulmann and especially Bibi Andersson , who gives one of the bravest and most powerful performances I've ever seen in a movie . I would compare her skill in this film to my favorite performance of all time ( that I've seen ) : Marlon Brando in Last Tango in Paris . It seemed to me that she was becoming extremely involved in her character . And this is where I need to just engulf myself in this film . While I cannot exactly " get " this film from a narrative angle entirely , the important thing , and the aspect of the film which will no doubt bring me back time after time ( as long as I can someday get it on DVD , because , as far as I'm concerned , VHS is only for rental anymore ) is the emotional aspect . While my intellect had a somewhat difficult time holding on to the text of the film , my emotions were right with the characters . It was an extraordinarily gut-wrenching film for me , and I felt , well , some weird feelings after it ended ( part of which certainly had to do with the fact that certain parts of the movie boggled my mind ) . So my final score is without a doubt a . Few movies compare .
Perfection	I first saw this film around three or four years ago for the first time . I had watched it late at night , and I was very sleepy after it ended . I was rather ambivalent towards it . To tell you the truth , I don't know whether I had even heard of it before I rented it . And I don't even remember if it was my first film by Francois Truffaut , either . I have seen two others , The Green Room , which I didn't like all that much , and Shoot the Piano Player , which I loved . My guess would be that I saw The Green Room first , then looked up what else Francois Truffaut had made , and which ones were considered his better films . Anyhow , by some route I rented The 400 Blows , and , as I said above , it left me unaffected . I went to bed afterwards without thinking much about it . It was only a couple of months later that I realized how good it was . The memories came flooding back one day when someone mentioned it to me . I have had similar experiences with La Dolce Vita and Casablanca , among others . As I thought more and more about it , I realized just how great it was . Still , I never went back to it until now . I am strange in that way . There are some movies , some of which aren't even that good , that I will watch over and over again , alone or with friends . There are other films which I know are great , but that I never feel I have time to revisit them ( there are always more films to be watched ) . The 400 Blows is one of those films , unfortunately . I don't know why . I have even considered purchasing it several times . I never did . So when I saw it tonight , it was like seeing something brand new . I remembered only a few of the most memorable scenes : the carnival ride ( followed by Antoine catching his mother with a strange man ) , the whole Balzac sequence , the psychologist's interview , and , of course , the famous final shot , the freeze-frame of Antoine Doinel looking into the camera . After this time , I will probably remember everything a lot better and a lot longer . The first time , when I was ambivalent , I had time to forget before I finally grabbed hold of those fading memories . Why is this film special ? Because it is the perfect example of childhood caught on film . I don't think there is anyone who could watch it without thinking that it rings true . Every piece of film that deals with a similar subject falls behind this one . The only one that I can think of that comes anywhere near is Federico Fellini's _ Amarcord _ . Jean Vigo's _ Zero for Conduct _ is also very interesting , and probably influenced this film a lot ( I know Truffaut was familiar with it , but that may not have been until after this film came out ) . Antoine Doinel is such an endearing character . I hope that sometime soon I can procure and see his other filmic exploits . And I really need to see more Truffaut in general . I'm far behind with him . Well , The 400 Blows deserves a , no doubt . It is easily one of the best films ever made , and one of those films that any knowledgable person would include it in a list of films that are absolutely necessary for a student of film .
Definitely one of the great American films .	This movie is most famous for a scene in which Jack Nicholson tells a waitress to hold the chicken salad between her knees so he can get some plain wheat toast , but , in a movie as good as this , that very famous scene may be its least memorable one . After that scene , I hadn't heard anything about what this film was really about , and its depth and power took me completely by surprise . It's a story of a man trapped in his own life , unable to find a place to settle . All the locations at which he has arrived have lead to nothing but disappointment and the realization that there just might not be a life for him . God , how I can sympathize . Just as I was starting to question whether Nicholson was as good an actor as everybody seems to think he is , I've come upon his very best performance . Karen Black plays his girlfriend , a hick who loves him to death . He's not sure if she's good enough for him , or vice versa . Lois Smith , Ralph Waite , and Susan Anspach give good supporting performances . A flat-out masterpiece .
There's hardly been a better film ever made	Umberto D . may be the single most powerful film ever made . It's pretty much impossible not to be affected by it , and I'd imagine only a monster could get through it without shedding a tear . It's not all sad , and certainly cannot be called unrelentingly depressing . There are plenty of beautifully funny moments . The main character , Umberto , is one of the greatest characters I've ever met at the movies . It would be simple to make him just a man to pity : he is a poor old man who is down on his luck . But the artists behind the film have fleshed him out into an incredibly human character . The supporting characters , even those who show up for just a moment , are just as well created . And the acting is godly . , without a second thought . It's one of the best films ever made .
This film shows us the unseen face of alcoholism : the humor !	I think that W . C . Fields ' caricature is recognizable by many people , but I think almost no one is familiar with him from his actual movies . More likely , people are just familiar with him from Looney Toons and such . But the actual comedian W . C . Fields was an absolutely hilarious guy . He fits in with other classic comedians like Keaton and Chaplin and Lloyd and even the Marx Brothers and the Three Stooges in that he had an established persona which appeared in his films . What is really unique about him is his perfection in comedic acting , both physical , like the comedy you would see in the silents , and in delivering dialogue . His timing is so good in The Bank Dick . The dialogue has to be some of the best comedic dialogue ever written . To boot , the other players in the film are just as funny . His family members are just great , especially his youngest daughter , who constantly beats on him with various objects . And when you see the film , which you definitely should , notice that Shemp Howard of the Three Stooges plays the bartender whom Fields ( his name is Eggbert Souse ( pronounced Soosay ! ) ) follows around back to the bar whenever their paths happen to cross . The Bank Dick is certainly one of the funniest comedies ever made .
There is no better film about Jesus Christ	Well , maybe there is , but I've never caught a glimpse of it . Most movies about him are fundamentally wrong . In a religion which has totally turned its back on the line " it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to get into the kingdom of Heaven " ( in fact , I am surprised that some pope or other did not officially removed that line from the Bible ; be sure that this film retains it and has it come right out of the mouth of Jesus Christ , who , I assume , was its speaker in the Bible ) , movies about Jesus are generally overproduced messes that do nothing but retell the story with much less effect than the Bible itself has . Even Martin Scorsese's version of the story , The Last Temptation of Christ , suffers from this . Although , despite its flaws , it has a lot more power than most films about these same events . I do not understand why Pier Paolo Pasolini , who was a Marxist , a homosexual , and an atheist , made this film . But , despite his reason , it has turned out to be a great masterpiece . No one has ever attempted to set the story in its proper setting , at least not to my knowledge . The characters here are certainly semitic and Middle Eastern , unlike the entirely Anglo-Saxon casts of every other Jesus film or even any other religious film . Also , the cast , made up of unprofessional actors including Pasolini's own mother as the elder Mary , has not one beautiful face amongst it , except for maybe the actress who plays the younger Mary ; she is quite beautiful . These faces and bodies are real : unattractive , harsh and worn . Teeth are not straight and white , but crooked and discolored as they certainly would have been before dentists were around . Clothing is not beautifully colored , but plain and tattered . Only the richest people could afford dye for clothing . Pasolini has also forsaken the traditional look of Jesus Christ . While the facial hair remains similar , although maybe lessened , the long hair is dropped in favor for shorter hair , which is the way that people wore it at the time . The image of the long-haired Jesus is a case of syncresis , that is , the mixing of religions ; that image was adopted from the ancient Greek depictions of Bacchus , the god of wine . What results is an account as straighforward as can possibly exist . With Pasolini's own personal convictions , the audience does not have to feel like they are being preached at . Christians , unless they are so foolish as to believe that Jesus WAS an Anglo-Saxon , should be moved to tears . Nonbelievers ( anyway , those who appreciate film ) will reel at the marvelous use of classical music ( including , strangely enough , Prokofiev's music from Eisenstein's Alexander Nevsky ) , the greatness of the actors , especially the man who plays Christ ( I've heard that he was a Marxist truck driver ) , and the beautiful simplicity of Pasolini's direction , sort of a perfect mix between Italian Neorealism and French New Wave . I myself , a staunch atheist , found it very powerful . .
The Purina Dog Chow company will expand and make a big mistake !	Ridely Scott is such a minimalist in Alien that many sci-fi nuts find it slow and unexciting . So many people prefer Aliens , its sequel , to this one . I think Aliens , directed by James Cameron , is another sci-fi masterpiece ( and maybe the best action film ever made ) , but I think Alien is much better . In fact , I would say that it is among the best films ever made , in sci-fi , only second to 2001 . The plot absolutely lacks contrivance . All the plot points develop how they would naturally . And there are great surprises throughout the film . Even if you haven't seen the film , you know about the chest-bursting scene . You probably saw it parodied dozens of times . But watch the scene where Ian Holm reveals his secret ! That is one amazing scene ! I actually saw the sequel first , so I kind of knew that secret , too , but it still shocked me . It was so well directed . Notice how the dialogue works . It never particularly draws attention to itself . It actually reminds me of Robert Altman , how he directed such movies as Nashville , where many characters are speaking at the same time , and nothing seems more or less important than anything else . It is just like real life . Alien is one of the most realistic , documentary-like sci-fi films ever made . Also notice the setting . The Nostromo's design is so believable that I feel that I'm actually seeing a real space vehicle . The alien ship also beams with its spookiness . The characters are also extremely believable . They are so well written that even the first character who dies is completely developed . If you get the DVD , they actually created dossiers about each of the crew members . It also has extra scenes which round out the characters even more . I think Ripley is one of the most endearing characters in film history . Even in the last two sequels , which were visually interesting but not very well written or directed , Ripley held my interest . I teared up when she died at the end of 3 . If they made a fifth one , I would go , no matter how terrible I knew it would be . The acting is also top-notch . Ian Holm , a great actor , gives one of his best performances here . I love the last scene that he is in . Truly a master . And of course Sigourney Weaver could have just as easily been nominated for an Oscar for her performance here as she was for Aliens . I wish she would make more movies . She's so talented . The most important part of a film , in my mind , is the mood . And boy , does Alien have one of the most genuinely spooky movies I've ever seen . Make sure you watch it after the sun has gone down . Also , watching it alone will help . The special effects are kind of cheap , but Scott knows this well enough . He only shows the alien for seconds at a time . Besides keeping us from seeing the shoddiness of those puppets , this technique makes the alien seem all the more creepy and mysterious . , no doubt at all ( BTW , the symbols all over the Nostromo are the same insignias as those of the Purina Dog Chow company )
One of the most underrated films ever	I was reminded of this film after sitting through the ( bad ) film The Cell . I don't know if that film's director , Tarsem , had seen Santa Sangre , but it was quite similar . For those who have not seen Santa Sangre , please do . It is basically a more foreign version of Hitchcock's Psycho . It is excessive , but its excesses are all interesting and fun to watch . Plus , I actually did care about the characters at the end of the film .
Perhaps Rene Clair's most perfect film	Jean and Anna are young and in love . They spend Bastille Day together trying to dance the night away , trying to get in a kiss or two . Things keep getting in the way though , funny things like the rain , the whim of the band that's playing , and the stuffy old woman walking around . Unfortunately , when Jean returns home , his ex-girlfriend is waiting for him on his bed . Misunderstandings ensue , and it's not worth ruining by revealing all the wonderful things that happen through the rest of this film . I love À nous la liberté and Le million a lot , but neither of them reach the emotional peaks of Quatorze Juillet . It's still just as humorous as the other two , perhaps more so , but neither of them moved me like this one . It's not a musical , but it is imbued with very beautiful music . It's a magical film , one of the best ever made . Annabella , who also starred in Le million , is back as Anna in this one . .
Hollywood Masterpiece	Man , I've never seen Greta Garbo before . She is absolutely electric in Queen Christina , giving a performance of great strength and passion . In fact , if there is a flaw in this film , it is that Garbo is TOO good . She draws your attention away from all other parts of the film , all action and all other performances , so that you can only stare at that vision of beauty and power . We don't have stars anymore . Julia Roberts ? Don't make me laugh . When she's in a movie , all I tend to do is stare at her chest . Greta Garbo exudes a sexuality which is somehow simultaneously subtle and demanding . Despite the difficulties of looking elsewhere , I did often enough to claim that this film is a masterpiece in all other aspects as well . The production design is marvelous . The cinematography ( especially when the photography is of Garbo ! ) is impeccable and gorgeous . The writing is actually wonderful , too . There are a lot of magnificent lines . Indeed , there are so many great ones that I can't at the minute pick out one in particular . Perhaps the exchange : " You can not die an old maid , my queen . " to which Christina replies : " I won't . I plan to die a bachelor . " SLIGHT SPOILERS : Oh yes . The lesbian erotica . I must admit , that aspect of the film was what convinced me to sit down and watch it . There isn't too much , but there are a few very hot moments where Christina is kissing her young servant girl and one great scene where a wench is hitting on her , believing her to be a man . The main romantic relationship in the film is between Christina and Antonio , an envoy from Spain . There's also a choice sequence of homoeroticism , where she , again , pretending she is a young man , ends up in the same room at an inn with him . She does finally reveal her femininity and ends up sleeping with him ( in one of those awesome Hollywood edits ) . In the morning , Antonio's servant comes to tell him that they cannot yet leave the inn . He and Christina , whom others think is a young man , are sleeping in a bed under a large canopy . When the servant tells him their dilemma , Antonio replies : " Good . " " Are you going to get up from bed now ? " " No . I think I will stay in bed all day today . " The servant has a very perplexed look on his face . " Well , do you want some hot chocolate ? " " Yes . " " Er , um , how about the , um , other gentleman ? " Antonio answers for shim : " Yes . " Now , what do you think that implies ? ? ? .
Poor Lars von Trier	Poor Lars von Trier . Why do people hate you so ? Perhaps it is because you have come into existence so late in the chronology of film history . I personally do not believe that the filmic art has died or even weakened . It is as strong as ever right now . Every decade has its masterpieces . The only difference between them is that in a few decades the great films all contain similar themes via the tempora and mores . People will tell you that the worst dry spell for film was the 1980s , and a lot of people in the near future will carry this over into the 1990s . It is total bunk , untrue . There was just no dominant theme . The actual reason , though , why people refuse to notice the masterpieces of the last two decades is not because there either were none or that there was no dominant theme . It is because the definitions of greatness have changed amongst the critics . They have grown bitter , and refuse to pay attention , ready at the drop of a hat to come up with a really creative phrase in their criticism or to use one of their favorite words , " overwrought , " " pretentious , " " self-indulgent . " I think the word " overwrought " perfectly describes Citizen Kane , though I will be the first to call it one of the greatest films ever made . Orson Welles is almost hubristic in the techniques he uses to make the film . All the words listed above could probably be used to describe that film . These words all have a common synonym not found in Roget's : " original . " Critics today are so cynical , they refuse to admit anything original into their intellects . Here fits all the works of Lars von Trier . Previous to The Element of Crime , I had seen his three latest films , all Dogmaesque ( Dogma 95 , of course , authored by Trier ; only one of his films , The Idiots , was actually made under the banner of Dogma 95 . Breaking the Waves was its immediate precursor and Dancer in the Dark , made right after The Idiots , is the immediate next step in the director's evolution ) . These films were made with a certain " vow of chastity " that gave them an emotional immediacy like no other films I've ever seen . Breaking the Waves is Trier's only enormous hit in the USA . Even though there are many people who do see an enormously sexist view behind it , most people were deeply affected by it . I am included here , as it was the first film of his that I saw . I cried my eyes out for about the final hour of that film . Many people find Dancer in the Dark similar in power , but there is a much louder criticism and hatred for this film . It seems less complex than Breaking the Waves , and the sexism which was accused in Breaking can be seen much more clearly here , or at least that is what the critics claim . Me , again , I found it utterly powerful . And then there is the Idiots , which must be the most misunderstood film made . It is almost universally hated . Barely released in the US , it is apparently not going to be released on DVD ( those creeps ) . Me ? Well , I love it and feel sorry for its director , who just happens to be the genius whom he claims to be so often . Now I finally get to journey back to his pre-Dogmaesque films with Element of Crime . I've already wasted most of my space on a rather useless diatribe , but I'd just like to say , as part of the genre of the apocalyptic future , it is better than Brazil , Blade Runner , and even A Clockwork Orange . It is the complete opposite of the Dogmaesque films . Whereas they are an exploration of emotion , this film , and I assume the other pre-Dogmaesque films , is an exploration of the intellect . It relies on its sly style more than on its content , where the Dogmaesque films are the opposite . There is hardly a better film in terms of artistry of composition . Only Sejun Sezuki's Branded to Kill matches it in pure audacity . I say , if you are wondering whether you should buy this film ( on DVD , Criterion ) just to see it , YES . DO IT . It is well worth your money .
Pretty much a masterpiece	I honestly want to throw every superlative I can think of at this movie . I'm an unabashed Pixar fan , and have been since Toy Story 2 , but I was a little disappointed in their last two films , Cars and Ratatouille . Both were good , very good at times , but I don't think they hit the level of what came before . To me , WALL-E is a return to form . No , that's too weak . It's their peak . No , that's wrong , too . A " peak " implies that they're about to go down . I doubt that's true , although it's going to be hard to beat this one . WALL-E is my favorite of the Pixar films so far because I think it goes past the point of merely fantastic to that of being transcendent . It's a truly visionary film , one that inspired my jaw to drop over and over again . And it's intimate , too . It's hard to believe , but you're going to fall in love with a couple of robots when you watch the movie . And it's incredibly smart , too . Pixar has actually had this vein in most if not all of their movies , where they deliver moral lessons without any pandering whatsoever . The movie also contains deft social commentary . It's a pure joy to watch , and , without a doubt , one of the all-time great animated movies . Thank God for Pixar .
Best film of the 90s	I've never been more touched or involved by a movie relationship than by the relationship between Ben and Sera in this film . This film is a dream and it wrapped me up in its mood forever . I don't see it as being depressing . Surely some of it is , but the underlying spirit of this film lies in the main characters ' unconditional love for each other . There has never been any other film where I've believed in the love more ( except maybe Wings of Desire ) . Titanic is utterly laughable in comparison , a nightmarish teenage mentality that makes me sick to the soul . I would say that this is the only film in the 90s in my all time top ten . The performances should have both won Oscars ; Susan Surandon really did not deserve hers for Dead Man Walking . She always plays the same character . Nick Cage's and Elisabeth Shue's performances are paralleled by very few . It's too bad , but I think that most people have forgotten it . I think critics are too cynical in the 90s . Yes , there are a lot of bad films , more than usual probably . It's disconcerting that most bad films aren't put out by B-movie directors ( direct-to-video releases have stopped them ) , but by Hollywood and also the Indie filmmakers , who are truly just as bad as Hollywood in their lack of originality . Critics refuse to declare any film a masterpiece , as if there have been none this decade . Only three films have been deigned bona fide masterpieces in this decade : Schindler's List ( deserved , but only declared a masterpiece because of its director , who is hardly an auteur ) , Pulp Fiction ( deserved , but there have been many better films ) , and Fargo ( undeserved ; Siskel & Ebert made this one recognized all by themselves . Surely , it deserves recognition , but it has flaws ; originality should not be the only qualifier for a masterpiece ) . Leaving Las Vegas appeared on many top ten lists ( usually in the middle , though Roger Ebert had it as number one , though 1995 was a particularly poor year for films ) , but was shut out from the best Picture Oscars by such crowd pleasers as Babe and Braveheart . And Il Postino is just a Miramax joke . That is what really beat it out , because it hardly belonged at the Oscars at all . I know these comments have had little to do with the actual film . It would be really difficult to describe the power of this film . It is really an emotional experience , so you really have to see it . If you saw it and hated it , try it again . Just clear your head and let the mood absorb you . I hope it can give you a feeling similar to the one it has constantly given me since I saw it in 1995 .
Exceptional Western ( SPOILERS )	Perhaps not perfect , but I think Run of the Arrow is one of my favorite Westerns . I like it mainly because of the conflicted feelings of all the characters . I like when characters are unsure of themselves . The film opens on the last day of the Civil War . Rod Steiger plays an Irish immigrant , now a Southern soldier , O'Meara . He's so angry that General Lee has surrendered , he aims his rifle at him as he passes by . Luckily someone convinces him not to pull the trigger , and he eventually wanders back to his home , utterly defeated . Everyone around him has lost their pride , and he can feel his fading fast . So he jumps on his horse , the one he stole from the last Union soldier whom he shot ( but did not kill ) , the last soldier wounded in the war , and heads out West , which , unlike the South , is not part of " America . " O'Meara quickly runs into an old Sioux , Walking Coyote , who was working as a scout for the Union Army and is about to head back to his own tribe . O'Meara doesn't like the fact that he worked for the Union Army , but he can't help it that he's an interesting person . He's interested in the Sioux himself , and wonders if he can join the tribe ( as he knows that the Indians have constant conflicts with the Union ) . I'm skipping over a huge plot point ( whence comes the title ) , but eventually O'Meara is accepted as a member of the Sioux tribe , but he can never quite become one . He gets along fine with the tribe , but they don't look at him in the same way as they do fellow tribesmen . Even his wife ( okay , squaw ) , who once saved his life , can't accept him as one of them , though she loves him very much . Soon the United States Cavalry comes to the tribe , courting them in order to be able to build a fort . They seem peaceful enough , and O'Meara is chosen to scout for them , so that they won't build the fort anywhere where they will scare away bison . O'Meara is not happy to help the Union men , but he is obligated to do so . The captain of the outfit happens to be the man whom he shot at the beginning of the film , but he is completely kind to O'Meara , and also the Sioux , with whom he honestly wants to coexist peacefully . There is some nice dialogue between the two as the captain tries to get O'Meara to see things from other points of view . Unfortunately , a group of rebels from his tribe , assuming that the Cavalry cannot be acting honestly , attack and kill the captain . His second in command is much less forgiving to the Sioux ( and his underlings are easily convinced that the whole tribe is deadly after the assassination that they witnessed ) , and a small war erupts , and neither side really wants to trust O'Meara , who seems to be halfway between the two groups , and certainly not a full member of either . Here comes the climax , and there's no need to go into it in too much depth . The climactic sequence is well written , but , probably due to budget constraints , not well staged . It's okay , but the special effects and stunts aren't top notch ( even when arrows hit men right in their bellies , only the tip goes in ) . There is a nice scene where a squib explodes when a man gets shot in the forehead , shocking to see in a film from 1957 . I didn't think squibs even existed at the time , probably not until The Wild Bunch several years later . The film ends very well . In the dominant mood of the film , it leaves the audience with mixed feelings . Out of the three Fuller films I've seen ( including also Shock Corridor and The Naked Kiss ) , this is the best . Perhaps Shock Corridor is more immediately impressing , but I think Run of the Arrow will stay with me longer . Fuller's script is great , and the film deserves to be compared to any great Western . Even though it's not quite on a John Ford level ( I think both are masterpieces , but Run of the Arrow is a much smaller one ) , it would be good with The Searchers as a double feature . Both are about bitter Civil War veterans from the South out West . Ethan Edwards and O'Meara deal with things in quite the opposite way , of course , which is why they'd be interesting to see on the same bill . Rod Steiger's work should be especially appreciated . It's a difficult role , a difficult job to express the inner conflict of the character . At first look , it might not look like he shows much emotion . However , everything is expressed very subtly . I think Steiger knows exactly what he's doing here . The rest of the actors are first-rate , as well , even though all the Sioux are played by white people . It's obvious , but , oh well , just accept it . It wasn't a universal truth in 1957 , but it was pretty widespread . When there are choice roles , you know that they had to belong to semi-big-name actors . Heck , even the Native American Marlon Brando sent to accept his Godfather Oscar , in protest for the way Hollywood treated the race , was a white woman in disguise ! Charles Bronson plays Blue Buffalo , the Sioux chief . I didn't even recognize him ! .
Great American prose poem	One Hell of a movie , and very nearly perfect . Paul Newman , Melvyn Douglas , and Brandon De Wilde star as three generations of a ranching family . Douglas is the patriarch , stern and strong , but clearly moving ever closer to the end of his life . Paul Newman , who plays the title character , is his youngest and only surviving son . There is an obvious but unspoken conflict between the two of them . In the middle is Brandon De Wilde , actually the film's main character ( although all the choice acting moments belong to Douglas and Newman , and the yet to be mentioned Patricia Neal ) . His father , Newman's brother , died when he was very young . Growing up in Douglas ' shadow , he worships the man and tries to emulate his moral code . However , his wilder side sees the untamed Newman as a sort of folk hero , and the rare times when he gets to hang out with his uncle seem to him to be the best of his life . Patricia Neal plays their maid ( brilliantly , I should immediately state ) , after whom both uncle and nephew lust . A different conflict arises from this . As Hud , Paul Newman has many chances to be a second James Dean , exploding with emotion . Those scenes are excellent , of course , but where Hud succeeds most is at the edges of the screen . It is an enormously subtle film . The filmmakers should especially be commended for their amazing use of musical score . There is a really beautiful score , but it is never used , not once , to steer the audience's emotions . A good 90 % of the film has no music in the background . Hud is an American masterpiece . .
One of the greatest children's films ever made	This ranks up there with Pinocchio as the greatest movie for children ever made . One huge problem with most animated children's films are that the plots are so conventional and often contain very 1950s ideals for society that they become detrimental to society . One's childhood is the most impressionable time in their life , so movies that are directed towards them teach them what places different sorts of people play in society . There is a very humorous , but also very serious bit of dialogue in a film called The Last Days of Disco where characters discuss the effects Lady and the Tramp could have on little girls , depicting a young female dog falling for a vagabond Tramp . This , they muse , sets young women up to fall for rebellious men later in life . This may seem like a humorous idea , but it's absolutely true . Even good Disney movies give children these standards . As nice as The Little Mermaid or Beauty and the Beast or Cinderella or Snow White and the Seven Dwarves may be , they basically teach that it is the woman's place to grow up and get married , prefereably to a handsome rich man ( perhaps the rich part is never said , but both the main male characters in these films do happen to own castles ) . The writers of these films probably had no idea that that is what they were doing , but it is . That is why Pinocchio is the best Disney movie . It is probably the only Disney animated film that I can think of that actually concerns the predicament of its target audience : children . I can hardly think of a single ( American ) animated film besides it that has a child as its main character ( oh , the Jungle Book , which is also excellent ) . Then comes Kiki's Delivery Service . It is an absolutely perfect movie about a young girl out on her own trying to handle the responsibilities of life . It is , in my opinion , the best movie that a child can watch . And not only will it teach children , it is also marvelously animated , directed , and written . There is a plethora of great characters , exciting moments , and imaginative situations . It should also expand a child's mind , not only because of the imagination involved , which will help to break children away from conventions in their film experience , thus making them more intelligent , but because it comes from another culture . It doesn't overtly show its Japaneseness , unless you count the imagination involved ( though you should count that as a credit towards Hayao Miyazaki , who is the greatest genius of animation as far as I'm concerned ) . But it may spark an interest in children old enough to understand that someone from another country made it . Also , for younger kids , Miyazaki's fantastic , equally good My Neighbor Totoro . ( ps : I have only seen the dubbed version of this film . I find it perfectly acceptable and great . Nothing made me cringe , anyway . I think Kirsten Dunst did a very good job characterizing Kiki , a much better job than Claire Danes did characterizing San from Princess Mononoke . )
I kinda want to beat up some Germans right now . . .	When I first saw this film around 6 months ago , I considered it interesting , but little more . But it stuck with me . That interest grew and grew , and I wondered whether my initial boredom and response had more to do with the actual VHS quality rather than the film itself . I purchased the Criterion DVD box set , and it turns out that I was right the second time . Alexander Nevsky is a great film . It is rousing , and I'm sure it succeeded in its main aim : propaganda against the Germans . That is the most common criticism against this film , and against Eisenstein , that it is merely propagandist and nothing else . It's untrue . He is an amazing film artist , one of the most important whoever lived . By now , the world is far enough beyond Joseph Stalin to be able to watch Eisenstein's films as art .
Hard to beat for best film of ' 07	It would be hard to defend this nostalgic double-feature film as a masterpiece , but I can , without any guilt , say that it was one of the greatest experiences I've ever had at the theater . It's not just a movie ; it can legitimately be called an experience . Rodriguez's segment , Planet Terror , is probably the more easily enjoyed and more consistently enjoyable of the films . Kind of a rip-off of Romero's Dead series , but that makes perfect sense as it's supposed to be a cheap fright flick . And what easier way to make a cheap fright flick than to rip off a good one ? Planet Terror feels exactly like what it is supposed to be , with its disgusting gore , lame jokes and Godawful acting ( star Freddy Rodriguez , the segment's male lead , excels at this so well it's downright spooky ) . And , what's better , it rarely seems to be winking at the audience when it's doing these things . It's an all-out ball . Tarantino's segment , Death Proof , is a more confounding animal . After Planet Terror , any movie might seem a little slow . But Death Proof really is a slow burn . It starts off with a very 70s-ish feel , with outdated hairstyles and bad acting that feels like it comes from bad movies of that era . But then , about halfway through , it changes tones entirely and becomes a very modern-feeling movie , with mostly pretty good performances . The dialogue throughout is very much in the Tarantino vein , and let us not forget that it was his dialogue that made him famous . The structure of the film kind of seemed nouvelle vague-esquire , and of course Tarantino was a big fan of that movement . When Death Proof gets to its climax , though , it's pure adrenaline rush . The film references ( aloud ) Dirty Marry Crazy Larry , Vanishing Point and Gone in 60 Seconds , and then ends with one of the most entertaining car chases in cinema history . However disjointed Death Proof feels , it's still a damn fun movie . And the two halves of Grindhouse might not comment on each other much ( they do briefly share the same universe , in one weird sequence ) , but the entire thing just rocks . Add to that several fake trailers for other cheesy movies ( my favorite being the first one , Machete , of which a feature length version is supposedly already in production ) , and you've really got yourself some cinematic gold . It'll be a shame when Harvey " Scissorhands " Weinstein cuts it in two in a short while here , because it's all about the entire experience . Right now it's the film to beat for ' 07 .
Very satisfying light entertainment	I have lately got into the habit of purchasing any interesting DVD that the Criterion company releases . I figure that even if I dislike the movie , Criterion usually supplies enough extra material to compensate for any shortcomings in the actual film . I read up on them , and I buy the ones which are the most interesting to me . Le Million is my latest purchase , and I must say that I was not disappointed in the film . It is cheery , funny , and romantic . Everything about it is quite excellent . The songs are wonderful . If I understood French , I would probably hum them and sing them all day long . The acting is very good for this kind of movie . American musicals of the classic Hollywood era relied more on song and dance than the actual characters and story , but in Le Million , the characters are rather well developed and the story , while not being anything extremely impressive , is not at all lacking . I loved the developments of the relationships , especially the relationship between the once best friends Michel and Prosper . The romantic moments are also very well developed . The direction is nearly perfect , with several very memorable moments . Probably the single most perfect scene of the film occurs right after the lead couple has an argument . They hide on the stage of an opera performance , and the opera singers sing lines which the couple , Michel and Beatrice , interpret to their own situation . This is definitely one of the high points in cinema history . The scene managed to make me laugh , to win me over with a very sweet romance , and make me smirk at just how clever the director was . I give this film a . P . S . - Some information for anyone who has the same faith in Criterion that I do and is planning to buy it . Amongst the Criterion discs I now own , Le Million contains the fewest features . All it has is a photo gallery ( not all that useful ; one might flip through it once ) and a rare television interview with Rene Clair , the director . This piece is of some interest . He was one of the many directors who had started out in silent film , and when talkies were first appearing , he said that they represented the death of film . I think most film-savvy people understand what these directors meant when they said that , but it is interesting to hear him explain it . Also , if you have read the description of this movie on Amazon . com , please note that they were wrong in one important respect : not every line in the film is sung . In fact , it contains no more songs than a regular musical . It is actually a lot more like a Chaplin or Buster Keaton or Marx Brothers film . My criticisms of the disc are not that important . Heck , Criterion has the right to smack me around for making those complaints . The fact is , their people probably spent hundreds of hours fixing up a film which only 20 ( now 21 ! ) people have voted for on imdb , and only about a hundred people , if that , will ever see the film . Heck , if you look at the Criterion web site , Le Million is nowhere to be found . I have no clue why not . It's something they should really be proud of ( of course , their web site is surprisingly horrible ) . They did a fine job on this film . Bravo ! They deserve all the money I can stand to give them !
Masterpiece	I've seen the plot before , at least in some fashion . A man and a woman meet under tragic ( or tragicomic ) circumstances . They are complete opposites , but begin an unconventional , semi-romantic relationship . It took me the whole movie to think of where I had seen it , but I did finally come up with a title ( Monster's Ball ) . So I've seen the plot before . It's been done before . But it hasn't been done too often , and I tend to like stories like this . Besides , it's all in the way it's done , and , man , is this done right . Tadanobu Asano , best known as the masochistic villain Kakihara of Takashi Miike's Ichi the Killer , plays a withdrawn Japanese man living for unspecified reasons in Thailand . He works in a library and the walls of his meticulously organized apartment are lined with stacks of books . Through a couple of events , which are too good to spoil , he meets with polar opposite Sinitta Boonyasak , a Thai girl who works dressed up as a Japanese schoolgirl , and is probably something of a prostitute . Asano moves in with the girl and there is a connection ( in that order ) . This is a subtle film that flows like a gentle brook . Christopher Doyle , easily the best cinematographer working today , lends his impeccable style to the picture ( director Ratanaruang says many kind words about him in a 20 minute interview on the DVD ) , and the music , by Hualongpong Riddim , is simply amazing . Takashi Miike himself appears late in the film in an amusing role , and he's given the film's best line . Pen-Ek Ratanaruang's direction is truly impressive , and his attention to detail is particularly worth praising . It's a wonderful film , one that will live with me a long time .
Offensive , but it's a great cartoon	Betty ended her career in 1939 . I don't know which is her last cartoon , but I'm hoping it's this one . It would be a great culmination of the cartoon's development . Featuring some very offensive Indian stereotypes , but that doesn't mean it's not exceptional . Betty , transporting swing instruments to her band , stops at an Indian reservation to buy a tom-tom . The Indians steal her instruments and start using them in stereotypical Indian ways . A Hiawatha clone uses the cello case as a canoe , one man uses a trombone to siphon water from a pond , a woman uses drumsticks to crush corn into meal , and another man tries to cook with a bongo drum . Sally stops them and teaches them how to swing .
as funny as any other film ever made	I never really cared for the way a character in a Howard Hawks movie delivered their dialogue . I liked everything else about his movies - the direction , the actual dialogue , and the plots , but that rapid-fire delivery had turned me off in the past in such films as His Girl Friday , The Big Sleep , and The Thing from Another World ( which Hawks was rumored to have directed ) . Here , though , in Bringing Up Baby , everything is absolutely perfect . There is not the tiniest bit in this film that misfires . Everyone and everything is hitting bullseyes . You know how difficult that is to do when you're working with two leopards and a dog ? And it's so effortless it's almost scary . It's years ahead of its time - the only comparable talkie I can think of is Some Like it Hot , but I think Bringing Up Baby is actually better than that classic .
A masterpiece	Maybe the best prison film ever made because its origin is people who were actually in prison , most notably its main author , Miguel Piñero . The film deals with the interrelationship between the prisoners of a cell block . That's what most of the film is , the observation of these men and their culture . The plot of the film is about a new arrival ( Bruce Davison ) who has been arrested as a suspect on a child molestation charge . He's never been in prison , and he's very afraid , which , of course , he should be . Short Eyes doesn't make any easy choices at all , which makes for a particularly uncomfortable movie to watch . But it also makes it one of the gutsiest and most important films ever made , and it's one of the best movies I've ever seen . It's one of only two movies that I've ever watched twice right in a row . Well , the second time was with commentary by the director ( and another man , whose participation in the film I don't exactly know ) , because I wanted to know exactly how this film came about , and to confirm my guess that there was some kind of inside track to prison life behind the scenes . There was far more than I could have guessed ; the commentary also ranks as one of the best I've ever listened to . A masterpiece .
There is one joke in this short that cracks me up so much . . .	Pluto stumbles into a henhouse when chicks are being born , and they think that he is their mother . The joke I refer to is when one of the chicks eats a grasshopper as big as he is , and bounces around when the grasshopper refuses to stop . This is a very funny cartoon to be found on the new Silly Symphonies DVD collection .
We've really lost something nowadays	I don't want to be one of those " they don't make ' em like they used to " people , but I just can't help it when it comes to comedy . We've lost that talent completely , it seems . I can't think of any really great comedies of the past ten years . The golden age for film comedy was the mid 1930s to the mid 1940s ( at least for the talkies ; silent comedies were a totally different art form ) . This is also the period of the screwball comedy . My Man Godfrey was one of the first screwball comedies . Films such as Bringing Up Baby and The Lady Eve perfected the form , but My Man Godfrey is nearly as perfect . It isn't quite as funny as Bringing Up Baby nor is it as emotionally resonant as The Lady Eve , but it is funny , it has depression era social commentary ( its main theme is identical to Preston Sturges ' Sullivan's Travels , beating it by 6 years ) , and the script is marvelous . The finale is as good as any other comic finale , including the last scene of Some Like it Hot . The actors are also in top form . William Powell is the straight man , and he plays it very well . All the rest are as nutty as ever . Carole Lombard probably gives her greatest performance here ( I suppose I shouldn't say that since I've only seen her in one other film ; I can only guess at this since it is one of the funniest performances of film history ) . Gail Patrick is perfectly devious as Lombard's conniving sister . Eugene Pallette is great as their father . Alice Brady , though , steals the show as their mother , a total fruit cake whose protoge , Carlo ( Mischa Auer ) does nothing but eat the household's food and pound the same couple of notes on their piano . And look for cameos by MGM regulars Franklin Pangborn and Grady Sutton .
A twisted masterpiece	My first experience with Canadian director Guy Maddin , whom I've heard a lot about but for whom I wasn't quite prepared . This is easily one of the strangest films I've ever seen , and it was like nothing else I'd ever seen previously . I absolutely loved it . It's the kind of innovative film-making that makes my heart flutter with delight . It just boggles the mind that Isabella Rossellini would co-star with Kids in the Hall and SNL alum Mark McKinney in a bizarre art film . Actually , McKinney doesn't seem out of place at all . I don't know how familiar others are with The Kids in the Hall , but in their later seasons , each episode ended with a sketch somewhat longer than the others . These were often not pitched as comedy sketches , with jokes and punchlines , but as an artful comedy of a unique timbre . Does anyone remember the sketch about the worker at a sausage factory that felt similar to 1984 ? The Saddest Music in the World has the same subtle , almost impossible hilarity as those kinds of Kids in the Hall Sketches , but at over 100 minutes . And it works . It works beautifully . .
Powerful film , with two of the best performances of the past few years	I could easily imagine Hollywood remaking Olivier Assayas ' Clean ? in fact , I would be happy to see it . The story is a sure-fire Oscar winner . Whichever big Hollywood actress wants her Oscar , step right up . But it would certainly be melodramatic , and could never match the raw power contained in this film . Maggie Cheung plays a woman , Emily , trying to stay away from heroin after her husband has overdosed . Their son lives with her father-in-law ( Nick Nolte ) , who insists ( though kindly ) that she not see him for a few years , until she has proved that she can be responsible . The movie is mostly spent with Emily and her day-to-day life . She moves back to Paris , where she met her husband , and works in a Chinese restaurant , then in a department store . She desperately tries to get in contact with old friends who might help her get a decent job , but they all know her too well and don't trust her . The film is very observant of Emily as a human being . It's such an intimate portrait of a desperate person trying to get her life back together ? perhaps together for the first time in her life . Assayas , who also wrote the script , understands her deeply . And Maggie Cheung even moreso . Cheung gives one of the finest performances I've ever seen . Just the expressions on her face devastated me from scene to scene . I mean , she is so subtle . It's just outstanding . Assayas ' direction is likewise subtle . A Hollywood remake , I could imagine , could also be subtle , but nowhere near as quiet and observant as the original ( in fact , scanning through user comments , I can see that many were simply bored by the film ) . While it would be easy to spend pages gushing over Cheung's performance , it must also be noted that Nick Nolte is at least at the same level . This may very well be his best performance . It helps immensely that the character is so perfectly written . It would have been easy to make him a jerk ? and , again , thinking ahead to the remake , it's quite possible that that is what this character will become ? but Assayas gives him a deep understanding of Emily's situation , and an ability to empathize that I don't think can exist in American cinema . Nolte hits every note exactly right . His line reading is just beautiful . My single complaint about the film is the child actor who plays the son . I suppose it must have been difficult to find a half-Chinese , half-Caucasian kid on a limited budget who could act . They certainly did not find a kid who could act , though . James Dennis is easily one of the worst child actors I've seen in years . It's a flaw I can forgive , though . The movie ends very ambiguously , and it's arguable whether Assayas made the right choice here . I could argue that it feels too hopeful . There's a quick , matter-of-fact shot in which we see a smile cross Emily's face . I think I would have cut that and perhaps directed Cheung to avoid any readable facial expression . However , I know it didn't escape the director ? or the actress either ? that Emily , who is clean at this point , is approaching the world in which she fell into the trap of drug addiction . It might be better for her to stay working at a department store , perhaps somewhere cheaper to live than Paris .
I think this is what God invented light for	My mind is just so clouded with enthusiasm that I'm not sure I can judge Hero well , but I definitely had the feeling that I was watching a film that would instantly be one of my very favorites . I loved it , every damn second of it , to death . It can be compared to any number of films , directed by any number of directors around the world , but it comes out as something completely unique and amazing . The one reference I would like to emphasize , because I'm guessing that it hasn't been noticed ( although I missed every previous conversation in the preceding two years surrounding Hero , and I'm doubtlessly wrong ) is this : Hero reminds me a heck of a lot of Alexander Nevsky . Nevsky is a straight-out propaganda piece , aimed towards WWII audiences , and Hero veers late in the film towards a weird theme of Chinese national pride , which is certainly a kind of propaganda . But neither film is too interesting in that aspect , except from a purely historical point of view . Nevsky is constantly misunderstood by modern audiences ; it feels archaic , and it's a deliberate archaism . Sergei Eisenstein invented an entirely unique style that , as far as I know , has never been copied . Similarly , Zhang's creativity explodes into something the likes of which I've never even imagined before . Hero is stylized beyond belief , with ridiculous theatrics in one corner , and visuals controlled with a color co-ordination controlled with an iron fist in the other . To me , the nationalist epic intention for Hero is moot . This is the invention of mythology , a mythology that we're never meant to believe anyway , but just to absorb . The complex narrative structure is reminiscent of Rashomon , but I think it's using its idealized , and often lying flashbacks in a different fashion . I'm guessing that some of the film's critics harped on this point , that many of these passionately told stories and miraculously eye-popping set-pieces are in fact invented by the characters on screen . This criticism , I think , is just when talking about , say , The Usual Suspects , but not with Hero . I haven't come close to plumbing the depths of this movie yet ? just far too awed at what I saw ? but I like the concept of these tragic , mythical heroes having story after story woven around them . For instance , the story of Broken Sword and Flying Snow is told at least four times . Each time , the plot differs slightly , with the events happening a bit differently , but always with the same results , and , more importantly , with the same emotions . It's like these characters are so well known , their story arises spontaneously from their character traits . This film was obviously made on the heels of Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . I absolutely love Lee's film , but Hero surpasses it by miles . I love watching Lee's film , feeling its emotions , watching its startling action sequences , which were so new to me at the time ( they still hold up , of course ) . When I watch CTHD , though , as much as I love the tragic romance and the story of the cocksure teenager , I anticipate the fight scenes . As good as everything else is , the action takes center stage . In Hero , the action scenes are even better , more beautiful , more startling , and more inventive . And they are just the icing on the cake . My one and only complaint about the film has to do with CTHD : the music . It's far too close to the beautiful score of CTHD , almost matching it note-for-note at times . It perhaps should have been much more Chinese . Other than that , what is there left to say ? A lot , I expect , but on subsequent viewings . I ought to say that I am in utter disbelief that I was able to catch this at my local multiplex . I was sure that it had been dubbed , though I had not heard that they dubbed it . As far as I know , it is the first foreign language film ever to play at that theater . I was sure I would have to wait for DVD . I wonder if it will stay there more than a week . I wish I had time to see it once a day . Hell , every showing . I haven't slept in 22 hours and I know I'm just babbling now , but I'm pretty sure that I have a new favorite for the current decade ( and millennium , while we're at it ) . Perhaps it is the only recent film that may be able to break into my hallowed top 10 . Okay , now I know I'm crazy ! .
Hey , the guy who plays the professor in this film was Commandant Lassard from the Police Academy Series ! ! !	Okay , okay . Now that I've got that out of my system , I can actually review the movie . Vanya on 42nd Street is pretty much a perfect film , just like its predecessor My Dinner With Andre . Both films have the same three cooperative creators , Andre Gregory , Wallace Shawn , and Louis Malle . Both these films have revolutionary structure . My Dinner With Andre is a film about two people who sit down to dinner and an extended conversation . Nothing else . For nearly two hours , two people talk , interrupted occasionally by a waiter delivering food . It is one of my favorite films , and only two films rival its depths that I can think of offhand , 2001 and Citizen Kane . All three of those films are so layered and have so many levels of interpretation that their value is priceless . Vanya on 42nd Street is a film about the first complete rehearsal of an English translation of the Anton Chekov play _ Uncle Vanya _ . The camera shows us actors acting on an undecorated stage with their street clothes on . And it pulls us in just as well as if we were sitting in the front row opening night ( perhaps even more ; I will explain why further down the page ) . I was entirely involved in the play throughout the whole film , and at one point Vanya ( Wallace Shawn ) grabs a cup which he wants to put water in . Emblazened on it : " I < heart > NY . " It yanked me out of feudal Russia in a heartbeat . It wasn't there on accident of course . The bright red lettering faces straight on towards the camera , and is in the very center of the picture . This cup is pure braggartry , screaming : " THERE ! You were entirely involved in something that was in no way real . Look just how well we are fooling you ! " Of course , it didn't take another second before I was completely absorbed with the play . About fifteen to twenty minutes later , at the end of act three , tears were streaming down my neck . Okay , now , my reason for my claim that I experienced this play better in this film than I could ever experience it in the front row of a professional production of it . My reason stems from my fundamental dislike of theater . When one is acting in a play , one must shout ( or rather , as a theater teacher might correct me , Project ! ) for the audience to be able to hear you . People do not shout their deeply emotionaly words . They grumble them or murmur them or whisper them or moan them . Dialogue released in a groan or a grumble does not project all that well . Therefore , all dialogue in a theatrical setting has always seemed , well , phony . Also , the complex facial expressions are entirely lost on every person sitting in the aisles at a play . All except for the most pronounced and overwrought . The same goes for gestures . Gestures are not always large in normal human communication , but on stage they simply must be for them to be communicated . The actors in this film are so , so , so , so so so so good , especially in their facial expressions . You could never get a proper feel for them sitting beneath them in a playhouse . The medium of film allows subtlety , as little as that quality is used in most films . That is why I feel film is superior to the play . Well then , if I believe that plays are awful , and conversely , that films are great , then why don't I believe that _ Uncle Vanya _ would have been easily adapted into film . Well , because it was written for the stage , I believe ( though I'm not 100 % sure why , I'll honestly say ) . To actually see these actors moving around inside a house , or , even worse ( since it's not in the actual play ) , on a farm would have seemed unrealistic . Normally , plays just feel stagey when they're put to film . There have been few exceptions that I can think of . I can tell almost instantly , when a play is translated into film . The only really great film to be made from a play is Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , easily one of the best films ever made . It never lacks the feel of a film . You can tell it was once a play , but it never feels like it has to be a play like Uncle Vanya would if it were adapted straight from play to film . I attribute most of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? ' s success as a film to the perfect acting and the superior cinematography by Haskell Wexler . The play to film thing even bothers me when it is Shakespeare . I have seen very few Shakespeare films adapted straight to film that have worked for me . Zafferelli's Romeo and Juliette was the best . But the two Shakespeare works on film which have really intrigued me are direct descendents of Vanya on 42nd : Looking for Richard ( I cannot believe Al Pacino did not see Vanya ) and Shakespeare in Love ( okay , maybe this isn't directly inspired by Vanya ) . Both of those films place the play on an inner level of the film's overall plot , and thus they try to teach us the inner workings of the plays themselves and acting as an art on the whole . Anyway , since I am tired and no longer in control of my thoughts , per se , I will just say , goodnight everybody !
Never before have I heard an audience react so much to a film	Safety Last was funny pretty much throughout its entirety . The scene where Harold and his roommate hide in their coats ( you'd have to see it to know what I'm talking about ) got an enormous laugh which lasted for a long time , followed by some applause . I remember that there was a slow section , lasting about 5 minutes , after Harold's fiancee arrived in the city , but other than that , this film was consistently hilarious . And then during the building climbing scene , there were so many laughs and gasps , applause , and shouts ( " OH MY GOD ! " ) coming from the audience . It was probably the single most hair-raising scene that I or most of the other people in the theater had ever seen . And the climb , which lasts , I believe , 12 stories , should have gotten old . But it never came close to getting old . Each joke was masterful . After having seen the film , I was unfairly comparing it to the silent film that I had seen the previous week at a theater with live piano : Buster Keaton's Sherlock Jr . Well , nothing is really comparable to that film . I consider it the funniest film I've ever seen . I was planning to give Safety Last a , but after some thought , I realized that I laughed a lot harder and more at this film than 90 % of the other comedies I've seen . At least 90 % , but probably much more . I have to give this a . This film really should be on DVD , or at least VHS . Harold Lloyd shouldn't be as forgotten as he is .
We need to see more films of this type from Japan in the US	I was under the impression when I rented this film that it wasdirected by Sezuki Seijun , but the credits gave a different name . Itstill might be him ( it was something else Sezuki ) , and I amassuming it was as I write this review . Having totally fallen in love with Branded to Kill and , to a slightlylesser extant , but not too much lesser , with Tokyo Drifter , I wasoverjoyed to find this at the video store ( I remembered havingheard at one point of its being on video ) . And I was even moreoverjoyed to watch it . It's an amazing film which I would placeslightly ahead of Tokyo Drifter and Branded to Kill , giving it a . The film opens right after the end of WWII with a young womanstarving in the street ( not something I would expect from the twoprevious yakuza films I've seen of Seijun's ) . She meets up with agroup of four prostitutes who allow her to work with them . They areself-sufficient and need no pimp . They keep themselves in linewith the threat of torture if any one of them ever sleeps with a manwithout accepting money . Of course , you can see the possibility forexploitation , and there is exploitation , believe me . After a while , arobust thug ( Jo Shishido of Branded to Kill , cheekbones and all ) shows up in their crumbling household . They respect himbecause he resists the GIs who try to keep the law in their city ( never specified ) and those Japanese people who cooperate withthem . They're also all attracted to him . After this is developed , thereisn't much more plot - only a couple of events happen afterwards . More or less , it is a character study and also a sociological study . The anti-Americanism is very interesting to see . Seijun was asoldier in the Japanese army himself and , although I could easilypoint out that , hey , you started it , it's easy to understand what hemust have felt after he and his comrades lost a war , what it wouldhave done to the male psyche as well as the female ( this film wasmade about twenty years afterwards ) . Some people would naturally hate this film because it mixes itsstyles , often very harshly . It's really nothing that Godard wouldn'thave done - in fact , it's actually something that Godard , despite mygreat affection for him and his films , could never have achieved ; hewas far too interested in subverting filmic conventions and toounconcerned with making interesting films at times . It is filmed incolor , and its art design / cinematography / costuming , everythingtechnical , is color coordinated in a way akin to something like a1950s musical . Four of the five prostitutes are color-coated andthere is , for instance , an amazing scene where these four color - specific hookers muse over Shishido alone against a setdesigned only in their colors . Often the film is quite melodramatic , almost like a Douglas Sirk film . At other times , it is something likesado-masochistic porno , especially during the torture scenes . There are scenes akin to the brutality in Tokyo Drifter and Brandedto Kill ; there is some major brutality to women ( sometimesinflicted by women ) , so if you're particularly sensitive to that , youmight want to avoid this . Also , if that's a problem with you , takespecial measures to avoid Branded to Kill . You might want to skipover this next description tot he next paragraph if you very easily getsick or if you're a militant animal rights activist , but there is astunning scene where Jo Shishido slaughters a live cow . I'm prettysure it's a real scene of slaughter . If not , then it's a damned goodfacsimile . If you were horrified at the real scenes of sacrifice inApocalypse Now , you might just want to avoid this film altogether . The bottom line for me is that this film is a masterpiece . An insaneone , to be sure , but this film , as well as Tokyo Drifter and Brandedto Kill , demonstrate just how gorgeous insanity can besometimes . Janus Films , whose logo you see on the videotapesbefore just about 90 % of all foreign films that were made before1970 , and Home Vision Cinema , who distributes about everythingmade after 1970 , collaborated on the videotape that I watched , which recently went out of print . Those two companies should beringing tons of bells for anyone who collects videos . Yup , those arethe two companies who produce DVDs ' ( and Laserdiscs ' ) Criterion Collection , the only DVDs , in the long run , which are reallyworth owning . This company has already released both Brandedto Kill and Tokyo Drifter . I pray to God - I'd even sell my soul to thedevil - so that Criterion will release Gate of Flesh and - please , please God ! ( or Satan ! ) - other Seijun films , or even other filmswhich generally resemble his , if such other artists do exist , that Ihave not seen or even heard of . Think about it Criterion . I know thatBranded to Kill and Tokyo Drifter aren't your most popular DVDs , but , having talked to so many people who are discovering themand having never resisted an opportunity to spread his name andreputation to any other film buff I have met ( and others who arefamiliar with him do the same ) , I know that he is becoming a hugecult item . In my mind , judging only by the three films of his that I'veseen , I prefer him even to Akira Kurosawa ( I cannot comment onOzu or Mizoguchi ; unfortunately , I have only ever seen one Ozu andno Mizoguchis , merely based on availability ) , whom I generallyprefer to nearly every filmmaker with whom I am very familiar .
After a second viewing . . .	The first time around , I was a little lost on this one . I didn't have the proper knowledge of its historical context . The Criterion liner notes are a big help . I just wish I had read them more recently . This is a satire of the militaristic attitude that eventually lead Japan into WWII . I remembered it being a comedy . It does have its comic moments , mostly involving Kiroku's uncontrollable erections , but it is rather serious in tone . Well , that's even a little weird . Suzuki is able to create a remarkable balance between the film's serious themes , its action sequences , as well as its comic touches . All the while , he creates a film of outstanding imagery , gorgeous cinematography , and artful editing . To think , Suzuki Seijun had probably no ability to choose which films he made . He was a bit lucky to land this one , though , as it was written by Kaneto Shindo , who had to be hot stuff after having already directed both The Island and Onibaba ( though I wouldn't know how those films were received in Japan ) . This is one of only two Suzuki films that stand outside of the yakuza genre , so here ( and in Story of a Prostitute ) he was able to deal with deeper themes than normal . But anyway , Suzuki had little control over what material he was to direct , one way or another . I find his ability to create great art infinitely more impressive than any number of cinematic artists who had more or less complete control over their own work . It would be utterly wrong not to include Suzuki in the pantheon of the world's greatest film artists .
One of the most important films of its time	While Jonah is generally referred to as a comedy , it is not . It does have some , perhaps many , funny moments . Comedy is certainly a part of it . But the film is a serious and almost perfect meditation on the post-revolutionary era and what's in store for the future . It is also a document on the passage of time , the ways in which the world changes around us , the ways in which we as individuals evolve , or devolve . The different characters negotiate their existences in different ways , with different philosophies . The mood of the film is very sad , but in the gentlest way possible . There's a hope for the future , but it's not a big one . It's quite pessimistic . The musical score , by Jean-Marie Senia , is exquisite , one of the best ever written for the cinema . The camera moves beautifully . .
Unbelievably Great	This is one of the most perfect films ever committed to celluloid . It involved me more than at least 99 % of other films I've seen , and the main character , Cabiria , is a character to cherish and love forever ( of course , we who have seen La Strada are already partly familiar with the character ) . I've hardly ever cared more about a character , and even after only five minutes into the film , I wanted so desperately to protect her . Giulietta Masina is so masterful in her performance , and Federico Fellini , her husband , is as masterful in his direction . I did not believe that they could match their success with La Strada , but , in fact , they succeeded in surpassing it . Bravo . . One of the best films ever made , plain and simple .
one-of-a-kind	I'm not going to go into any long , complicated discussions on Onibaba . Suffice it to say that it is one of the most original and best films I've ever seen . It's truly breathtaking . It grows to a fever pitch of fear by the finale . The black and white photography is also amazing . .
Beautiful . One of the best romances ever filmed	SPOILERSMichael Powell and Emeric Pressburger are master filmmakers , and I Know Where I'm Going is one of their greatest films . The only one that I've seen that I think is better is A Matter of Life in Death ( in America called Stairway to Heaven ) , but this film is very close . It concerns a woman who knows where she's going : to an island of the Hebrides , Kiloran , to marry a rich man , her boss . She arrives at the seashore where she can see Kiloran , but its late and very foggy . They can't cross today . She meets a man , Torquil , who lives there and is also stuck , a descendant of royalty , but now having not much money . He tells her that , if she counts the wooden beams on her ceiling and then makes a wish , it will come true as long as she believes in it . She wishes for the wind , which has gotten strong , to keep blowing and blow the fog and clouds away . For the next several days , she is stuck where she is and she cannot stop herself from falling in love with Torquil . What results is a film of subtle beauty and intelligence . The locales of Scotland are used extraordinarily well . The film has perhaps some of the most beautiful black and white photography ever captured ( you'll really want to go to Soctland after you see it ! ) . How can the Archers be so good ? I've seen four of their films , this , A Matter of Life and Death , The Red Shoes , and Black Narcissus . The latter two I have some problems with , but they are great films ( I bought Black Narcissus sight unseen , and , although I was a bit disappointed in it the first time I watched it , I have seen it four times in six months ; it grows on me , that's for sure ) . But I just don't know : these films seem so simple . I mean , they aren't abstruse art films or anything . The level of invention is staggering , but mostly because their techniques are not overly complex . Why can't these be made anymore ? I think I Know Where I'm Going may be too old fashioned for today's audiences ( which is truly sad , however sadly true ) . I guess it's the same for those other three films . It's cynicism : the bane of modernity . PS : It is a well known fact that the inspiration for the final ballet in the 1951 film An American in Paris was The Red Shoes . Gene Kelly convinced his producers to allow him to do that ballet by showing them the 13 minute ballet sequence from The Red Shoes . The ending of I Know Where I'm Going resembles the ending of An American in Paris . I wonder if Kelly and Vincente Minnelli were fans of this film , also . Anyone know ?
One of the best of the last couple of years	Extraordinary neo-noir . It's so good a Raymond Chandler imitation that it's shocking that it was an original screenplay and not adapted from a detective novel . The film takes place in high school , where a student , Brendan ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) , investigates the murder of his ex-girlfriend . He navigates through the various cliques and fringe groups and uncovers the seedy realm of drug dealers . The movie works in every way ? as noir parody , as straight up noir , as a high school movie ( though one wonders if any of these characters have ever gone to class ) , and even the drama is compelling . The plot is delightfully unfollowable , as is the hard-boiled dialogue ( this is a rare movie whose script I'd like to read ; I should at least give it another viewing with subtitles on ) . And the direction is outstanding . This is one of the best directorial debuts of the last decade . Rian Johnson also edited ( he previously edited Lucky McKee's wonderful May ) , and even that aspect is amazing . Johnson is a triple threat , and an immense talent to be watched . It's going to be very difficult for him to surpass Brick .
? That's waaaaaaaaaaay too low	When such weak 1990s efforts as the Matrix , Se7en , Fight Club , The Shawshank Redemption and American Beauty are so high up on the imdb list , and King Kong is hardly on the list , this should tell you that there is something wrong with the system . Sure , King Kong looks a little silly , but you can't expect it to look great , at least in the special effects area , after nearly 70 years . Besides , I say " a little silly " emphasizing " little . " The stop-motion animation may seem crude , but I would take it over the computer animation of films today anytime . The only great computer animation , in my opinion ( excluding movies made completely with computer animation ; I'm talking about computer animated characters on screen with live action characters ) , is Jurassic Park . The dinosaurs looked real in that film . Every other film that uses computer animated characters , MIB , The Phantom Menace , etc , looks terrible . The computer animated characters look so extraordinarily like they were made on a computer . It looks like one could just click a button and get rid of Jar-Jar Binks ( and we all wish we could ) . King Kong , as well as the other monsters on Skull Island , look like they're on the screen with the human actors . The dinosaurs , especially the brontosaurus ( or apatasaurus , if you will ) , look nearly as good as the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park . And King Kong looks a lot better than the terrible 1970s version of the same film . Could you imagine a computer animated King Kong ? It makes me sick just to think about it . King Kong is not the summit of stop-motion animation . Ray Harryhausen perfected the technique in films like Jason and the Argonauts and Clash of the Titans . But that was over thirty years later . King Kong's effects look great still . But to spend a lot of time on the effects , defending them , is unnecessary in order to prove the film's worth . It's great in every other aspect , too . Acting . Fay Wray is amazing , as well as all the other players . Direction ? Amazing , all the way . The filmmakers take a lot of chances , and every one of them works . The script is also great . Perhaps the best part of the film is the cinematography . I'm not sure , but it looks to me like it was shot in deep focus . Orson Welles did not , of course , invent this technique . He just utilized it to the max . So it is not impossible that it was shot in that way . In every way , King Kong is a masterpiece . It is one of the most unabashedly amusing films ever committed to celluloid , with its only competition being , perhaps , The Wizard of Oz . I love this movie . Why don't you ?
A masterpiece	A stunning and original film . This is the second film by Alain Tanner I've seen . I watched his Jonah Will Be 25 in the Year 2000 last summer , and it sticks with me as few films have . In the White City might not , but who knows . It's already getting bigger in my mind , and I only turned the VCR off about five minutes ago . This film concerns a drifter of sorts ( Bruno Ganz , in a role very different from others of his that I've seen ) who finds his job as a sailor too tedious and unfulfilling . When his ship docks in Lisbon , he quits without a word and moves into a small hotel . There he meets a cute bartender who works downstairs ( Teresa Madruga ) ; she's a strong personality , which attracts him . The mystery surrounding the sailor pulls her in , and they become lovers . Meanwhile , Ganz wanders around Lisbon with a small , handheld camera shooting random things . He also writes brief letters and throws them , along with reels of film that he has shot , into the mail . We then see another woman , this one in Switzerland , who is apparently Ganz's abandoned wife . We find out very little about her ( she never has a name ) . All we know is that she's upset about her man's absence , and he seems to be cruelly hurting her . Is he doing this on purpose ? What exactly is the deal with this guy ? I was just as curious about this guy as Madruga was . But the more she finds out about him , the less impressed she is . Perhaps he's not some romantic adventurer . Perhaps he's just a loser . I just found this person so fascinating . Many will find the film a bore , I think , but it was amazing to me . Even if you don't care for it , you must admit that the jazzy musical score by Jean-Luc Barbier is exceptional ( one of the best , I think ) and that Acácio de Almeida's cinematography is breathtaking . To me , it's all around a masterpiece . .
My God , I wasn't expecting it to be THAT good	Before I new much about him , when I used to see the box for Alexander Nevsky on the Foreign shelf at my local video store , I always misread Eisenstein's name , transforming it into Einstein . Well , Einstein suits him just as well , for what Albert Einstein was to science Sergei Eisenstein is to the cinema . Witness Battleship Potemkin , possibly the most rousing film ever made . Today , nearly 80 years after it was made , it still has the power to inspire revolution . Its amazing montage editing style may have died with silent cinema ( although there are at least two directors today who are somewhat similar : Shinya Tsukamoto and Darren Aranofsky ) , but it will never be forgotten . When Eisenstein moved to sound , he realized that rapid montage would not work in the new medium . He adapted his style , perfecting a new one . Alexander Nevsky and the two Ivan the Terrible films come off to many people as stale historical epics . To me , they come off as the very peak of that genre . Usually I do find historical epics stuffy , but the direction , acting , writing , cinematography , and music of these three films are exquisite , so far beyond anything that I've ever seen that these films stir me nearly as much as Potemkin does . Ivan the Terrible I is a bit confusing in its plot to begin with , but you have to stick with it . First off , there are many , many characters . A great many are not mentioned by name , and most of the rest are only named on rare occasions . But Eisenstein familiarizes us with the characters ' faces . These faces are perfectly chosen and lighted spectacularly . The light is so harsh that every crag in a person's face is clear , and noses cast foreboding shadows . The way time progresses in this film is without much warning , and one problem I encountered was identifying Ivan himself . I did not catch on at first when the first sequence ended and the second sequence began , and Ivan , in the second sequence , has a beard . Once you realize that , though , you're home free . That beard serves as a great identifier throughout the film ( and is used in many ways by Eisenstein ) . I was expecting to like this film , but I found myself obsessed with this utter masterpiece .
Exceptionally done	An exceptional social issue film about prisoners rioting , trying to get the press to tell the stories of their mistreatment and trying to get the government to effect change in the prison system . Everything about it is absolutely top-notch : the screenplay and the direction are realistic and very , very taut . Don Siegel , I assume , didn't have a huge budget on this one , and he accomplishes an amazing lot . I love the way Richard Collin's script pits the rioters not only against the establishment , but also against each other . In a cell block full of so many differing personalities ( or perhaps " criminalities " is a better word ) , they're not all likely to agree . The acting is almost universally excellent , with the one exception of Emile Meyer , who plays the Warden . He's a little creaky , but all the others , including Neville Brand , Leo Gordon ( who had been a real prisoner in the prison seen in this film ) , and Robert Osterloh among many others , are pretty much perfect . One strong moment after another makes Riot in Cell Block 11 a must-see gem , a low-budget masterpiece . .
The Best Popeye Cartoon	That I can think of anyway . This Popeye cartoon is the funniest and most exciting short ever made , counting Disney and Warner Brothers , too . I especially like the songs , Sinbad's ( Bluto ) theme , and the song that the two-headed giant sings as he beats the tar out of Popeye . The best scene has Popeye taking care of Sinbad's giant bird .
Maybe the first great work of animation and probably one of the first important sound films	Every second of those six minutes is perfect . What a creative little cartoon ! This is Disney gold ! Four skeletons awake from their graves and dance around , scaring black cats and owls alike . They turn each other into xylophones and do the Charleston ! These are six of the most important minutes of film history ! .
Brilliant !	Brilliant in every way . A film of a play about a play put on by the inmates of the Asylum of Charenton in France , 1808 , as directed by the Marquis de Sade ( played by Patrick Magee ) . Filmed plays are often criticized for their staginess , but this one quite requires that feeling . The actors are separated from the audience , which appears from time to time , by metal bars , which also appear from time to time . Most of the film takes place in the middle of the play , with the lunatics seeming dangerously in our faces . The man who runs the asylum sits on the side ( behind the bars ) and occasionally walks out onto the stage to calm his residents down , or to castigate the Marquis for including certain undesirable notions in his play . The subject of the play is the nature and importance of human cruelty as demonstrated by the French Revolution ( which ended some 15 years earlier ) , but which continues on , even to the present , far beyond the actual setting of the play . About a thousand ideas are thrown out throughout the film , and it's difficult to catch them all . It's the kind of movie that sets the head reeling , and it made me want to watch it again ASAP . The actors are all brilliant . Besides Magee , Glenda Jackson deserves special praise for her performance as the narcoleptic inmate who plays the executioner of Marat . I didn't mention that other name in the title because I am unfamiliar with the historical character . I understood the gist of his role in the Revolution , but I'd like to learn more before I rewatch the film . Peter Brook's direction is fantastic ; he kept my heart rate up throught the entire film . I'm thinking about getting the DVD , especially if it has subtitles . It is sometimes difficult to understand the dialogue , and almost impossible to understand the song lyrics . Oh , did I mention it was a musical ? .
A masterpiece	I don't even know where to begin on Vive L'Amour . It is the second Tsai Ming-liang film I've seen , after The Hole . I doubted that it could be as good as The Hole , but it turned out to be an even better film . In fact , I'd say it's pretty close to perfect . The only thing I don't like about it is its American title - " Vive L'Amour " makes it sound like a romantic comedy starring Gerard Depardieu . This film is about love , but not in any conventional way . I'd love to relate the plot of the film , but I think that'd ruin it quite a bit . Part of the fun of it is figuring out exactly what's going on . Those who like puzzle films will find the initial puzzle of Vive L'Amour very intriguing . Those who don't like slow-moving films should avoid it , though . A good benchmark : if you like Antonioni's films , especially L'Avventura , which is directly referenced in this film , you'll probably like it . Here's an intriguing fact about Vie L'Amour : there is not one piece of audible dialogue spoken until 21 minutes have gone by . One of the main characters does not speak until 49 minutes have passed . If you were to write out all the dialogue of the film , you could probably fit it on a single page . Tsai is simply audacious in his paucity of dialogue . And it could have easily seemed like little more than a stunt , but the characters still come off as fully developed and interesting people . The drama works wonders , and there is a lot of comedy , too . The film is also very erotic . I really don't want to say another word about this film . I hope that any reader will have enjoyed or agreed with the numerous other reviews I have written to take my recommendation at face value . I have seen hundreds of great films , and Vive L'Amour is one of the best I have seen . Also , make sure to check out The Hole , which is also on Fox Lorber DVD . Fox Lorber has gotten a lot of undeserved criticism in the past . Their DVDs aren't always the best ( they're no Criterion ) , but they're usually of great visual quality . They may have few extras , but extras are not always necessary . I would even suggest that Criterion sometimes stuffs their DVDs with unnecessary and low-quality material .
One of the best live-action children's films ever made	What a wonderful and beautiful movie ! It was a failure when it was first released , so it's about time that it was rediscovered by the whole world . Only a couple of other live-action children's films are better . This ought to be considered next to The Wizard of Oz and Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory . It's about a boy who is forced to take piano lessons and hates it . When he falls asleep , he dreams that his piano teacher is an evil villain hypnotizing mothers across the country to make their kids take piano lessons . The film is stuffed to the brim with outrageous colors , great sets ( that look exactly like Dr . Seuss ' books ) , good performances , and wonderful songs . .
Exceptional	If , at some point in the future , Pather Panchali cannot fulfil its duties as Satyajit Ray's masterpiece , Mahanagar can step up and fill in the position . Or perhaps the two films can co-rule , as they compliment each other so nicely . Pather Panchali is the simple , straightforward masterpiece and Mahanagar is the more ambitious and complex work . The first is Ray's La Strada and the second his La Dolce Vita . The Big City is a subtle , flowing work about a young housewife ( Madhabi Mukherjee , who would also star in Ray's Charulata ) in a middle-class family who finds a job when her father-in-law needs a new pair of spectacles . The family is very conservative , and this upsets everyone . Her husband's manhood is somewhat insulted , her father - and mother-in-law ( who both live with the married couple in a rather small apartment ) feel that it's just not right , and her son thinks he's been forgotten . The only one who supports her is her younger sister-in-law ; she sees her as a role model . The husband ( Anil Chatterjee ) tries to get her to quit , but , when he loses his own job , he changes his mind quickly . Now she becomes the breadwinner , and he is effectively castrated . This could have been a little , humble film , like many of Ray's works . But here he decides to examine a huge portion of his own culture , setting up many opposites and studying them closely . We have the husband and wife , man and woman , old-world conservatism and new-world progression , young and old , employer and employee . The list goes on . The depth of this film is nearly endless , and I'm sure it would hold up to any number of repeated viewings . The only flaw that I can see is a somewhat contrived climax - Ray had this problem in a few of his films . I do have to give special praise to the two leads . Mukherjee and Chatterjee are just brilliant in the film . The supporting cast is also uniformly excellent .
Ghibli cannot be stopped !	A very moving animé film from Studio Ghibli , as good as anything either Miyazaki or Takahata have made . It's a very simple and down-to-earth movie about a young teenage girl who is experiencing her first love , as well as doubts about her future . Whisper understands its characters as few films do , and I became quite intimate with our heroine , Shizuku . It also has a sense of mood unmatched by any other film I can think of set in everyday life . The way it feels to live in a cramped apartment , the emotions of the first day of school , and the way the sky looks after it has rained ? so many generic memories of my life brought right to the forefront , as if they were the only moments that mattered . The film enveloped me so completely , I could smell the odor of the antique shop . The music is so wonderful , the score by Yuji Nomi . And I never could have imagined that John Denver's song ' Country Roads ' would make me weep . Well , it was in Japanese , but still . It's frightening . Each Ghibli film I see makes me think that the next one cannot possibly match it , yet each film inevitably does . .
This is the movie The Graduate should have been	Harold and Maude is a perfect movie . It's extremely well written and well acted . It reminded me a lot of The Graduate , a movie which I liked but felt was not all that special . Harold is much like Benjamin from that movie , but he's such a jerk . And Mrs . Robinson is also completely unlikable . Harold and Maude has to be the most uplifting film I have ever seen . It is one of those rare films which makes you re-examine your life in a positive way . I beg you to see it . One rarely sees films of this caliber .
Very important and much better than people have ever realized	An intriguing , understated , and remarkable picture . It focuses on a super-typical American family of the 1950s , the Smiths , husband ( James Whitmore ) , wife ( Nancy Davis , later Reagan ) , son ( Gary Gray ) , and expected child . One night , precisely at 8 : 30 , a strange voice on the radio announces that he is God . For the next several nights , he speaks on the radio at the same time . The entire world , except for those behind the Iron Curtain , hears these messages and begins to listen each night , frightened that divine punishment , or perhaps Judgement Day might be near . The Smiths are as afraid as anyone else . They all fear for Mary , the mother , who is nine months pregnant , may die in childbirth . Her mother and her sister both died when giving birth to their second children , and God has just claimed on the radio that he will demonstrate his miraculous powers . That's the big problem , and then Joseph , the husband , has many smaller problems . He's stuck in a dead end job , he hates his boss , a particular motorcycle cop seems to have it in for him , and the starter on his car doesn't work . They're all little things , but together , especially when the voice agitates him further , he's not sure he can make it . There is a lot to love about this movie . Although the Smiths are such a symbolic family in that they represent the ideal American family ( I would like to suggest ignoring the fact that the husband and wife are named Joseph and Mary and that Mary's pregnant , because , as far as I see , not much is done with that particular symbolism ) , they feel so real and individual . They aren't perfect ; they have weaknesses and fights . But they have such a touching family relationship . I love the way Joe strokes his wife's cheek each morning to wake her up . When Joe's car won't work in the morning , little Johnny imitates his exact routine for his mother's amusement at the breakfast table . The greatest power in the universe may be the force that's driving the plot , but this is a movie that realizes that the little moments of life are what count best , and few films have shown a better knowledge of that . As I was watching The Next Voice You Hear , the film it reminded me of most was The Day the Earth Stood Still . The plot is nearly identical , but The Next Voice You Hear is so much more gentle . Klaatu , in Day , threatens to destroy humanity if they don't cooperate . Luckily , God's much more understanding . Of course , those countries of Eastern Europe who are under the thumb of the USSR never hear God's voice , even though communist China doesn't miss out ( or am I wrong about my history ? ) . It was the Cold War that sparked The Day the Earth Stood Still . Besides one solitary comment early in the film , there is no mention of the Soviet Union or communism . Yet it still pervades any possible interpretation of the film . If God wants to deliver a message to the world , one would think that he wouldn't skip over anyone . Even atheists in the US hear it . And one would expect a writer from the United States to want those who were perceived as a threat to hear God's message . This little conundrum is quite maddening , and there's no good solution to it . I would call it a major flaw ( even though , like I said , it takes up merely a second of film ) , but it allows room for interpretation . That is , I'm not disappointed in that fact , only intrigued . The Next Voice You Hear is a profoundly Christian film , and one of the best , I'd say . It's message is overwhelmingly positive , and it's not really that didactic . There are a lot of points to be thought over after the film is done . This would be an ideal film for anyone to show at Sunday School or something like that . It's really one of the most fascinating films I've ever seen . Really , I haven't even broken the surface here , and I didn't discuss any of its artistry ( of which there is a lot ) . See this movie , please . .
A favorite of mine	It's not especially deep , but it's a dark and disturbing chambara about a merciless samurai , Ryunosuke ( Tatsuya Nakadai ) , who can ? and will , without hesitation ? kill anybody who challenges him with a sword . He sees himself as a force of karmic balance . The film starts off with him disposing of an old man praying for death . The film is based on a newspaper serial that began in the 1910s and continued for several decades . The story never really ended , and , likewise , the film , which only covers certain bits of the novel , has no resolution . This has often bothered people , but I think it works well . Whatever the case , even if the film doesn't satisfy you as a whole , there are a number of outstanding setpieces . Nakadai's being ambushed in the forest near the beginning . The battle in the snow , where Toshiro Mifune dispatches of a dozen or more attackers while Nakadai watches cautiously from the sidelines . And that final sequence is the mother of all rampages , where Nakadai goes apesht in a brothel . Tatsuya Nakadai is really a fantastic actor . I know , his performance here isn't particularly complex , but he is absolutely frightening in his infinite evil . Compare this to his overwhelming humanity in The Human Condition . Okamoto's direction is assured , and Hiroshi Murai provides some of the best black & white photography ever captured . The new Criterion disc is quite good . It is without extras , but the accompanying essay is a big help at putting the film and its source material in context .
One of Miike's greatest achievements	Yes , it's another yakuza movie ( well , close enough , anyway ) , but , like all of Miike's crime movies , it has its own flavor . Two rival hit men ( Miike regulars Sho Aikawa and Riki Takeuchi ) discover that they're old friends . They were raised together in the same orphanage . In the first half of the film , the two travel back to the small island where they grew up . In the second half , they return to Tokyo as partners , avenging angels who donate their blood money to charity . The film is a powerful story of lost innocence and rediscovered friendship . Miike creates many stunning sequences , including a gorgeous montage where the two men entertain children with a play while the film cross-cuts to a gang war , the fruit of their wicked labor . And then the final sequence is just beautiful , managing to be both enormously touching and humorous . It's a great flick , and , if anyone is interested in getting to know the director , not a bad place at all to start ( it has absolutely nothing to do with the first Dead or Alive movie , either ) .
easily one of the best films of the 1990s	Oh , Jesus . Heavenly Creatures is a heavy , heavy film that's just about enough to kill you . It builds up a frenzied mood that seems to me incomparable to any other film that I've seen . I liked Peter Jackson's Braindead , which was planned-as-camp fun , but never in that film did I see a hint of genius . Here his mastery of the medium is well evident . And unforgettable film . The only mystery is how the hell it took me so long to even hear of it .
Underrated masterpiece	When I was 13 , I visited Disney World as a present for my graduation from elementary school . I was already too old , and I was rather annoyed at most of it . Particularly annoying was the 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea . It had the longest line and , when I finally got on the ride , it was utterly boring . It also takes longer than all of the other rides , as well . Well , the movie on which the ride is based is fortunately much more fun ( and you could probably watch it thrice in a row from the time you step into the ride's line up to the moment you get back off the thing ! ) . It's actually one of the best films Disney ever put its name on , counting both live action and animation . In fact , the only one I can think of off hand that I definitely prefer is Mary Poppins . A good deal of 20 , 000's success can probably be found in Jules Verne's novel . I have a feeling that a lot of the dialogue and plot were left intact ( I know some of it was changed ) . The script and dialogue are enormously literate . Disney films rarely ( if ever ) express this much intelligence and depth . It would only equal half the movie , though , if the lead actors weren't aboard . Kirk Douglas , Paul Lukas , Peter Lorre , and James Mason are at their bests here . Douglas and Mason in particular give stellar performances ( Lukas ' character is more of an observer and Lorre is , well , Lorre , but both have great scenes ) . Douglas plays Ned Land , a harpooner and the sole survivor of a ship's crew which was attacked by the Nautilaus . He's energetic and funny , and he also effectively communicates his dilemma as someone who has no real purpose on the ship , and is thus disposable . Heck , Kirk even sings a great song , believe it or not ! Mason plays Captain Nemo , a character that became so archetypical afterwards that he might seem somewhat cliche to some . But Mason has some of the most amazing line readings . Richard Fleischer's direction is quite good . The film also benefits from an obviously enormous budget , as the production values are awe-inspiring . Take for example a scene in which the Nautilaus begins to sink . We see various bolts burst and pipes bend . We see the details when they repair the ship . And the giant squid attack is actually quite well done . The special effect technology is a bit crude at the time ( a goofy rubber shark thankfully only appears in one shot ) , but the squid's enormous tentacles look and move realistically , or at least as realistically as one can demand for a film from this period . I'm telling you , don't ignore this movie just because Disney produced it and you can only get it in one of those giant plastic retard cases . It's a great , great film . .
A masterpiece .	Kwaidan is a somewhat difficult work . Its four stories , with the exception of one , are not very involving and they can even become a little boring in their narrative . They are not very frightening , although they all attain a level of creepiness . Except for " Hoichi , the Earless , " one of the most stunning tales I've ever experienced in a film , you can see the ending coming from a long ways away ( the final episode , " In a Cup of Tea , " is a little different , in that it has no ending , per se ; the ending the filmmakers do come up with is a little disappointing ) . The reason that this film is a masterpiece is its masterful composition . I think I have heard that Kobayashi was a painter . Even if I just made that up , it would fit . The colors are godly . Any frame of the film is a masterful painting . If you are interested in composition and cinematography in film , this is the one to see . If you only care about narrative , read books . Don't watch films . But at least see " Hoichi the Earless " for its composition and story . I suggest buying the Criterion released DVD . It is one of the cheaper DVDs of that company . And you don't have to watch the four stories in succession . If you watch them apart , and they could very easily be watched apart , the boredom factor will fade from existence .
American Masterpiece	More than a decade before Henry Fonda purchased the rights to and produced Twelve Angry Men , he starred in The Ox-Bow Incident , another film about possibly innocent men accused of murder and up for execution . Luckily , the kid from Twelve Angry Men didn't live in the old West , ' cause they didn't have them darn , highfalutin ' courts back then ! News comes to a small town that a rancher has been shot by cattle rustlers . It's frightening , but terribly believable , how quickly a lynch mob forms . A couple of citizens try to calm down the bunch , but are unable to . Fonda is very understated in one of his best roles as a man who clearly objects to the way the mob ( which he is a part of ) acts towards three men they find , but is unsure of what he can do to stop it . He more or less just goes along with it . There isn't a performance in the bunch that isn't masterful . Standouts include Jane Darwell as the only woman in the mob , toting a giant shotgun along ( it's actually quite funny in itself , but still chilling ) and a young Anthony Quinn as one of the men the mob believes did the killing . You can see from the very start where the film's going and what its point is , but the level of acting , direction , and dialogue make it one of the best American films . .
One of the best ever made	Famous for introducing the world to Hedy Lamarr and full frontal nudity , but it's oh so much more . In fact , this is one of the pinnacles of cinematic poetry , up there with some of the seminal works of 1930s art cinema , in the same prestigious group as Under the Roofs of Paris , Tabu , Olympia , and even L'Atalante . It's nearly a silent , relying mostly on its miraculous images , and also its fantastic , symphonic score by Giuseppe Becce . It's a masterpiece of cinematography and music , yes , and also of editing , direction , writing , and acting . A good 90 % of the film moves along perfectly . Machatý seems an expert at using motifs . Perhaps not as subtle as it could be , and perhaps a bit overused , but the appearances of objects like insects , lights , and horses carry the story forward beautifully . The small snatches of dialogue are , thankfully , unintrusive . They don't jar as much as one would imagine . The final bit is odd , to say the least . Reminiscent of Russian silents , we have a montage of workers . This barely makes sense in the course of the narrative , but it's so gorgeously done that I refuse to harp too much on that flaw . Ecstasy is a film that is desperately in need of rediscovery . It belongs amongst the best films ever made .
The Unknown is an unknown masterpiece	This is an enormously powerful film , and also very unique as far as the films I've seen . Lon Chaney plays an armless circus performer , a knife thrower , who , well , is not quite honest about his existence . He's in love with the circus ringleader's daughter , played by Joan Crawford . A strong man named Malibar is in love with her , but she can't stand being touched by a man's hands and arms . Instead , she prefers to hang around with the armless ( and ergo handless ) Chaney . He has no doubts that he's in love with her , but does she love him ? She seems to . . . The Unknown works as a bizarre circus film , a horror film , and a psychological drama . Lon Chaney is at his best here . He really affected me with his performance . This film is actually prime to be remade . It is a masterpiece , I think , but it could stand to be much longer ( what , it's only 54 minutes , I think ) . The psychological and emotional depth could be even further expanded , making an even greater masterpiece . Unfortunately , I think if you proposed such an original script today , even if it is a remake of a classic film , the Hollywood producers and script readers would just laugh at you . Maybe a director with clout could get it done . Perhaps Spike Jonze of Being John Malkovich fame ? Actually , this must have been at least half of the inspiration for Alejandro Jorodowsky's 1986 masterpiece Santa Sangre , the other half being inspired by Hitchcock's Psycho .
Absolutely brilliant ! One of the best of the last couple of years !	A brilliant an original film . It unites current fads in art cinema , the frequent long take and multiple , interlocking storylines , both of which are in danger of becoming cliché . The way that these interlocking stories begin and end is very interesting . It gives us so little , and leaves us to figure out so much for ourselves . It's like a cinematic test of the psychological principle of closure . We ourselves have to connect the scenes and build the stories . In a way , it's kind of a game , and a fun one , at that . But it does cover some serious and important topics , namely the interaction of the various , and constantly increasing variety , of peoples in Europe . Most of the action takes place in France , although it does journey to Eastern Europe often and even Africa at one point . And , thankfully , Haneke isn't happy about simply making blanket political statements about the situation . For example , in the film's second scene , a white boy throws a piece of paper into a homeless woman's lap . A young black man , an immigrant from Africa , sees him and tries to force him to apologize to the woman . They get into a fight when the white boy refuses , the police see it and haul the black man , the white boy , and the homeless woman away . The black man is charged , the homeless woman , a refugee from Romania , is deported , and the white boy is let go . The criticism seems clear and obvious , until we find out that the piece of paper , which the audience is originally to think is garbage , is money . We learn this from the woman , who tells someone else about it and how she had once done nearly the same thing to someone below her in class . None of the stories are resolved . We are left to finish them for ourselves . This is one of the best films of recent years . Really , there have been a ton of highly-praised directors who rely entirely on bags of gimmicks . It's so nice to see a modern film that actually achieves something resembling a re-imagining of how narrative works in the cinema .
One of the best examples of Hollywood's Golden Age	I don't quite know how to put my passion for this film into words . It's something I never expected . I taped it off of television because I've been on a Ginger Rogers kick lately ( I think I'm in love with her ) , and very luckily experienced something of enormous quality . There is not a regular plot . Unlike most classical cinema , the goal towards which the film is striving is quite tenuous . Basically , the goal is for Katherine Hepburn to get a part in a play and give a good performance , but it is never stressed . Instead , what we get is more of an ensemble piece . There are characters who are more central than others , but we get to know well a great number of characters . And we live with them , experience their dreams , hardships , and successes , falling more and more deeply in love with them every minute , caring about them as we would dear friends or siblings . It is most often referred to as a comedy , and the dialogue tends to be hilarious ( Ginger Rogers is in full form here , wisecracking at the speed of light ) , but the film's drama is very affecting , too . This film's ending is so beautiful , and like all great films , we're reluctant to say goodbye to the characters . Fortunately , since I have it on tape , I can visit the boarding house any time I want . Unfortunately , since this film is neither on VHS nor DVD , you probably cannot . Watch for it on AMC or TCM or other stations that play classic films . You will not be disappointed .
Maybe the best American WWII film	William A . Wellman is one of the American cinema's greatest craftsmen . The Story of G . I . Joe is one of his best , if not his best . It presumably inspired a lot of later films . It especially reminds me of Stanley Kubrick's Vietnam film , Full Metal Jacket ( the second half of it , anyway ) . This film should also be praised for its dedication to realism , and its lack of propaganda , surprising in such a vivid war film that was being made in the thick of the action in both Europe and the Pacific . I also really love the script . The structure is very tenuous . Unlike most American films , it has no real " goal . " Take a look at the infinitely inferior Steven Spielberg film Saving Private Ryan . In that film , the story centered around the search for Private Ryan . In The Story of G . I . Joe , the goal is simply the arrival at Rome , but this isn't at all what the film is about . It concentrates mostly on how the soldiers passed the time and how they felt . In this way , it's the second most sensitive war film I can think of , only following Jean Renoir's unsurpassed The Grand Illusion . There are some excellent battle scenes , as well . As with most war films , there isn't a lot of overt characterization . It works really well here , though . Instead of opting for the old two-dimensional types of soldiers - you know , the " tough guy " the " young guy " the " religious guy " and what have you - Wellman just lets the characters develop within the actors . We may not know all of their names , or even recognize the same characters throughout the film , but , with each close-up of a soldier's face , we know as much about that person as we could know . The acting is very good . The three who stand out are Burgess Meredith , who plays Ernie Pyle , the writer whose works the film is based on , Robert Mitchum , wonderfully sensitive as the troop leader ( he was probably never better ; he received his one and only Oscar nomination for the role ) , and Freddie Steele . Early in the film he receives a phonograph recording of his young son speaking . He spends most of the film first looking for a phonograph player and then trying to repair it . This subplot is especially touching . Wellman's direction is superb . The cinematography is , as well , and so is the music . The only problem that the film has is that it runs into war movie cliches , but one would expect that those cliches probably existed in real life , as well . .
Comic masterpiece !	Easily the best film that I've ever seen from George Stevens ( and I really like several of his other films ) . Jean Arthur stars as a woman renting out half of her apartment because of a housing shortage in Washington D . C . Charles Coburn , who is in Washington to help solve the crisis , weasles his way into the apartment even though Arthur didn't want a male roommate . The morning after , Joel McCrea arrives with yesterday's newspaper , not knowing that the vacancy exists no more . No matter , though . Coburn rents half of his half of the apartment to McCrea , unbeknownst to Arthur . God knows this premise could have made one hell of a sitcom , but it also makes a damn funny movie . There isn't an unfunny scene in the entire film , and several scenes vie for the title of Best Romantic Comedy of all times with Preston Sturges ' contemporaneous films . The three performers are remarkable . They have great chemistry as a comic trio , and McCrea and Arthur throw sparks off the screen with their surprisingly erotic romance . I failed to mention that Arthur is engaged to an older man , adding to the dilemma . Richard Gaines is also excellent as that fiancé . I love the way his mouth moves . Grady Sutton has a very funny cameo near the end of the film as a waiter . Stevens ' direction is exceptional . It's shocking how believably he pulls off the scene in which McCrea and Arthur wander around the apartment without bumping into each other . This is reminiscent of a famous scene from Buster Keaton's The Navigator , and it's even funnier . Or that intimate scene where McCrea gives a carrying case to Jean Arthur . Their acting is so subtly romantic in that scene . I love the way Stevens films it . .
One of the best so far this decade	This almost defines the oft-used term " elegiac Western " . It has some of the well-worn themes of Westerns , such as the creation of Western myth vs . the cold , harsh realities . But for some reason , it never feels like anything else I've ever seen . It has a style more reminiscent of Michelangelo Antonioni than any of the great Western filmmakers . It's slow and likes to surround its characters with enormous landscapes that almost swallow them whole . But it's also not averse to close-ups . Director Dominik , who has only made one other film , Chopper , and it's been seven years since then , loves to concentrate on facial expressions , as well as body language ( don't know if I've ever seen a film with this level of attention to body language , or maybe it's just not something to which I've ever been lead to pay much attention ) . The cast is uniformly brilliant . Brad Pitt and Casey Affleck are the titular leads , and neither has done as well . Affleck is a revelation . The supporting cast includes Sam Rockwell , Mary-Louise Parker , Jeremy Renner , Garrett Dillahunt and Paul Schneider . Andrew Dominik is the star , though . There have been plenty of successful Westerns over the past couple of decades , but I'd be hard-pressed to name a single one out that so beautifully and completely re-invents the genre . 3 : 10 to Yuma may well be the big money-making Western of the year , but I think history will recall it as being the year that The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford was released . It is the best film of the year so far , and will be hard to top .
The sun rises again	Murnau's third American film after Sunrise and the lost Four Devils , and his penultimate before Tabu . City Girl , of the surviving three , is the least seen . The reason for this must be its close resemblance to Sunrise , which is a masterpiece of the first order . Yes , City Girl does remind one of Sunrise in its mood and focus . A young rube from Minnesota ( Charles Farrell ) travels to Chicago to sell his father's wheat crop . Business-wise , the trip doesn't go well , but his romantic world blossoms when he meets up with a lonely waitress ( Mary Duncan ) . The two marry , and the rest of the film deals with Duncan's fight for acceptance on the farm , where she faces a fierce opponent in her father-in-law ( David Torrence ) . The film is romantic , emotionally moving and utterly beautiful . Yes , it is a lot like Sunrise , but , heck , who wouldn't want a second Sunrise ? It's hardly a carbon copy , anyway , so it's like another wonderful gift . City Girl is a masterpiece , as well . I'm not the biggest fan of Murnau's German films , but his three surviving American films are probably the best proof of the sentiment that the silent cinema was at a miraculous level right when it was snuffed by sound . Murnau tragically died in an auto accident in 1931 . I find it hard to imagine his work in the talkies , but I have an inkling that the cinema would be rather different if he had survived .
One of the cleverest scripts ever written ; MAJOR SPOILERS AHEA	Sullivan's Travels has a lot to offer . Its comedy is often great , and its drama is even greater . It is also one of the most well written films I have ever seen , especially from the studio system . This is its basic premise : a Hollywood director , Sullivan , sees the suffering of the common people around him , or at least he thinks he has , and decides he must do something about it : he will make a movie about the horrors of everyday life in the slums of America . His producers object : what does he know about their lives ? He's a rich college graduate , privileged all his life . He makes several thousand dollars a week . They've got him here , but he has a solution : he'll don a hobo's garb , leave his home with only a dime , and walk the streets looking for trouble . This he genuinely attempts , but his producers refuse to leave him alone , sending a high-tech fleet after him , equipped with doctors , cooks , writers , and PR people . Also , no matter how hard he tries , Sullivan ends up back in Hollywood every time . The second time he is re-routed , he meets up with a girl , played by Veronica Lake . She suggests that she could help him , for she has been on the road for a while . And that she does , although they still cannot escape the fleet of protectors . Finally , after travelling from L . A . to Kansas City as hobos ( at least most of the way ) , Sullivan decides that he has done enough and has learned what he needs to learn . My reaction was : " WHAT ? ! ? ! ? ! " After the movie had tried to establish that these pretentious people know not a thing about the meek , it is giving up this early ? By this point , its view of homelessness was the same as it was nearly everywhere else : hobos are just happy people who don't need a home . Luckily , and fantastically , the film takes an unexpected corner at this point . Instead of contradicting itself , it boldly points out that it was thus far contradicting itself . In an arrogant haze ( and mostly through the fault of the PR crew ) , Sullivan goes out on the street with $1000 worth of fives , planning to distribute them to the homeless whom he finds . One of the homeless men , after receiving his $5 bill ( and consequently gazing upon Sullivan's stack of them ) , follows him and knocks him out , stealing the rest of the wad . The hobo stuffs Sullivan into a train car , and then he is hit by a train while trying to collect the money he has dropped . His friends , after an exhaustive search , determine that the dead hobo is actually Sullivan . Sullivan meanwhile awakes in a haze in the deep south , where a railroad worker is hassling him to get off of the train . In a daze , Sullivan assaults the man . Because of this , he is arrested and thrown into prison . There is a half-hour left at this point , and it solidifies this film's stake as a masterpiece . Finally , Sullivan has gotten what he wished for : the vagrant's treatment . As a convict , he and his fellow convicts are tormented . No one believes his story ( heck , they won't even listen ! ) . The film's climactic scene is brilliant : the convicts are allowed to visit an all black church ( and , although these black folk are a bit stereotyped , as you can only expect in a film from 1942 , they are shown in a surprisingly human light ; they may actually be the kindest and most sincere characters in the entire film ; although it is not expressed explicitly , these people were surely just as oppressed as the convicts ) where they are showing a film . It is a Micky Mouse cartoon , and both the black folk and the convicts break into uproarious laughter . Sullivan at first resists . He is a serious film director . He takes the medium seriously as an art . But then , he quickly comes to realize that this laughter is helping them much , much more than a film about their lives ever could . Afterwards , through a great twist , Sullivan alerts his friends of his whereabouts , which brings about his release . And the serious movie about the downtrodden he so very much wanted to make before his whole adventure he decides to scrap . A comedy would help much more . So , effectively , Sullivan's Travels simultaneously entertains and argues a very good point . Still , I think there must be a reason for dramas about the downtrodden . Who could ever deny the emotions awoken by a film like The Bicycle Thieves . I think these sorts of dramas are not meant to help the downtrodden directly , but rather they are meant to make those not downtrodden aware of the plight of those less fortunate , and therefore cause them to care and possibly even to do something . I hope this is how it works . I wonder how this film was accepted by the critics and the audiences when it was first released . P . S . Is Veronica Lake not the most beautiful Hollywood starlette you've ever seen ? This is the first film I've seen with her in it ( not counting L . A . Confidential ! ) . Maybe my only complaint is that she was not in it nearly enough !
I like it better than All About Eve , myself	A quietly moving film about the short life of a curiously indescribable woman , Maria Vargas ( Ava Gardner ) , and the men who knew her . Joseph L . Mankiewicz is probably most famous for his film All About Eve , which he both wrote and directed , as he did with The Barefoot Contessa . He structures Contessa much the same as he does Eve , starting the film at the end of the story and then working backward through flashbacks . This time we begin at Maria's funeral , and three men who are attending it narrate her strange and melancholy story . Humphrey Bogart is arguably the lead actor , as he narrates the majority of the film , probably about half . He plays Harry Dawes , a washed-up movie writer / director who is carried along to Madrid by his producer , Kirk Edwards ( Warren Stevens ) and his producer's assistant , Oscar ( Edmond O'Brien , who won a much-deserved Best Supporting Actor Oscar ; Oscar is the second narrator ) . They go to Madrid to pursue Maria , whose name has started to become famous in Europe . While Maria at first refuses , Harry is able to convince her to come where others have failed . Where one might expect Mankiewicz to make The Barefoot Contessa about Hollywood what All About Eve was to Broadway , the film has little to do with Hollywood . We do experience a couple of Hollywood parties , but the film is more concerned with the world of the fabulously wealthy . Maria has grown up poor and rather wretched - she has many sad stories about her life during the Spanish Civil War - and she can hardly relate to anyone around her . Harry comes the closest ; he's more down to earth . Maria is such a fascinating character . We know a lot about her - but , then again , we know so little . The film never really does define or understand her , but that is the point . Mankiewicz almost tops All About Eve with his dialogue here ; sometimes it's almost too good . The story and its structure work perfectly , and Mankiewicz does not repeat his one mistake from All About Eve , that is , he doesn't shove our faces in the film's point . We're left to ponder , which I think is going to make me remember this one a lot longer than I will All About Eve . .
A great film	I saw this for the first time when I was 14 . It was probably the oldest film I'd ever seen at the time , and also for many years afterwards . I remember being really disturbed . I was wondering for days how they created these special effects in 1932 . But they aren't special effects - I couldn't accept that at the time . I see it now as one of the greatest horror films ever made , and not because the " freaks " are horrific . It's Tod Browning's amazing direction - possibly his greatest effort - that makes the film so frightening . The wedding feast is one of the great set pieces in film history . The stormy climax is chilling , as is the result of the " freaks ' " attack . Cleopatra's form , at the end , should seem outrageously silly , but that image is absolutely not . It makes me cringe to think about it . This is a must see for every film buff .
Nearly as great as L'Avventura or Blowup	First off , I'd like to complain about this film's lack of availability . It has been on VHS before , and in this format I rented it . It is not available now , though . It deserves to be on DVD . And if its director is not a good enough reason ( Michelangelo Antonioni ) , it contains a masterful performance by Jack Nicholson , who has a very large fan base . He has done so much great work in his career , and The Passenger is among his very best , right up there with Chinatown and The Shining . Anyway , to discuss the merits of this film : well , it is in a style much akin to Michelangelo Antonioni's more famous films , especially Blowup . Thus the average viewer will find it about as interesting as staring at a blank screen . European art films often are not goal-oriented , i . e . , there is not a goal set up near the beginning of the film that the characters are trying to achieve until the end . The Passenger is a perfect example . It actually teases those who are used to goal-oriented films by setting up a very intriguing premise , one that could have worked wonders for a Hitchcock film ( in fact , it is somewhat reminiscent of North by Northwest in its plot ) : a man , Jack Nicholson , bored with his own life , decides to trade his in for the life of another man who has just died . Nicholson looks like the dead man , and the dead man had told him that he was basically a loner . This turns out not to be true . The dead man was an illegal arms dealer , selling weapons to rebels in Africa . The police , spies , and Nicholson's friends from his previous life are all after him . Wow , exciting , huh ? Nope , not exactly . Antonioni is a great artist and has bigger themes to strive for . I have been studying Antonioni for a while now , although his films are so hard to find that my studies have not gotten all that far . Nevertheless , let me share an observance or two . ( slight SPOILERS ahead ) Characters in Antonioni films have a tendency to disappear . Anna from L'Avventura being the immediate example , I believe that she vanished on purpose . Not that I believe she got on a boat or committed suicide . I think she simply willed herself into nonexistence . Her life was going nowhere , and she wanted desperately to nullify her relationship with her boyfriend , Sandro . Thomas , the hotshot fashion photographer of Blowup , also decides to disappear , in my opinion ( see my review of that film ) . He felt that his life had no point , also . Now here is David Locke ( Nicholson ) . He is a liberal , perhaps fashionably-liberal British reporter / documentarian ( although he speaks with an American accent , for he was " educated there ; " certainly the most ridiculous part of the film was this adhoc explanation ) who is doing an expose / documentary on Africa's political climate . He plays by the rules of reporting , only dropping subtle hints about the goverment's corruption in his interviews while he certainly knows the truth of the situation . He proves himself a hypocrite in a couple of scenes , also , when he admits to Robertson , the man who will die and trade places with Locke , that he has no clue how to communicate with them ( Robertson , an arms dealer , says simply that he offers them goods , and they understand that ) . There is also an amazing scene where we see Locke interview an African folk doctor who hadstudied in Europe . He asks the man if he does and how he can still believe in his folk remedies when he has studied in a more sophisticated area of the world . The man replies , " You know , I believe your questions demonstrate more about you than my answers will demonstrate about me . Here , give me your camera , and I will record you asking those same questions . " We see Nicholson's nervous face as his own camera is turned towards him , but we do not see him do what the man asked . When he trades places with Robertson , he becomes the arms dealer . His goal had been to just escape his own life and maybe exist indifferently towards the world , but now he jumps into someone else's life whose role in life is actually to do something about these African situations that Locke was almost pretending to care about . It becomes more intriguing as it goes on . I don't want to say everything , and , alas , I am not finished interpreting it in my mind as of yet . I am giving the film a .
The best Thanksgiving movie ever	Thanksgiving has always meant a lot to me . Unlike the stereotypical depiction of the holiday from movies , I always found it to be , beyond any other day of the year , the day when my family is the closest . Differences and resentments fade for a day , possibly because we're Midwesterners of German descent and there's nothing we like more than food . Whatever the reason , it's a pleasant holiday for me . Pieces of April captures the way I feel about Thanksgiving perfectly , and it moved me as deeply as any movie I can think of . It has a few flaws , a few things that could have been changed for the better , but its overall effect made me overjoyed and emotionally crushed at the same time . Patricia Clarkson was nominated for an Oscar for her performance as a mother of three dying of breast cancer . She's not a very nice person , and she's not too pleased with the way her life has come out . Katie Holmes plays April , Clarkson's eldest daughter . She lives in a crummy apartment in NYC and has invited her family to Thanksgiving dinner , most likely to be her mother's last . Unfortunately , Holmes finds that her oven doesn't work . She desperately searches the other apartments in her building for someone who isn't using their oven . A third track follows April's black boyfriend who rides his motorized scooter around the city for reasons that are at first obscure . It's a comedy , and a very , very funny one at that , but the themes of family and past injuries are remarkably touching . Clarkson is amazing , and she is the most obviously impressive performer in the film . However , Katie Holmes really proves herself to be one of the best actresses of her generation ; her role is much more subtle and complex than Clarkson's . Oliver Platt plays April's father , and he also gives a subtle performance as the person trying to unite the family before his wife is gone . The only thing that really bothered me was the character of Wayne ( played by Sean Hayes ) , one of the apartment dwellers whom April asks for help . He agrees to help her , but he thinks that she owes him something big , i . e . , sex . That's surely believable , but the character is played as a goofy , eccentric cartoon character . It's far below the standard of the rest of the film . It reminds me a lot of Mickey Rooney's character in Breakfast at Tiffany's , an underthought splotch on what is otherwise a masterpiece . I wonder if it will have anywhere near as powerful an effect on others as it did on me ( I wept for nearly a half an hour , and occasionally sobbed for almost an hour after that ) , but I am certainly more than willing to stick up for a movie like this that I really believe in . .
If they were to release this in the US , it could be a runaway hit	SPOILERSOr , at the very least , it's destined to be a cult favorite . It also could give credit to Icelandic filmmaking . The only Icelandic filmmaker that anyone knows here is Fridrick Thor Fridthrickson ( sp ? ) , although he is not know all that well , either . 101 Reykjavik is a perfect comedy , with great hints of drama all throughout its running time . Basically , it is about the greatest slacker I've ever seen , a 28 year old man who lives in a small apartment with his mother , lives on unemployment and sees no reason to ever do anything about it . I read one critic complain that the film's biggest problem was the complete unlikability of Hlynur , this slacker . I disagree wholeheartedly . He is a jerk , but I have had plenty of doubts about the worthiness of everything I've ever done . A lot of Hlynur's problems ( and the problems of his mother ) stem from the alcoholic patriarch , whom we just get two brief but telling glimpses of during the film . His character is entirely pathetic , in that I felt real sympathy for him . Hlynur has a girlfriend of sorts whom he doesn't really care for in any true way , and he has no problems cheating on her when a friend of his mother's , Lola , a Spanish Flamenco dancer , ends up sleeping with him . And yes , as you probably know , Hlynur immediately finds out that his mother is in love with Lola . And then , after a couple of scenes , he finds out that both his girlfriend and Lola are pregnant with his baby . All of this works like a bitter wake up call to Hlynur . He tries his hardest to resist it all , even attempting suicide ( by AIDS , sleeping with a horribly ugly woman , then , when he realizes that that will take too long ( and is quite unpleasant ) , by exposure to a harsh Icelandic snowstorm ) . Eventually , he realizes that that is not the way to go , and straightens up ( almost to my displeasure ) . Everything in the movie works well . My only complaints are tiny . I would maybe have liked one or two more small flashbacks to the past , when Hlynur's father was still around ( although that may also have made everything too obvious ; I would have to see two different cuts to see whether my idea would work better or worse ) . The only major complaint I have is that I wish the mother had a little bigger part . Truth be told , it is Hlynur's movie , but Lola and the girlfriend have ample screentime , but not the mother . We do end up understanding her character through the flashback , but she could have been thicker . Anyway , it's still an amazing film . I give it a , and demand that it be released in the USA .
I loved this one !	Well , for the most part , anyway . In a rural part of New Mexico , actress Kiki Walker is competing for attention with a local castanets dancer . Kiki's manager brings her a leopard on a leash so she can show the dancer up during her performance . Her rival one-ups her by snapping the castanets right in the leopard's face , which drives it wild . It breaks free from its mistress ' grasp . As it flees from the night club , a waiter raises his hand : three bloody claw-marks from trying to stop the wild beast . The meat of the film is made up mostly from three tragedies resulting from the leopard - or do they ? Okay , so the " or do they ? " part isn't great , but those three tragedies are three of the best sequences in film history , no doubt . The first concerns a young girl forced by her mother to buy cornmeal in the middle of the night . Her younger brother meanly teases her by making leopard-shaped shadow puppets on the wall . The second involves a young girl who has gone to the graveyard to put flowers on her mother's grave , and also to meet with her lover . When she doesn't find him there , she becomes depressed and doesn't hear the groundskeeper's warning that he is locking the gate . The third happens to the castanet player , whose fortune teller turns up the ace of spades for her several times in a row without fail . An expert expresses the belief that the leopard could not have caused all of these events , so the film becomes , unfortunately , a whodunit . The answer is obvious immediately , even if it's not believable . Fortunately , the direction is so excellent , as well as the set pieces , that even with such a weak solution , the film is a near-masterpiece . .
Tight as hell	It is hard to believe that this is Erik Skjoldbjaerg's first film . It seems like a pro job to me . Very rarely do you get thrillers crafted this well . Almost everything is perfect . The script is as taut as possible . I saw no holes , anyhow . The plot is believable and you will never see the best twists coming . Even if you are the type who sits there and constantly guesses what's coming next during thrillers , I doubt you could . The film does a lot to avoid plot cliches . And if I'm wrong about that , if I was just blinded by other aspects of the film , it won't really matter . The characters are very well written . Especially the main character , played by Stellan Skarsgard . He is certainly one of the best actors working today and this may just be his greatest performance yet . He owns the film . The cinematography is effective . It's bleak and cold . The camera moves assuredly , and it's always where it should be . The music is perfectly subdued . The direction in general is simply amazing . The mise-en-scene is marvelous . I love the settings of the film , the threatening , rocky terrain , the broken and rusty buildings , everything . This is a must-see film . One of the best films of the 1990s . . P . S . : Christopher Nolan , the man who created the equally impressive thriller Memento , is set to direct the American remake of this film . I personally loved Memento ( though I think I'd choose Insomnia over it if I had to ) , and I wish Mr . Nolan all the luck . I'm sure he knows what a challenge it's going to be . And I certainly pray that he isn't satisfied with simply copying the original . He could do so and mostly get away with it - Insomnia is quite underseen . I sincerely hope that he will make it his own . I already recognize one piece of the film that has to change if the setting is moved to the U . S . : Skjoldbjaerg brilliantly uses the midnight sun in this film . I doubt it would be successful if the setting were , say , Alaska . I don't think Americans would buy it . Nolan is going to have to compensate for the loss of the midnight sun .
A difficult and complex film , to say the least	If you were to just watch this film half-heartedly or with a mind busy thinking of other matters , it would certainly seem like a dry film about infidelity and falling out of love - the kind of stuff that's been done a thousand times before , a thousand times before this film was made , even . And why did Dreyer have to make it so static , you might ask . But if you choose to delve into the matters at hand , feel the film's tenuous but painful emotions , you'll realize that there haven't been many films with more going on beneath the surface than this one . In fact , I can't think of another film that suggests so many themes , especially one with this little physical action onscreen . Most of Gertrud consists of two people at a time sitting on couches and facing opposite directions - no character in this film can bring themselves to look at someone else . These people talk about their relationships , either what could have been , what should have been , or what might be in the future . Although Gertrud is ostensibly a heroine - with the title as it is , we're almost required to believe that she is correct in her thoughts and actions and identify with her - as the film progresses it becomes more and more obvious that she is as much or more of the problem as the men whom she tends to blame . Then we're forced to backtrack and remember what things were involved in discussions earlier in the film in order to interpret it as a whole - take Axel's speech about free will , for instance , and Gertrud's response to it . I have just seen this film once , and I am positive that subsequent viewings will reveal many more layers . For the longest time , Gertrud was unavailable in the US . Now that it is readily available on both VHS and DVD , it's about time that it was completely rediscovered by the serious film watching community . .
Exceptionally directed	If there's one subgenre that particularly appeals to me , it is the post-apocalyptic movie , or any movie dealing with the end of civilization . I don't know why the subject fascinates me so , but it does . Haneke's The Time of the Wolf is one of the best of its type ever made . Some sort of cataclysm has occurred ? all we really know is that most water supplies are tainted ? and we follow a mother and her two children ( the father is with them when the film opens ) as they vie for survival . Life now is all about the few material possessions you have preserved . You try to hold onto a semblance of your values , but they seem mostly vestigial . Isabelle Huppert returns as Haneke's star . She and her children are the point around which everything happens , but they are just three people amongst many . The young girl who plays her daughter , Anaïs Demoustier , gives a particularly amazing performance . We talked ( ed : on the Classic Film forum of IMDb ) last week ( or perhaps the week before ) about the directors influenced by Hitchcock and those influenced by Bresson , and Huppert in an interview explains how both directors have influenced Haneke . It's definitely true . Haneke uses suspense in a much different manner than Hitchcock , but the devices are surprisingly similar .
An equal to Alien	This stands next to Alien and Invasion of the Body Snatchers ' 78 as one of the great horror / sci-fi hybrids of the era . The film takes place in an American research base in Antarctica . A Norwegian helicopter chases an escaped sled dog into camp , shooting at it with a rifle . When the shooter wounds one of the Americans , they kill him in self-defense . It's probably not the smartest move , seeing as how insanely the Norwegians were trying to kill it , but the Americans take the dog in . Little do they know it's not a dog at all , but an alien life form mimicking a dog . Soon it reveals its true form ? kind of ? and is burned to death . Unfortunately , it's a crafty organism and has likely infected one or more of the men . But how could you know ? It's a perfect mimic , pretty much undetectable until it's too late . The film features some of the best special effects of its time ? they have not dated a bit , and are every bit as creepy and nasty as they were in 1982 . The monster , when it reveals itself , is a true Lovecraftian thing that takes on all kinds of forms , probably an amalgam of the different organisms it has mimicked over its lifetime . Put the monster aside , though , and there's this great , intense study of paranoia . " Nobody trusts anybody " as star Kurt Russell puts it . Reminiscent of perhaps The Big Sleep , if you closely scrutinize the series of events , the plot makes no sense . There's no conceivable way the persons who eventually end up as the thing could have become it . But this lack of logic itself is part of why the movie is so horrifying . You never can tell who is or who is not an alien . Carpenter wisely never lets the audience see anything . Kudos to him for that . And also kudos to him for including two black characters who don't die in the first ten minutes of the movie , an almost unheard of feat for an African American person in a 1980s ( or ' 90s or even ' 00s ) horror movie ! A masterpiece of the genre .
I love this !	The more Rohmer I see , the greater my appreciation and love grows for him . Four Adventures of Reinette and Mirabelle is a wonderful film about a Parisian girl and a girl from the country who meet , become friends , and then move in together in an apartment in Paris . The film consists of little more than the two girls living their lives , sharing their philosophies , and acting on those philosophies . The two lead performances , by Joelle Miquel ( Reinette ) and Jessica Forde ( Mirabelle ) are outstanding . And then there are a lot of colorful - but not too colorful - side characters in the four tales , like the extraordinarily rude waiter ( Philippe Laudenbach ) and the art dealer ( Fabrice Luchini , the star of my favorite Rohmer film , the incomparably unique Perceval le gallois ) . This is a film for people who love people , their thoughts , and their talk . .
one of the best films i've ever had the chance to see	Princess Mononoke is , without a doubt , one of the best films I have ever witnessed . There has never been an animated film even close to this - - I kept thinking after I left the theater , how can Disney even have the guts to make another film after seeing this ? Even live action movies pale in comparison to Princess Mononoke . There has never been a film to pay such close attention to details . Watch for the magnificent and subtle flying insects throughout the film , especially in the ancient forest , where bioluminescent dragonflies glide gently around the screen . There are thousands of subtleties such as this . You'd have to see it a dozen times to appreciate this film fully . Aside from it being the most beautiful film I've ever seen , it also has an enormously powerful script . The characters are some of the the most well rounded in all film . Ashitaka especially , the main character of the film , is so nuanced that he has become in my mind one of the great characters in film , up there with Charles Foster Kane and Jake LaMotta . I would compare him to Freder , the main character of Fritz Lang's Metropolis . His role in the film is a mediator between the forces of humans and the gods of nature . Both sides comment several times that Ashitaka must be on the other side , when he is trying desperately to convince everyone that there are no sides . Peace is the way . There is a little to be desired in the American voice talent . Claire Daines was certainly a wrong choice for San ( Princess Mononoke ) , and Billy Bob Thornton just could not hide his southern accent , which made the character of Jigo seem more comical than he was probably supposed to be . Gillian Anderson's voice clashed with her character , the wolf god Moro , a bit . It hardly affected my passion . The film was so spectacular and beautiful that James Earl Jones could have voiced San and it would have detracted little . Definitely , though , I'm praying that they release the DVD with subtitle options . Anyway , Princess Mononoke is the best film of 1999 , the best film of the 1990's , and , in my personal top ten list , no lower than # 5 , but closer to # 2 . 12 hours later and my heart is still beating with the power of Princess Mononoke ! America : SEE IT !
Exceptional flick . One of the best 2007 releases .	Stunning , gripping WWII thriller that plays like a pulpier version of Jean-Pierre Melville's Army of Shadows . That's not something that should be criticized , I think . There's nothing wrong with being entertaining when dealing with serious subjects , as long as the film stays respectful of its subject . And Black Book is respectful . It's tense and exciting , but it always made me understand that these were real people who were undergoing real suffering . I was both extremely entertained and involved in the situation of these characters . Carice van Houten stars , and is brilliant as a Jewish girl who escapes several near-death encounters to end up working with the Dutch resistance movement near the end of the war . She infiltrates a Nazi headquarters by seducing an officer ( Sebastian Koch of The Lives of Others ) . While the film starts off as a very black and white , resistance vs . Nazis flick , things get more and more complicated and , after a while , no one can be trusted . You never know what will happen next . The film-making is very classic , and nearly perfect . Verhoeven has always been an interesting filmmaker , but his work is plagued by sloppiness in both direction and writing . Black Book exhibits few flaws ( I might have rethought the opening , which assures us immediately that the protagonist will survive the war ) . It's one of the most satisfying cinematic experiences I've had in a very long time .
Despite its generic title , this is a great film	In the common way of considering Hitchcock's career , The Wrong Man is a generic and somewhat mediocre Hitchcock film . Not true . This is one of Hitchcock's best , made during the same era as many of his other major masterpieces , Rear Window and Vertigo , for instance . This is completely different than any other of his films , which is probably why it is so underrated . This is the only film that Hitchcock tried to make realistic . It's based on a true story : a man is misidentified as an armed robber . The entire film is about how the police treat him , how his wife becomes neurotic and paranoid , and then his trial . It's all done simply , and there is great suspense built up as well as a lot of pathos for Manny , played by Henry Fonda in one of his best performances . His wife is played by Vera Miles , who is convincing as a woman going insane ( although I'd rate her higher in Psycho ) . The courtroom scenes are very probably the most effective ever filmed - I generally despise that basic scene type . Here , they are very suspenseful . Hitchcock dismissed the film as mediocre . I wish he wouldn't have . His direction is as good here as it was anywhere . .
The best television series ever on television . Go get your mind warped today !	If I were to make a list of the top ten television shows ever made , I would put Aeon Flux at # 1 . If I were to make a list of the top ten television shows and movies combined , it would end up at # 2 ( if you read my other comments , you'll notice that I often exalt films that I've seen in a similar top ten list format and that I have said that many films are this high on the list , but that was usually right after seeing it without any retrospect ; I have seen every episode of Aeon Flux at least 10 times , so I have the proper retrospect here ) . It only falls behind Stanley Kubrick's 2001 . Like 2001 , Aeon Flux is a mind-bending series that pushed the limits of narrative . As Trevor Goodchild says in the final episode of this series ( so far ; they've said that they might come back ) , " End Sinister " : " A person from a thousand years ago could never comprehend the world today . " Well , Aeon Flux is about 800 years in the future , because one has to see all the episodes several times before they begin to make sense . I like this , because the first few times you can appreciate the art . After you have seen each episode multiple times , you notice how amazingly and originally the narrative is constructed . So don't get angry at the series if you don't understand it initially . Begin with the more conventional ( though that word can hardly describe this television series ) episodes . Rent or buy ( it is certainly good enough to buy without having seen it before ; look at my other comments to see if you agree with my tastes , then go for it if you do ) the red cassette ( which is also on DVD ) , and watch the first two episodes , " Thanatophobia " and " A Last Time for Everything . " Then on the Blue Tape , watch " Reraizure , " the first episode . Next , go to intermediate episodes , " Isthmus Crypticus , " " Ether Drift Theory , " " The Demiurge , " " Utopia or Deuteronopia , " and " End Sinister " ( though you may want to save that for the end ) . Then , for the advanced class , go to the silent episodes on the red and yellow tapes , then see the hardest-to-get episodes " The Purge " and , by far the most mindbending and 2001-like , " Chronophasia . " Personally , I like the simple beauty of " Thanatophobia " and " A Last Time for Everything " best , but " The Purge " and " Chronophasia " will warp your mind for sure . And like I said , don't dismiss them if you don't understand them . Think about each episode as an individual structure and then as a part of the whole . And if you're truly impressed , good luck finding the Aeon Flux book they published , _ The Herodotus File _ . It will help in your understanding if you have the good luck to find it . Also , another miraculously-produced MTV animated series marvel that you might like if you like this is The Maxx . It can usually be found on the shelf with Anime films , but if not , it can be purchased just as Aeon Flux can . It , if I were to list it along with the greatest television series and films , would be # 3 . So please , go get your mind warped today by Aeon Flux and The Maxx !
Probably the best action film ever made , and one of the best sci-fi films	This is James Cameron's best film . He used to be an action auteur ( but I think he threw that completely away with Titanic ) . Aliens is a masterpiece of thrills . The set is so claustrophobic , it makes me shiver just thinking about it . The reason that this movie becomes so great , though , is the mother / daughter relationship between Ripley and Newt . This is such a realistic relationship . And the actress who plays Newt was one great child actor , every bit as good as Haley Joel Osment from The Sixth Sense . Like I said in my review of Alien , Ripley is a great character played by Sigourney Weaver , a great actress . Her suffering becomes ours . Also , notice how every scene takes place from her point of view . In the special addition DVD , though , there is a scene added where we see the colony ( actually , Newt's father ) find the aliens . This is used to introduce the colony's situation and to introduce Newt , but it was an enormous mistake to reinsert this scene back into the film . It breaks the rhythym quite terribly . It is a particularly long and clunky scene in the first place . It was enough when Paul Reiser told us that there has been a colony on that asteroid for many years . The audience knows right away that something is going to happen there with the aliens which will make Ripley have to go there . Now , with this scene having been reinserted , when the soldiers enter the colony and find a single life-form moving around , we know it is Newt ( since that first scene kept focusing in on her ) . There is no surprise as their used to be . It should have just been left as a supplemental scene . Bad , bad mistake . Of course , that scene could not ruin this great film . Only really perceptive people who have a huge understanding of the language of film will ever notice it . But those of you who read this review , pay attention to that scene . I give this film a because originally Cameron was smart enough to take that scene out . He must have reinserted it after he made Titanic .
Unbearably Beautiful - one of the best films ever made	One of the most romantic films ever made , it shows the problems of people whose intimacies and personal conflicts are being interrupted by history on the move . I think this film surpasses the novel , which is utterly cynical ( although understandably ) . Even in the last moments of the novel , Teresa is concerned that Tomas is cheating on her . The film also does well by dropping much of Franz's character - he was kind of uninteresting compared to Teresa , Tomas , and Sabina . It also drops such deadweight characters as Teresa's mother , Tomas ' son , and Franz's wife . Also , a ton of different coworkers are combined into a few , so that their characters have time to develop . By concentrating on the three central characters , this film blossoms past what the novel ever achieved ( although the novel is arguably more historically important ) . Philip Kaufman and Jean-Claude Carriere also add a couple of beautiful scenes that weren't in the novel , including Tomas ' and Teresa's wedding , which is one of the most beautiful scenes in filmdom .
Very easily one of the greatest films ever made	Preston Sturges never fails to amaze me . His directorial skills are excellent . His skills as a writer are even greater . There are probably fewer than five scripts better than The Lady Eve . Both the plot and dialogue are exquisite . It is a comedy , but it is also a grand romance and an affecting drama . Barbara Stanwyck , always a master actress , is at her very best here . I'm not very familiar with Henry Fonda , but his performance is as good as hers .
One of the most memorable characters of 2007 in one of the year's best films	Wunderkind Paul Thomas Anderson's new film calls to mind Orson Welles ' Citizen Kane in its themes and subject , and , shockingly , it's a good enough film to sit side by side with the one most often dubbed the greatest movie ever . Daniel Day-Lewis plays Daniel Plainview , an oil prospector who will do anything to be a success in the business . Much like Citizen Kane , There Will Be Blood depicts how the lust for money will eventually alienate every human being around you , and eventually make you completely isolated from the world . Unlike Citizen Kane , Daniel Plainview doesn't just grow apart from the world , he also becomes insane . There is a lot of metaphorical subtext lining the film's bottom , especially concerning the relationship between fundamentalist Christianity and big business . It's all very interesting to ponder . I don't know if I think the film is one of the most intellectually stimulating movies I've ever seen . For the record , I don't think Citizen Kane is , either . The message " money corrupts " , while probably true , isn't especially insightful . What both films have in spades is a director with incredible talent who can envelop their audience in the rapturous experience of pure cinema . The desolate , desert setting sucks you in deeply and never lets you go . Every gravelly word spoken by Day-Lewis is anticipated with both glee and dread . It could have went on for three more hours , and only my bladder would have given notice . My only small grumble is Paul Dano in the final scene . He's good throughout , don't get me wrong , but that final sequence takes place over a decade after the last time we saw Eli Sunday . Daniel Plainview has aged , his son ( as a child wonderfully played by the wide-eyed Dillon Freasier ) has aged . Why is nothing done to Paul Dano to make him look older ? At least give him a mustache ! I think there must have been a reason for it , but I can't for the life of me imagine what that would be . Otherwise , an amazing experience .
Nine of the most beautiful minutes ever put to film	The Old Mill was a Silly Symphony developed as a test for Snow White and the Seven Dwarves , which was just going into production at the time . What came out of it is utterly beautiful . It is possibly the best Disney short , even rivalling The Skeleton Dance . .
Brilliantly acted , directed , and written	One of John Ford's greatest films , the first of his so-called Cavalry Trilogy . Henry Fonda stars as Lt . Col . Owen Thursday , a former Union General . He gets assigned to a cavalry post in the Southwest , an assignment that he considers unimportant . He brings his daughter , Philadelphia , with him . She is played by a 16 year-old Shirley Temple , who is actually rather good . John Wayne has just about equal screen time as Fonda playing Capt . Kirby York , who has been stationed at Fort Apache for a while . York , who is familiar with the area , and Thursday , who wants most of all to win glory , clash constantly . The film unfolds beautifully , with many beautiful and exciting moments occurring along the way . I particularly love the Cavalry Trilogy because of the adherence to strict military dialogue . Of course I wouldn't know , but it sounds very authentic . I love the men barking orders and others ' compliance in this overly formal language , and with a clear but subtle expression of their feelings and attitudes . It takes great actors to do that , and Fort Apache is a showcase for a large number of excellent actors . Of course there're Fonda and Wayne , both giving their utmost to the project , but also a ton of Ford's favorite players , Pedro Armendariz , WardBond , and Victor McLaglen amongst others . John Agar , in his first film , has a very important role , as well . Pay close attention to the way Native Americans are portrayed in this film . At first , the references might cause your knee to jerk , but mind who says what . Note the beauty of the scene where John Wayne approaches the Apache warrior Chochise . That might be the best shot in a Ford film , although it's competing with about a hundred others ! Watch out for the theme of myth vs . reality in that final sequence , which would be expanded many years later in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance . .
I'm one of its followers . . .	If I could , I would deify this film . What most impresses me about a film is exhibited here to the utmost : mood . After this film is done , I feel completely destroyed . If you did not feel alienated from the world around you when you started , you will be by the end . If you were feeling alienated when you started , then you may just be contemplating suicide when the film ends . This mood is absolutely crushing . It affects me more than any other film , with some exceptions that are equal with it - 2001 , Persona , The Passion of Joan of Arc , and maybe a couple of others that I can't think of offhand . Red Desert is a perfect film . If anything else , at least one must be able to appreciate the masterful visual composition . If you're dismissing this film , you're really missing something .
Holds up against his best films	Akira Kurosawa is one of my very favorite filmmakers . If you search through my reviews , I have written about a few , The Seven Samurai , High and Low , Kagemusha , and Dreams . I have seen many more , Rashomon , Ikiru ( my personal favorite ) , Yojimbo , Sanjuro , Dersu Uzala , and Ran . I have only disliked one , High and Low , but not one of his films failed to amaze me in some way or other . My initial opinion , after seeing Rashomon , The Seven Samurai , Yojimbo , Ran and Kagemusha was that he was an amazing stylist whose films felt slightly impersonal to me . I strongly disagree with that opinion now ( I expressed it in my review to Kagemusha , which I'm surprised hasn't resulted in tons of hate mail ) . I have just finished watching Kurosawa's second to last film , Rhapsody in August . It is not highly regarded , usually dismissed as a very minor work in a master's portfolio . This I also discovered about my second favorite of his films , Dreams . Well , as far as my opinion , I think people were dead wrong about both of these films . Rhapsody in August is not a stylistic masterpiece like The Seven Samurai , Yojimbo , or Ran . Instead , only second to Ikiru , it is Kurosawa's most humanistic film . I have only seen one film by him ( although I've read a lot about him ) , but I would compare it more to Yasujiro Ozu's work . This film has a plethora of themes , ranging from the effect of the H-Bomb on both the Japanese and the Americans , the generation gaps between the three generations present ( the matriarch of the family feels separate from her middle-aged children , but she relates well to her grandchildren who are interested in their country's sorrowful history ) , and the effect of American culture on the Japanese of the present generation . It is quite a handful , but everything is handled so subtly that some viewers who don't pick up on it all may easily grow uninterested . In some ways , the film feels very didactic ( in a good way ) . I can imagine this film being showed to younger children , since the four grandchildren , at least at the beginning , are learning about the history of the bomb and Nagazaki and their grandfather's death . The only weak point of the film is probably the very end , which is difficult to understand . I have a feeling that there was some cross-cultural barrier preventing my understanding of it , so if anyone does get it , please contact me . Anyway , as I perceived it , the film ended kind of randomly . But still , what has come before is too good to get too upset by the lack of closure . It deserves a .
Vastly underrated	One of Hitchcock's best films , and entirely undervalued . I love most of Hitch's films . His bigger productions of the mid-1950s to the mid-1960s are probably best loved , but I really like his grittier , more reality-based films as well . During that period , The Wrong Man is almost entirely overlooked , despite being one of his greatest achievements . This kind of film was most common during his British career , where he had less money to work with . I myself am least familiar with the first chunk of the man's career , but I have seen enough of them . My favorite so far is definitely Sabotage ( 1936 ) , which is another criminally underrated film . The first version of The Man Who Knew Too Much is a close second favorite . A terrorist group ( led by Peter Lorre ) kills a secret agent in Switzerland . Bob and Jill Lawrence discover that the group is planning to assassinate a foreign diplomat in London in the upcoming days , so the group kidnaps their daughter to keep them quiet . They're unwilling to tell the police about the kidnapping , and eventually take it upon themselves to find her . They have to do it quickly , for , if the diplomat is killed because they withheld information from the police , a second World War could rest upon their shoulders . The story isn't particularly complex , but Hitchcock's cinema is as spectacular as it ever was , while aiming for a low key . There are a dozen memorable scenes in the film , most notably the concert with the slowly revolving camera as Jill Lawrence scans the room for the assassin . And I love the realistic standoff near the end of the film , as the police slowly move citizens to safety as the terrorists shoot from the dark . The acting is also very good , with Edna Best ( as Jill Lawrence ) and especially Peter Lorre ( how can you not love this guy ? ) standing above the rest . .
The silence of a Bergman film can tear the flesh right from your body	Ingmar Bergman makes the sorts of intellectually challenging films that are almost not allowed anymore . The younger generation is basically taught that the sorts of profound questions that Bergman asks ( and Bergman more than any other auteur , for even the most highly respected auteurs , Truffaut , Fellini , Kurosawa , Kubrick , shied away from subjects such as Bergman has tackled ) are unnecessary . They are taught this because , if they were to willingly examine the emptiness of human existence , they would quickly fail to participate in all the lovely shadows on the cave wall , and then society would go kaput . Truthfully , I have not seen all that many Ingmar Bergman films . This shocked me , too , as I realized this . Before I came to college , I rented his most famous film , The Seventh Seal . Even the uneducated realize upon seeing it that it is one of the best films ever made . Next , probably the next week after I saw The Seventh Seal , I rented his second most famous film : Wild Strawberries . At the time , I did not find it all that interesting . It has been four years since I saw it , and I know I should rent it again , but I remember that I was sure that I understood it when it was over , and that its profundity was slight in comparison with The Seventh Seal . Like I said , I need to see it again . It was some three years later that I saw another Bergman film , Through the Glass Darkly . I was stunned at it , as I was at The Seventh Seal , even if slightly less . And then I saw maybe the greatest film that I ever saw , and it was one of his : Persona , the film that has haunted me for months now . And now comes my fifth Bergman experience : Cries and Whispers . At first , I found it sort of slow , but that did not last for long . Without even realizing it , at about the half-hour point , I was so drawn in that I was experiencing the same pain as was being experienced by the four main characters onscreen . This is a devastating film . Its silence hurts terribly . And sometimes subtle sound effects scrape across your skin like a fork : the clock especially . Also , the whispers , which turn up as the film has faded out and is fading back in . I know for a fact that Criterion is doing a DVD version of this film , and that is great . On a VHS tape , the static is so loud as to drown out the subtleties on the soundtrack . And then there are the cries , which made me want to cry aloud along with the characters . All in all , my understanding of this completely exhilarating and painful film are weak . But in this lies the greatness of such a film that challenges my intellect . I must think hard about this , reading up on it , and hopefully seeing it again . I do not at all mind having to do this . It is much better than the escapism of an everyday film . And if you are reading this comment because you love this movie , may I suggest Woody Allen's Hannah and Her Sisters , which was obviously inspired by this film . It is not as great , for it is lighter , but it is a worthwhile followup to the film . Also , William Faulkner's novel As I Lay Dying , which has a somewhat similar plot . It is about a family's relationship as concerns their dead mother .
Mizoguchi's final film , and his final masterpiece	Mizoguchi's swan song is one of his best , personally my second favorite film after Life of Oharu . This is the story of a group of modern day prostitutes in the red light district of Tokyo . Their sad stories are basic melodramas , but they are deeply affecting nonetheless . One is working to support her sick husband and their baby ; they had planned to kill themselves until she found out she was pregnant . One went into the business to support a son who now rejects disowns her as his mother . One gets out of the business by marrying , but finds that marriage is even more demeaning than prostitution . One particularly clever one is manipulating a businessman to buy her way out of the place . Another ran away from home with an American G . I . and has begun to mimic Western attitudes and dress , which is a good selling point . Machiko Kyo is the standout as Mickey , the Westernized girl . She has the single best scene , where her father comes looking for her to bring her home . It's a stock scene , really , but Mizoguchi and Machiko Kyo turn it in a direction that I really didn't expect . I was liking the film a lot before this scene without loving it , but this bit blew me away ? I loved every second thereafter . Scene after powerful scene lead up to one of the most amazing final shots in a film ever . Throughout the film , we are informed that politicians are trying to outlaw prostitution . In the film , it keeps failing . Due to this film that bill was finally passed .
IS a masterpiece ( SPOILERS )	Martin Scorsese is arguably the best living American filmmaker , and perhaps the best living filmmaker period ( who is still making films , i . e . , not counting Ingmar Bergman ) . He has made three bona fide masterpieces , Taxi Driver , Raging Bull , and Goodfellas . Mean Streets is also often included in this list . Let's just say that if you were to argue against any of those films , you'd better have a brilliant argument prepared . Has he ever made a film that was universally regarded as bad ? Possibly . Boxcar Bertha , which is not even available on video ( although it has been ) , is usually considered to lack in quality . Scorsese himself called it his exploitation flick . Often The Color of Money is given low status , but not always . The rest of his films are hotly debated , usually . Bringing Out the Dead is one of these films . A majority may like it , but , among those who like it , not many of them like it a lot . Well , I would like to stand up as one of the very few who think that this film is one of Scorsese's masterpieces . In fact , I've always been flabberghasted that so many people find it so average or , even worse , bad . In my opinion , it is his 4th best film , after the three " bona fide " masterpieces listed above . I could never figure out what people are missing ( or what extra material I am seeing ) . Perhaps it is this : the other three bona fide masterpieces together with all of his films basically remain within the confines of the classical style of filmmaking . That is , the plots , editing , cinematography and other technical aspects of his other films do not stray far from the techniques established by D . W . Griffith . That is not to say that Scorsese doesn't stray . He goes against the rules more than most American filmmakers . But in this country , we just don't allow for much experimentation . Bringing Out the Dead does experiment quite a bit more than Scorsese's other films . Its editing and cinematography seem crazy to many viewers . To tell the truth , this style of wacky cutting and odd angles is not too uncommon in American film . Most people are familiar with it from MTV . What does strike American viewers as odd is the plot . WHAT PLOT ? some people will gasp . A lot of critics claimed that Bringing Out the Dead was a plotless mess . This upsets me , since professional critics should know this basic rule : the plot of a film is not a very important element . The plot is somewhat simplified here : a paramedic is going through a difficult slump in his work . Parallel to this is the man who has had a heart attack while his family sits and waits . These two stories intertwine . The film's structure is actually brilliant : the man who had a heart attack is forced to cling to life for three days while his savior is plummeting into depression and existential angst . This angst can only end when the man , whose condition is incredibly unstable , dies . The logic is metaphysical , which is something Americans tend not to understand . This film is not about realism . Everything is exaggerated . It is really a sensory overload for some . And then we get to the characters . NOT WELL DEVELOPED ! people will yell . It's absolutely not true . What may be said is that there really are only two characters , played by Nick Cage and Patricia Arquette . There are other interesting , but somewhat less developed , characters , such as Noel and the three co-paramedics . The main focus is Cage and Arquette , though . They are marvellously written . I think that the mistake is often made that Cage's character is one dimensional . This is because Cage is so wrapped up in his job , really he and the job become a single entity . This happens to anyone who has a job . It only happens that Cage's work is much more demanding , and it is thus taking over his soul . Arquette receives more background information . She comes off as a very human protagonist . None of the events in her life are so much different from any normal person's life . These two characters connect through their own desperations . All in all , the film is tremendously effective . Maybe Roger Ebert was right about this film's reception : it failed because people are far too cynical in this day and age , where Scorsese is more of an idealist .
The Culmination of Ford's Career ( Part 1 of 2 )	Another vastly underrated John Ford masterpiece , Cheyenne Autumn is one of his most powerful and poignant . Many see it as an apologia for his career of demonizing the red man , and perhaps there's something to that , but , for the most part , the idea that he demonized Native Americans is a misinterpretation . The modern , PC idea of a Native American is a guy sitting around in a teepee making a dreamcatcher . It's actually more insulting , as many tribes , especially the ones which are depicted in John Ford's Westerns , that is , the Apaches , Comanches , and Cheyenne , were brave and proud warriors with an impeccable talent for fighting . This can be seen very clearly in a film like Fort Apache , which shows the Apache in a very respectful light . You can tell John Ford was in awe of these people . Of course , you also have Rio Grande , which basically does fit all the stereotypes , with the Indians kidnapping a wagon full of children . Of course , historically some tribes did tend to do some pretty nasty things , and the Comanches depicted in The Searchers , the film that most often garners these ill feelings , were a very cruel tribe . Whatever one's feelings about John Ford's films , Cheyenne Autumn does set out to dispell them . At heart , it is a very didactic film . Whether Ford's films were or were not demonizing the Indians , most of the young people who watched his and others ' Westerns weren't likely to see anything but demons . They just don't have the power of interpretation . Cheyenne Autumn is the only Ford film to tell a story from the point of view of the Native American characters . I was about to say that it might have been the first film to do so , but I hate making those kind of statements . When I do so I am inevitably wrong . The story concerns the Cheyenne tribe . Promised a visit by government officials , who were asked to come and view the wretched state of life on a reservation , they decide to jump the reservation and go back home when no one shows up . Little Wolf ( Ricardo Montelban , unrecognizable except for his voice ) and Dull Knife ( Gilbert Roland ) lead the tribe . Dull Knife is married to a woman only known as Spanish Woman ( Delores del Rio ) and their impetuous son , whom I don't think is ever named in the film ( in the credits he's listed as " Red Shirt " ) , is played by Sal Mineo . And , damn , Plato got buff ! Accompanying them is a Quaker woman , Deborah ( Carroll Baker ) , who wants to teach them and keep their children safe . We accompany them on their 1 , 500 mile trek . About half of the film is told from the Cheyenne's point of view . Most of the rest is told from that of the cavalry ordered to stop them and bring them back to the reservation . Leading them is Capt . Archer ( Richard Widmark ) , who completely understands the tribe's feelings about the matter . He is also worried about Deborah , whom he loves deeply . Tellingly , we never get the idea that he is afraid that the Cheyenne themselves will harm her , and I mean that we don't get that idea from either perspective . He wants to accomplish his task without getting anyone hurt , either Cheyenne or cavalry , or whoever else might wander into the picture . Ford veterans Ben Johnson and Harry Carey Jr . play his scouts , a role which each of them played way back in the Cavalry Trilogy . Archer also has the task of keeping Sec . Lieut . Scott on task . He wants desperately to get in a row with the Cheyenne , as his father died in an earlier battle . Scott is played by Patrick Wayne , yes , the son of John Wayne . This character represents that young child who plays Cowboys & Indians with his friends . " I've been waiting for this chance ever since I was ten , " says Scott excitedly . He learns respect for his enemies when he falls into one of their dangerous traps . Another small thread of narrative concerns the Secretary of the Interior in Washington , played by Edward G . Robinson . Robinson wants badly to help the Cheyenne , inspired by his own fighting on behalf of the abolition of slavery in his youth during the Civil War . At one point , when others are pressuring him to punish the Cheyenne , he sadly asks Abraham Lincoln what he should do .
If this is not a perfect film , then such a thing doesn't exist	Howard Hawks defined a masterpiece as a film with three great scenes and no bad ones . What would Hawks have said about Andre Rublev , a film with no bad scenes and some fifty scenes that are not just great but perfect in every aspect ? This is one of the most difficult films ever made , so don't expect a cake walk going into it . Truth be told , I shut it off after the first tape of two on my first attempt . I tried it again later the same week , and found it to be one of the best film ever made , maybe even the best ( although I'd have to see it once more to confirm that ) . When the screen went black , I was ready to pass out . It was a complete religious experience , one that can bring you closer to God than any church or even Bible ever could .
